29-12-2021||Chandigarh||NIA files chargesheet against 2, including Pakistani national, in Hizbul Mujahideen narco-terror case||The NIA on Wednesday filed a third supplementary chargesheet in a special court in Mohali against two narcotics traffickers, including a Pakistani national, for their alleged involvement in a narco-terror case of Hizbul Mujahideen terror group, an official said.Charges have been slapped on Gurjant Singh of Amritsar and Nasir of Pakistan under Sections of the IPC, the NDPS Act and the UA (P) Act, the official of the premier investigation agency said.The case was registered in April last year in Amritsar after the arrest of Allah Ahmed Shergojri, seizure of a truck and recovery of Rs 29 lakh from his possession.He was an overground worker and a close associate of Riyaz Ahmad Naikoo, the then commander of Hizbul Mujahideen in Kashmir, the NIA official said.The National Investigation Agency (NIA) took over the investigation in May last year.Earlier, a chargesheet against 12 accused was filed by the NIA in this case.Gurjant Singh, a narcotics trafficker, was in close contact with other co-conspirators for the supply of heroin and channelising the proceeds of the sale of narcotics, the official said.Nasir, a Pakistan-based trafficker, was involved in the smuggling of heroin into India in the garb of export of rock salt granules through Attari border, the NIA official said, adding that further investigation in the case continues. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nia-files-chargesheet-against-2-including-pakistani-national-in-hizbul-mujahideen-narco-terror-case-355912
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||Video: BJP MLA's SUV set on fire in high-security Haryana hostel in Chandigarh||A Haryana BJP legislator's SUV was set afire by an unidentified person when the vehicle was parked in the high-security Haryana MLA Hostel complex here, police said on Wednesday.The incident, which occurred on the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday, was captured by CCTV cameras.The arsonist, whose face was not visible in the video, is seen breaking a windscreen of the Toyota Fortuner of Panipat MLA Pramod Kumar Vij and later setting the vehicle on fire.  A fire tender reached the spot and doused the fire, but the SUV's front portion was badly damaged. "A case has been registered and investigations are on," the Station House of Office of Sector 3 police station, Sher Singh, said.He said that two to three people could be involved in the incident and efforts were on to trace them. Speaking to reporters outside Hostel, Pramod Vij said he does not have enmity with anyone and has no clue why the vehicle was set afire. When asked why his SUV was targeted when other vehicles too were parked near it, the MLA said, "Police are conducting a thorough probe. Let them complete their investigations". "Hopefully, they should be able to catch the culprits soon," the legislator, who had arrived in Chandigarh on Tuesday to attend the Haryana cabinet expansion event, said. Notably, the site where the SUV had been parked is a stone's throw from the police station.Haryana Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta, who visited the MLA Hostel, said that "it is a serious issue and a matter of concern that the incident took place in a high-security area".With the incident taking place in Chandigarh, which is the common capital of Haryana and Punjab, the Speaker said he would soon hold a joint meeting with officials concerned of the two states and the Union Territory to ensure that security arrangements are foolproof and such incidents do not recur."I have also spoken to DGP Haryana regarding the incident," the Speaker said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/video-bjp-mlas-suv-set-on-fire-in-high-security-haryana-hostel-in-chandigarh-355891
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||Club owners, GM booked in Chandigarh for serving liquor after midnight||Biker killed in accidentZirakpur: A motorcyclist was crushed to death under the rear wheels of a truck on the Panchkula road near Big Bazaar on Monday evening. The deceased has been identified as Yogesh Kumar, a resident of Sector 28, Panchkula.TNSCity Fencers win bronze medalChandigarh: The city's fencing (epee) team defeated Karnataka 45-44 to clinch bronze medal in the 29th Junior National Fencing Championship held at Sonepat. The local team of Kashvi Garg, Sangeeta, Sanchi and Siya outclassed Lekhana, Naidelae, Aditri Patil and Shriya in their respective matches to win the bronze medal in a neck-and-neck fight. TNSActiva stolen from Mani MajraChandigarh: An unknown person stole an Activa scooter, along with Rs1.25 lakh cash lying in its dickey. According to the police, Ved Parkash, a resident of Sector 32, reported that his scooter was stolen from Mani Majra. The cash was kept in the dickey of the scooter. A case has been registered at the Mani Majra police station and an investigation has been initiated. TNSCash, valuables stolen from shopZirakpur: Valuables worth lakhs and cash were stolen from an electronics shop near Gurdwara Singh Sabha Sahib on the Patiala road here. Shop owner Atish Garg said four batteries, five geysers, eight heaters, two submersible pumps, lights and six inverters were stolen. The miscreants also took away Rs12,000 from the cash counter. TNSMan held with 52-gm heroinMohali: The police have arrested a person, Sukhwinder Singh, with 52 grams of heroin at a naka in Phase 1, here. A case under the NDPS Act was registered at the Phase 1 police station on December 26. Further investigation was on into the matter. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/club-owners-gm-booked-355799
29-12-2021||Mohali||250 students of Rayat Bahra University get jobs||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/250-students-of-rayat-bahra-university-get-jobs-355797
29-12-2021||---||Teachers seek Navjot Sidhu's support to get new pay scales||Chandigarh, December 28Teachers today sought support of PPCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu for implementing the revised UGC pay scales as per the Seventh Pay Commission. The teachers assembled at the Congress Bhawan, Sector 15.“The Punjab Government has failed to fulfil the long-pending demands of university and college teachers,” they said.PPCC general secretary Joginder Pal Dhingra met the teachers and assured them of resolving their issues.Dhingra also accompanied a delegation of the PUTA to meet Deputy Chief Minister OP Soni to apprise him of the issues. Soni assured them of resolving the matter soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/teachers-seek-sidhus-support-to-get-new-pay-scales-355795
29-12-2021||Mohali||Haryana's Suhani sails into tennis quarters||Second seed Suhani Gaur of Haryana reached the girls’ U-16 quarterfinals by defeating Sidhak Kaur of Punjab in straight sets 6-0 6-1 in the ongoing Roots-AITA U-16 National Rankings Tennis Championship.Third seed Vanya Arora easily defeated Mankirat Kaur of Chandigarh 6-0 6-0, whereas Rubani Sidhu of Punjab marched ahead by defeating Shrawasti Kundilya 6-4 6-3.Radha Sadhra from the city recorded a 6-2 6-4 win over Isheeta Midha of Maharashtra. Snigdha Ruhil of Haryana defeated Sara Khandwal of UP 6-4 6-2, Aishwarya Jadav of Maharashtra defeated Chandigarh’s sixth seed Sia Mahajan 6-1 6-4 and Saanvi Garg overpowered Inaaya Mittal 6-3 6-1.Deepam logs easy winTop seed Deepam Malik of Delhi logged 6-0 6-2 win over Anhad Singh Oberai of Punjab in a boys’ U-16 pre-quarterfinal tie. Fourth seed Ekamjeet Singh Cheema defeated Punjab’s Gurbaaz Singh 6-1 6-4, while Fateh Singh of Haryana defeated Svarmanyu Singh of Maharashtra 6-4 7-5. Third seed Sidhant Sharma also reached the final-eight by defeating Agnivesh Bhardwaj of Haryana 6-1 6-0 and Varchasva Thapliyag of Uttarakhand overpowered a tough challenge by Dikshan Chhikara 6-4 4-6 7-6(5). Second seed Dhruv Kumar defeated Harwin Singh 6-1 6-2 in pre-quarterfinal and Dhruv Sachdeva won against Kunsh Kakkar of UP 6-3 7-6(2). Delhi’s Ronit Gupta beat Yasharth Chaddha of UP 6-2 6-0. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/haryanas-suhani-sails-into-tennis-quarters-355794
29-12-2021||---||Over 2K shuttlers to compete in national ranking championship||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 28As many as 2,450 shuttlers will vie for the top honours in the Yonex Sunrise 1st Ashwani Gupta Memorial Sub-Junior (U-15 and U-17) National Ranking Badminton Championship to be organised by the Sports Promotion Society, Panchkula, from January 2 to 9 at the Sector 38 Sports Complex and Tau Devi Lal Stadium in Sector 3, Panchkula.While the qualifying matches will be played at both venues, the main draw matches will be played at the Panchkula stadium.The championship will be inaugurated by Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, while the closing ceremony will be attended by Haryana Governor Bandaru Dattatreya.“The championship will witness many top seed players vying for the top honours. The winners will be awarded as per regulation of the Badminton Federation of India (BFI),” said Haryana Speaker Gian Chand Gupta. He added, “On this championship, as many 88 players from Haryana have confirmed their participation,” said Gupta.The tournament will be played under the supervision of 55 officials.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/over-2k-shuttlers-to-compete-in-national-ranking-championship-355792
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||Two dupe man of Rs 87 lakh, booked||The UT police have booked two persons for duping a man of Rs87 lakh on the pretext of selling a house in Sector 20, which was already attached by the Enforcement Directorate (ED).According to the police, complainant Anil Kumar, a resident of Sector 41, alleged that Vinit Goyal and his brother Nishant Goyal entered into an agreement with him to sell 50 per cent share of a house in Sector 20. As per the complaint, both suspects stated that the property was free from all sorts of encumbrances.On their assurance, the complainant paid a total of Rs87 lakh to the suspects between April and June in 2017. However, the complainant later found that the property was already attached by ED, Chandigarh.The police have registered a case against the suspects at the Sector 19 police station and initiated an investigation into the matter. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-dupe-man-of-87-lakh-booked-355791
29-12-2021||Mohali||Cops review security at Mohali court complex||Senior police officials visited the Mohali court complex and reviewed security arrangements here this morning.The police checked the functioning of CCTV cameras and identified new points where CCTV surveillance needs to be beefed up.Officials reviewed the security arrangements at all five entry-exit points in the complex. Additional metal detectors have been placed at the two entry points.Sources said additional police personnel had also been deployed at the court complex at sensitive locations. Instructions had been given to security check the vehicles entering the parking lot thoroughly.Sohana SHO Kuljeet Singh said: “Security arrangement is being reviewed to strengthen technical and manpower aspects.”The Mohali police have intensified checking in the district after the bomb blast at the court complex in Ludhiana recently. The police carried out a special checking drive in a shopping mall using sniffer dog squad and anti-sabotage team to comb the area. Special nakas are being installed at sensitive locations.To maintain public safety and law and order in the city, the police are checking vehicles and markets at various locations. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cops-review-security-at-mohali-court-complex-355790
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||In November, Chandigarh Housing Board got Rs 65.4-lakh payments in online mode||The CHB has received a total of Rs65.40 lakh through online mode in November this year.Yashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer, CHB, said the online payment system was introduced in October 2019. During November this year, a total of Rs65.40 lakh had been collected through 861 online transactions, he added.To further encourage online payments, the CHB had introduced monthly reward of Rs1,000 each against 10 online payment transactions.Due to the model code of conduct in view of the MC elections, the lucky draw could not be held in the first week of December. A computerised draw to decide 10 winners for the month of November was held today, Garg said, and added that among the winners, three allottees had deposited Rs118, Rs590 and Rs800. The 10 winners were six allottees of small flats, two allottees of affordable rental housing and two allottees of residential units, he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/in-nov-chb-got-65-4-lakh-payments-in-online-mode-355789
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||75-m paintings for R-Day function||As part of the ongoing Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav, NCC cadets and other artists are making five 75-m scroll paintings.These paintings, being prepared on the campus of Chitkara University will be displayed at Rajpath, New Delhi, during the Republic Day celebrations.Chief of Staff, Western Command, Lt Gen Devendra Sharma visited the campus and interacted with cadets and artists. Madhu Chitkara, Pro-Chancellor, Chitkara University, was also present.The painting workshop is being conducted under the Kala Kumbh programme, a joint initiative of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Culture, to showcase the struggle of the unsung heroes of India’s freedom movement.Three war heroes, Hony Capt Bana Singh and Subedar Sanjay Kumar, recipients of Param Vir Chakra, and Major DP Singh, a veteran of the Kargil war, were also present on the occasion. They interacted with the students and motivated them to excel in all spheres. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/75-m-paintings-for-r-day-function-355787
29-12-2021||Mohali||Vicky Middukhera's brother writes to Amit Shah, seeks speedy justice||Ajaypal Middukhera, brother of Vikramjeet Singh, alias Vicky Middukhera, who was shot dead in broad daylight on August 7 in Sector 71, Mohali, has written to Union Home Minister Amit Shah seeking speedy justice in the case and security cover for his family in view of the threats to the lives of the immediate kin of the slain Youth Akali Dal leader.“There seems to be hardly any action on ground to nab the killers of my brother despite the availability of CCTV footage of the assailants. The culprits should be brought to book so that justice is delivered,” said Ajaypal.“Our family is living in a fear as the motive behind the murder is still unknown. When I, along with my family members, visit the police station or go to meet our advocate regarding the follow-up in the case, we have inkling that some unknown people are following us,” wrote Ajaypal.“After the brutal murder of my brother, several gangsters claimed to have executed the murder on social media. Several posts were also shared by them threatening those who will try to mess with them. This has made me and Vicky’s immediate kin tense,” he further wrote.“We have made umpteen requests to the local police authorities to secure our life so that we can fight for justice vigorously, but all in vain. I request you to kindly instruct your office to help us in getting police security,” he wrote.“I also request Amit Shah to get the investigation expedited so that the culprits are arrested forthwith,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vicky-middukheras-brother-writes-to-amit-shah-seeks-speedy-justice-355785
29-12-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Cricketer Dinesh Mongia begins new innings, joins BJP||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 28After a significant stint in cricket, former international all-rounder Dinesh Mongia has started a new innings by joining the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in New Delhi today.Mongia is perhaps the first cricketer born in Chandigarh who joined a national political party. He had coached teams of the UT Education Department, colleges and clubs in Chandigarh for several years now. He was recently appointed as the head coach of the Arunachal Pradesh cricket team for the upcoming season.The 44-year-old former all-rounder is also a life member of the Punjab Cricket Association (PCA), from where he started his career.“It’s a completely new innings. I hope to give my best in politics too. There were no such plans to join active politics. However, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision on nation’s development attracted me,” said Mongia, who took a primary membership of the nation’s ruling party in the presence of the party’s Punjab in-charge Gajendra Singh Shekhawat.Rumours were doing the rounds that he would contest the Assembly elections from Punjab. However, Mongia denied any such development.“There are no plans as of now. No discussion took place in this regard (contesting elections). I was impressed by the vision of ‘sabka sath, sabka vikas’. So, I decided to join the party,” he said.Asked if he was approached by any other political group from Punjab, Mongia refused to comment.The former left-handed cricketer, who was also a part of the 2003 Indian World Cup team that finished runners-up, is a well-known face among residents. He has been active in cricket coaching and announced his retirement from all formats in 2019. He represented the PCA by starting his U-19 career in October 1995. He made first-class debut in February 1996. After six years, he made his debut for the Indian team against Australia in 2001 in Pune. He ended his career with an aggregate of 57 ODIs and one T20 international.‘Hope to give my best in politics too’It’s a completely new innings. I hope to give my best in politics too. There were no such plans to join active politics. However, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision on nation’s development attracted me. — Dinesh Mongia, former international all-rounder||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cricketer-dinesh-mongia-begins-new-innings-joins-bjp-355784
29-12-2021||---||AAP will form govt in Punjab, says former Mohali Mayor Kulwant Singh||Tribune News ServiceMohali, December 28After getting the ticket from the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), former Mohali Mayor Kulwant Singh, who joined the party recently, convened a meeting of local AAP leaders and workers at his Sector 79 office here today.Budh Ram, AAP MLA from the Budhlada Assembly constituency, reached the meeting and congratulated Kulwant Singh. He urged the party workers to work hard during the election campaign to ensure its thumping victory.Addressing the party workers, Kulwant Singh said a huge gathering of supporters in today’s meeting was an indication that a big change was going to take place in the politics of Punjab. Commenting on the victory of AAP candidates in the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation, he said after a landslide victory in the UT, the AAP would now form a government in Punjab and the corrupt rule in Punjab would come to an end.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/aap-will-form-govt-in-punjab-says-former-mohali-mayor-355782
29-12-2021||---||SAD, BSP hold rally to woo Dera Bassi voters||Tribune News ServiceDera Bassi, December 28Punjab BSP president Jasveer Singh Garhi and Dera Bassi MLA NK Sharma of the SAD today addressed a joint rally to woo voters at Ramlila Maidan here.Garhi said people were allegedly fed up of the Congress government in the state and the next government in Punjab would be of the SAD-BSP combine.Sharma said after the formation of the SAD-BSP government, a sugar mill would be set up in the constituency for farmers. Special employment and training opportunities would be provided to young men and women. Apart from this, underprivileged would be provided houses. “The Congress has never sought votes on the basis of performance, but had come to power by destroying communal harmony,” he alleged.Talking about the constituency, he claimed that the development of the Dera Bassi constituency took place only during the rule of SAD.On the Aam Aadmi Party, he said Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal was talking of building 17,000 hospitals in Punjab but could not build one in Delhi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sad-bsp-hold-rally-to-woo-dera-bassi-voters-355781
29-12-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Mohali F&CC clears Rs 19-cr work orders||Tribune News ServiceMohali, December 28The Finance and Contract Committee (F&CC) of the Municipal Corporation today cleared work orders worth Rs19 crore and passed estimates of development works worth Rs2 crore.Divulging details about a meeting of the F&CC held today, Mayor Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu informed that paver blocks, parks and other development works were being carried out in different areas of Mohali as per requirement. He said apart from the work of installing new benches in parks, there are works of street lights and also many works of the Public Health Department.The Mayor said a new park would be developed in Sector 78. He said strict instructions had been given to the contractors to start all these works within a week.Jeeti Sidhu said development works worth Rs100 crore were on in full swing in Mohali. He said councillors, along with his own team, were regularly reviewing these works so that no compromise was made in the quality of works.Senior Deputy Mayor Amrik Singh Somal, Deputy Mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi, MC Commissioner Kamal Garg, Finance and Contracts Committee member Jasbir Singh Manku and Anuradha Anand were among those present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-fcc-clears-19-cr-work-orders-355780
29-12-2021||Sandeep Rana||Poll over, non-compliance hoardings back at societies in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 28After the Chandigarh MC elections are over, hoardings of non-compliance of Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 are back outside four housing societies in the city.The hoardings were put up in the aftermath of the city’s 66th position in the Swachh Survekshan rankings. The residents said after they protested, Rajinder Sharma, who successfully contested the MC elections from the BJP, got these removed.After the election results, the authorities again put up the hoardings late last evening.Sandeep Bhardwaj, a resident of one of the societies and AAP leader, said: “It is a cheating with residents by the BJP and the MC. When the BJP candidate had to win the elections, he told MC officials during the campaigning that if the hoardings were not removed by tomorrow, he would himself remove these. The MC got the hoardings removed the next day. After the elections are over, the authorities have again installed these.”Sharma, who has now won the elections from Ward Number 35 (Sectors 48, 49, 50 and 63), said: “We had sought two months from the MC. I will get these removed. The two-month deadline is not over yet.”MC Commissioner Anindita Mitra said: “There was a confusion in the staff as extension was given on the file. However, I clarified to the staff that giving time for compliance does not make them compliant. Hence, the hoardings shall continue as long as the residents remain non-compliant.”Meanwhile, a society resident said: “We do not have space to compost the wet garbage. Secondly, it will lead to smell.”The Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee had earlier served notices on the societies - BSNL Society, Sector 50, Progressive Society, Sector 50, Pushpak Society, Sector 49, and Kendriya Vihar Society, Sector 48, under Section 5 of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/poll-over-non-compliance-hoardings-back-at-societies-in-chandigarh-355779
29-12-2021||Amarjot Kaur||522 from Chandigarh, Punjab, Haryana region give up citizenship in past 5 yrs||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 28A total of 522 persons from Chandigarh, Punjab and Haryana region have surrendered their passports in the past five years, according to the data provided by the Regional Passport Office (RPO), Sector 34.A ‘surrender certificate’ is issued to applicants willing to surrender their passports at passport offices, mainly for renunciation of Indian citizenship and acquiring foreign nationality. This is a chargeable miscellaneous passport service. Those who have acquired the foreign nationality on or after June 1, 2010, need to pay Rs5,000 and those who acquired the foreign nationality before June 1, 2010 need to pay Rs500.The RPO recorded the highest number of surrender certificates in 2019, just before the pandemic crippled the travel and tourism industry. That year, it issued a total of 162 surrender certificates. Despite the pandemic-induced restrictions, 99 people surrendered their passports in 2020. In 2021, the straight-line graph points at no change in the trend whatsoever. Till December 20, this year too, the RPO has issued 99 surrender certificates to the applicants wanting to give up Indian citizenship.In 2018, this number stood at 90, while in 2017, the RPO issued only 70 surrender certificates.Regional Passport Officer Sibash Kabiraj said: “Mostly, the reason behind surrendering the passport is to acquire a foreign nationality. Over these five years, we have observed that more and more people are leaving for Canada from the region. It is probably because there have been relaxations in getting Canadian PR and how it provides easy access to other developed countries.”Chargeable serviceA ‘surrender certificate’ is issued to applicants willing to surrender their passports at passport offices, mainly for renunciation of Indian citizenship and acquiring foreign nationality. This is a chargeable miscellaneous passport service.OfficialspeakMostly, the reason behind surrendering the passport is to acquire a foreign nationality. Over these five years, we have observed that more and more people are leaving for Canada from the region. It is probably because there have been relaxations in getting Canadian PR and how it provides easy access to other developed countries. — Sibash Kabiraj, Regional Passport Officer||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/522-from-region-give-up-citizenship-in-past-5-yrs-355778
29-12-2021||---||Bouncer among 3 held for stealing  gold chain in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, December 28Three persons, including a bouncer, working at a club have been arrested on the charge of stealing the gold chain of a woman who had come to attend a party. The bouncer allegedly stole the chain and gave it to his brother who sold it to a jeweller.According to the police, Neha Kumari (31) of Mohali, had told the police that she had gone to attend an office party at a club, named Ministry of Bar Exchange (MOBE), at Elante on December 25. While leaving the mall, she found that her gold chain was missing. She reported the matter to the police.The police found that the bouncer, identified as Dilshad (25), had stolen the chain while the complainant was sitting on a couch. He gave the chain to his brother, Sultan (27), who works at a jewellery store in Sector 22. “Sultan sold the chain to a jeweller named Ravinder (29) who runs a jewellery shop in Sector 23,” said a police official. The police have arrested the bouncer, his brother and the jeweller to whom the chain was sold.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bouncer-among-3-held-for-stealing-gold-chain-355776
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh seeks suggestions from public on draft labour rules||The Administration has framed draft labour rules and invited suggestions or comments received (if any) from the general public and stakeholders.An official spokesperson stated the Chandigarh Administration had framed the draft rules viz The Chandigarh Code on Wages Rules, 2021, The Industrial Relations (Chandigarh) Rules, 2021, The Code on Social Security (Chandigarh) Rules, 2021 and The Chandigarh Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Rules, 2021.The codes will be taken into consideration along with suggestions or comments received (if any) from the general public and stakeholders after the expiry of a period of 45 days in case of The Code on Social Security, 2020, The Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Code, 2020 and Code on Wages, 2019, and a period of 30 days in case of The Industrial Relations Code, 2020 from the date of publication of the draft rules on the website. The copies of the draft rules are available on the portal of the UT Labour Department: labour.chd.gov.in.Further, the suggestions or comments may also be sent to the Labour Commissioner, Labour Welfare Centre Building, Labour Department, Sector 30-B, UT, Chandigarh, in writing or on email: alc.lc30@gmail.com.The Centre has consolidated and simplified the labour laws by enacting four labour codes viz Code on Wages, 2019, The Industrial Relations Code, 2020, The Code on Social Security, 2020, and The Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Code, 2020, and the existing labour laws shall be repealed after coming into force of these enactments. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-seeks-suggestions-from-public-on-draft-labour-rules-355774
29-12-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Chandigarh to have cyber security operation centre||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 28To deal with ever growing cases of cybercrime, the UT Administration is all set to establish a cyber security operation centre in the city to protect gullible people from being duped of their hard-earned money.The cybercriminals are on the prowl as the city has been witnessing a steep increase in such cases in the past few years. In 2017, the police had received 2,242 complaints and the number swelled to 3,167 in 2018 and further rose to 4,793 in 2019. Nearly 6,300 complaints of cybercrime were received last year, while 3,306 complaints had been filed till July 18 this year.The UT Adviser, Dharam Pal, said, “We are looking at various options for setting up the centre. An initial concept has been prepared, but more brainstorming needs to be done before giving a final shape to the model.”“Cyber security will be one of the main challenges in the coming times and we want to lead in that not only in the region but also in the country,” he said. Apart from meeting the new-age challenges being faced by cyber security experts, research and analysis work would also be carried out at the centre, he said, adding that strategies would also be devised in anticipation of future challenges.On the progress of the centre, he said discussions were held with stakeholders, including engineering institutions, Infosys, etc, in setting up the centre. He said they were in regular touch with the Ministry of Home Affairs and the centre was likely to be established next year under the supervision of the police. The Adviser said the Police Department was assisting the Administration in setting up the cyber security operation centre.Recently, the Chandigarh Police set up cyber desks at all police stations to lessen the burden on Cyber Crime Investigation Cell (CCIC), which is unable to focus on special cases. Several categories of cybercrime have been defined which will be dealt with by the police stations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-to-have-cyber-security-operation-centre-355770
29-12-2021||---||Chandigarh: AAP accuses BJP of horse-trading||Chandigarh, December 28A day after the Aam Aadmi Party won the largest number of seats in the Chandigarh MC poll, its leader Raghav Chadha alleged the party's three elected councillors were offered from Rs 50 lakh to Rs 75 lakh to join the BJP to have its own Mayor.Also read: Chandigarh Mayor's post: Now, parties try to rope in councillors to gain majorityAddressing a press conference, he alleged under Punjab BJP in-charge Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, two AAP councillors had been offered Rs 50 lakh and another Rs 75 lakh.Sood refutes allegationIt is a baseless allegation. Chadha took the name of Shekhawat, who was not involved in the poll process here. — Arun Sood, city BJP presidentHowever, when the media asked him for any proof regarding the allegation, he did not disclose anything. However, he said, "We will install CCTV cameras at the houses of our councillors to keep an eye on the BJP. Besides, we have also asked them to record their phone calls to expose the party.""The BJP has bought elected representatives in Arunachal Pradesh, Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh. The BJP can do it with the Congress, but not with AAP," he said. (He alleged Union Ministers were also being involved. "The BJP men visited their houses and tried to make them talk to party president JP Nadda and Home Minister Amit Shah," he alleged, terming it "operation kamal."Meanwhile, Arun Sood, city BJP president, said, "It is a baseless allegation. Chadha took the name of Gajendra Shekawat, who was not involved in the poll process here. Just because Shekawat is our Punjab in-charge, the AAP wants to make it an issue ahead of the Punjab Assembly elections."Sood alleged, "Soon after AAP won 14 seats, five less than the majority mark, they declared they were going to have their Mayor. The reason is they were sure of buying the candidates. Also, they are making false allegations so that they can cry foul if the BJP wins the mayoral poll."Meanwhile, Congress president Subhash Chawla alleged, "Both parties are involved in horse-trading. Our party's councillors were also contacted by them, but they refused to meet them."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/aap-accuses-bjp-of-horse-trading-355769
29-12-2021||Sandeep Rana||Chandigarh Mayor's post: Now, parties try to rope in councillors to gain majority||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 28With no clear majority in hand, AAP, the BJP and the Congress have an uphill task to get their candidates elected as Mayor and the three parties have started making efforts to rope in councillors.Also read: AAP accuses BJP of horse-tradingAccording to sources, three newly elected Congress councillors are in talks with BJP leaders to join the party. Two or three AAP councillors are also in touch with the BJP to switch sides. However, their own parties are also making all efforts to keep them on board.The saffron party has 13 votes in the MC House — 12 of councillors and one of ex-officio member, i.e., local MP (Kirron Kher). It needs six more votes to form the majority.The sources said AAP, which has the highest 14 seats, is also making efforts to rope in councillors of the Congress. But, to ensure that its own house remains in order, the party has called all its councillors to Delhi. However, it might not happen now as Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal is himself coming to Chandigarh on Thursday, said a party leader.The Congress, which is on the third spot with eight votes, is trying to keep its elected representatives intact. The one from the party, who is supposed to lead the switchover of Congress councillors to the BJP, has been assured that he will be made a Congress candidate in the Mayoral election.It seems it is going to be a chaotic House as five Mayors are elected during the five-year term of the MC House. “No one getting a majority in the MC House is not actually good for the city. It will only cause commotion and fights, deviating from the main city issues,” said a senior party leader. Meanwhile, in the Mayoral election, the one who gets maximum votes is the winner. In case of a tie, a draw of lots is held. The councillors and the MP will vote through secret ballot in mayoral election. Oath to councillors likely on Jan 1It has been tentatively decided that all 35 elected councillors will be administered the oath at 11:30 am on January 1.Last House meeting tomorrowLast House meeting of the current term will be held on December 30. The minutes of the previous meeting will be declared and it will be a sort of farewell to the councillors.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mayors-post-now-parties-try-to-rope-in-councillors-to-gain-majority-355766
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||One Covid death, 15 cases reported in Chandigarh||The city on Tuesday recorded one death and 15 fresh cases of coronavirus. A 77-year-old man from Sector 4, a case of acute respiratory distress syndrome, succumbed to the virus at the PGI. He was fully vaccinated for Covid. Meanwhile, 17 patients were cured of the disease. — TNSFive new cases in MohaliMohali: Five fresh cases of Covid surfaced in the district during the past 24 hours. No death was witnessed on Tuesday evening while six patients were cured of the disease. All new cases surfaced in Mohali (urban) areas. — TNSPanchkula logs 6 fresh casesPanchkula: The district reported six fresh coronavirus cases on Tuesday, taking the overall tally to 30,950. The toll remained 381. While 30,514 people have recovered from the infectious disease so far, 55 cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 98.59%. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/one-covid-death-15-cases-reported-in-chandigarh-355762
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||Covid: Chandigarh Administration readies for vaccination of children||Around 76,000 children between the age of 15 and 18 years are eligible for the Covid vaccine in Chandigarh.The UT will start administering Covaxin to the eligible children from January 3, said UT Health Secretary Yashpal Garg.The sites where children are to be administered Covid vaccine will be finalised soon, he said. There will be separate sites for the vaccination of children. From January 10, all healthcare workers (HCWs), frontline workers (FLWs) and elderly persons with comorbidities can also receive the precautionary dose.To be eligible for the precautionary dose, senior citizens with specified comordibities, HCWs and FLWs should have an interval of at least 9 months from the date of second dose. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-readies-for-vaccination-of-children-355760
29-12-2021||---||More curbs on people sans full Covid vaccination in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, December 28Unvaccinated or partially vaccinated people can no longer go to educational institutions, including coaching and tuition centres, museums, theatres and clubs. The UT Administration today issued orders to this effect amid rising Omicron fears.The orders also apply to the employees who work at these places. Only those who have received both doses of the Covid vaccine can go to these institutions.On December 24, the UT Administration had restricted the entry of unvaccinated individuals to public places, hotels, banks and government offices from January 1.Non-vaccinated persons will also have to refrain from coming to public places that witness large gatherings such as sabzi mandis, grain markets, parks, religious places, malls and shopping complexes.Their entry is also restricted at all government/board/corporation offices, hotels, bars, restaurants, malls, shopping complexes, cinema halls, gyms and fitness centres and both private and government sector banks.Violation of these orders will attract a fine of Rs500 and non-payment of the fine by the violator will attract proceedings under Section 188 of the IPC, the official orders stated. The Deputy Commissioner and senior officials have been asked to ensure the implementation and compliance of the orders.Since a large number of beneficiaries are “due and overdue” for the second dose of the Covid vaccine, new measures are being taken by the Administration to improve vaccination figures amid the fears of highly transmissible Omicron variant. So far, the UT has reported three Omicron cases.Vaccine numbersWhile 9.71 lakh people have taken the first dose, 7.23 lakh people have been administered the second dose. On Tuesday, as many as 9,184 people were jabbed with the Covid vaccine. The past seven-day vaccination average in the city is 5,119. As on December 24, around 1.85 lakh beneficiaries are yet to take their second dose. They had failed to turn up for vaccination on the due date.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/more-curbs-on-people-sans-full-covid-vaccination-in-chandigarh-355758
29-12-2021||Dinanagar||Give Chandigarh to Punjab: Sukhbir Badal to PM Modi||SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to give Chandigarh and some Hindi-speaking areas to Punjab on his visit to Punjab on January 5.He addressed a series of meetings in the Dinanagar Assembly segment in support of BSP candidate Kamaljit Chawla. On MLAs Fateh Bajwa and Balwinder Laddi joining the BJP, he said both had been in touch with the saffron party for the past several weeks and today’s development was on expected lines.“Just wait for some more days and then see the spillover from the Congress to other parties. The Congress MLAs were disgusted earlier with Capt Amarinder Singh and now with Charanjit Singh Channi. The Congress will now contest the polls as a fractured entity,” he said.He added if his party came to power, he would make efforts to solve the vexed SYL issue. “It has been a long time now. We should do something about it. We should ensure that Punjab gets its rightful due,” said Sukhbir. — TNSPanth in dangerThe Panth and Punjab is in danger as the other parties are only interested in grabbing power. — Parkash Singh Badal, SAD patron||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/give-chd-to-punjab-sukhbir-badal-to-pm-355713
