30-12-2021||---||Arvind Kejriwal holds roadshow in Chandigarh, asks party councillors not to betray party||Chandigarh December 30Amid reports of horse-trading, Aam Aadmi Party supremo Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday administered oath to newly elected 14 party councillors not to leave the party.He was in Chandigarh to hold a roadshow to thank people for their support in the municipal corporation poll.While addressing the supporters after the roadshow, he asked the councillors to take the oath."I will never let down the public...I will never take bribe. I will not do any wrong work or let others do it...I will never leave the party...I will never betray the party..," he administered this oath to the councillors.He told the gathering, "You have done 'chamtkar'. And the wave of Chandigarh will now go to Punjab."Bhagwant Mann on the occasion said, "We will bring Chandigarh back to number 1 in cleanliness."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/arvind-kejriwal-holds-roadshow-in-chandigarh-asks-party-councillors-not-to-betray-party-356360
30-12-2021||Gaurav Kanthwal||2 injured in Chandigarh as car collides with Kullu-bound bus||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 30Two persons were injured when the car they were travelling in collided with a Delhi-Kasol bound bus near Sector 50-51 light point here on Wednesday night.The two car-borne injured youth were taken to GMSH-16.There were around 30 passengers in the bus. The bus hit an electricity pole in a bid to avoid the collision. Passengers said sparks flew as the pole came down on the bus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-injured-near-sector-50-51-light-point-as-their-car-collided-with-bus-on-way-from-delhi-to-manalis-kasol-356316
30-12-2021||Mohali||Teachers block road at Kharar||Zirakpur youth held for rapeZirakpur: The police arrested a Zirakpur youth for allegedly raping a 22-year-old on Tuesday. The suspect has been identified as Ajay Pandit, a resident of slum area on the Patiala road. In her police statement, the complainant stated that her neighbour dragged her to his place and raped her. When she raised the alarm, people, including her parents, gathered and nabbed him. TNSThree nabbed for assaulting manChandigarh: Three persons were arrested for assaulting a Sector 22 resident and snatching his belongings. According to the police, complainant Parveen Duggal reported that three persons assaulted him near Nehru Park in Sector 22 and snatched his mobile phone and a purse. A case was registered against Nandu Lal Turi (23), Sinod Mandal (22) and Kabira Kumar (22), all natives of Jharkhand. TNSLabourer falls to death, 1 heldChandigarh: The police have arrested the owner of a tent house after a labourer died after falling from the lift of the tent house at Kajehri village. Complainant Deepak Yadav reported that the labourer, Ganesh Mehta (49), died after falling from the lift of Dhiman tent house on December 27. The police have registered a case against the tent house owner, Harkesh Singh, alias Kesar Singh. TNSAAP sounds poll bugle in MohaliMohali: A day after getting nominated by the Aam Aadmi Party as its candidate from the Mohali constituency, former Mayor Kulwant Singh sounded the poll bugle on Wednesday. He said people of Punjab wanted to see a change after witnessing the ‘corrupt rule’ of the Congress, the BJP and the SAD. This was the reason why the party got the maximum number of seats in the Chandigarh MC elections in its debut. TNSSec 26 colleges emerge champsChandigarh: Guru Gobind Singh College for Women, Sector 26, won the Panjab University Inter-College Sepak Takraw (Women) Championship, here on Wednesday. Panjab University Campus claimed the second position and Post Gradate Government College, Sector 46, finished third. Sri Guru Gobind Singh College, Sector 26, won the Inter-College Sepak Takraw (Men) Championship. GGDSD College, Sector 32, finished second, while Panjab University Campus and Post Gradate Government College, Sector 46, claimed joint third position. TNSElectronics shop burgledZirakpur: Thieves broke into an electronics shop in Baltana and stole goods worth Rs20 lakh, including around 100 mobile phones, a refrigerator and an LCD, and Rs1.5 lakh in the wee hours of Wednesday. Shop owner Sumit said CCTV footage showed thieves entering the shop around 2 am and leaving after an hour. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/teachers-block-road-at-kharar-356207
30-12-2021||Chandigarh||12 trainees take part in technical officials' clinic||The Chandigarh Badminton Association (CBA) organised the year’s first technical officials’ clinic, under the aegis of the Badminton India Technical Officials Association (BITOA), at the Sector 38 Sports Complex.As many as 12 trainees from the tricity participated in the clinic and now stand qualified for supervising state championship matches in Chandigarh and other states. These participants have also qualified to appear for the national umpires’ test.“These participants have also become eligible to appear for the national umpires’ tests in future. The association also awarded certificates to these 12 trainees,” said Surinder Mahajan, general secretary, CBA.The clinic was conducted by Rajiv Mehta (Delhi) (national referee/general secretary – BITOA) and international umpire Manjusha Shastrabudhe from Maharashtra. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/12-trainees-take-part-in-technical-officials-clinic-356205
30-12-2021||---||5 booked for land fraud||Tribune News ServiceMohali, December 29The police have booked five suspects for a fraud related to 3.7 bighas of land in Nagla village involving Rs60 lakh with a Sector 9 businessman on December 23.The suspects have been identified as Satish Gupta, Pardeep Gupta, residents of Dera Bassi; Gurmeet Singh, a resident of Mohali; and Vishal Garg and Deepika Garg, directors of Vinmehta Films Private Limited.A case under Sections 420, 406, 120B, 465, 467, 468 and 471 of the IPC was registered at the Zirakpur police station on December 23.Complainant Kewal Garg stated that Vishal Garg and Deepika Garg fraudulently got 13 sale deeds done in their favour from one unregistered partnership firm namely Sai Associates by making fictitious entries of Rs15 lakh each and taking it back on the same day and same time from a company in which the partner of Sai Associates is a director.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-booked-for-land-fraud-356204
30-12-2021||---||Haryana's Vanya defeats Saanvi, makes it to semis||Tribune News ServiceMohali, December 29Third seed Haryana’s Vanya Arora ousted Saanvi Garg (6-4, 6-2) in a quarterfinal match of the ongoing Roots-AITA U-16 National Tennis Rankings Championship here today.Second seed Suhani Gaur defeated Punjab’s Rubani Kaur Sidhu (6-4, 7-5), while Haryana’s Snigdha Ruhil outplayed Chandigarh’s Radha Sadhra (6-2, 6-2) and Ashwarya Anand Jadhav of Maharashtra defeated Punjab’s Saravnoor Kaur (6-0, 6-1) in other quarterfinals.In the boys’ U-16 quarterfinals, top seed Deepam Malik of Delhi defeated another Delhi player Ronit Gupta in straight sets (6-1, 6-0). Haryana’s Fateh Singh faced a tough resistance before logging a (6-3, 2-6, 6-3) win over Ekamjeet Singh Cheema.Fifth seed Dhruv Sachdeva stunned third seed Sidhant Keshore Sharma (7-6(0), 6-4) and second seed Dhruv Kumar ousted Varchasva Thapliyag of Uttarakhand (6-1, 7-5) to march into the semi-finals.In the boys’ doubles semis, Dhruv and Malik defeated Kunsh Kakkar and Anhad Singh (6-3, 6-0). In the girls’ U-16 doubles semis, Snigdha and Ashwarya defeated Priyanshi Katial and Saravnoor (6-0, 6-4).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/haryanas-vanya-defeats-saanvi-makes-it-to-semis-356203
30-12-2021||Panchkula||HAP Cup: Ravi XI log 22-run win||Ravi XI registered a 22-run win over Parveen XI Heroes on the second day of the ongoing HAP Cup at Tau Devi Lal Stadium, Panchkula.Batting first, Ravi XI scored 153/5 in 20 overs with the help of Shivashankara GS (50), Anil Sharma (37) and Kalpesh Gaikar (25). Iqbal Khan took two wickets, while P Victor claimed one for the bowling side.In reply, Parveen XI lads scored 131/7 in 20 overs. Amir Rather and Bishal Kahar took two wickets each for the bowling side. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hap-cup-ravi-xi-log-22-run-win-356202
30-12-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Chandigarh Golf Club goes to the polls on Jan 30||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 29Annual general elections of Chandigarh Golf Club (CGC) will be held on January 30 next year. The club will witness voting after 2018.Code of conduct has already been imposed under Rule 51 (D) of the club. The elections are conducted to choose one president and 11 executive members. The rest of the office-bearers are nominated by the president later.Chandigarh Tribune had reported the development earlier this month. This year, it is believed to be a triangular contest, a first in the history of the club. As per the circular, the elections for the post of president and the managing committee will be held on January 30. Brig JS Phoolka has been appointed as the returning officer for the elections.Filing of nominations will be held from January 4 to January 8 till 5 pm. Nominations will be scrutinised on January 9, while withdrawals will be allowed till January 11, 5 pm. The final list will be displayed on the same day. The voting will be held on January 30 from 11.30 am to 4.30 pm and the counting of votes will be held on January 31 from 9 am. CGC, one of the most reputed clubs of Chandigarh, has not witnessed voting since 2018, as the presidents were chosen unanimously.As many as 1,800 members have the voting right to choose new office-bearers of the club. As per the previous trends, 900 to 1,000 members turn up to cast their vote. Before the pandemic, the annual elections were held in April. However, later the House decided to conduct elections on the last Sunday of January every year.“A notification in this regard has been already issued to the CGC members. The same has been issued in the public domain. The elections will be held following all Covid-related guidelines. The number of contestants fighting for the top post and executive committee will be released on January 9,” said Dr GS Kochhar, vice-president and chairman (media and publicity), CGC.Triangular contest on cardsIt will be perhaps for the first time that the club would end up witnessing a triangular contest for the top post. Sources claimed that contesting groups were already canvassing for getting voters’ attention through social media and one-to-one interactions. There are high chances of three groups contesting this year’s elections.918 votes were polled in 2018As per Rule 51(D), canvassing from house to house, hosting parties, entertainment and going for publicity through any media, pamphlets or handouts to woo the voters is banned. The club had last held elections in April 2018 and a total of 918 votes were polled. The following year, Sandeep Singh Sandhu was unanimously elected for the next term and, due to the Covid pandemic, he continued on the same post for 2020. Thereafter, present president Ravibir Singh Grewal was chosen unanimously to the top post in January 2021.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-golf-club-goes-to-the-polls-on-jan-30-356201
30-12-2021||Chandigarh||Fraudster nailed for duping man of Rs86K||The Cyber Crime Investigation Cell of the UT police today arrested a fraudster for duping a city resident of Rs86,000. The suspect has been identified as Pardeep (31), alias Vicky, a resident of Hisar district.The complainant reported that he saw a pamphlet mentioning ‘unique friendship’. He called on the numbers given on the pamphlet. The fraudster claimed that the complainant can earn money for being friends with girls.The complainant got allured and transferred Rs86,000 as security for medical kit and other charges. However, the complainant later found that he had been duped. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fraudster-nailed-for-duping-man-of-86k-356200
30-12-2021||Chandigarh||Passenger falls off bus, dies||A passenger died after falling off a Haryana roadways bus near the poultry farm chowk here. Prince Kumar Singh, alleged that his relative, Raju Kumar, a resident of Kaimbwala village, Mohali, fell off the negligently driven bus on Monday. He was rushed to the GMCH-32 where he was declared brought dead.The police registered a case under Sections 279 and 304-A of the IPC against the bus driver, Jaiparkash, a resident of Rohtak, today. He was arrested and later released on bail. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/passenger-falls-off-bus-dies-356198
30-12-2021||---||4 held under NDPS Act||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 29The UT police have arrested four persons in separate cases under the NDPS Act.According to the police, a team of the District Crime Cell nabbed a drug peddler, identified as Rajwant Singh, alias Kohla (60), a resident of Khuda Ali Sher, with 8.55 kg of poppy husk, 704 poppy seed and 100 grams of opium. He was nabbed from near a farm house in Khuda Ali Sher on December 27. A case has been registered at Sector 11 police station.In another case, a team of the Sector 31 police station nabbed a man, identified as Vinod Kumar (28), a resident of Ram Darbar, Phase II, while possessing seven grams of heroin near the DRDO gate in Ram Darbar. A case has been registered at the Sector 31 police station.In yet another incident, a team of the Crime Branch nabbed Aman Sharma (37), a resident of Sector 40, and Deepak (24), alias Amit, a resident of Dadu Majra Colony while possessing 27 grams of heroin on December 28. They were riding a Swift Dzire car when the cops apprehended them near the Sports Complex, Sector 50. A case has been registered at the Sector 49 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-held-under-ndps-act-356197
30-12-2021||Amarjot Kaur||Rajya Sabha Secretariat seeks comments of Culture Ministry||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 29The Rajya Sabha Secretariat, while taking note of a petition filed by Ajay Jagga, member of UT’s Heritage Items Protection Cell (HIPC), has requested the views of the Ministry of Culture on the issue of ‘auctioning Chandigarh’s heritage items’.In a communication sent to Jagga on December 21, the undersecretary wrote that Culture Ministry’s comments on the issues raised in the petition may be furnished to the Rajya Sabha Secretariat “latest by December 31, 2021, to facilitate the view being taken on the admissibility or otherwise of the petition”.Earlier in December, Jagga wrote to the Secretary General, Council of States (Rajya Sabha), that the heritage articles of Chandigarh, mainly belonging to the Chandigarh Administration, State of Punjab, State of Haryana, Punjab Assembly, Haryana Assembly, Panjab University, etc., are being auctioned all over the world for the past more than 20 years, without any objection from India.“In this regard, the Ministry of Home Affairs passed an order on February 22, 2011, prohibiting the sale/disposal /exports/ removal of furniture/other articles lying in Chandigarh, designed by Pierre Jeanneret and Le Corbusier (French architect who designed Chandigarh city). Even then, auctions are going on all over the world,” he wrote.In his petition, he stated: “The matter was referred to the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) also. It said these items, being less than 100 years (now 75 years), are not antiques. So nothing can be done to protect these items. Accordingly, my prayer is that the above referred articles of Chandigarh /Punjab/Haryana be protected by any possible way in the interest of nation and the general public interest.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rajya-sabha-secretariat-seeks-comments-of-culture-ministry-356195
30-12-2021||---||Pinjore temple priest's daughter alleges molestation, 7 booked||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, December 29The daughter of a temple priest in Pinjore has alleged that she was beaten and molested by those seeking her father’s removal from his post.The police said earlier this year too, both parties had registered cases against each other in the same matter.On a complaint of a 20-year-old girl, the police have registered a case against seven persons, including four women, under Sections 34, 323, 354-B, 506 and 509 of the IPC.Those booked have been identified as Raghubir Sodhi, Amita Parmar, Sanjay Parmar, Poonam Tiwari, Dev Dutt Tiwari, Bimla Kaundal and Babita.The complainant told the police that on December 28, one of the suspects, Amita Parmar, and her female friends first entered into a quarrel with her father.“Later in the evening, the suspects barged into the temple, roughed up my father and tried to push him out of the temple. They also used foul language against us. Sanjay Parmar later started slapping me and torn my clothes. Other suspects also physically assaulted me,” the FIR read quoting the complainant. She also expressed threat to her life.Ram Pal, SHO of the Pinjore police station, said: “It’s a matter of power struggle. One of two temple management committees is seeking removal of the present priest. Earlier also, both parties had filed a case against each other.”He said the police were yet to arrest any suspect in the case. The girl’s statement would be recorded under Section 164 of the CrPC before the magistrate tomorrow.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pinjore-temple-priests-daughter-alleges-molestation-7-booked-356194
30-12-2021||---||Offered Rs2-3 crore by two parties: Cong councillor||Chandigarh, December 29Second youngest councillor, Sachin Galav, who won from Ward No. 2 on Congress ticket, today alleged that he was offered about Rs3 crore by two parties. The 27-year-old NSUI leader told Chandigarh Tribune that he was offered an SUV and Rs2-3 crore for switching sides. "I am a party loyalist and I am not going to switch to any party," he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/offered-2-3-crore-by-two-parties-cong-councillor-356192
30-12-2021||Sandeep Rana||After 2016 sweep, what led to BJP's poor performance in Chandigarh civic body elections||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 29In the previous MC elections which were held in the backdrop of demonetisation, the city BJP had given its best ever performance winning 20 out of 22 seats it contested. But five years down the line, it has just managed to win 12 seats out of a total of 35. It seems there are not a few, but numerous factors behind its poor performance in the MC elections despite a star-studded campaign full of resources.There was anti-incumbency against the BJP which it failed to read. A hike in water tariff and sewerage cess coupled with the mismanagement of door-to-door waste collection system and ‘smart’ parking lots had angered residents.Failure to redress the problems relating to the Dadu Majra dump as well as the processing plant had become a major issue in the elections. The city getting the 66th Swachhta ranking just before the elections proved the last nail in the BJP’s coffin.The Congress raked up the issue of cow cess and Covid cess, terming it as an additional burden on the residents. Some senior party leaders and councillors were overconfident about the party win even as the tide was going against them. The party chief had made a tall claim of winning all 35 seats.At the time of mayoral poll, it was not the BJP vs the Opposition, but the BJP vs the BJP. The party councillors and senior leaders kept fighting with each other. Some party leaders even blamed “wrong” distribution of ticket. Its rebel candidates also hit the vote bank.After the merger of 13 villages into the MC, delimitation of wards was carried out. After delimitation, some of the sitting councillors’ stronghold sectors got divided. A triangular contest and the BJP fighting elections without its earlier ally, SAD, was another factor behind the saffron party’s poor show.Public wanted a third alternativeMany believe residents of the city were looking for a change. Old issues remained unresolved, but the allegations and counter allegations between the BJP and the Congress, which ruled the city for 25 years, made the public look for a third alternative. In some areas such as colonies, AAP’s promise of free 20,000 litre of water, parking, door-to-door garbage collection besides removal of the waste dump seemed to have clicked. In some areas, people got mobilised in favour of AAP which had supported the farmer protest on Delhi borders.Non-MC issues‘AAP misled people’AAP misled people with promises of freebies. It did so only to gain entry in the MC, but was itself surprised to have won 14 seats. We lost by a thin margin on many seats. Security of AAP and Cong candidates got forfeited, but not of anyone from the BJP. — Arun Sood, city BJP chief||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/after-2016-sweep-what-led-to-bjps-poor-performance-in-chandigarh-civic-body-elections-356188
30-12-2021||---||Littering at Sukhna irks visitors||Chandigarh, December 29Littering by visitors at Sukhna Lake has become an irritant for morning and evening walkers as well as for tourists. During a visit to the lake, a team of Chandigarh Tribune found the banks of the lake were littered with the wrappers of chana-masala, ice-cream and other eatables. The green area near the stairs next to the suicide point was heavily littered with such waste.“Mostly, people entering from the back of the lake carry eatables. There are a number of street vendors there. People carry eatables on to the lake path and throw wrappers on the banks,” said Karamjit, a regular walker at the lake.Besides, littering was also witnessed at the rear entrance to the lake. Even as dustbins have been installed there, civic sense seems to be missing among people. They throw garbage near the stairs and in the green area.“Sanitation workers have not removed the garbage lying near the suicide point for many days. The authorities concerned should ensure regular cleaning in this part of the lake,” said an evening walker.People said it was one of the main tourist spots of the city, but the authorities seemed to have failed to check littering. “Those littering public places should be challaned,” they added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/littering-at-sukhna-irks-visitors-356187
30-12-2021||---||Panipat MLA's SUV set on fire at hostel||Chandigarh, December 29An SUV of the BJP MLA from Panipat, parked at the MLA hostel a few metres from the Sector 3 police station, was vandalised and set on fire by four car-borne persons last night. The incident was caught on a CCTV camera.Panipat MLA Parmod Vij’s Toyota Fortuner was parked in the parking of the MLA hostel when the incident took place. Police sources said the MLA’s driver and the PSO had arguments with a few persons at Sector 10 in the evening. It is suspected that the same persons vandalised the SUV.The police said around 11.25 pm, the four persons arrived at the MLA hostel in a white car. One of them came out and started vandalising the SUV. He broke the front windscreen which set off the security alarm, forcing the suspects to flee the spot.Constable Amit Deswal of the Haryana police, who was on guard duty, chased the vandals but could not catch up with them.About an hour later, the four persons returned and one of them set the SUV on fire.“We have the registration number of the car through which the suspects will be nabbed soon,” said a police official. Meanwhile, a case under Sections 325, 425, 426 and 34 of the IPC has been registered against unknown persons at the Sector 3 police station on a complaint of Constable Amit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panipat-mlas-suv-set-on-fire-at-hostel-356186
30-12-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Panjab University tops in Atal innovation rankings||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 29Panjab University (PU) attainted top rank in the innovation, start-up and entrepreneurship development among the government and aided (state-run and deemed) universities of India as per the Atal Ranking of Institutions on Innovation Achievements (ARIIA).The announcement was made by Union Minister of State of Education Subhas Sarkar in a virtual ceremony on Wednesday. Major indicators for consideration for these rankings include budget and funding support, infrastructure and facilities, awareness, promotions and support for idea generation and innovation, promotion and support for entrepreneurship development, innovative learning methods and courses, intellectual property generation, technology transfer and commercialisation and innovation in governance of the institution. As many as 1,438 institutes from all states participated in various categories of the ranking.“I am glad to know that despite the record number of entries, the PU not only improved on its rank from last year but also topped the list among the state universities. This speaks about the efforts put in by the faculty and staff of the university towards the campaign of innovation, which we started three years ago. I congratulate all stakeholders and at the same time appeal to them to not to be complacent and maintain the streak in the coming years too,” said PU Vice-Chancellor Prof Raj Kumar.Panjab University is followed by Delhi Technological University and Netaji Subhas University of Technology at the second and third spot in the same category.“We at Internal Quality Assurance Cell (IQAC) are happy with the outcome of the ranking this year. Panjab University is a unique university that carries its heritage and futuristic innovation on its shoulders with equal ease and responsibilities. It’s a moment of rejoice for all of us here at the university,” said PU Director (IQAC) Prof Ashish Jain.From 7th to top spotThe PU had claimed second spot in 2020 rankings. In 2019 rankings, the PU was placed 9th. In 2019, there was no classification of categories.Chitkara varsity at second spot in pvt categoryChitkara University has secured the second rank in the ARIIA-2021 ranking in the Private/Self-Financed (Technical) category. Ashok K Chitkara, Chancellor, Chitkara University, said: “It is the hard work of our students, staff and faculty that resulted in securing this achievement. Chitkara University’s Research and Innovation Network (CURIN) encourages our students to become innovative leaders and contribute to nation-building by developing indigenous solutions.”Chitkara University has also been awarded the A+ rating by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC), which places it among the five per cent of higher education institutions (HEIs) in India to be granted such a coveted grade. It achieved high rankings in the NIRF Rankings 2021 under various categories.Chandigarh University (CU), Gharuan, claimed 7th spot in the ranking in the same category. Satnam Singh Sandhu, Chancellor, Chandigarh University, said: “Ever since its inception, our university has been committed to disseminating quality academic learning to its students, which matches the global standards.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-tops-in-atal-innovation-rankings-356185
30-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees 33 Covid cases, max in 6 months||With 33 fresh Covid cases, the UT on Wednesday recorded its highest single-day tally since mid-June, taking the number to 65,829. The death count remained 1,079. Meanwhile, seven patients were cured of the disease. — TNSSix test positive in MohaliMohali: Six new cases of Covid-19, two each from Mohali and Boothgarh and one each from Kharar and Dhakoli, were reported from the district on Wednesday. Twelve patients recovered from the virus in the past 24 hours. — TNS7 cases reported from Panchkula Panchkula: The district reported seven fresh cases of coronavirus on Wednesday, taking the overall tally to 30,957. The death count remained at 381. While 30,517 people have recovered from the infectious disease, 59 cases are still active. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-33-covid-cases-max-in-6-months-356183
30-12-2021||---||Vax for children: Centres to come up at Chandigarh schools||Chandigarh, December 29Amid the third wave fears, the UT Administration has decided to set up special vaccination centres in schools apart from six hospitals for children in the age group of 15-18 years. The UT received 93,000 doses of Covaxin, which will be given to the children, today. The second dose of Covaxin is administered after a gap of 28 days.Nearly 1.32 lakh doses of Covishield are in stock and 93,000 more doses were received today.UT Health Secretary Yashpal Garg said registration on the Co-WIN portal could be made from January 1 and vaccination would start from January 3 for nearly 72,000 eligible children in the city.“To avoid any confusion with the ongoing vaccination, separate centres will be set up to inoculate children,” he said.Garg said dedicated vaccination centres for children would be set up at the PGI, the GMCH-32, the GMSH-16 and the civil hospitals at Mani Majra, Sector 22 and Sector 45. Preference would be given to those who booked slots online. Subject to availability of vacant slots, walk-in registrations would also be allowed at these centres, said Garg.He said special vaccination centres would be set up at Government Senior Secondary School, Dhanas, Government Model High School, RC-II, Maloya, and Government Model Senior Secondary School, Modern Housing Complex, Mani Majra. A special vaccination centre exclusively for eligible girls would be set up at Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Sector 20-B, he added.These centres would be functional from January 3, where walk-in registration would be allowed to eligible children whether enrolled in a school or not, he said.As schools would reopen on January 10 after the winter vacations, the Director, School Education, was asked to chalk out a schedule for holding vaccination camps in each school, both government and private, where students eligible for vaccination are enrolled.Garg said the Director, Social Welfare, was to prepare a list of eligible children in different Homes of the Social Welfare Department so that health teams could carry out vaccination there. He, however, clarified that there would be no vaccination at doorstep for children.15K senior citizens have comorbiditiesThe UT has 15,600 people with comorbidities in the 60-plus age group. A gap of nine months (39 weeks) is required from the date of administration of the second dose to get the precaution dose by health workers, frontline workers and senior citizens with comorbidities.Dedicated vaccination centres for childrenPGIGMCH-32GMSH-16Civil Hospital, Mani MajraCivil Hospital, Sector 22Civil Hospital, Sector 45Govt Senior Secondary School, DhanasGovt Model High School, RC-Il, MaloyaGovt Model Senior Secondary School, MHC, Mani MajraGovt Girls Senior Secondary School, Sector 20-B, (for girls only)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vax-for-children-centres-to-come-up-at-chandigarh-schools-356182
30-12-2021||---||Curbs spur vaccination in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 29The Covid vaccination drive has picked up steam in the city after the announcement of the ‘no-entry rule’ for those who are not fully vaccinated, from January 1.Long queues were witnessed at vaccination centres as people rushed to get the vaccine before the ‘mandatory vaccine’ deadline. At some centres, including the GMSH, Sector 16, and the Sector 27 dispensary, people waited in serpentine queues.The weekly average of daily vaccination in the UT has gone up drastically, with 9,184 people getting the Covid vaccine each day in the fourth week (December 22 to 28) against just 2,915 beneficiaries in the preceding week (December 15-21). The second-week daily vaccination average (December 8-14) was 3,452. The first week (December 1-7) saw vaccination of 5,040 beneficiaries on an average each day.As many as 10,173 beneficiaries received the Covid vaccine today. On December 24, the UT Administration had ordered restrictions on the entry of unvaccinated individuals to public places, hotels, banks and government offices from January 1.Though only 2,107 people got the Covid jab on the following day due to Christmas, it rose to 4,919 on December 26. It further went up to 8,400 on December 27 and 9,184 on December 28.Yesterday, the UT Administration announced more curbs for people sans full Covid vaccination by restricting their entry to educational institutions, including coaching and tuition centres, museums, theatres and clubs. These restrictions would also apply to the employees who work at these places, the order said.Violators will have to pay a fine of Rs500 and in case of non-payment, they will attract proceedings under Section 188 of the IPC, the order further stated. The Deputy Commissioner and senior officials have been asked to ensure the implementation and compliance of the orders.Since a large number of beneficiaries are “due and overdue” for the second dose of the Covid vaccine, new measures are being taken by the Administration to improve vaccination figures amid the fears of highly transmissible Omicron variant. So far, the UT has reported three Omicron cases.Don’t entertain clients sans mask, traders toldChandigarh: To prevent the spread of Covid-19, the Chandigarh Traders Association, Sector 17, has appealed to shopkeepers not to let any customer enter their establishments without a mask. Its chief, Kamaljit Singh Panchhi, said shopkeepers themselves should also wear a mask while dealing with customers. “This will ensure safety of one and all,” he added. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/curbs-spur-vaccination-in-chandigarh-356181
30-12-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Chandigarh sees sharp rise in Covid-19 cases with 33 new infections||Chandigarh on Wednesday saw a massive jump in Covid-19 cases as the city recorded 33 new infections up from 15 a day before.A positivity rate of 2.61 per cent was recorded as 1,263 samples were tested in the last 24 hours.The number of active cases jumped to 126 from 100 a day before as seven patients were discharged, including persons from home isolation who have completed 10 days and are asymptomatic, as per Ministry of Health guidelines.The cumulative number of cases in Chandigarh has reached 65,829 while the death toll remains 1,079.As many as 64,624 people have recovered from the disease so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-massive-rise-in-covid-19-cases-with-33-new-infections-355935
