31-12-2021||New Delhi||CBI books Chandigarh-based drug firm for Rs 1626.74 crore fraud||The CBI has booked top executives of Chandigarh-based Parabolic Drugs Ltd for allegedly defrauding a consortium led by the Central Bank of India of Rs 1626.74 crore, officials said Friday.Besides company’s Managing Director Paranav Gupta, the top agency has booked company directors Vineet Gupta, Deepali Gupta, Rama Gupta, Jagjit Singh Chahal, Sanjeev Kumar, Vandana Singla, Ishrat Gill, and its guarantors TN Goyal and Nirmal Bansal, and one J D Gupta, an official said.Following the registration of an FIR, the CBI on Friday conducted searches at 12 locations in Chandigarh, Panchkula, Ludhiana, Faridabad and Delhi at the office and residential premises of the accused, CBI Spokesperson RC Joshi said.The raids resulted in recovery of incriminating documents, articles, and Rs 1.58 crore in cash, he said.According to the official, the private company was engaged in the manufacturing of drugs and allegedly defrauded the consortium of banks through criminal conspiracy and forgery, and funneled loans it took for other uses.  PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/cbi-books-chandigarh-based-drug-firm-for-rs-1626-74-crore-fraud-356680
31-12-2021||---||Employees found absent during surprise checking by Haryana minister at Panchkula MC office||Panchkula, December 31Haryana Urban Local Bodies Minister Kamal Gupta conducted a surprise inspection at Panchkula Municipal Corporation office in Sector 14 on Friday morning.Gupta was recently inducted into the Khattar cabinet.He inspected all branches of the corporation.The minister also checked the attendance register of the office and many officials were found absent.Not even a single employee was there in the audit branch.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/employees-found-absent-during-surprise-inspection-by-haryana-urban-local-bodies-minister-at-panchkula-mc-office-356603
31-12-2021||Vijay C Roy||Despite govt push, few takers for electric vehicles||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 21Electric Vehicles (EVs) are inevitably mentioned as a part of the solution whenever there is a spike in oil prices. However, despite many companies foraying into the EV space, the EV penetration is extremely low at 0.32% nationally. In North, it is even lower than the national average and varies between 0.017 and 0.23%.Uttar Pradesh, Delhi and Karnataka have the highest number of registered electric vehicles in the country. As many as 8,77,117 electric vehicles were registered in India as on December 8, 2021, according to data shared by Minister of State for Heavy Industries Krishan Pal Gurjar in the Lok Sabha recently.In North, Haryana has the highest number of registered electric vehicles at 24,379 followed by Punjab (8,190) and Chandigarh (1,791).According to industry, high upfront cost is a deterrent to the value-conscious Indian consumers who would rather prefer a cheaper internal combustion (IC) vehicle. The EVs are sold at a premium of 20% to 50% as compared to IC vehicles.Secondly, lack of charging infrastructure is acting as a stumbling block in the adoption of electric vehicles. There are a few thousand public charging stations across the country for charging over 8.77 lakh vehicles. This poor density of the charging stations is limiting the ease of EV usage.According to industry leaders, there are other factors too which are limiting the growth of EVs in the country. According to them, there are only a few banks that offer finance options for electric vehicles.In order to promote the use of electric vehicles, the government launched Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of Hybrid & Electric vehicles in India (FAME India) Scheme in 2015. Currently, phase-II of the FAME India Scheme is being implemented for a period of five years i.e. from April 1, 2019 with a total budgetary support of Rs 10,000 crore. In addition to this, creation of charging infrastructure is being supported to address range anxiety among users of electric vehicles.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/despite-govt-push-few-takers-for-electric-vehicles-356555
31-12-2021||Mohali||Youth held with banned vials||Woman loses Rs18K in online fraudChandigarh: A woman was duped of around Rs18,000 by a fraudster while she was trying to book a room at a hotel. Complainant Jatinder Kaur of Ludhiana came to Chandigarh and started searching for a hotel in Sector 34 online. She spoke to a person on phone regarding hotel booking. The suspect sent her photographs of rooms and asked her to deposit Rs5,000 to a bank account. She transferred the money in a bank account. The suspect again made her transfer Rs2,999 to the bank account. The complainant then decided to cancel the booking and sought refund. The fraudster asked the complainant to follow few steps for refund. As a result, another amount of Rs10,098 got debited from her account. The complainant checked with the hotel and found that she has been duped by some fraudster. She submitted a complaint with the Cyber Crime Investigation Cell of the UT police. TNSMan booked on cheating chargeChandigarh: An Amritsar resident has been booked for cheating a fruit and vegetable trader of Rs2.93 lakh. Complainant Bhupinder Singh of Sector 26 alleged that he had placed an order of 6,000 coconuts with Manjeet Singh. The complainant made a payment of Rs2.93 lakh in July this year. However, the suspect failed to deliver coconuts and also didn’t return the money. TNS510 students awarded degreesRopar: A total of 510 students, who passed out after completing their PhD, MTech, MS (Research), MSc, BTech and BTech-MTech dual degree, got their degrees during the 10th annual convocation held virtually on Thursday. Hero Enterprises chairman SK Munal was the chief guest, IIT-Ropar director Rajiv Ahuja presented the annual report. Harshit Malik of Computer Science and Engineering got the President Gold Medal and Bhawna of Computer Science and Engineering was awarded the Director Gold Medal. The first prize for Sunny Oberoi Best MTech Thesis Award was given to Azmeera Harshith Kumar (Electrical Engineering). TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-held-with-banned-vials-356519
31-12-2021||Panchkula||Illegal liquor unit in Morni village: Two held||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/illegal-liquor-unit-two-held-356512
31-12-2021||Mohali||Will revive Punjab truck unions: Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi CM and AAP supremo Arvind Kejriwal today said his party would revive truck unions in Punjab if it came to power.Kejriwal met protesting members of the All-India Truck Ekta Union at Chhat village light point. He heard out protesters who were agitating for the past 25 days.Sukhwinder Singh Brar, state president of the union said they also demanded a hike in the rates of transport in view of a considerable increase in the cost of fuel during the past two years. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/will-revive-punjab-truck-unions-arvind-kejriwal-356509
31-12-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Chandigarh to miss fourth deadline to formulate Sports Policy||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 30The UT Sports Department is going to miss the fourth deadline to form Chandigarh’s Sports Policy. UT Administrator Banwarilal Purohit had asked the department to complete the policy by December 31.Decades after coming into existence (1983), the UT Sports Department realised the need to have its own sports policy. The department finally submitted a draft policy for approval in 2016. On November 29, 2019, the then Administrator approved “formulation of sports policy and suggestion submission of the draft in the next meeting”.Continuing the process, on July 24, 2020, a statement was issued wherein it was claimed that the Administration is in the process of drafting a policy and open suggestions should be taken from residents, eminent sports personalities, associations, schools and others by giving an advertisement in newspapers, and the policy should be made within a particular time frame of not more than three months. It was also announced that Administrator’s Advisory Council (AAC) members would visit former Indian sprinter Milkha Singh and take his ideas too. However, no details of this meeting were made public.It was announced that the blueprint of the policy would be discussed on August 24, 2020. Later, during a meeting on February 21, 2021, it was announced that the sports policy would be ready by May 30.“...In the meeting, there was a detailed discussion. Tejdeep Singh Saini, Director, Sports, said apart from Haryana and Punjab, the policy of Delhi had been reviewed and the services of sports experts of Panjab University have also been taken. It will be ready by the end of May,” stated a note.On October 8, newly joined UT Administrator Purohit asked the officials to complete the Sports Policy by December 31. The directions were given during the Administrator’s Advisory Council. The department currently follows the Rule 8 (i) of the Punjab State Sports Rules, 1993.Sources claimed that the committee includes a former Dronacharya Awardee boxing coach, officials of the Department of Physical Education, Panjab University, former players and others.Meeting today“A meeting of the committee constituted for framing sports policy was held recently. Committee members are again meeting on Friday. There has been a detailed discussion on all aspects and it will be finalised soon,” said an official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-to-miss-fourth-deadline-to-formulate-sports-policy-356505
31-12-2021||---||Panchkula school alleges Rs 50L fraud by accountant||Panchkula, December 30A private school here has alleged that its accountant had committed a defrauded of Rs50 lakh with the institution. On a complaint of the manager of Sky school, the police have booked the accountant, Mukesh Kumar.“The school receives fee in the form of cash from parents. A portion of the fee as well as other amount are being regularly deposited by the school to a current bank account. The funds were being deposited by Kakkar. Bank officials were issuing us duly stamped and signed receipts of the amount that was being deposited in cash. These receipts are available with us as proof. We were also issued account statement by the bank from time to time,” the FIR reads, quoting the complainant, Amandeep Singh.“On December 18, we were shocked to know that the bank account did not have enough funds to honour a salary cheque,” it mentions.“We called Kakkar to enquire about the matter. Initially, he left the school premises saying he had a medical issue. Later, he switched off his cellphone. During checking, we found that the receipts of the cash deposited with the account statement given to us did not match with the actual credits to the bank,” the FIR states.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-school-alleges-50l-fraud-by-accountant-356504
31-12-2021||Chandigarh||Wrongly parked auto-rickshaws trouble visitors to Sukhna Lake||Auto-rickshaws parked wrongly on the road in front of Sukhna Lake lead to inconvenience to visitors to the lake. Despite an auto stand, autos can be seen parked on the road.Gurpreet Singh, a visitor, said wrongly parked autos lead to congestion on the road. It leaves no space for other vehicles to drop or pick someone from the spot. “The police should ensure that the autos are not parked wrongly in the area so that visitors don’t face any inconvenience,” said Ishita, another visitor to the lake. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/wrongly-parked-auto-rickshaws-trouble-visitors-to-sukhna-lake-356503
31-12-2021||---||Chandigarh Housing Board invites e-bids for sale of residential, commercial units||Chandigarh, December 30The Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) has invited e-bids for the sale of 145 residential as well as commercial units.Yashpal Garg, Chief Executive Office, CHB, said e-bids had been invited for the sale of 13 residential units on a freehold basis and 24 residential and 108 commercial units on a leasehold basis.He said e-tenders could be submitted from 10 am onwards on January 11 and up to 10 am on January 28. The tenders would be opened at 10.15 am on January 28.The e-tender process is open for all citizens of India as well as NRIs/PIOs above 18 years of age. Persons already having any property (residential or commercial) could also participate in the e-tender, he said.GST will not be applicable on the premium of the unit. However, in case of allotment on a leasehold basis, GST will be applicable on lease money/ground rent payable annually.He said the detailed procedure for submission of earnest money deposit (EMD) and e-bids, terms and conditions and the detailed list mentioning localities of the units and reserve price could be downloaded from the website www.chbonline.in.“Stickers have been pasted at each of the unit for better identification and site offices have been provided at different sectors/location to facilitate inspection by the prospective bidders. The location of each of the unit is available on Google map,” he said.Yashpal Garg said the residential units could be inspected from 10 am to 5 pm on Saturdays (January 15 and 22) and commercial units on Sundays (January 16 and 23).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chb-invites-e-bids-for-sale-of-residential-commercial-units-356502
31-12-2021||---||Elderly beaten to death over dumping of waste in Barwala||Panchkula, December 30A 65-year-old man was allegedly beaten to death by a father-son duo for throwing domestic garbage at the “designated panchayati dumping spot” in a colony at Barwala this evening.The police have booked both suspects, identified as Sukhdev Singh (60) and Praveen Kumar (40), under Sections 34 (Acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) and 302 (murder) of the IPC.Amarjeet Singh (40), son of the victim, said his father, Prem Singh, had left the house for dumping trash at the designated panchayati land around 6 pm.“On his way back, the suspects, who were carrying sticks, picked up a quarrell with my father and hurled abuses at him. They attacked my father with sticks. As he screamed for help, my brother, his wife and other family members rushed for his rescue. After seeing my family members, the assailants fled the spot,” the FIR reads, quoting the complainant.The victim was taken to the PHC, Barwala, from where he was referred to the Civil Hospital, Sector 6, here. The doctors declared him brought dead.Chandimandir SHO Arvind Kumar said they were yet to arrest the suspects in the case. He clarified that the two parties had no old enmity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/elderly-beaten-to-death-over-dumping-of-waste-356501
31-12-2021||Panchkula||New year's eve: 500 cops to ensure law & order in Panchkula||To ensure law and order, adherence of Covid rules and tackling hooliganism on the New Year’s Eve, as many as 500 police personnel will be deployed across the city.At least 42 nakas have also been set up for checking of vehicles. Besides, seven gazetted officers, 10 SHOs and women police officials will be on duty. Further, 25 motorcycle riders, 25 quick reaction team (QRT) riders, 13 PCRs and two Durga Shakti teams will also conduct surveillance.According to the police, besides usual vehicle document checking and breathalyser test, personnel on duty will also see if people are wearing mask and following other Covid guidelines.As night curfew was imposed in the district till January 5, stringent action would be taken against those violating movement restrictions, the police added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/new-years-eve-500-cops-to-ensure-law-order-in-panchkula-356500
31-12-2021||---||Panchkula man alleges being cheated by Barog realtor||Tribune News ServiceSolan, December 30The Dharampur police today registered a case of cheating against a realtor at Barog for failing to provide an agreement to a buyer despite taking more than 90 per cent payment from him.According to complainant Rajpal Singh of Panchkula, he had bought a flat in a housing project, The Woods, at Barog in August 2019. The payment was made to the project owner but he was not provided agreement papers.A buyer agreement was supposed to be provided by the owner of the construction firm — RVK Nirmata Private Limited. Despite making more than 90 per cent of the payment, no such agreement was provided to Singh.He stated in the complaint that he provided all details through an email to realtor Jiten Bhalla but the latter cancelled the buyer agreement on November 12.DSP, Parwanoo, Yogesh Rolta, said, “A case under Section 420 of the IPC has been registered and a probe is under way”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/panchkula-man-alleges-being-cheated-by-barog-realtor-356475
31-12-2021||Mohali||New year's eve: Get full vax proof  or -ve RT-PCR report to attend party in Mohali||The district administration today made it mandatory to have both doses of Covid vaccine or a negative RT-PCR report not earlier than 72 hours to attend the New Year’s party in Mohali.Deputy Commissioner Isha Kalia said the order came in the wake of increasing Covid cases and threat of the Omicron variant. The implementation of these orders was the responsibility of the owners and management of the party venue, she added. Isha Kalia said in case of any positive case surfacing in a locality, office, etc., all persons of the locality or employees of the office should get themselves tested besides ensuring getting fully vaccinated.The DC said all employees of malls, salons, gyms, restaurants and other frequented places should be vaccinated with the second dose. She said their administration would also have to conduct Covid-19 testing of staff every 15 days. She added that besides Covid-appropriate behaviour, the heads of departments should ensure 100 per cent immunisation of all government employees. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/new-years-eve-get-full-vax-proof-or-ve-rt-pcr-report-to-attend-party-in-mohali-356499
31-12-2021||---||Fully vaccinate eligible Chandigarh residents in week: Adviser||Chandigarh, December 30UT Adviser Dharam Pal today asked the Health Department to fully vaccinate the target population in the city within one week.He further directed that Covid protocol, including wearing of mask and social distancing, should be strictly enforced on those who had not completed their vaccination schedule.There has been a sudden increase in the daily number of Covid vaccination. From about 3,500 doses a couple of weeks before, the daily average jab count reached over 10,000 now. Nearly 11,500 people were administered the vaccine today.The first dose of the vaccine has been given to about 115 per cent and second dose to about 87 per cent of the UT’s targeted population. “If the current pace of vaccination continues for the next few more days, the UT can achieve the target of 100 per cent second dose vaccination within a week. A total of five more vaccination teams were formed today and efforts are being made to add 20 more vaccination teams tomorrow,” said UT Health Secretary Yashpal Garg.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fully-vaccinate-eligible-chandigarh-residents-in-week-adviser-356498
31-12-2021||Naina Mishra||Admit only symptomatic Covid patients, says Chandigarh Health Department||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 30With the infections on the rise, the UT Health Department is making an attempt to keep Covid-19 beds available for serious and symptomatic patients rather than for those who would only occupy the bed for isolation.UT Health Secretary Yashpal Garg has directed that a decision about admission of a Covid patient in a health facility needed to be taken purely on medical reasons. A Covid patient should be admitted in case the doctor concerned advised admission for medical reasons like need for constant medical care with or without oxygen/ventilator support etc.The patient should not be admitted to hospital for the purpose of isolation, the order stated.From now on, all asymptomatic Covid patients would be allowed home quarantine as the first option.The city has 125 active cases and being asymptomatic, most of them are in home isolation. The weekly positivity rate in Chandigarh is about 1.2 per cent.In case an isolation facility (separate room with washroom) is not available at the home of the asymptomatic patient, they will be admitted in institutional quarantine facility like mini-Covid care centres. The Administration has made one such centre functional at Bal Bhwan, Sector 23-B, while another will start functioning from January 3 at Indira Holiday Home, Sector 24.The Health Department has stated that based on current scientific evidences, the new variant of concern, Omicron, was at least three times more transmissible than the Delta variant.“Considering the higher transmission rate, we need to be ready for a situation where a large population gets infected and hence the available health infrastructure need to be utilised judiciously. We have buffer stock of emergency medicines and the medical oxygen availability is also sufficient, said Garg.Panchkula resort now a covid care centrePanchkula: As Covid cases are rising in the district amid growing concerns of the highly transmissible Omicron variant, District Magistrate Mahavir Kaushik on Thursday notified ‘Jatayu Yatrika’, a tourist resort near Mata Mansa Devi Complex, as a Covid care centre. SDM Richa Rathee has been appointed overall in charge of the centre. Covid care centres across the district were shut earlier this year after the number of cases started declining. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/admit-only-symptomatic-covid-patients-says-chandigarh-356497
31-12-2021||Sandeep Rana||Chandigarh MC: Babla takes a dig at newly elected 14 AAP councillors||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 30Taking a dig at newly elected 14 AAP councillors, Leader of Opposition Devinder Singh Babla today said some of them feel as if they have become ministers.“Not even officers, they are taking a feel of ministers. Some of them have already fixed party flags on the front and rear side of their vehicles. They do not know it is a humble job where we have to serve people. They should be given training in a camp as they are inexperienced,” claimed the Congress councillor while speaking during the last House meeting of the present term.“We both - the Congress and the BJP - indulged in fighting with each and the AAP won the elections. Now, it is to be seen whether they will be able to run the MC or not. I fear the MC House does not become a joke?” he said.‘Party’s mistake to deny ticket to Sheela Devi’Babla said it was a mistake of the party to deny the ticket to sitting councillor Sheela Devi. Sheela was denied the ticket at the last moment and a few days later, she joined the BJP. “I think someone from Sheela’s family should have been given the ticket,” he said pointing towards the party’s seat from her ward.Kainth, Kalia hug each otherCouncillor Gurpreet Singh Dhillon, who was denied the ticket this time, said, on a lighter note, “Some got the roll number to take examination. I too got the roll number. But in my case, the master was strict. He tore my roll number.”Councillor Davesh Moudgil, who lost the elections this time, said: “I managed to get the roll number and even went to take my exam. But my question paper was out of syllabus.”Meanwhile, Congress councillor Satish Kainth and BJP councillor Rajesh Kalia, who have been engaged in heated arguments in the past, hugged each other. Both of them lost the elections this time. “Sadak pe milenge”, quipped Kalia.Today’s meeting was held to approve the minutes of the previous House meeting and was sort of a farewell to the councillors. Commissioner Anindita Mitra gifted plant pots to all of them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/babla-takes-a-dig-at-newly-elected-14-aap-councillors-356496
31-12-2021||Chandigarh||1,800 cops to be deployed in Chandigarh on New Year's Eve||Elaborate security arrangements will be made by the UT police on the New Year’s Eve. Around 1,800 cops will be deployed to keep an eye on revellers and a special lady police squad will assist women in distress. Drunken driving nakas will also be laid by the police on different roads, especially near clubs and restaurants.Around 1,800 cops, including 16 SHOs, 24 Inspectors and 1,672 other personnel, will keep a close vigil until the New Year celebrations conclude. Police presence will be ensured near hotels, clubs, markets and malls.Further, eight PCR vehicles with women cops will be stationed at prominent places in the city to assist women and provide them a pick-and-drop facility in case of need.Meanwhile, 43 nakas on sector roads and seven nakas on main outer barriers will be laid. — TNSSpecial arrangements||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/1-800-cops-to-be-deployed-in-chandigarh-on-new-years-eve-356495
31-12-2021||Chandigarh||Youth arrested for setting BJP Panipat MLA's SUV on fire at Chandigarh hostel||A day after an SUV of the BJP MLA from Panipat, Parmod Vij, parked at MLA Hostel in Sector 3, was vandalised and set on fire, the UT police nabbed one of the suspects.SP (City) Ketan Bansal said the suspect, identified as Himanshu (24), alias Hemu, a resident of Nada village, Mohali, was nabbed near the Kansal turn. He is a cloth vendor.The white Ford Ikon used in the crime has also been recovered. The police said Himanshu, along with Mukesh, Tillu and others, had come to the Sector 10 market for dinner. They had an altercation with the driver and the gunman accompanying the MLA over reversing the car in the parking lot. To take revenge, they vandalised the SUV. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-arrested-for-setting-mlas-suv-on-fire-at-hostel-356494
31-12-2021||Chandigarh||Kejriwal administers loyalty oath to AAP councillors in Chandigarh||Amid reports of horse-trading, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) supremo and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal today administered an oath to newly elected 14 councillors to not leave the party.He was in Chandigarh to hold a roadshow to thank people for their support in the Municipal Corporation poll. He was standing on a truck along with MP Bhagwant Mann and local leaders during the roadshow that started from the Aroma light point in Sector 22 and culminated at the Sector 22/23 light point. The police had barricaded the road to facilitate the roadshow.“...I will never let the trust of public break...I will work with full honesty and never take bribe. I will not do any wrong work or let others do it...I will never leave the party...I will never betray the city and the party...If I do so, then the Chandigarh public should not vote for me next time,” was the oath he administered to the councillors. Addressing the gathering, Kejriwal said, “You have done a ‘chamatkar’...The Chandigarh wave will now travel to Punjab. We will do the works of all, including the BJP, the Congress and SAD, so that they also vote for us next time. Delhi is the first state we won and Chandigarh is the first MC where the party has won. Seeing our work here, we will get votes in other parts of the country also.”Earlier speaking on the occasion, Bhagwant Mann said, “It used to be City Beautiful. We will bring Chandigarh back to the number 1 spot from the 66th rank in cleanliness. On the lines of the Delhi model, we will develop Chandigarh also.”On the party winning 14 seats out of a total of 35 seats, Mann added, “Chandigarh ‘jhanki hai, Punjab abhi baki hai.’ We win capitals first. We won the Capital of India and will win the whole country now. Here, we have won Chandigarh and will win Punjab now.”Besides being centre of the city, the show was organised in Sector 22 to give a political message. The BJP’s sitting Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma was defeated from here by AAP’s Damanpreet Singh, a dhaba owner. City AAP co-in-charge Pradeep Chhabra also lives in this sector.Cong raises Covid fearThe city Congress on Thursday slammed AAP’s roadshow citing the increasing Covid cases in the city. In a press statement, the party has stated that while Arvind Kejriwal has imposing night curfew in Delhi and ordered for closure of malls and gyms, he is gathering a crowd here in Chandigarh. — TNSTraffic hitThe roadshow led to traffic jams in and around Sector 22. Some had to wait for a long time for the roadshow to end while the others took long routes to reach their destinations. The police had diverted the traffic coming to the road stretch from the Aroma light point till the Sector 22/23 light point.Covid norms floutedDuring the roadshow, AAP leaders, including Arvind Kejriwal and Bhagwant Mann, were seen without masks. A large number of supporters, too, were without masks and hardly anyone was maintaining social distance.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kejriwal-administers-loyalty-oath-to-councillors-of-aap-356493
31-12-2021||---||Covid curbs in Chandigarh from today||Chandigarh, December 30To prevent the possible spread of Covid-19, the UT Administration has restricted the entry of unvaccinated or partially vaccinated adults to public places, hotels, malls, shopping complexes, etc, from tomorrow.Cap on gatheringsHotels, banquet halls to keep gatherings to 50% of capacityNo entry to establishments for those who have missed the due date for their second doseRs5,000 fine for violationAccording to the order, only fully vaccinated (two doses) adults and staff of the establishments or those who are due for the second dose as per the health protocol will be allowed to enter public places with large gatherings such as sabzi mandis, grain markets, parks, religious places, hotels, bars, restaurants, malls, shopping complexes, cinema halls, gyms and fitness centres, both private and government sector banks, all government, board, corporation offices, educational institutions, including coaching and tuition centres, museums, theatres and clubs. However, those who have missed their due date for the second dose will not be allowed to enter the premises of these establishments.The violation of the orders will invite a fine of Rs 5,000.Meanwhile, the Administration has also restricted the gatherings to 50 per cent capacity of hotels or banquet halls. According to the orders, the number of guests for social gatherings such as weddings, commercial events, exhibition stalls, amusement rides, shows, etc, are restricted to 300 or 50 per cent capacity of banquet halls or hotels, whichever is less.UT sees 17 casesChandigarh: The city on Thursday reported 17 cases of Covid-19 and no death due to the virus. Fourteen patients have been cured of the disease in the past 24 hours. TNS20 fresh cases reported in Panchkula districtPanchkula: The district reported 20 fresh cases on Thursday, taking the active cases to 65. The case tally has reached 30,977. The recovery count has increased to 30,531. — TNS18 cases in MohaliMohali: The district on Thursday recorded 18 fresh cases of Covid. Three patients were cured. Nine cases were reported from Mohali (urban), three from Dhakoli, two each from Boothgarh and Kharar and one each from Gharuan and Kurali. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-curbs-in-chandigarh-from-today-356492
