13 August 2020||August 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Kamala Harris to be Biden’s running mate||U.S. Senator from California Kamala Harris has been named running mate of presumptive Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden, as per an announcement from Mr. Biden on Tuesday. Ms. Harris, 55, is the first woman of Indian descent and black woman to be on the presidential ticket of a major political party in the U.S. The move puts Ms. Harris in a powerful position to lead the Democratic party in the near future and with a shot at the presidency in four to eight years. Chennai connection Born to Shyamala Gopalan, a cancer researcher originally from Chennai, and Donald Harris, an economics professor from Jamaica, Ms. Harris has decades of public service to her name. In 2010, she became California’s Attorney General — the first black woman to hold the position. In 2016, she was elected to the U.S. Senate. Months of speculation The announcement ends months of speculation, as Mr. Biden worked through a list of close to a dozen potential Vice-President candidate choices, zeroing in on a fellow moderate. Ms. Harris, herself a former contender for the Democratic nomination to the White House, dropped out of the race in December after campaign funds dried up. Differing views Ms. Harris did not always see eye to eye with fellow moderate Mr. Biden. In a dramatic clash at a primary debate last year, Ms. Harris attacked Mr. Biden for opposing mandatory busing of children across school districts, a policy that would desegregate schools. Ms. Harris said she was honoured to be on Mr. Biden’s ticket. “Joe Biden can unify the American people because he’s spent his life fighting for us. And as President, he’ll build an America that lives up to our ideals,” she said on Twitter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kamala-harris-to-be-bidens-running-mate/article32340143.ece
13 August 2020||New Delhi,||‘Mega labs’ to boost COVID-19 testing||The Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) is working on developing “mega labs” to ramp up testing for COVID-19 as well as improve the accuracy rate. The labs will be repurposing large machines, called Next Generation Sequencing machines (NGS), which are normally used for sequencing human genomes, to sequence 1,500 to 3,000 viral genomes at a go to detect the SARS-CoV-2 virus. Used optimally and with appropriate modifications, these machines can substantially detect the presence of the virus even in several instances where the traditional RT-PCR (reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) tests fail. This is primarily because the RT-PCR test identifies the SARS-CoV-2 virus by exploring only specific sections, whereas the genome method can read a bigger chunk of virus genome and thereby provide more certainty that the virus in question is indeed the particular coronavirus of interest. It can also trace the evolutionary history of the virus and track mutations more reliably. Unlike the RT-PCR that needs primers and probes — a key hurdle in operationalising such tests on a mass scale early on in the pandemic — the NGS only needs custom reagents. Meanwhile, India’s COVID-19 death toll reached 47,148 on Wednesday, with 948 new fatalities. The country now has the fourth highest death toll in the world, surpassing the U.K.’s figure of 46,791. The CSIR has partnered with the U.S.-based Illumina, a company that specialises in the manufacture of NGS machines. Five such sequencers, costing Rs. 4 crore each, are currently available in India. “From our pilot tests so far, we found that 99% of confirmed RT-PCR positive samples were identified so by the NGS method. More importantly, nearly half of the samples that the RT-PCR termed ‘inconclusive’ were identified as either positive and negative. So this can also be used as a confirmatory test,” said Sridhar Sivasubbu, senior scientist at the CSIR-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB) and among the leaders of the collaboration. Researchers there have also published the results of their analysis on Monday, on bioRxiv, a preprint server where scientific results are up for public viewing. These have not been peer-reviewed.  Though India has tested 24 million samples so far, it only works out to about 17,000 tests per million. With about 7.5 lakh tests conducted per day, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) says it aims to scale up testing to at least a million per day. NGS could help with that, said Dr. Sivasubbu, but would also serve a larger purpose of continuous surveillance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mega-labs-to-boost-covid-19-testing/article32340141.ece
13 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Six deaths and 1,212 fresh cases in State||Kerala’s cumulative COVID-19 case burden rose to 38,144 after the State reported 1,212 fresh cases and 880 recoveries on Wednesday. Of the 1,212 new cases, 1,097 are locally acquired infections, including that of 22 health-care workers. In 45 cases, the source of infection could not be ascertained. Six deaths — two in Kasaragod, one each in Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam, Idukki and Kottayam — take the toll to 126. While the cumulative case burden is 38,144, the number of patients currently undergoing treatment is 13,045. The number of those who recovered from the disease till date is 24,922. Among districts, Thiruvananthapuram again retains top slot with the maximum number of fresh cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/six-deaths-and-1212-fresh-cases-in-state/article32340438.ece
13 August 2020||GUNTUR,||CM vows to stand by women||Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy has vowed that he will stand by women from weaker sections and will not rest until he makes them self-reliant. Addressing a video conference after launching the “YSR Cheyutha” scheme from his camp office on Wednesday, Mr. Jagan said 23 lakh women would be benefited by the YSR Cheyutha Scheme in the first year. “The idea to launch a scheme of this kind hit me during my padayatra. I realised none of the welfare schemes are targeting women in the age group of 45-60 years. The loans extended by various corporations hardly reached the women. Under this scheme, each woman will get an annual financial assistance of Rs. 18,750, which amounts to Rs. 75,000 in four years. We have already entered into an MoU with leading corporate companies which will give our sisters financial assistance and provide skill based training,’’ he said. Under the scheme, women in the age group of 45-60 years and belonging to BC, SC and ST communities would be benefited. The State government had fixed an outlay of Rs. 4,687 crore for the scheme, he said. “The money would be credited directly in the accounts of women,’’ he said. He also said that MoU with leading companies would facilitate business for women. For instance, Amul Dairy would help farmers to buy milk and cattle too. Banks would extend financial assistance to women willing to set up units, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-vows-to-stand-by-women/article32340074.ece
13 August 2020||Kolkata,||West Bengal changes lockdown dates again||The West Bengal government on Wednesday again modified the dates for its biweekly lockdown. The State has withdrawn the lockdown on August 28 to avoid disruption of banking operations in the last week of the month. The dates for August have been changed at least six times since the first announcement was made. The government had earlier declared that lockdown would be observed on Thursday (August 27) and Friday (August 28) in the last week of the month, and on Monday (August 31). Lockdown will now be observed on four days for the rest of August, instead of five days as announced earlier. The dates of the lockdown will be August 20, 21, 27 and 31. The suspension of flights to Kolkata from six cities — Delhi, Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur, Chennai and Ahmedabad — has also been extended to August 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/west-bengal-changes-lockdown-dates-again/article32340491.ece
13 August 2020||Pune,||Record single-day jump of 13,408 recoveries in State||Maharashtra on Wednesday reported its highest single-day jump of 13,408 COVID-19 recoveries and its second-highest single-day spike of 12,712 cases. The tally of recoveries has now risen to 3,81,483, while the total case load has climbed to 5,48,313. With 344 more deaths, the State’s toll has touched 18,650. This is the third time in less than five days that the State has recorded a single-day spike of over 12,000 cases. The highest surge of 12,822 cases was recorded on August 8. The active case tally now stands at 1,47,513. State health officials said the recovery rate has improved to 69.74%, while the case fatality rate is 3.4%. Mumbai reported 1,132 new cases, pushing its tally to 1,26,356, of which 19,047 are active. With 50 more deaths, the city’s death toll has risen to 6,943.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/record-single-day-jump-of-13408-recoveries-in-state/article32340532.ece
13 August 2020||CHENNAI,||Police to book thousands for violating Section 144||The police have decided to register cases against thousands of Muslims and Hindus on charges of violating prohibitory orders promulgated under Section 144 of the CrPC and participating in religious events during the ongoing COVID-19 lockdown. Muslims held special prayers and offered qurbani (slaughtering of cattle) across the State on July 31/August 1 in view of Bakrid. Similarly, many Hindus organised celebrations by bursting crackers and distributing sweets on August 5 when the bhoomi pujan was performed for the Ram temple in Ayodhya. According to police sources, Director-General of Police J.K. Tripathy directed Commissioners/Superintendents of Police to register cases as per law against those who held special prayers in 151 mosques. Special prayers were also held at 42 places in the State in violation of the prohibitory orders. The police took cognisance of Qurbani offered at 22 places in the State. Acting on intelligence input that very few cases were registered in these violations, Mr. Tripathy ordered that appropriate action be initiated against all those involved in the offences, police sources told The Hindu on Wednesday. The sources said that reports received from cities/districts had revealed that about 16,000-odd Muslims participated in special prayers in mosques or public places. The State police took a serious view of the celebrations by Hindus to celebrate the Ram temple bhoomi pujan . Cases for violating the prohibitory orders and safety protocol for preventing the spread of COVID-19 would be registered against dozens of people, the sources said. Besides involving provisions under the Public Health Act, Epidemic Diseases Act and Disaster Management Act, the police are booking the accused persons under Section 143 (Unlawful assembly), 269 (Unlawfully or negligently doing any act which is likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life), the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/police-to-book-thousands-for-violating-section-144/article32340223.ece
13 August 2020||Bengaluru,||3 killed as police open fire to quell mob in Bengaluru||Three people were killed and three more injured after the police opened fire to quell a mob that went on a rampage in D.J. Halli and adjoining areas in east Bengaluru on Tuesday night over an inflammatory Facebook post against Islam. As many as 2,000 people were on the streets vandalising and setting property afire. The rioting was brought under control in the early hours of Wednesday. Prohibitory orders have been put in force and the situation is tense but under control, said the police. A total of 146 people, including a few local leaders of the Social Democratic Party of India , have been arrested. At least 38 policemen were injured and several vehicles and properties, including a police station, torched. Two media personnel were also injured. Chief Minister B. S. Yediyurappa held a review meeting on Wednesday and ordered a probe by a district executive magistrate into the incident. Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said that, prima facie , the violence “seems organised”. P. Naveen Kumar, a nephew of Pulikeshi Nagar Congress MLA R. Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy, had allegedly put up an inflammatory post on his Facebook account on Tuesday. As word spread, a crowd of nearly 200 persons gathered outside the D.J. Halli police station demanding his arrest. Muzammil Pasha, a local SDPI leader, lodged a complaint. Simultaneously, at least 1,000 people gathered outside the house of Mr. Srinivasa Murthy. At both sites, the mob turned violent, demanding Mr. Naveen Kumar be handed over to them, even as the police arrested him and shifted to an undisclosed location. The mobs set fire to several vehicles, vandalised and torched the D.J. Halli police station, and tried to unsuccessfully enter the police quarters in KG Halli. The rioters also torched the MLA’s house and Mr. Naveen’s residence. Mr. Srinivasa Murthy was not at home at the time. The police initially lobbed tear gas shells to control the mob, but they failed. They opened fire around midnight. Three men were killed and three others sustained injuries. “It is sad that we had to open fire to bring the situation under control,” said Bengaluru Police Commissioner Kamal Pant.  I appeal to the people to stay calm and not fall for rumours. The government has decided to conduct a probe by a district executive magistrate into the incident B.S. Yediyurappa, Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/3-killed-as-police-open-fire-to-quell-mob-in-bengaluru/article32340137.ece
13 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||New Parliament: 3 firms told to sign secrecy affidavits||The Central Public Works Department on Wednesday asked the three firms it has shortlisted for the new Parliament project to sign affidavits saying they would keep the drawings secret before submitting financial bids by September 16. If they fail to complete all formalities, they would face action under the Official Secrets Act. The CPWD on Monday selected Larsen and Toubro Limited, Shapoorji Pallonji and Co. Ltd. and Tata Projects Ltd. from the seven companies that applied for pre-qualification to bid for the project. The firms would be eligible to submit their financial bids online. On Wednesday, the CPWD issued a corrigendum telling the three firms to submit the earnest money deposit of Rs. 9.5 crore each to access the tender document. The cost of the project was revised from Rs. 889 crore to Rs. 940.94 crore, according to the corrigendum.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/new-parliament-3-firms-told-to-sign-secrecy-affidavits/article32340318.ece
13 August 2020||Hyderabad,||Govt. embarks on drafting food processing policy||Industries and IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao announced that the State government is preparing a comprehensive action plan to promote food processing industry to meet the expected demand in the coming days. Accordingly, it has been decided to provide subsidies and incentives to those coming forward to invest in the sector. The government examined the best practices within the country and abroad in this direction for preparing an attractive policy governing the sector. The Minister was participating in a high-level meeting of Ministers and officials to discuss the Food Processing Policy here on Wednesday. He made a presentation on existing scenario wherein the State did not have food processing capacity to match the growth in agriculture and allied sectors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-embarks-on-drafting-food-processing-policy/article32340386.ece
13 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||COVID: 1,897 new cases in TS||Telangana recorded 1,897 COVID-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the total to 84,544. With 1,896 cases on Monday, the number of new coronavirus positive patients is almost the same as on two consecutive days. While 22,972 tests were performed on Tuesday with results of 1,221 awaited, 18,035 tests were performed on Monday and results of 959 were awaited. The new 1,897 new cases on August 11 include 479 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 172 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, 162 from Rangareddy, 107 from Sangareddy, and 87 from Warangal Urban. Nine more COVID-19 patients died on Tuesday. Of the total 84,544 cases, 22,596 are active, 61,294 were discharged, and 654 patients died. Regarding bed availability, 3,216 oxygen beds, and 851 ICU beds were available in the 56 State government hospitals on August 10. Beds were occupied to full capacity at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial (MGM) Hospital, Warangal Urban, and Community Health Centre (CHC), Narayankhed. Also 1,256 oxygen beds, and 650 ICU beds were available in 116 private hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-1897-new-cases-in-ts/article32340385.ece
13 August 2020||Chitradurga/Bengaluru,||Three children, two women charred to death||Five persons – three children and two women – of a family were charred to death in a private bus that caught fire in Hiriyur taluk early on Wednesday morning. The private bus that started at Vijayapura around 9 p.m. on Tuesday was heading towards Bengaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/three-children-two-women-charred-to-death/article32340156.ece
13 August 2020||Bengaluru,||Many clinics face shortage of rapid antigen kits||While the government has ramped up the number of rapid antigen tests conducted across the State to quickly detect COVID-19 positive cases, there is a shortage of testing kits in fever clinics. Many are being sent to other clinics or asked to come another day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/many-clinics-face-shortage-of-rapid-antigen-kits/article32340157.ece
13 August 2020||MYSURU,||Major reservoirs are almost full||Torrential rain in Kodagu and Malnad region last week has ensured copious inflow to the four major dams in the Cauvery basin in the State all of which are close to attaining full reservoir level. As a result, the cumulative storage in the dams has also increased.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/major-reservoirs-are-almost-full/article32340158.ece
13 August 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi riots probe officer gets excellence medal||A Delhi police officer, who is heading the Delhi riots probe team, and an NIA officer leading the Bhima Koregaon (Maharashtra) investigation are among the 121 recipients of the Union Home Minister’s Medal for Excellence in Investigation that was announced on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-riots-probe-officer-gets-excellence-medal/article32340322.ece
13 August 2020||Ghaziabad,||BJP legislator alleges assault by U.P. police||BJP MLA from Iglas constituency in Aligarh district, Rajkumar Sahyogi, alleged on Wednesday that he was beaten up by policemen, including the SHO, and his clothes were torn off when he went to protest over an FIR registered against a VHP worker.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-legislator-alleges-assault-by-up-police/article32340321.ece
13 August 2020||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan Congress MLAs return to Jaipur||Congress MLAs sequestered at a resort near Jaisalmer for the last two weeks during the political turmoil in Rajasthan returned to Jaipur on Wednesday, two days before the crucial Assembly session beginning from August 14. The MLAs were taken to a hotel on the city’s outskirts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rajasthan-congress-mlas-return-to-jaipur/article32340320.ece
13 August 2020||Kolkata,||West Bengal COVID-19 mortalities cross 2,200||West Bengal on Wednesday recorded 2,936 new COVID-19 cases, taking its total case tally to 1,04,326. The State also recorded 54 fatalities, pushing its death toll to 2,203. Of the latest deaths, 19 were recorded in Kolkata, raising the city’s cumulative toll to 999. The death toll in North 24 Parganas district has risen to 512, with 13 more deaths. While the State’s active case tally has reached 26,003, its recovery rate is 72.96%, with 2,725 patients being discharged on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/west-bengal-covid-19-mortalities-cross-2200/article32340494.ece
13 August 2020||Belagavi,||148 patients discharged in Belagavi district||As many as 148 persons were discharged and 314 new COVID-19 positive cases were reported in Belagavi district on Wednesday, leaving 3,457 active cases in the district designated hospital, the taluk hospitals and the COVID care centres across the district. The total number of discharged persons has gone up to 2,788. The district has witnessed 107 deaths, of which six occurred on Wednesday, said a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/148-patients-discharged-in-belagavi-district/article32340360.ece
13 August 2020||Mumbai,||MHADA to redevelop cessed buildings||The State Cabinet on Wednesday cleared a proposal to speed up the redevelopment of cessed buildings in Mumbai through the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (MHADA). Redevelopment projects, if undertaken by MHADA, will have to be completed within three years since the commencement certificate was taken. The decision is likely to benefit at least 14,500 cessed buildings, whose redevelopment has been delayed, stopped or left half-way by developers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mhada-to-redevelop-cessed-buildings/article32340535.ece
13 August 2020||CHENNAI,||TB doctors to be part eSanjeevaniOPD||Tamil Nadu is all set to bring in TB medical officers for the national teleconsultation service eSanjeevaniOPD. The State recently roped in Anti-Retroviral Therapy medical officers to provide teleconsultations.Officials said as of now, 732 doctors were registered on this service in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tb-doctors-to-be-part-esanjeevaniopd/article32340226.ece
13 August 2020||CHENNAI,||e-pass system to be in force, says official||Tamil Nadu Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam on Wednesday said the e-pass system would continue to be in force in the State as long as there were restrictions on inter-district movement. Several political parties had recently demanded that the system be dropped.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/e-pass-system-to-be-in-force-says-official/article32340227.ece
13 August 2020||Chennai,||T.N. records 5,871 fresh cases, 119 fatalities||Tamil Nadu on Wednesday reported 5,871 fresh COVID-19 cases, taking the tally to 3,14,520, while 119 fatalities pushed the death toll to 5,278. Of the fresh cases, Chennai accounted for 993 cases, followed by Chengalpattu (439) and Tiruvallur (407).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-records-5871-fresh-cases-119-fatalities/article32340225.ece
13 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||Karnataka cases touch a new high of 7,883||Karnataka reported 7,883 new COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, the highest in a single day. With this, the total number of positive cases stood at 1.96 lakh. Andhra Pradesh added 9,597 new infections and 93 deaths in the 24 hours as of Wednesday morning. The Health Department said the tally had touched 2,54,146, the death toll was 2,296 while 90,425 persons were under treatment. Four districts reported 10 or more deaths in the past day. They included Guntur (13), Prakasam (11), Chittoor (10) and Nellore (10). Srikakulam reported nine deaths, Anantapur and Kadapa seven deaths each, Visakhapatnam six and East Godavari and Vizianagaram five deaths each. Similarly, Kurnool and West Godavari reported four deaths each. Krishna district reported two deaths. Guntur’s death toll went up to 255, just behind Kurnool’s 258. East Godavari reported the highest number of 1,332 cases followed by Chittoor with 1,235 new infections. They were followed by West Godavari (929), Visakhapatnam (797), Kurnool (781), Anantapur (781), Guntur (762), Nellore (723), Vizianagaram (593), Srikakulam (511), Prakasam (454), Kadapa (364) and Krishna (335). Kerala’s cumulative case burden rose to 38,144 with 1,212 fresh cases on Wednesday. Of the 1,212 new cases, 1,097 were locally acquired infections, including that of 22 health-care workers. In 45 cases, the source of infection could not be identified. Six deaths — two in Kasaragod, one each in Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam, Idukki and Kottayam — took the toll to 126. While the cumulative case burden was 38,144, there were 13,045 patients under treatment. Thiruvananthapuram again was at top slot for fresh cases. The district reported 266 cases, of which all except two were locally acquired infections. Malappuram reported 261 cases, 237 due to local transmission. Other case additions were: Ernakulam 121, Alappuzha 118, Palakkad 81, Kozhikode 93, Kottayam 76, Kasaragod 68, Idukki 42, Kannur 31, Thrissur 19, Pathanamthitta 19, Wayanad 12 and Kollam 5. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said with coastal clusters in Thiruvananthapuram showing a downward case trend, more relaxations would be allowed in the containment zone. He said that women fish vendors who buy fish from wholesale trading centres would be tested. One rescue volunteer at Meppady in Wayanad had tested positive. In fresh mortality in Karnataka, 113 deaths were reported. The Department of Health said 701 out of 80,343 active cases were in intensive care.   119 deaths in Tamil Nadu A little over half of the 5,871 new cases of COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu were recorded in Chennai and other northern districts on Wednesday. As the surge continued, another 5,633 persons were discharged and 119 persons succumbed to the infection. Chennai accounted for 993 new cases, Chengalpattu (439) and Tiruvallur (407). A total of 371 persons tested positive in Kancheepuram, while Cuddalore recorded 337 cases. Ranipet and Tiruvannamalai had 254 and 123 cases. While Villupuram had 95 cases, there was a dip in cases in Vellore as 45 persons tested positive.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Thiruvananthapuram and Chennai bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/karnataka-cases-touch-a-new-high-of-7883/article32340091.ece
13 August 2020||JAIPUR,||Congress MLAs return to Jaipur||Congress MLAs sequestered at a resort near Jaisalmer for the last two weeks during the political turmoil in Rajasthan returned to Jaipur on Wednesday, two days before a crucial session of the Assembly beginning on August 14. The MLAs were taken to a hotel on the outskirts of the city, where they had stayed for several days last month. The legislators were flown back to the State Capital after the dissident MLAs, led by Sachin Pilot, called truce and came back to the party fold. The MLAs, who were supporting Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, will go straight from the hotel to the Assembly for attending the session. They are likely to return to their respective constituencies after the session is over.  Sources in the ruling Congress said the government would go in for a floor test despite having the numbers in its favour and Mr. Pilot and his band of 18 rebel MLAs having returned to the party fold. The Business Advisory Committee, expected to meet on Thursday, will decide the timing of the floor test. Gehlot’s camp upset The MLAs supporting Mr. Gehlot were reportedly upset over the return of Mr. Pilot and dissident legislators and demanded that their feelings be conveyed to the party’s top leadership. Several MLAs said before leaving Jaisalmer that the rebels should not be accommodated in the party positions and posts. However, all the MLAs, including the rebels, are likely to attend a Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meeting to be held here on Thursday. Mr. Gehlot and Mr. Pilot are expected to come face-to-face at the meeting for the first time after the crisis erupted last month following the rebellion staged by the latter. Mr. Gehlot told reporters in Jaisalmer that the resentment among the Congress MLAs, lodged in hotels for a month, was “natural” after the return of dissidents to the party fold, but said he had asked them to “forgive, forget and move on” in the interest of democracy and for the welfare of people of the State. He said all the legislators, including the “colleagues who had left and come back,” would work together to fulfil their commitment to serve the State. “More than 100 MLAs stayed together for such a long time... If the democracy is alive in the country, it is because of the contribution of the Congress leaders,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-mlas-return-to-jaipur/article32340101.ece
13 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Vaccine panel mulls early access||India would leverage domestic vaccine manufacturing capacity as well as engage with all international players for the early delivery of vaccines in India as well as in low and middle income countries, the first ever meeting of the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for COVID-19 decided on Wednesday, according to a statement from the Union Health Ministry. The meeting was chaired by Dr. V.K. Paul, Member, Niti Aayog, along with Secretary (Ministry of Health and Family Welfare) as co-Chair. Available to Indians Though there are several groups on vaccine development, this group is significant as it is expected to deliberate on how a vaccine, whenever it is available, will be practically made available to Indians. Though there are reports on the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) readying 100 million doses by the year-end, it is not exactly clear how many of them will be available to Indians. On Tuesday, Russia’s President Vladimir Putin announced that his country had given regulatory approval to a home-grown vaccine. However, details on its performance in early trials are not available and Indian officials declined to comment on whether there was any partnership involving India and Russia to either test or procure the vaccine. The expert group on Wednesday deliberated on a “conceptualisation and implementation mechanism” to create a digital infrastructure for inventory management and delivery mechanism of the vaccine, including tracking of the vaccination process, with particular focus on the last mile delivery. Financial resources “The expert group discussed on the financial resources required for procurement of COVID-19 vaccine and various options of financing the same. Available options in terms of delivery platforms, cold chain and associated infrastructure for roll out of COVID-19 vaccination were also taken up,” the statement added. “India’s support to its key neighbours and development partner countries for COVID-19 vaccines was deliberated upon. The expert group discussed that India will leverage domestic vaccine manufacturing capacity and will also engage with all international players for early delivery of vaccines not only in India but also in low and middle income countries.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/vaccine-panel-mulls-early-access/article32340113.ece
13 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Pandemic will hit education’||Three out of four Indians say the COVID-19 pandemic will deepen inequalities among primary and secondary students, according to a survey by global education firm Pearson. Almost 80% fear the pandemic will continue to disrupt education until a vaccine is found. The global online survey was conducted for Pearson in May by a market research firm, with results weighted for age, gender, education and socio-economic status so that proportions are representative of national demographics. Over a thousand Indians were included. Campus reopening Primary and secondary education will fundamentally change because of the pandemic, according to 80% of Indian respondents. Almost the same proportion says that online learning is going to become a bigger part of schooling for young people. With three-fourths of respondents recognising a widening digital divide, they were asked what solutions public education needs to invest in. About 45% felt the need to equip schools to switch to online learning, while 33% felt the top priority is to increase access to technology for underserved learners. With regard to higher education, about two-thirds of the respondents felt that Indian colleges and universities were prepared for the pandemic. The survey revealed mixed opinions with regard to the physical reopening of campuses. Although 75% of Indian students believe that colleges and universities are risking the lives of students if they reopen in the fall, 71% also believe that reopening them is vital for the economy and society. Almost 80% said they would be less likely to travel overseas for their studies. Blended learning, a hybrid between digital and face-to-face classes, seems to be the most popular option for the immediate future, with 86% of respondents accepting that online learning will be part of the university experience. Soft skills With the pandemic-exacerbated economic insecurities, 84% of Indian respondents made it clear that schools need to focus more on preparing students for the world of work, not just examinations. Only 51% feel that a university degree is essential, and 62% said that their own higher education experience did not prepare them for their careers. In fact, only 46% say that if given the choice again, they would still go to college. Most respondents called for more soft skills and hands-on training in higher education, with more than 80% saying that while colleges and universities are good places to make professional connections, work-based experience outweighs what is being taught.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pandemic-will-hit-education/article32340135.ece
13 August 2020||Patna,||Tussle for more seats in poll-bound Bihar||With the Election Commission asserting that the Assembly election in Bihar would be held on time in October-November, political parties are now vying for more seats and exploring new formations to suit their electoral prospects. Opposition parties and the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) partner, the Lok Janshakti Party, have long been demanding that polls be deferred due to the spike in COVID-19 cases and floods, which have inundated 16 districts of northeast Bihar. Only the ruling Janata Dal(U) has been in favour of holding the election. Even its ally, the BJP, has been mum on the issue, saying “holding elections is the Election Commission’s prerogative”. However, some BJP leaders say that in such difficult times, only Yadav and Muslim voters will come out to vote. “We all know for which party that would go,” one of them said. The LJP’s demand for the deferment of elections and its attack on Chief Minister Nitish Kumar widened the rift between the NDA partners in Bihar. JD(U) leader Rajeev Ranjan Singh, alias Lalan Singh, said, “He [Mr. Paswan] is cutting the branch of the tree he sits on.” However, NDA sources said the reason for the rift was the seat-sharing between the three NDA partners. The JD(U) wants to contest in at least 120 seats and the BJP not less than in 102 seats, leaving only 21 for the LJP in the total 243 seats. Better options “Ahead of polls, parties, particularly smaller ones, explore better political options to contest more and more seats,” political analyst Ajay Kumar told The Hindu . Meanwhile, State Congress leader Sadanand Singh said his party would contest 80 seats, triggering murmurs among the Mahagathbandhan allies. However, State party in-charge Shaktisinh Gohil later said that a decision will be taken “only after consultations with alliance partners”. Former Chief Minister Jitan Ram Manjhi-led HAM(S) has also been demanding formation of a coordination committee for the Mahagathbandan for seat distribution, but his demand has not been met so far. The buzz, though, is that Mr. Manjhi may switch to the NDA, while the LJP could come to the Mahagathbandhan fold. But it is still too early to say anything, says Mr. Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tussle-for-more-seats-in-poll-bound-bihar/article32340095.ece
13 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||IAF deploys two light combat helicopters in Leh||Amid the stand-off on the border with China in Ladakh, two indigenous light combat helicopters (LCHs) have been deployed at high altitude in Leh at short notice to support Indian Air Force missions, Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd. said on Wednesday. “It is the lightest attack helicopter in the world designed and developed by HAL to meet the specific and unique requirements of the Indian armed forces, reflecting the crucial role of HAL in ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’,”  HAL Chief Managing Director R. Madhavan said in a statement. Last week, Vice Chief of the Air Staff Air Marshal Harjit Singh Arora took part in one such operation along with HAL test pilot Wing Commander Subash P. John (retd.), by taking off from a high-altitude location to a forward area for a simulated attack on a high-altitude target. “This was followed by a landing at one of the most treacherous helipads in the region. The LCH successfully demonstrated its quick deployment prowess to forward locations in extreme temperatures,” HAL stated. The IAF and the Army need 160 LCHs and the Defence Acquisition Council (DAC) has approved an initial batch of 15. The IAF has since issued the Request for Proposal (RFP) for 15 limited series production (LSP) helicopters, 10 for itself and five for the Army, and HAL has submitted its response.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/iaf-deploys-two-light-combat-helicopters-in-leh/article32340097.ece
13 August 2020||August 13 2020 00:00 IST,||‘I have not spoken to Nitish in almost a year’||In an open admission about the discord in the National Democratic Alliance (NDA), in Bihar, Chirag Paswan,   Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) president,  says he had not met or spoken to Bihar Chief Minister and Janata Dal(U) leader Nitish Kumar for a year now. The State goes to the polls in November.  Your party, in a letter to the Election Commission, had urged it to defer the Bihar Assembly election, but the panel has maintained that the polls will be held on schedule. At the end of the day, the Election Commission has to take the call. The number of COVID-19 positive cases are spiralling in the State even when the testing figures are very low, an issue that Prime Minister Narendra Modi too flagged in his meeting on Tuesday. You can’t put the lives of people in danger for elections. In addition, parts of the State are ravaged by floods. Should the limited resources be diverted for elections? What is the Constitutional urgency? Our Constitution provides the alternative of President’s Rule. Remember, the elections are not a one-day affair. We have days of campaigning, public meetings and so on. And on the polling day itself, what if the voters do not turn up because of the pandemic? Democracy is all about people’s participation! You have been the biggest critic of Nitish Kumar. Why have you resorted to public criticism in spite of being an ally. Is there no space within the NDA for you to raise these issues? Exactly, I do not have any space or platform. For a very short period, in 2017, the LJP was a part of the Nitish Kumar government with our then State president Pashupati Nath Paras being Minister in the State Cabinet. In 2019, he fought the Lok Sabha election. Since then, despite many requests, Nitish ji did not give us a berth in the Cabinet. When I started the ‘Bihar first, Bihari first’ yatra, he absolutely refused to have any kind of communication with me. When was the last time you met Nitish Kumar or spoke to him over phone? It has been almost a year now. I wanted to convey the feedback that I got from my ‘Bihar first, Bihari first’ yatra but he refused to answer my phone calls. He has not spoken to me or any leader of my party. He did not respond to any of my letters ... I had no other option but to go public. And these were merely suggestions, not really criticism. For example, every child is taught to dial 100 to reach the police, but in Bihar it doesn’t work. Why should students from Bihar go to Kota coaching institutes to study, when in fact the teachers and even the heads of various coaching institutes there are from Bihar? I have nothing personal against the Chief Minister. Many claim that you are working as a proxy of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to keep the JD(U) on a tight leash. And this whole façade of criticising the Nitish government is just a way of cornering more number of seats for the LJP... My party is in an alliance with the BJP but it has its own ideology and thought process. Let me categorically say — the LJP has not had any meeting on the seat sharing arrangement so far. I do not need to discuss the number of seats because it had already been finalised way back in 2014 when we joined the NDA. We fought on seven Lok Sabha seats and 42 Assembly seats. I am not going negotiate the number of seats year after year. There was a buzz that the Congress had approached you and that the LJP could shift base to the Mahagatbandhan ? I have my friends across party lines — that doesn’t necessarily mean that I am joining their alliance. I am currently in the NDA. And I have a blind faith in the central leadership of the BJP, especially Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah. They listen to my concerns and I can reach them whenever I need, even if our Chief Minister does not.  I do not have anything personal against the Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/i-have-not-spoken-to-nitish-in-almost-a-year/article32340105.ece
13 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Indians having any valid visa can now fly to the UAE||With the Union government lifting the pandemic-induced curbs on tourist and visit visas for travel to the United Arab Emirates (UAE) after five months, airlines can now carry any Indian national holding any type of valid UAE visa to the seven emirates. Till now, only Indian and UAE nationals having resident visa, fresh job visa or student visa were allowed to travel on flights operated by Air India Group and Air India Express and on chartered flights to the UAE. “It would be for the airlines concerned to ensure that there is no travel restriction for Indian nationals to enter the UAE with the particular visa category before issuing ticket and boarding pass,” the Civil Aviation Ministry said in a communication. The Centre was under pressure to allow everyone with valid UAE visas to travel after the General Directorate of Residency and Foreign Affairs in Dubai started issuing new visit visas for Indians. Relatives of NRIs were not able to fly to the seven emirates due to the restrictions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/indians-having-any-valid-visa-can-now-fly-to-the-uae/article32340082.ece
13 August 2020||New Delhi,||Kozhikode plane crash: 85 discharged from hospitals||Air India Express on Wednesday said 85 passengers injured in the plane crash in Kozhikode had been discharged from hospitals after “obtaining complete fitness.” The airline said its contract service provider, Kenyon International, arrived at Kozhikode on Monday and started the process of “search and retrieval” of the baggage belonging to the crew and passengers. The U.S.-based company was conducting its process with the help of Air India officials, it added. Air India Express is a wholly owned subsidiary of the national carrier, Air India. “We will ensure that the baggage retrieved is handed over to the passengers and family in due course, after the cleaning and sanitisation process,” the airline noted. The Air India Express flight from Dubai with 190 people on board, including a six-member crew, overshot the tabletop runway during landing at the Kozhikode airport in heavy rain on Friday night. It fell into a valley and broke into pieces, killing 18 people, including two pilots.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kozhikode-plane-crash-85-discharged-from-hospitals/article32340086.ece
13 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC to hear plea on COVID-19 ‘mismanagement’ by Centre||The Supreme Court on Friday will hear a writ petition filed by six former bureaucrats, represented by advocate Prashant Bhushan, seeking a Commission of Inquiry to be set up into the “gross mismanagement” of the COVID-19 pandemic by the government. The petition has already been listed for hearing before a Bench led by Justice L. Nageswara Rao on August 14. The petition contends that mismanagement occurred at multiple levels, from not stocking enough protective and medical equipment to combat the health crisis to lack of early checking of incoming international passengers to the handling the exodus of migrant workers during the lockdown. ‘Devastating effect’ The extensive lockdown, which was imposed overnight, had a “devastating effect” on the jobs of ordinary people and violated their fundamental right to live with dignity by earning their livelihood. The lockdown has had a crippling effect on the economy. The plea said about six crore people between the age of 20 and 39 years lost their jobs in April itself. The lives of 40 million migrant workers were abruptly disrupted by the national lockdown. Many died in the efforts to reach home, walking for thousands of miles due to lack of public transport. The petition filed by the former bureaucrats, which include M.G. Devasahayam and Amit Bhaduri, said the Centre’s response to the pandemic and its “deleterious impact” on the lives and livelihoods of the citizens was a “definite matter of public importance and warrants appointment of an Inquiry Commission.” National lockdown It alleged the nationwide lockdown, which was announced on March 24, was “arbitrary, irrational and without due consultation with experts or State governments.” “In spite of being the harshest and most restrictive lockdown in the world, it has failed to arrest the spread of the disease,” the plea said. The bureaucrats contended that the government failed to draw up a national plan and guidelines for providing minimum standards of relief to vulnerable sections of the society under the Disaster Management Act, 2005. There was delay in ensuring adequate supplies of personal protective equipment for safety of healthcare workers during the pandemic. The Centre failed to undertake effective measures for containing the transmission of virus even after being notified about it by the World Health Organization (WHO) in early January this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-to-hear-plea-on-covid-19-mismanagement-by-centre/article32340116.ece
13 August 2020||August 13 2020 00:00 IST,||New Parliament: three firms told to sign secrecy affidavits||The Central Public Works Department (CPWD) on Wednesday asked the three companies it has short-listed for the new Parliament construction project to sign secrecy affidavits before submitting their financial bids by September 16. The CPWD on Monday selected the Larsen & Toubro Ltd, the Shapoorji Pallonji and Co. Ltd. and the Tata Projects Ltd. from the seven firms that applied for pre-qualification to bid for the project. On Monday, it issued an addendum to its June 26 invitation for pre-qualification bids saying four firms that had applied before the July 14 deadline had been disqualified. They were: ITD Cementation India Ltd., NCC Ltd., PSP Projects Ltd. and Uttar Pradesh Rajkiya Nirman Nigam Ltd., an undertaking of the Uttar Pradesh government. The firms that qualified would be eligible to submit their financial bids online, the CPWD said. Due to security concerns about sharing the drawings with all bidders, the CPWD had decided to seek pre-qualification bids before financial bids, the spokesperson of the Union Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry said in July. On Wednesday, the CPWD issued a corrigendum telling the three firms in the running to submit the earnest money deposit of Rs. 9.5 crore each to access the tender document. They were asked to complete all formalities, including signing an affidavit saying they would keep the drawings secret, failing which they would face action under the Official Secrets Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/new-parliament-three-firms-told-to-sign-secrecy-affidavits/article32340129.ece
13 August 2020||GUWAHATI,||Forest loss threatens hornbills||A study based on satellite data has flagged a high rate of deforestation in a major hornbill habitat in Arunachal Pradesh. Using fine-scale satellite imagery, a trio of ecologists assessed the changes in forest cover of the 1,064 sq.km. Papum Reserve Forest (RF) adjoining the Pakke Tiger Reserve as well as a part of Assam affected by illegal felling and ethnic conflict. Papum RF is a nesting habitat of three species of the large, colourful fruit-eating hornbills: Great, Wreathed and Oriental Pied. The 862 sq.km. Pakke reserve houses a fourth species, the Rufous-Necked. The study by Chintan Sheth of the Bengaluru-based National Centre for Biological Sciences and Aparajita Datta and Devathi Parashuram of the Mysuru-based Nature Conservation Foundation was published in Silva Fennica, a forest journal of Finland. “The satellite data pointed to alarming deforestation rates in Papum RF with annual loss rates as high as 8.2 sq.km. as per estimates from 2013-2017 where forest cover declined to 76% of the total RF area,” Mr. Sheth said. Illegal logging “Our results show the loss and degradation of critical hornbill habitat in the biologically rich forests of the Indian Eastern Himalaya,” he added. The ecologists assessed the habitat loss due to illegal logging within a 1 km radius around 29 hornbill nest trees. From 2011 to 2019, the forest cover was found to have declined from 38.55 sq.km. to 21.94 sq.km. around these trees. Hornbills used to be hunted for their casques — upper beak — and feathers for headgear despite being cultural symbols of some ethnic communities in the northeast, specifically the Nyishi of Arunachal Pradesh. But a 20-year-old conservation programme entailing the use of fibre-glass beaks reduced the threat to the birds to a large extent. Illegal logging, however, has however led to fewer tall trees where the birds nest. While the protected areas such as Pakke are better guarded, the forests are often under pressure due to agricultural expansion, conversion to plantations or logging. According to the Global Forest Watch 2020 report, the State lost 1,110 sq.km. of primary forest from 2002-2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/forest-loss-threatens-hornbills/article32340324.ece
13 August 2020||Bengaluru,||Notice to Karnataka govt. on petition seeking extension of health scheme||The High Court of Karnataka on Wednesday ordered issue of notice to the State government on a petition seeking extension of benefit of cashless Jyothi Sanjivini health scheme to all the employees of the Karnataka Government Medical Education Institutions. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Ashok S. Kinagi passed the order on a PIL petition filed by the Karnataka Government Medical Education Institutions Employees’ Welfare Association. The petitioner pointer pointed out that scheme was extended to certain categories of government employees under the Medical Education Department but employees of the government medical institutions were not given the benefit of availing of cashless treatment at the hospitals of their choice. Also, the petitioner said that extension of cashless health scheme would be a great help for its members as hundreds of employees working in government medical institutions are also being affected by COVID-19. However, government counsel said that the representation of the petitioner-association is under consideration of the government and a decision is expected shortly. Noticing that more than 300 employees of government medical institutions have been affected by COVID-19, the Bench adjourned further hearing till August 20 after recording the government’s assurance that the association’s representation for extension of the scheme is under active consideration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/notice-to-karnataka-govt-on-petition-seeking-extension-of-health-scheme/article32340159.ece
13 August 2020||LUCKNOW,||Accused in Bikru ambush arrested||An accused who allegedly hurled two crude bombs at the police team in Bikru village in July when eight policemen were killed, was arrested from Chitrakoot, police said. Identified as Balgovind Dubey, he carried a reward of Rs. 50,000, said the Kanpur police. The Special Task Force that arrested him recovered four crude bombs hidden by him after the Bikru incident, police said. The bag which contained the bombs was recovered near Shivli road in Kanpur, said the police. After his arrest from Karvi area in Chitrakoot, Balgovind Dubey allegedly told police that on the night of July 2, Vikas Dubey, the main accused, summoned him to his house and gave him crude bombs, telling him that police were coming to arrest them and that they should not let them escape alive. Dubey and Mishra were earlier gunned down by the police in separate incidents in days after the Bikru ambush.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/accused-in-bikru-ambush-arrested/article32340102.ece
13 August 2020||GUWAHATI,||AASU rails against CAA, EIA in Assam||The All Assam Students’ Union (AASU) on Wednesday protested against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) and demanded the scrapping of the draft Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) 2020. Members of the union formed human chains and demonstrated across the State against the “anti-indigenous people” CAA and the “environmentally disastrous” EIA notification. The demonstrators also lashed out at the Bharatiya Janata Party-led coalition government in Assam for “playing with the emotions of the people of the State”. This was in reference to the recommendation of a high-powered committee formed for the implementation of Clause 6 of the Assam Accord that envisages constitutional, legislative and administrative safeguards for the Assamese people. Top leaders of the AASU, who are members of the panel, made the report public to protest the “indifference” of the State government in processing the recommendations. The recommendations include reservation of 80-100% parliamentary and Assembly seats, and government jobs for the Assamese people. It also includes the introduction of the inner-line permit, a temporary travel document for outsiders currently applicable in Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, Mizoram and Nagaland.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/aasu-rails-against-caa-eia-in-assam/article32340123.ece
13 August 2020||GUWAHATI,||Worst may be behind us: Assam Minister||Assam Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Wednesday said a low COVID-19 infection rate could indicate the State was heading in the right direction or the worst was over. But a clearer picture on the novel coronavirus outbreak in the State would emerge after August 15, he insisted. “The COVID-19 positivity rate in the State has remained under 5% despite many tests being conducted. So we are either going the right way as far as peaking of the pandemic is concerned or the worst is behind us,” Dr. Sarma told journalists . “But we will get a clearer picture after August 15,” he said, adding that the COVID-19 death rate of 0.24% in the State had been lower than the national and international averages. Till Tuesday evening, 64,406 people had tested COVID-19 positive in Assam, out of whom 155 died. Panel report leak The Minister also took a swipe at the All Assam Students’ Union for leaking the confidential report of the high-powered committee on the implementation of Clause 6 of the 1985 Assam Accord. “They shouldn’t have made the contents public out of impatience. They should also realise that a few members of a panel cannot define the Assamese people. That is the job of members of the State Assembly, not even the Central government,” he said. The Clause 6 committee had defined “Assamese people” as those who have been living within the geographical confines of Assam on or before January 1, 1951. The definition of Assamese people has been eluding political, social, cultural and literary groups for decades primarily because of the ethnic and linguistic diversity in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/worst-may-be-behind-us-assam-minister/article32340131.ece
13 August 2020||GUWAHATI,||Nagaland divided over Ravi’s stand||Traditional tribal groups in Nagaland and some extremist groups do not appear to be on the same page as the Isak-Muivah faction of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland, or NSCN (IM) over Governor R.N. Ravi’s continuation as the interlocutor for the ongoing peace talks. The NSCN (I-M) calls itself the National Socialist Council of Nagalim. While Nagaland has a territorial limit, Nagalim refers to all Naga-inhabited areas in the Northeast as well as the adjoining Myanmar. The Naga Hoho, the apex body of 14 tribes and the Lotha (tribe) Hoho, on Tuesday said in separate statements that replacing Mr. Ravi would “delay the peace process and lead to endless negotiation while remaining in one’s comfort zone at the cost of peace and tranquillity”. They said “this is not the time for negative campaign” when the “voices and aspirations of the Nagas have grown louder each day” for a peaceful solution to the protracted Naga political issue. The Hohos also appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to “demonstrate his magnanimity and address one of the oldest political conflicts” soon. The conflict that began soon after India’s Independence subsided when the government and the NSCN (I-M) inked a ceasefire in mid-1997. Older armed groups and factions of the NSCN followed suit although the Myanmar-based NSCN (Khaplang) reneged on the truce in March 2015. The views of the Hohos coincided with a statement issued by the NSCN (I-M) accusing Mr. Ravi of creating hurdles in the final settlement of the Naga political issue and justifying the demand for his removal as the interlocutor. “The peace process is in a state of simmering tension and reaching tipping point because of Mr. R.N. Ravi’s vitriolic attack on the Naga issue” that Mr. Modi had entrusted with for “an honourable and acceptable” solution, the NSCN (IM) said. ‘Armed gangs’ The outfit had taken offence to Mr. Ravi’s use of “armed gangs” and “underground groups” while referring to the Naga extremist organisations in a letter to Chief Minister Neiphiu Rio on June 16. Before the Hohos, the Nagaland Gaon Burah Federation had opposed the “campaign by a section of people” seeking the removal of Mr. Ravi as the interlocutor which, it said, would not be in the interest of the people. The Naga National Political Groups, a conglomerate of seven armed political groups that rival the NSCN (IM), have said replacing the interlocutor would turn the “clock back to zero.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nagaland-divided-over-ravis-stand/article32340133.ece
13 August 2020||Bengaluru,||Violence was planned: Bengaluru police||With prohibitory orders in place and residents staying indoors on Wednesday morning, only the heavy deployment of police personnel and the charred remains of several vehicles and structures told the story of the violence that unfolded in D.J. Halli, Kadugondana Halli and Kaval Byrasandra -– a cluster of areas in East Bengaluru — on Tuesday night. While a derogatory Facebook post against Islam, allegedly put up by P. Naveen Kumar, the nephew of local Congress MLA R. Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy, triggered the riots, the mob, which was over 2,000 strong, turned against the police and the MLA. Rioters set fire to several police vehicles, vandalised and torched D.J. Halli police station and tried to unsuccessfully enter the police quarters in K.G. Halli. They also torched the houses of the MLA and Naveen Kumar in Kaval Byrasandra. Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI), whose members were the complainants and also now accused of a role in the riots, have blamed lack of prompt action against Naveen Kumar for the escalation, a charge denied by the police. “Within hours of receiving the complaint, we arrested Naveen Kumar,” said a senior police official at the spot Tuesday night. The mob demanded the accused be handed over to them and a refusal was perceived as cops trying to protect him. “If they had even sighted him, he would have been lynched,” the officer said. Preliminary investigations have indicated attempts by some local leaders to organise a crowd at the police station. “We have accessed screenshots and social media posts on Facebook and WhatsApp asking people to gather,” a senior police official said. What also made controlling the situation difficult was that there were at least two groups of people — one at D.J. Halli police station and another at the MLA’s house — indulging in stone pelting and rioting. “The fact that the crowds gathered at multiple locations simultaneously also indicate that the riots were not organic,” a senior police official said. Police personnel brought in Congress MLAs from the community – B.Z. Zameer Ahmed Khan and Rizwan Arshad – and a few religious leaders to try to reason with the agitated crowd, but failed. “Emotions were running so high that the mob, mostly made of youth, were unwilling to listen to any of us,” said Muzammil Ahmed, imam of Masjid E Umar Farooq, Goripalya. “Tension was brewing in the area from the evening itself but the police seemed unprepared. The mob was very agitated and there was not even a good public address system at the police station. While we were trying to speak to a crowd of over a thousand spread across three-four roads, we were audible only to a few people near us,” said Mr. Arshad. He added that the lack of clear communication between the police and the rioters led to a false perception that the police were trying to protect the accused, which did not seem to be the case. “There was also a lack of trust,” another religious leader at the spot on Tuesday said. All attempts to reason with the mob for over two hours failed, and Zameer Ahmed Khan, MLA, was even injured in the melee. Police trapped in station As the rioters charged at the D.J. Halli police station, nearly 70 policemen were trapped inside and in the vicinity battling a violent mob of over a thousand, that were pelting stones, glass bottles and burning down vehicles. “It was so violent that even the additional forces that were called in found it hard to get into the area as they also came under attack,” said a senior police officer. A battalion of Karnataka State Reserve Police (KSRP) finally made a breakthrough and entered D.J. Halli police station, and secured the premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/violence-was-planned-bengaluru-police/article32340071.ece
13 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||KCR yet to convey dates for meet on AP-TS water dispute||The Ministry of Water Resources on Tuesday sought the State government’s suggestion on two or three convenient dates for Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to attend a virtual meeting of the Apex Council to resolve river water disputes between Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. However, the Chief Minister is yet to communicate his decision regarding the viable dates. Not available till Aug. 20 The Ministry had earlier convened the meeting of the council on August 5 which Mr. Rao did not agree to as he was busy on that day with pre-scheduled programmes. Accordingly, it was postponed and Mr. Rao went ahead with presiding over a marathon meeting of the Cabinet which went on till 10.30 p.m. that day. He suggested any other day after August 20 as the government had to work out a strategy for Independence Day celebrations in the meantime. CM leaves for farmhouse Accordingly, the State government was likely to convey the fresh dates for the meeting to the Centre after August 20 but a decision could not be taken on Wednesday as Mr. Rao had left for his farmhouse the previous evening. The postponement of the Apex Council meeting had invited flak from the Congress and BJP which blamed Mr. Rao for not sparing time to participate in such an important event at a time when Andhra Pradesh was speedily executing the Rayalaseema lift-irrigation scheme by inviting tenders. They wondered what use the meeting would be after August 20 when the tenders would be finalised a day before. In the meantime, the Krishna River Management Board had asked the Andhra Pradesh government on a complaint by Telangana to stop the project immediately as it did not have the sanction of the Apex Council. The board made it clear that even inviting tenders was in violation of provisions of AP Reorganisation Act. AP nod to tenders The Andhra Pradesh government gave the go ahead for tenders with a deadline of August 13 afternoon and finalising them on August 19 with the permission of the National Green Tribunal which had earlier stayed the project. The tender documents were submitted to the Judicial Preview Commission which uploaded the same on its website. Following the tendering process, top officials of irrigation and finance departments of AP held talks with bankers to mobilise funds for the Rs. 3,825 crore project and complete it at the earliest. It was decided to launch the works in October. The Ministry of Water Resources (Jal Shakti) had also asked both State governments to stop all new projects that did not have the appraisal by river water boards and the sanction of the Apex Council. This will be the second meeting of the Apex Council as per the State reorganisation law. The Council has the Union Water Resources Minister and Chief Ministers of both States as members. The earlier one was held in September 2016 when Uma Bharti was the Union Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kcr-yet-to-convey-dates-for-meet-on-ap-ts-water-dispute/article32340421.ece
13 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||Sexual assault victim dies in Hyderabad||A minor orphan girl who was reported to have been sexually assaulted by a ‘benefactor’ of the protection home where she had stayed, breathed her last while undergoing treatment at Niloufer Hospital on Wednesday. The girl’s condition worsened during the last 48 hours of her life, and doctors could not save her despite placing her in ICU and on ventilator. While the post mortem report is yet to be shared, sources informed that the girl’s brain had a blood clot. Besides, she had been suffering from vaginal infection for the past four months owing to the sexual assault, without any medical attention whatsoever. The child did not receive immediate medical help even after a case was registered with the police on July 31. She was examined by a doctor at the Bharosa Centre the next day and sent away with her aunt. She was later sent to the government run shelter home in Nimboli Adda after being referred there by the Child Welfare Committee on August 3. She was admitted in the Niloufer Hospital only on August 7, after she got seriously ill at the home. Delay in admitting the girl in hospital is suspected to be one of the reasons behind her tragic death. The victim was staying at Maruthi Orphanage in Deeptisri Nagar where she was admitted in 2015 after her parents’ death. As per the details shared by her aunt Preeti, the girl was taken home by one of her uncles, Anil, on March 21, after being informed by the home that she had had a fall and got injured. However, soon after, the uncle started making rounds of the orphanage asking them to take the girl back, which the caretaker had refused. Vexed, the uncle left her at Preeti’s place, where, upon much goading, the girl revealed her ordeal at the protection home. As per the FIR, she was repeatedly sexually assaulted at the home by one Venugopal, who got donations for the home. Caretaker Vijaya allegedly assisted him by sending the girl to him. By the time the victim reached her uncle’s home, she had lost urine and bowel control and got sick frequently, due to which the uncle and his wife had beaten her, and starved her. Though this was shared with the police as well as child protection authorities by her aunt Preeti, no effort was made to send her to hospital, sources say. Private hospitals approached by the aunt refused treatment as it was a medico-legal case. Three persons, including the prime accused Venugopal, and the caretakers Vijaya and Jayadeep were arrested by the police only on August 7, a week after the FIR. The girl’s uncle Anil too has been booked for physical abuse of the girl, officials informed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sexual-assault-victim-dies-in-hyderabad/article32340076.ece
13 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Study finds poor access to abortion drugs||Over-regulation of drugs to curb gender-biased sex selection such as through government programmes like ‘Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao’ has hindered access to safe, legal and cost-effective abortion, according to a survey across six States which found an “overwhelming shortage” of abortion pills or medical abortion drugs. A study conducted among 1,500 chemists in six States by the Foundation for Reproductive Health Services India (FRHSI) indicated a severe shortage of medical abortion (MA) drugs in five out of the six States surveyed, with abysmal stocking in Madhya Pradesh (6.5%), Punjab (1%), Tamil Nadu (2%), Haryana (2%) and Delhi (34%). The only State that seemed to be better was Assam (69.6%). Legal barriers The findings show that State-wise regulatory and legal barriers are the key reasons why 79% of the chemists surveyed refrained from stocking these drugs. As many as 54.8% of chemists also reported that medical abortion drugs were over-regulated as compared to other prescription drugs. “The regulatory hurdles are due to a misunderstanding that easy availability of medical abortion drugs will be misused for sex selection. But this drug is approved for use only up to nine weeks, whereas an ultrasound can detect a foetus only at around 13-14 weeks. Moreover, these abortions are allowed under the Medical Termination Act. The law on abortions allows termination of pregnancy in the first nine weeks and in some cases even in the second trimester, such as in sexual assault cases as well as due to foetal anomalies,” V.S. Chandrashekar, chief executive officer, FRHSI and Pratigya Campaign Advisory Group member told The Hindu in a telephonic interview. Abortion pills are different from emergency contraceptive pills. The latter are taken 72 hours after unprotected sex to prevent an unintended pregnancy. Abortion pills or MA drugs are abortafacients which terminate a pregnancy by expelling an embryo or foetus. Mr. Chandrashekar adds that the regulatory crackdown has resulted in abortion services on the whole becoming inaccessible, especially those during the second trimester, but there is little ground for restricting MA drugs. The lack of availability of MA drugs forces many women to seek a surgical abortion from a facility, reducing her choice. It will also reduce access to safe abortion and force them to seek services from unsafe providers as there are only 16,296 approved abortion facilities in the private sector in the country, whereas MA drugs can be provided by an obstetrician or a gynaecologist, who are estimated to number about 60,000-70,000, the study highlights. A Lancet study on the incidence of abortion and pregnancy in 2015 estimated that 81% of abortions annually are medical abortions and nearly 90% of abortions are sought in the first trimester. Cost effective Moreover, MA drugs are also cost-effective. The cost of first trimester surgical abortion varies from Rs. 2,000-5,000 in Tier 2 and Tier 3 towns and smaller nursing homes or clinics. In these towns, the cost of abortion pills plus the consultation fee is in the range of Rs. 700-1,000. During COVID-19, the lack of access to abortion services is likely to have worsened as not only travelling to a surgical facility is challenging, but the cost of such a procedure may have gone up as clinics charge for PPE (personal protection equipment) and require a mandatory COVID-19 test.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/study-finds-poor-access-to-abortion-drugs/article32340119.ece
13 August 2020||Bodeli,||Patients shifted to safety after fire at Gujarat COVID-19 hospital||A fire broke out in the COVID-19 ward of a two-storey hospital in Bodeli town of Gujarat’s Chhotaudepur district on Wednesday morning, an official said. There was no casualty in the blaze that erupted on the second floor of Bodeli Dhokalia Public Hospital, the official said, adding that 10 COVID-19 patients undergoing treatment at the facility were shifted to the lower floor and some of them were later admitted to other hospitals. “A minor fire occurred in the switchboard of the COVID-19 ward following short-circuit in the morning. The blaze was controlled immediately by the staff with the help of fire extinguisher,” Chief District Health Officer Mahesh Chaudhary said. “As a precaution, the staff also shifted all the 10 patients to the lower floor,” he added. Later, after a health check, three patients were discharged as they tested negative for COVID-19 while seven were shifted to other hospitals in Chhotaudepur town, said Dr. Chaudhary. “While the fire was minor and did not cause any casualty or damage to property, it will take time to check and replace the electric wiring on the second floor. Thus, we have decided to shift the coronavirus patients elsewhere,” Dr. Chaudhary said. Out of the seven patients, two were admitted to the district hospital while five were shifted to a COVID-19 care centre set up in the Polytechnic College in Chhotaudepur town, the official added. On August 6, eight COVID-19 patients died in a fire in the intensive care unit of a hospital in Ahmedabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/patients-shifted-to-safety-after-fire-at-gujarat-covid-19-hospital/article32340125.ece
13 August 2020||Bengaluru,||Muslim youth stand guard at local temple||While mobs went on a rampage in DJ Halli and the neighbouring KG Halli in Bengaluru, a group of residents from minority community worked towards ensuring that the violence did not take a communal turn. A group of Muslim youth formed a human chain around a temple near Mr. Srinivasamurthy’s house in Kaval Byrasandra late Tuesday night. A video of this has gone viral on social media. “The riots of Tuesday night were not communal. But the mob was very violent and directionless. If it had attacked the temple, it could have descended into a communal riot. So some of the youths who were trying to pacify the crowds formed a human chain around the temple,” said a resident. Meanwhile, Congress MLA Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy has appealed for peace and said there had been no incident of this nature in the last 25 years in the locality. His house was set on fire when and he and his family members were away. The rioters carried machetes and petrol bombs and looted jewellery and all other material at home, he said. “Not even pillows were spared in my house,” he said. “I have been living in that house for the past 50 years. I was born and raised in that house. Even my brother’s house was burnt. Where do we go now?” he asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/muslim-youth-stand-guard-at-local-temple/article32340084.ece
13 August 2020||Srinagar,||Soldier, Hizb militant killed in Pulwama||A Hizbul Mujahideen “commander” and a soldier were killed and two soldiers were injured in two gun battles in the Kashmir Valley on Wednesday. “The ‘commander’ killed in the encounter is Azaad Lalhari of the Hizbul Mujahideen. He was involved in the killing of a police head constable, Anoop Singh, in May 2020 in Pulwama,” Inspector-General of Police Vijay Kumar said. Lalhari, a resident of Pulwama, was trapped during an operation of the security forces, launched “on a specific input” around 2.30 a.m. in the Kamrazipora area of Pulwama. “The body was retrieved from the site of encounter. Incriminating materials and arms and ammunition were also recovered,” a police spokesman said. Keeping in view the pandemic, the body was sent to Baramulla for burial and last rites. “The nearest family members of the killed terrorist were allowed to participate in the last rites at Baramulla,” the police spokesman said. The police said two Army jawans suffered bullet injuries in the encounter. “One of the jawans succumbed to his injuries,” the spokesman said. Attack in Baramulla In a separate incident, militants injured a soldier in an attack in Baramulla. An Army spokesman said terrorists fired at a quick reaction team of the Army when it was moving from Baramulla towards Gulmarg on the Srinagar-Baramulla National Highway near the Trumgund Hygam crossing. “A soldier was injured. A search operation is in progress,” the Army spokesman said. Meanwhile, a Lashkar-e-Taiba militant was held in Bandipora. The police identified him as Aquib Ahmad Rather, alias Jana, a resident of Sahipora, Handwara.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/soldier-hizb-militant-killed-in-pulwama/article32340093.ece
13 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||DGGI raids cement manufacturer after tax evasion is detected||The Directorate General of GST Intelligence (DGGI) conducted 28 searches in Delhi, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh after a major cement manufacturer was caught allegedly supplying large quantities without paying taxes. One company director has been arrested, while the other has not joined the investigation. The missing director was earlier convicted in a coal block allocations case by a Delhi court in 2017. The DGGI found that more than 12 lakh cement bags were short in the stocks when compared with the formal records maintained by the company. The enforcement arm of the Central Board of Indirect Taxes & Customs carried out the operation from August 5 to 11 at premises linked to the manufacturer at Maihar and Satna in Madhya Pradesh, and their registered dealers and distributors. Mismatch found As it turned out, substantial quantities of cement and clinker were supplied clandestinely. Searches were also conducted in Allahabad, Kushinagar, Agra and Kanpur. Preliminary findings revealed that over four lakh tonnes of limestone had been procured in excess of what was declared in the formal records of the company from January to July. During a factory search on August 8, after DGGI team was surrounded by a mob, M.P. police provided security to the team. “By suppressing the procurement of limestone, the firm appears to have manufactured the cement and clinker which have been supplied clandestinely to dealers and units... in this process, as per preliminary estimates, about Rs. 15.1 crore of GST is suspected to have been evaded during the 7-month period,” said the DGGI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dggi-raids-cement-manufacturer-after-tax-evasion-is-detected/article32340122.ece
13 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Home Minister’s medal for 15 CBI officials||Officers belonging to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) have bagged 15 ‘Union Home Minister’s Medal for Excellence in Investigation’ awards ahead of the Independence Day celebrations this year. Among the officials is Assistant Superintendent of Police Subhash Ramrup Singh, who was instrumental in getting the firearm allegedly used in the Narendra Dabholkar murder case retrieved by a Norwegian team of deep-sea divers from the Kharegaon Creek in the Arabian sea. The probe also led to clues to the murders of M.M. Kalburgi, Gauri Lankesh and Govind Pansare. BJP worker’s murder Inspector Rakesh Ranjan, who cracked the murder case of BJP worker Yogesh Gowda at Dharwad in Karnataka, has also been conferred the medal. Inspector Perwez Alam solved the rape and murder of an engineering student Jaya Bharti. The person involved in the case was sentenced to death. Inspector Vibha Kumari probed the sexual abuse of minors in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur shelter home. It resulted in the conviction of Brajesh Thakur and 11 others, who were sentenced to life in jail. Superintendent of Police Cephas Kalyan Pakerla, who investigated the i-Monetary Advisory (IMA) scam; Deputy Superintendent of Police Mukesh Sharma, who solved the rape and murder of a minor girl in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri; Inspector Duli Chand Yadav, who cracked the BITS Pilani examination paper leak case; and Inspector Jyotirmoyee Majhi, who probed chit-fund scam cases, have also been awarded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/home-ministers-medal-for-15-cbi-officials/article32340111.ece
13 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||Startup test-fires upper stage rocket engine||Skyroot, a city-based aerospace startup, on Wednesday announced that it had successfully test-fired an upper stage rocket engine. The startup took to Twitter to make the announcement. “No better day than Dr. Vikram Sarabhai's birthday to announce our successful test-firing of our Vikram-1 Launch vehicle’s upper stage Engine-Raman. Four Raman engines with multi-start capability produce a thrust of 3.4kN and inserts multiple satellites into orbit,” it tweeted. Skyroot was founded by Indian Space Research Organisation’s rocket design centre. Founders Its founders are Pawan Kumar Chandana, a former engineer with Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre at the ISRO, and Naga Bharat Daka. According to Skyroot’s website, the startup is engaged in developing the Vikram series of launch vehicles — Vikram-I, Vikram-II and Vikram-III.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/startup-test-fires-upper-stage-rocket-engine/article32340388.ece
13 August 2020||Bengaluru,||High Court fiat to MSIL Managing Director||The High Court of Karnataka on Wednesday directed the Managing Director of the government-owned Mysore Sales International Ltd. (MSIL) to file an affidavit giving an undertaking that the MSIL will not be influenced by the recommendations by Ministers, elected representatives, etc. for appointment of persons of their choice in its liquor outlets. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Ashok S. Kingai issued the direction while hearing a PIL petition which had complained that the MSIL is appointing persons on outsource basis to its retail liquor outlets based on the whims and fancies of elected representatives without following norms prescribed in the Karnataka Excise Act. Meanwhile, the Bench declined to accept the statement made by Animal Husbandry Minister Prabhu B. Chavan his letter [written on his official letterhead] for appointing two persons of his choice for MSIL liquor outlet at Mudhol was not a recommendation but it was merely a request. Terming that the explanation given by Mr. Chavan is not enough, the Bench said it was well known how requests by the Ministers are read by officials. However, without going further on the Minister’s letter, the Bench directed the MD of MSIL to file an affidavit of giving undertaking by August 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/high-court-fiat-to-msil-managing-director/article32340161.ece
13 August 2020||KOCHI,||Order unfortunate: Jacobite faction||The Jacobite faction of the Malankara Church has said that the Kerala High Court directive on Wednesday to Ernakulam Collector S. Suhas to take over the Mulanthuruthy Marthoman Jacobite church was “unfortunate.” Metropolitan Trustee Joseph Mar Gregorios of the Jacobite Church said the verdict was unfortunate and that around 2,500 parishioners of the Marthoman church were emotional about their attachment to the church. He said the people had previously resisted the takeover of the church and that their reactions could be emotional. Father Jose Abraham Konatt, official spokesman for the Orthodox faction of the Malankara Church, reiterated that the Orthodox group did not want to oust anyone from the church but that the Jacobite group members were going out of the church on their own.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/order-unfortunate-jacobite-faction/article32340445.ece
13 August 2020||August 13 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Mega labs’ to boost COVID-19 testing||The CSIR has partnered with the U.S.-based Illumina, a company that specialises in the manufacture of NGS machines. Five such sequencers, costing Rs. 4 crore each, are currently available in India. “From our pilot tests so far, we found that 99% of confirmed RT-PCR positive samples were identified so by the NGS method. More importantly, nearly half of the samples that the RT-PCR termed ‘inconclusive’ were identified as either positive and negative. So this can also be used as a confirmatory test,” said Sridhar Sivasubbu, senior scientist at the CSIR-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB) and among the leaders of the collaboration. Researchers there have also published the results of their analysis on Monday, on bioRxiv, a preprint server where scientific results are up for public viewing. These have not been peer-reviewed. Scaling up testing Though India has tested 24 million samples so far, it only works out to about 17,000 tests per million. With about 7.5 lakh tests conducted per day, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) says it aims to scale up testing to at least a million per day. NGS could help with that, said Dr. Sivasubbu, but would also serve a larger purpose of continuous surveillance. “While RTPCR is 70%-80% accurate and antigen tests 50% so, it implies that there would be a sizeable population that is falsely negative. Regular surveillance of a large pool in, say industrial hubs, commercial establishments or places where an outbreak is likely would help catch new infections,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mega-labs-to-boost-covid-19-testing/article32340087.ece
13 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||1 lakh loans sanctioned for street vendors||The Union Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry on Wednesday said over 5 lakh applications had been received under the PM Street Vendor’s AtmaNirbhar Nidhi (PM SVANidhi) scheme for street vendors since it started on July 2 and 1 lakh loans had been sanctioned already. Economic relief package The scheme, which was a part of the government’s economic relief package announced in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, gives street vendors working capital loans of up to Rs. 10,000 to be paid back in one year. The MoHUA statement said the scheme was meant to benefit 50 lakh street vendors across the country resume work after the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/1-lakh-loans-sanctioned-for-street-vendors/article32340121.ece
13 August 2020||August 13 2020 00:00 IST,||3 killed as police open fire to quell mob in Bengaluru||Chief Minister B. S. Yediyurappa held a review meeting on Wednesday and ordered a probe by a district executive magistrate into the incident. Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said that, prima facie , the violence “seems organised”. P. Naveen Kumar, a nephew of Pulikeshi Nagar Congress MLA R. Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy, had allegedly put up an inflammatory post on his Facebook account on Tuesday evening. As word spread, a crowd of nearly 200 persons gathered outside the DJ Halli police station demanding his arrest. Muzammil Pasha, a local SDPI leader, lodged a complaint. Simultaneously, at least 1,000 people gathered outside the house of Mr. Srinivasa Murthy. At both sites, the mob turned violent, demanding Mr. Naveen Kumar be handed over to them, even as the police arrested him and shifted to an undisclosed location. The mobs set fire to several vehicles, vandalised and torched the DJ Halli police station, and tried to unsuccessfully enter the police quarters in KG Halli. The rioters also torched the MLA’s house and Mr. Naveen’s residence, both in Kaval Byrasandra. Mr. Srinivasa Murthy was not at home at the time. The police initially lobbed tear gas shells to control the mob, but they failed. They opened fire around midnight. Three men were killed and three others sustained bullet injuries. “It is sad that we had to open fire to bring the situation under control,” said Bengaluru Police Commissioner Kamal Pant. The deceased have been identified as Yasin Basha, 19, Wajid, 18, and Sheikh Sadique, 26.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/3-killed-as-police-open-fire-to-quell-mob-in-bengaluru/article32340069.ece
13 August 2020||August 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Draft food processing policy||The steps initiated by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to strengthen irrigation network had ensured that there was significant rise in the ayacut across the State. Coupled with this was the emphasis on animal husbandry, fisheries and allied sectors which reported high levels of productivity. The government took up mapping of cropping pattern village-wise on the instructions of the Chief Minister. The exercise revealed that there was significant rise in paddy, pulses and other crops after the formation of separate Telangana and the productivity was poised to grow manifold once the ongoing works on the irrigation projects were completed. In this background, the facilities available for food processing were, however, not commensurate with the increased yield. In view of this, it was decided to formulate a comprehensive policy on food processing, he said, explaining the opportunities the sector was expected to throw up, including the scope for large-scale employment. The meeting also discussed the infrastructure related to logistics available in the State. It was decided to formulate a new policy incorporating comprehensive guidelines to cover the sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/draft-food-processing-policy/article32340389.ece
13 August 2020||August 13 2020 00:00 IST,||The two sampaths||In chapter 16 of the Bhagavad Gita, we find Lord Krishna talking of daivim sampath and asurim sampath, said Valayapet Ramachariar in a discourse. He says those in this Prakrti fall into two categories — those who have daivim sampath and those who have asurim sampath. The Lord defines the qualities that those in the first category have. They are fearless; their minds have no trace of rajas or tamas; they know that the self is different from the body. They perform daanam. Daanam is to give what one has legitimately earned. To take away what belongs to another and to give it to others does not constitute daanam. Those who have daivim sampath have control of the mind (damah); they perform all the prescribed yajnas. Svadhyayah is another trait. This means that they study the Vedas; they do tapas. Arjavam is a distinguishing trait in them — that is, there is no conflict between thought, word and deed. As they think, so they say, and do. They practise ahimsa — they never hurt others. They give up everything that is undesirable. They have compassion towards all — bhuteshu daya; they are unattached to sense objects (aloluptvam). They are gentle in their ways (maardavam). They are ashamed to do wrong things. They are not affected even if objects that please the senses are readily available. They have tejah — the power to keep the wicked away. They have patience (Kshama). They have the determination (dhrtih) to do the right thing, even when it is dangerous to do so. Saucam is another characteristic they have. Saucam means not just external purity or hygiene as we understand it. It also means keeping one’s mind pure. They do not have excessive pride (na atimaanitaa). These are the many qualities found in those who are born for a divine purpose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-two-sampaths/article32340107.ece
13 August 2020||KOCHI,||NGT distance norm not for licensed quarries: HC||The Kerala High Court has ordered that quarries during their valid period of licence or lease need not fulfil the distance norm of 200 metres from residential and inhabited areas set by the National Green Tribunal (NGT). They need to maintain only the distance norms of 50 metres as contemplated in Kerala Mineral Mineral Concession Rules, the court said. However, the court made it clear that licence or lease of quarries whose period has expired and which did not follow the distance norms set by the NGT should not be renewed. Nor fresh licenee or lease should be granted to quarries which did not maintain the NGT set distance norm. The court, however, ordered that fresh or renewal applications may be processed and such applications need not be rejected solely on the ground of non-fulfilment of the new distance norms stipulated by the NGT. Justice Alexander Thomas passed the directive on a petition filed by a quarrying firm from Kozhikode seeking to restrain the Central and Kerala State Pollution Control Board (PCB) from taking any action against the petitioner for violation of the distance norm prescribed by the NGT. The petitioner challenged the NGT order prescribing a new distance norm for stone quarries.  ‘Appoint expert panel’ The court suggested to the government that an expert committee be appointed to examine the ways and means to substantially reduce the demand and consumption of granite metal, especially in construction and road maintenance. When the petition came up for hearing, the Additional Advocate General submitted that the NGT had passed the order on July 21 without hearing the State government or competent authorities under the government. The Kerala Minor Mineral Concessions Rules, 2015, had been framed under the exclusive power given by the Mines and Mineral (Regulation and Development)Act. Besides, the tribunal did not have any jurisdiction to pass such an order. In fact, the State goverment would file a writ petition challenging the order of the NGT. The petitioner sought quashing of the NGT order directing the Central PCB and the State PCBs to follow the criteria of maintaining 200 metres from residential/public buildings and inhabited sites while considering granting permission for stone quarrying.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ngt-distance-norm-not-for-licensed-quarries-hc/article32340079.ece
13 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Pranab’s health continues to be critical||Former President Pranab Mukherjee’s health condition continues to remain critical, the Army’s Research and Referral (R&R) Hospital said on Wednesday. “Presently, he is haemodynamically stable and on ventilator,” the hospital said in a bulletin. Mr. Mukherjee underwent a life-saving surgery for a brain clot on Monday. On Tuesday, his health worsened by evening. Mr. Mukherjee was also found to be COVID-19 positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pranabs-health-continues-to-be-critical/article32340099.ece
13 August 2020||Srinagar,||BJP workers in J&K to get more security||Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) Lieutenant Governor(L-G) Manoj Sinha on Wednesday assured a better security cover for grassroots representatives and workers of the BJP, in the wake of rising attacks on them. “Political workers and panchayat representatives were killed recently. Measures to protect them have already been taken, but we will ensure better security arrangements in the days ahead,” L-G Sinha said at the launch of Coffee Table books highlighting developmental works carried out in the J&K in the past one year, in Srinagar. He said the administration stood with the victims’ families. Around six political leaders were killed by militants in Kashmir this year. Mr. Singh said his administration would ensure J&K’s development without any disparity. “Prime Minister Narendera Modi is committed to it. He told me that I should work for the speedy development of J&K. Development has taken place, but I feel there is a need to speed up the process at the ground level.” He said J&K’s Panchayati Raj Act was stronger than in other States and UTs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-workers-in-jk-to-get-more-security/article32340103.ece
13 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Nepal to seek ID cards from Indian visitors||Nepal will seek identity cards from visitors from India, Home Minister Ram Bahadur Thapa has said. He told a parliamentary panel that Nepal will use the data to better deal with the COVID-19 situation. “Archiving is under way. The government will focus on developing it in a system that will make it permanent,” Mr. Thapa told the State Management and Good Governance Committee of Parliament. Nepal’s Ekantipur reported that the Minister said Kathmandu will implement the identity cards and registration system and will try to formalise record-keeping process to better manage movement of people and the pandemic. Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli has recently blamed India for the spread of COVID-19 in the country. India and Nepal have an open border which is demarcated but for Kalapani in Uttarakhand’s Pithoragarh district and Susta in the Uttar Pradesh-Bihar region. Nepal has increased deployment of armed personnel on the border with India since the Kalapani dispute intensified in May.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nepal-to-seek-id-cards-from-indian-visitors/article32340114.ece
13 August 2020||New Delhi,||Cong. leader dies after TV debate||Minutes after he appeared on a TV debate, Congress party’s national spokesperson Rajiv Tyagi collapsed and was pronounced dead in a Noida hospital on Wednesday evening. Mr. Tyagi was participating in the debate from his home in Vasundhara, Ghaziabad. Congress president Sonia Gandhi, former party chief Rahul Gandhi, and the party’s general secretary for Uttar Pradesh Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, spoke to Mr. Tyagi’s family over phone to express their condolences. “They remembered Rajiv Tyagi’s contribution to the Congress party and paid their homage,” the party said in a statement. Youth Congress President Srinivas B.V. on Twitter alleged Mr. Tyagi suffered a heart attack after his religion was questioned and he was called a “fake Hindu”. The Youth Congress president also posted a video clip of a doctor who said the Congress spokesperson was given emergency medication for 45 minutes but could not be revived.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-leader-dies-after-tv-debate/article32340117.ece
13 August 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi riots probe officer gets medal||A Delhi police officer, who is heading the February last Delhi riots probe team, and an National Investigation Agency (NIA) officer leading the Bhima Koregaon (Maharashtra) investigation are among the 121 recipients of the Union Home Minister’s Medal for Excellence in Investigation that was announced Wednesday. Deputy Commissioner of Police Rajesh Deo heads the Special Investigation Team constituted to probe the riots in northeast Delhi, where more than 50 people were killed. Mr. Deo was reprimanded by the Election Commission of India (EC) in February. The officer was pulled up by the EC for linking an accused who had opened fire at Shaheen Bagh protestors with a political party, days ahead of the Delhi Assembly elections on February 8. The NIA officer, Superintendent of Police Vikram Khalate, is leading the probe into the Bhima Koregaon riots of 2018. The Ministry did not provide details of the cases for which the officials received the medals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/delhi-riots-probe-officer-gets-medal/article32340118.ece
13 August 2020||Chandigarh,||Punjab begins distribution of smartphones||The Punjab government on Wednesday launched a ‘Smart Connect Scheme’, pegged at Rs. 92 crore, to distribute smartphones to students of Class XII in government schools across the State. Chief Minister Amarinder Singh launched the scheme by handing over smartphones to six Class XII students in a symbolic gesture. Simultaneous distribution of phones was done at 26 places by various Ministers and MLAs. Captain Singh said that when the Congress listed ‘smartphones’ as a poll promise (2017 Assembly elections), it was to provide global connectivity and empower the poor youth who could not afford them but in the present pandemic situation, these phones had assumed a bigger importance as they had become a necessity for education.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/punjab-begins-distribution-of-smartphones/article32340124.ece
13 August 2020||Pune,||Pune factory builds grenade launcher||The city-based Ammunition Factory at Khadki has produced an indigenous 40 mm Under Barrel Grenade Launcher (UBGL) for the Border Security Force (BSF) following Prime Minister Modi’s call for an ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ (self-reliant India). The first consignment of the 40 mm UBGL, designed and manufactured by the Ammunition Factory at Khadki with components sourced from Indian industries, has already been sent to the BSF on Tuesday, said the Ministry of Defence in a release on Wednesday. This ammunition, which comes in four variants, is fired from a launcher fitted under the barrel of a 5.56 mm Rifle INSAS (INdian Small Arms System). The advantages of the 40 mm UBGL ammunition vis-a-vis a traditional hand grenade is that it is light weight, with a range of 400 meters as compared with only 30 meters of the hand grenade. This ammunition used to be imported by the Army and the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) units. Thus, there was a perceived need to indigenise the design and manufacture of this ammunition, said the release. “Inspired by the Prime Minister’s clarion call for an Atmanirbhar Bharat, the Ammunition Factory at Khadki wrote a new chapter on self-reliance by producing and sending the first consignment [of the 40 mm UBGL] to the BSF,” said the MoD’s statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pune-factory-builds-grenade-launcher/article32340136.ece
13 August 2020||Idukki,||Three more bodies recovered at Pettimudy||Three more bodies were recovered from Pettimudy, near Munnar, on Wednesday taking the death toll in the landslip to 55. The bodies were identified as that of Laksmansree, 9, and Nadiya, 11, and Sumathi, 50. The bodies were buried in a mass grave at Pettimudy after autopsy at a makeshift mortuary there. As per the Revenue Department, 15 persons are still to be accounted for. For the past three days, the NDRF team was focussing on a wide area, especially on the banks of the Kannimala river, and many bodies washed away in the stream were recovered from distant places. Devikulam Subcollector S.Premkrishnan said there would be a sector-wise search on Thursday as there were chances of the stream carrying away bodies. If the climate improved, sniffer dogs would be deployed in the search operation, he added. District Collector H. Dinesan said search operations were being held as per the COVID protocol. Antigen tests on rescuers Antigen tests were being conducted on those engaged in search operations. Two persons found positive had been sent in home quarantine. Those who mingled with them were also advised to go in quarantine, he said adding that it was to adhere to the protocol that the police were preventing people from entering the area. He said steps were being taken to disinfect the area every day. Governor Arif Mohammad Khan and Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will visit the landslip-hit area in Pettimudy on Thursday. They will come from Thiruvananthapuram in a helicopter at 9 a.m. They will return by 2 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/three-more-bodies-recovered-at-pettimudy/article32340078.ece
13 August 2020||KOCHI,||Video campaign on improvised floating devices||How does one stay afloat as storm water gushes into the home and the rescue team is nowhere near? Throwaway plastic bottles of mineral water strung together into a makeshift “jacket” could be more than handy till help arrives on such occasions. Tips for making bottle jackets and such ingenious and improvised floating devices using locally available materials form part of a video campaign being brought out by the Kerala State Civil Defence Academy through its YouTube channel and propagated through social media platforms and the 6,200-strong civil defence volunteers across the State. “Waiting for rescue teams to emerge with rubber dinghies or boats could be life-threatening in an area getting rapidly flooded. Staying afloat using such improvised devices could be the most feasible option in such a situation. We train the civil defence volunteers on how to make such devices,” said S. Sooraj, District Fire Officer, Civil Defence Academy at Ramavarmapuram in Thrissur. The video, the third in the campaign to be uploaded on the two-month-old YouTube channel, shows the ingenious use of empty plastic cans, PVC pipes, and even coconuts to make devices and even makeshift rafts that will help marooned people stay afloat till they are rescued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/video-campaign-on-improvised-floating-devices/article32340444.ece
13 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘It’s BJP versus DMK in 2021 Assembly polls’||BJP Tamil Nadu vice-president V.P. Duraisamy on Wednesday claimed that the coming 2021 Assembly poll will be a battle between the BJP and the DMK. The BJP will lead an alliance, he said. “Till last week, the political situation was that the next election will be a fight between the DMK and the AIADMK. After [DMK legislator] Ku.Ka. Selvam joined us last week, the scenario has now changed to BJP versus DMK. This is a growth for us. We are growing fast,” claimed Mr. Duraisamy, a former DMK legislator and Deputy Speaker, who joined the BJP recently. He also claimed that more people from the DMK would join the BJP and that would shock the principal opposition party in the State. Mr. Duraisamy’s claim runs contrary to Mr. Selvam’s stance that he has not joined the BJP. In fact, he has written to the DMK leadership questioning his suspension from the party. Mr. Selvam had recently met BJP national president J.P. Nadda in Delhi and taken part in a function at the party’s Tamil Nadu headquarters on the day of the Ram temple foundation stone-laying ceremony. When asked about the leader of the AIADMK-BJP alliance for the 2021 polls, Mr. Duraisamy said the BJP would go with whichever party was ready to be accommodative. “Whichever side we are on will only win,” he said. Asked about the leadership of the alliance, he replied, “Definitely it is us (BJP) only. We are a national party,” he said.  Meanwhile, BJP’s State president L. Murugan said the party’s NDA coalition in Tamil Nadu was intact and the party was growing in the State. His comments came after Mr. Duraisamy said the BJP would lead the alliance in the next Assembly poll.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/its-bjp-versus-dmk-in-2021-assembly-polls/article32340261.ece
13 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||5,871 new cases, 119 deaths in T.N.||A little over half of the 5,871 fresh cases of COVID-19 reported across the State on Wednesday were from Chennai and other northern districts. As many as 5,633 persons were discharged, while 119 deaths were recorded. Chennai accounted for 993 of the fresh cases, followed by Chengalpattu (439) and Tiruvallur (407). A total of 371 persons tested positive in Kancheepuram, while Cuddalore recorded 337 cases. Ranipet and Tiruvannamalai had 254 and 123 cases respectively. Villupuram reported 95 infections, while Vellore witnessed a dip in cases with only 45 persons testing positive. Among southern districts, Virudhunagar led the pack with 292 cases, followed by 282 in Theni. As many as 169 persons tested positive for the infection in Madurai, followed by 156 in Thoothukudi, 137 in Tirunelveli and 114 in Kanniyakumari. A total of 99 persons tested positive in Tenkasi and 92 in Sivaganga. Coimbatore recorded 294 fresh cases and Salem 217. While a total of 147 persons tested positive in Pudukottai, there were 135 cases in Tiruchi. The fresh cases took the State’s overall tally to 3,14,520, of which 52,929 were active cases. A total of 2,56,313 persons have been discharged so far, while the death toll stands at 5,278. Of the 119 persons whose deaths were recorded on Wednesday, 107 had co-morbidities. Twenty persons died in Chennai, while Tiruvallur accounted for 11 fatalities and Coimbatore and Tirunelveli saw nine deaths each. Tiruppur accounted for seven deaths, while Madurai reported six deaths. Two persons in their 20s succumbed to the infection. A 24-year-old man from Tiruppur, who was admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on July 31, died on August 11 due to severe acute respiratory illness and COVID-19 pneumonia. A 27-year-old man from Tenkasi, who was admitted to the Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital on July 30, died on August 10 due to viral pneumonia and COVID-19. Two men — both aged 34 — died in Tiruchi and Madurai. Both had no co-morbidities. One of them died on August 11 due to COVID-19 pneumonia and respiratory failure, while the other, a resident of Dindigul, died within an hour of admission on August 10 at the Government Rajaji Hospital, Madurai, due to COVID-19. Chennai accounts for a total of 2,370 deaths, followed by Chengalpattu (322), Tiruvallur (309) and Madurai (303). In the last 24 hours, a total of 71,575 samples were tested in the State. This took the total number of samples tested to 34,32,025. Two more private laboratories have been approved for COVID-19 testing — Panimalar Medical College Hospital and Research Institute, Chennai, and Dhanalakshmi Srinivasan Medical College and Hospital, Perambalur. As of date, there are 72 testing facilities in the private sector and 61 in the government sector. Highest spike in U.T. In the highest 24-hour spike in new COVID-19 cases yet, the Union Territory of Puducherry reported 481 admissions on Wednesday, while five more deaths took the toll to 96. The positivity rate (from 1,123 samples tested) shot up to 38.6% (from averaging about 29% over the last few days). The case fatality rate was at 1.5% and recovery rate 57.9%. While Puducherry accounted for 413 of the new cases, Yanam reported 67 and Mahe one.  The tally for the Union Territory was 96 deaths, 2,616 active cases, a cumulative tally of 6,381 cases and 3,669 patients discharged. Cuddalore district reported 339 fresh cases — the highest single-day increase so far. Two more deaths were reported, taking the toll to 70. The total number of cases in the district now stands at 5,686. According to a statement from the Health Department, of the total cases, 337 were indigenous while two were reported from outside the State. A total of 98 cases were reported in Villupuram district, taking the total number of active cases to 4,811. Kallakurichi district reported 11 cases, taking the district’s tally to 4,650.  Of the 119 persons whose deaths were recorded on Wednesday, 107 had co-morbidities||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/5871-new-cases-119-deaths-in-tn/article32340250.ece
13 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police bust ‘home services’ racket, rescue seven women||The city police busted an online prostitution racket and arrested four persons who ran a website. Seven women in the 20-23 age group were rescued and sent to the Government Special Home for Women. Based on specific information received by Deputy Commissioner of Police, Adyar, V. Vikraman through his public contact number, a special team of police personnel worked on the operation for more than a week. The special team mounted surveillance on a group of women operating from a car near a popular restaurant on theVelachery-Tambaram Main Road. When confronted by the police, the women gave evasive replies. Sustained interrogation revealed that the women were part of a group operating from a house in Rose Nagar, Kovilambakkam. They nabbed a woman who was running the sex racket and found that the kingpin was M. Rajesh, 31, a resident of Kundrathur. Modus operandi The police said Rajesh used to post advertisements on a website offering “Home Services” and “Escort Services”. Whoever called him, he would send the women depending on the requirement of the customers. The police arrested Rajesh, his accomplices Poornima, 21, of Saidapet, Mohan, 31, of Sivaganga district, and Sundar, 28, of Kottivakkam. A car and 10 mobile phones were recovered from them. Mr. Vikraman said: “The online service providers should know what is traded on the platform. They can’t wash their hands of from such illegal activities. We will continue to conduct similar raids.”  The online service providers can’t wash their hands of such illegal activities. We will continue to conduct similar raids V. Vikraman Deputy Commissioner of Police||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-bust-home-services-racket-rescue-seven-women/article32340235.ece
13 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N.’s effort at digital education lauded||The State government’s efforts to introduce innovative practices in digital education for schoollchildren has been termed as “pioneering effort” by the Education Ministry. The India report on Digital Education has provided a survey of technology and innovative practices used by various States. According to the report, Tamil Nadu’s content creation, practice and assessment questions have been much appreciated and termed pioneering. The report on remote learning initiatives across the country praised the State’s use of television to provide education. At the time the report was prepared in June, it spoke of the State using Kalvi TV for classroom teaching. Kalvi TV has since taken off in the State. “It has also set up a very good content team, structure and processes,” the report said. Tamil Nadu has a clear programme for in-house centralised content creation. Elaborate team Having constituted a Diksha (the national infrastructure facility for teachers) cell in Chennai, it has in place an elaborate team for content creation. At the district-level, it engages the teacher training institutes (DIETs) through a structured process for remote content creation. The State has involved industry experts and agencies for the purpose, the report stated. Content repository The State’s e-learning platform, with its customised content repository, has received mention. The State has provided online practice tests with detailed analysis for aided and government school students preparing for the NEET entrance test. The QR code provision in books and over 14,000 resources for Classes 1 to 12 in both Tamil and English medium are available online. Students can also access over 500 science experiments and over 1,000 videos related to the curriculum. A cascading WhatsApp network daily enables students to revise course content in smaller chunks. For teachers too, professional development courses are offered. They are expected to contribute and a repository of content is built. Contributing teachers are also recognised for their efforts through digital certificates, the report said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tns-effort-at-digital-education-lauded/article32340273.ece
13 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TB doctors to be roped in for eSanjeevaniOPD consultation||Tamil Nadu is set to bring in tuberculosis (TB) medical officers for the national teleconsultation service, eSanjeevaniOPD. The State recently roped in antiretroviral therapy (ART) medical officers to provide teleconsultations for people living with HIV/AIDS, as well as obstetricians and gynaecologists, and is currently working on expanding to more specialities. Officials of the National Health Mission (NHM)-Tamil Nadu said that as of now, 732 doctors were registered on this service in the State. ART medical officers and TB medical officers were trained in the teleconsultation platform. In the last 10 days since roping ART medical officers into eSanjeevaniOPD, around 120 consultations were provided, the officials said. “We are bringing in more categories. During a presentation on sharing best practices with other States, Tamil Nadu suggested that pharmacists and laboratory investigations could be linked to this teleconsultation platform and put forward the need for iOS version. Permanent identity numbers could be issued for patients so that during successive OPDs, we can retrieve their data in cloud storage. The Union Health Ministry has accepted our suggestions,” K. Senthil Raj, mission director, NHM-Tamil Nadu, said. With the State topping the number of teleconsultations in the country on this platform — achieving close to 43,000 consultations till date — officials were working on adding specialities including medicine, surgery, cardiology, neurology, psychiatry, and also AYUSH. About the teleconsultations sought during the COVID-19 pandemic, J. Kathirvel, nodal officer, eSanjeevaniOPD, NHM-Tamil Nadu, said an analysis of 18,000 health records showed that the top five conditions for which people sought teleconsultations were myalgia, headache, gastritis, acute upper respiratory tract infection and fever. Some of the other conditions included antenatal care status, lower back pain, cold, and abdominal pain. They are training village health nurses to create awareness among pregnant women and vulnerable groups such as persons with non-communicable diseases to seek medical consultation through eSanjeevaniOPD, he said. “The eSanjeevani platform is user-friendly. The Android application can be downloaded and users will have to go through a simple process of registration. They will receive an OTP for login. Token will be generated for general/speciality OPD,” he said. Mostly, doctors provided advice based on the clinical condition, history, symptoms of patients, while those requiring clinical examination to nearby health facilities. In fact, the teleconsultation service helped doctors identify a number of patients with symptoms of COVID-19 and coordinate referrals to hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tb-doctors-to-be-roped-in-for-esanjeevaniopd-consultation/article32340247.ece
13 August 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Nine IPS officers transferred||In a minor reshuffle of IPS officers, the State government has posted Arun Balagopalan as Superintendent of Police-II, cyber crimes division, Chennai. He was Thoothukudi SP and was on compulsory wait following the alleged custodial deaths of a father and son in Sattankulam in June. N.S. Nisha, who took charge as Deputy Commissioner, Ambattur, recently has been transferred and posted as SP-I, cyber crimes division. Deepa Sathyan, Deputy Commissioner of Police, has been shifted from Central Crime Branch-II and posted as Deputy Commissioner of Police, Ambattur. Om Prakash Meena, SP-II, has been shifted from the Cyber Crimes Division and posted as Assistant Inspector General of Police, Administration, Chennai. M.R.Sibi Chakravarthi has been posted as SP, Cyber Cell, CB-CID, Chennai, while the incumbent A. Jayalakshmi has been shifted to the Tamil Nadu Police Academy, Vandalur. K.P.S. Jayachandran has been transferred from the Tamil Nadu Police Academy and posted as SP, Tamil Nadu Commando Force. C. Shyamala Devi has been posted as SP, anti -land grabbing special cell. P. Kannammal has been shifted from the anti-land grabbing cell and posted as Deputy Commissioner of Central Crime Branch-II.  Arun Balagopalan was on compulsory wait following the alleged custodial deaths of a father and son in Sattankulam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nine-ips-officers-transferred/article32340269.ece
13 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Speaker had predetermined breach of privilege issue: Stalin||DMK president and Leader of the Opposition M.K. Stalin on Wednesday claimed that the breach of privilege proceedings initiated against him and his party MLAs for displaying gutkha sachets in the Legislative Assembly on July 19, 2017, would get vitiated since Speaker P. Dhanapal had “predetermined” the issue before referring it to the Committee of Privileges. Appearing before Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy on behalf of Mr. Stalin, senior counsel R. Shunmugasundaram said while making a suo motu reference to the Committee of Privileges, the Speaker had said that he “considers” the act of displaying sachets of a banned substance in the State as a breach of privilege. Such a remark should have been avoided, counsel said. When the judges wanted to know whether the Speaker was not entitled to form a prima facie opinion before referring the issue to the committee, senior counsel N.R. Elango and advocate Amit Anand Tiwari, representing the other DMK MLAs, said whenever the Speaker expresses his/her opinion in the House, it gets recorded as his/her ruling and not just an opinion. Supreme body On a specific query from Justice Ramamoorthy as to how the remark of the Speaker would matter when he was not part of the committee, Mr. Shunmugasundaram said: “He is above all. He is the supreme body. His deputy is the chairman of the committee. He should not have said that he considers the act to be a breach of privilege. He should have simply recorded the happenings and left it to the committee to decide.” The senior counsel went on to state that only sale, storage and transportation of gutkha had been banned in the State. Possession and even consumption had not been banned. Therefore, the MLAs could not be subjected to breach of privilege for having been in possession of the gutkha sachets, which were brought to the House to substantiate their claim that the reportedly banned substance was available freely in the State. He also pointed out that gutkha was not in the list of items that were prohibited from being carried inside the House.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/speaker-had-predetermined-breach-of-privilege-issue-stalin/article32340264.ece
13 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||E-pass system will continue as long as inter-district curbs remain: Chief Secy.||Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam on Wednesday said the e-pass system would remain in force in Tamil Nadu for as long as there were restrictions on inter-district movement. Political parties, including the Opposition DMK and the ruling AIADMK's ally, the BJP, have, in recent days, demanded the abolition of the e-pass system, contending, among other things, that people were being put to hardship. Speaking to reporters at Maraimalai Nagar near Chennai, Mr. Shanmugam said, “As long as there are restrictions on inter-district movement, the e-pass system is needed. Restrictions cannot be imposed without the e-pass system." But there were certain defects in the e-pass system, and those were being addressed, Mr. Shanmugam said. He was in Chengalpattu district to review the steps being taken in the district for containing the spread of COVID-19. Following the instructions of Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, two teams in every district were involved in overseeing the e-pass system, he said. Elaborating on the challenges being faced by the authorities in this regard, the Chief Secretary said some applicants were providing “false information” for obtaining e-passes. "People should apply for e-passes only for genuine necessities. We have also allowed e-passes for trade. But people should avoid applying for passes for visiting their relatives,” he said. When asked about the monitoring and surveillance of people with e-passes, the top official said the general public should not venture out without e-passes for inter-district travel, and should not misuse them. Mr. Shanmugam said the steps being taken by the Chengalpattu district administration were “satisfactory”. The distribution of free face masks would commence in the next four to five days, he said. During the review meeting, senior authorities instructed the district administration to strengthen contact tracing and quarantine measures so that the spread of the infection outside the COVID-19 containment zones could be curbed. "We would implement a street-wise micro-planning strategy, which was implemented in Chennai, for Chengalpattu," Mr. Shanmugam said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/e-pass-system-will-continue-as-long-as-inter-district-curbs-remain-chief-secy/article32340254.ece
13 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Schools adopt new assessment methods||From using fun apps to holding quizzes or having students take up short tests through online learning platforms, several schools are exploring ways to assess their students. Several private schools began online classes in June and assessments have now become an integral part. “We’ve been administering a mix of tests through Zoom as well as by way of short spot tests during live classes for basic formative assessment. The spot tests assess if students have understood what is being taught in their online classes — something that the teachers can use to evaluate how effective their online teaching has been,” said Sheela Rajendra, dean and director, PSBB Schools. She said that now, more than ever, the focus should be on learning rather than marks. “We ensure that there is no pressure on students with regard to these assessments and as a practice we ask them to frame questions based on lessons taught and share it for better understanding,” she said. With students glued to their laptops or other electronic devices, teachers, too, have become invigilators virtually. “For short periodic tests that we conducted, the students were shown each question and they wrote the answers on a sheet of paper, which they later mailed to us. We had their teacher as well as another faculty member conduct the test online,” said Priyanka Ghosh, principal, Vikas Mantra Public School. Most schools ensured that the assessments were restricted to 25 marks or below. “While our initial round of periodic tests had only multiple choice questions, we plan on having 2, 3 and 4 mark questions for our next round of tests,” she said. Objective type questions At Chennai Public School, Anna Nagar, assessments with objective type questions are carried out through time-bound Google forms through the Google Classrooms platform. “We give students a few subjective questions in addition, since we don’t want them to lose practice of writing,” said Asha Nathan, principal. Schools like CPS are having fun quizzes for students through apps like Kahoot in specific concepts or lessons. Not mandatory In the recently released guidelines for online learning, the Tamil Nadu government had said that while schools could carry out assessments, none of these should be made mandatory, and they have recommended that it should not be counted in the final grade. Keeping with the guidelines, schools, too, are yet to take a call on whether the assessments will be calculated for a student’s final grade and say that they will take a decision once they have more clarity on when they are allowed to reopen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/schools-adopt-new-assessment-methods/article32340229.ece
13 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kin of missing fishermen protest||Families of 10 fishermen, who have gone missing since they ventured into the sea on July 23, staged a protest at Kasimedu on Wednesday, demanding that the State government launch a search for them. The fishermen last communicated with the families on July 24. The families complained to the Fisheries Department on August 7 when the fishermen were expected to have returned. Fisheries Minister D. Jayakumar told the protesters that the government had requested the Coast Guard and the Navy to search for the men. The government has also written to other States and the Centre, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kin-of-missing-fishermen-protest/article32340231.ece
13 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘AIADMK leadership will decide on CM candidate’||Amidst divergent opinions expressed by some Ministers over the AIADMK’s Chief Minister candidate for the 2021 Assembly poll, AIADMK deputy coordinator K. P. Munusamy on Wednesday said the party leadership would formally announce the CM candidate at the appropriate time. Mr. Munusamy told a private TV channel that Cooperation Minister Sellur K. Raju was only referring to the “procedure” when he said all elected MLAs would together decide on the CM candidate after the election. The Rajya Sabha MP also said Dairy Development Minister K.T. Rajenthra Bhalaji’s statement that AIADMK co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami would continue as the CM was the Minister’s “personal wish”. “I think there is no need for looking at this critically,” Mr. Munusamy said. Second-line and third-line leaders and party cadres would have their own opinions on the issue and they cannot be taken as that of the party, the former Minister said. “The party’s leadership will discuss and consult in order to decide, based on the circumstances prevailing then. As of now, Chief Minister Palaniswami is leading the government efficiently,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-leadership-will-decide-on-cm-candidate/article32340259.ece
13 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Medal for excellence in investigation awarded to six police personnel||The Union Home Minister’s Medal for Excellence in Investigation for 2020 have been awarded to six police personnel, including an inspector in the Central Crime Branch, Greater Chennai city police, and five women inspectors in districts. According to a press release, T. Vinothkumar, Inspector, Central Crime Branch, Greater Chennai Police; G. Janci Rani, Inspector, Perunazhi circle, Ramanathapuram district; M. Kavitha, Inspector, All-Women Police, Keeranur, Pudukottai district; A. Ponnammal, Inspector, Prohibition and Enforcement Wing, The Nilgiris district; C. Chandrakala, Inspector, All-Women Police, Jeyamkondam, Ariyalur district; and A. Kala, Inspector, Arumbavur, Perambalur district, will receive the awards.  The medal is given to police personnel and members of central investigation agencies in recognition of their outstanding service in investigation and to promote the standard of investigation. Mr. Vinothkumar was chosen for excelling in investigation in cyber crime cases by using innovative methods and for prompt chargesheeting, besides using scientific aids and forensic and online tools.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/medal-for-excellence-in-investigation-awarded-to-six-police-personnel/article32340277.ece
13 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Those who have recovered must be provided a certificate, says expert||With demand growing for the reopening of traditional markets, including the Koyambedu wholesale complex, and the resumption of economic activity, experts have suggested various measures and restrictions to avoid a second wave of COVID-19. Issuing ‘COVID-19 recovered certificates’ to those who have recovered from the infection is among the suggestions to help people get jobs. Abdul Ghafur, co-ordinator, Chennai Declaration on Antimicrobial Resistance and Consultant in Infectious Diseases Apollo Cancer Institute, said there had not been a large-scale reporting of cases of reinfection across the world. “There are only a few anecdotal reports of potential reinfection cases. The situation may change later. But it is not of serious concern now,” he said. He suggested that the State government must consider giving immunity linked certificates to people who have recovered from COVID-19 and allow them to travel for work. These individuals are immune to reinfection for a considerable period. Such workers, who have tested positive on RC-PCR test and recovered, could be employed at places like Koyambedu market after reopening to avoid any second wave of the infection. The certificate could be issued with a validity of three to six months based on the details with the government. Antibody testing could also be done at government recognised laboratories, Dr. Ghafur said. While it is essential to adhere to norms of physical distancing, masking and hand hygiene, this would be a scientific and additional strategy to avoid a second wave of infection for the time being, he said. Dr. Ghafur has written to the Prime Minister on issuing of COVID-19 recovered certificate to alleviate the economic impact of the pandemic. He has recently written to the State health secretary on the issue and also plans to reach out to traders associations and seek their cooperation.  There are only a few anecdotal reports of potential cases of reinfectionAbdul GhafurCo-ordinator, Chennai Declaration on Antimicrobial Resistance||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/those-who-have-recovered-must-be-provided-a-certificate-says-expert/article32340255.ece
13 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Southern Railway divisions boost digital footprint||The COVID-19 pandemic has forced Southern Railway to go digital in a big way. The six divisions of Southern Railway (four in Tamil Nadu and two in Kerala) have increased their digital footprint by uploading files on the e-platform of the National Informatics Centre (NIC), thereby doing away with the manual filing system. Manifold rise A senior official said digital uploads of files by railway offices had increased manifold during the April-July period, with nearly 43,500 e-files having been created when compared to the 10,000-odd e-files generated till March this year. The Tiruchi division has become 100% digitised by successfully converting all 4,120 physical files into e-files. “The Tiruchi division has become a pioneer in e-office documentation. It was nominated by the Railway Board to standardise the e-filing system and complete the digitisation process, setting an example for other railway units to follow,” the official said. “The Chennai division has also been taking steps to digitise all files. At 21,000, the Southern Railway headquarters in the city has logged the maximum number of e-files,” the official noted. The officers and staff of Southern Railway were trained by RailTel teams to handle e-office platforms efficiently. Training modules in the form of videos have enabled railway staff to convert manual files into e-files.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/southern-railway-divisions-boost-digital-footprint/article32340256.ece
13 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DGCA to conduct special audit of Chennai airport||The Directorate-General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) plans to conduct a special audit of the Chennai airport. This comes in the wake of the accident in Kozhikode when an Air India Express flight from Dubai overshot the runway amidst heavy rain, leaving 18 dead and several severely injured. Officials of the Airports Authority of India (AAI) said there might be an audit soon, but they were yet to hear from the DGCA. “We are ready for an inspection whenever it happens,” an official said. Aviation safety experts had warned on many occasions about the secondary runway of the airport. A section of the runway is built across Adyar river on a bridge, and experts had flagged concerns over safety issues. IIT-Madras study Experts had warned about the possibility of flooding of the runway during heavy rainfall. An IIT-Madras team did a study with the help of an Unmanned Aerial System to analyse reasons for flooding of the airport.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dgca-to-conduct-special-audit-of-chennai-airport/article32340237.ece
13 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ecstasy pills worth Rs. 1.6 crore seized at foreign post office||Chennai Air Customs have seized 5,210 ecstasy pills and MDMA crystals estimated at Rs. 1.6 crore that arrived from Belgium and the Netherlands at the Foreign Post Office. On suspicion, the officials opened some parcels and found the narcotics. The consignment from Belgium had artificial leopard fabric and a few other articles. The fabric was unwrapped and nine black pouches containing 4,060 MDMA pills, with a market value of Rs. 1.2 crore, were found in it. When the officials tried to track down the consignee in Kancheepuram, the address turned out to be fake. In the parcel from the Netherlands, inflatable pool, snacks and gummy bear packets were found. Habitual offender On opening the packets, the officials found 1,150 ecstasy pills, 100 grams of MDMA crystals and 1 gram of methaqualone powder worth Rs. 45 lakh, according to a press release. In this case, the officials went to search the premises of the consignee and found that the address belonged to a person who had been arrested already in a case of drug smuggling. Totally, 5,210 ecstasy pills, 100 g of MDMA crystals and 1 g of methaqualone, all estimated at Rs. 1.65 crore, were seized.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ecstasy-pills-worth-rs-16-crore-seized-at-foreign-post-office/article32340234.ece
13 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai steps up security for Independence Day||Over 15,000 police personnel will be deployed for bandobust duty in the city on the occasion of Independence Day on Saturday. The city police have made elaborate security arrangements. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami will hoist the national flag on the ramparts of Fort St. George and address the gathering. In view of this, five-tier security will be provided around the fort and high-resolution CCTV devices will be installed. The entire area will be under surveillance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chennai-steps-up-security-for-independence-day/article32340274.ece
13 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IIT-M plans webinars to mark Gandhiji’s 150th birth anniversary||The Indian Institute of Technology-Madras has proposed to launch a fortnightly webinar series starting Friday. Siddhi, as the series is named, has been launched to mark the 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi. Siddhi stands for “Self-reliant India: Discussions and dialogues for human innovations”. The inaugural webinar on August 14 will have a panel discussion on “Food security: retrospect and prospects”. To join the webinar register athttps://siddhi.iitm.ac.in/ The event will be live-streamed on YouTube channel (https://www. youtube.com/user/ReachIIT).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/iit-m-plans-webinars-to-mark-gandhijis-150th-birth-anniversary/article32340238.ece
13 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Protect special agri zone: AMMK||Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) leader T.T.V. Dhinakaran on Wednesday urged the State government to frame guidelines for the Protected Special Agricultural Zone declared in the Cauvery delta region as there were still attempts to lay pipelines in the area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/protect-special-agri-zone-ammk/article32340263.ece
13 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Attack on journalists on social media in T.N. illegal’||The targeted attack on a section of journalists in Tamil Nadu, particularly women journalists, on social media by ‘right wing extremists’ was blatantly illegal and warranted registration of criminal cases by the police, said N. Ram, Director, The Hindu Group of Publications, here on Wednesday. In an online discussion organised by the Tamil Nadu Women Journalists’ Forum on ‘Journalists safety and tackling online intimidation,’ he stressed on the need for journalists to come together in defending media freedom and constitutional principles. He said that though there were many good police officers, the police department as a whole had failed to take appropriate action on the complaints raised by women journalists. He highlighted the necessity for engaging lawyers to take the fight forward on the legal front, taking it up directly with political leaders, and bringing out the issue factually and openly through mainstream media. Political context He said that the attacks have to be seen in the political context of the inability of the right wing forces to make inroads in Tamil Nadu, for which they perceive the professionalism of journalists here as a barrier. Pointing out the attack on three journalists of a magazine in Delhi on Tuesday, he said that the situation in Tamil Nadu was not as worse and it it should be seen as an advantage that can be leveraged to protect journalists and media freedom. While social media can be a platform for providing a counter narrative to the attacks, he highlighted the need to be wary of the dangerous potential of social media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/attack-on-journalists-on-social-media-in-tn-illegal/article32340265.ece
13 August 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||CB-CID gets three-day custody of accused in suspected Lankan gangster’s case||The Chief Judicial Magistrate Court in Coimbatore on Wednesday granted the CB-CID three days custody of three persons who were arrested in connection with the death of a man, suspected to be Sri Lankan gangster Angoda Lokka, in July here. CB-CID in its application submitted before the court last week had sought five-day custody of Sri Lankan woman Amani Thanji, advocate D. Sivakamasundari and her friend S. Dyaneswaran. At the hearing, CB-CID made an oral submission before P. Srikumar, Principal Subordinate Judge in-charge of CJM, seeking 10 days custody of the three accused stating that they wanted investigations done in Tiruppur, Erode and Madurai. Two counsels who appeared for the accused contested that CB-CID had completed majority of the investigation and the accused had given their confession statements at the time of arrest. They argued that CB-CID had also collected details from hospitals, banks and officials who are witnesses in the case. As the accused were in judicial remand, possibility of them trying to influence witnesses or tamper evidences was remote, they submitted. The counsel appearing for the first accused, Sivakamasundari, submitted that she had health issues which may worsen due to travelling. Thanji and her counsel submitted before the court that third parties took her photos and videos during questioning. The judge ordered that provisions of Identification of Prisoners Act should be followed during such procedures. The two counsels also submitted before the court that custody of the accused may be avoided considering the risks posed by COVID-19 pandemic. As the CB-CID might be taking the accused to various locations in the three days, the court ordered that the counsels should be allowed to speak to them over phone every day. The court also ordered that the investigators should not subject the accused to any form of physical or mental torture during custody. The CB-CID is investigating two cases, one related to the death of a man who lived at Balaji Nagar near Cheran Ma Nagar in Coimbatore in the guise of Pradeep Singh early this July and another one against the three accused on various charges including furnishing false documents, harbouring offender, criminal conspiracy and forgery of records. Lokka’s ally shot dead: Sri Lanka police  Meera Srinivasan, our Colombo correspondent reports  An ally of gangster Angoda Lokka was shot dead by Sri Lanka police on Tuesday night near Colombo, local media reported. Confirming the development, police spokesman SSP Jaliya Senaratne said the police shot the man after he tried “hurling a grenade at them”. “He was known to have worked for Lokka,” Mr. Senaratne told The Hindu . Sri Lanka police has maintained they are waiting for a legal confirmation of Lokka’s recent death reported in India. “We have sent fingerprints from our end. We have also collected some DNA samples which we will be sending to Indian investigators,” Mr. Senaratne said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lokka-case-cb-cid-gets-3-days-custody-of-accused/article32340262.ece
13 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Online symposium||The Department of Computer Science of Dr. G.R. Damodaran College of Science (Autonomous) will organise an online symposium on ‘Challenges in Cyber Security’ on Thursday. Cybersecurity experts Dominic Karunesudas and Shyam Sundar Ramaswami will speak. Research scholars, students and professionals shall register online at https://forms.gle/j38jdVyUcaoWq7EF6||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/online-symposium/article32340286.ece
13 August 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Man hacks son to death||A 65-year-old man from Coimbatore was arrested on charges of murdering his son on Wednesday. Police said that N. Velusamy, a resident of Arugampalayam near Masagoundanchettipalayam in Annur police station limits, hacked his son V. Palanisamy (39) with a hatchet. Palanisamy, a painter, was addicted to alcohol and used to quarrel with his father. On Tuesday evening, Palanisamy allegedly assaulted his father in an inebriated state. Irked, Velusamy hacked Palanisamy with a hatchet when he was asleep at the house around 1 a.m. on Wednesday. He died on the spot. Velusamy was arrested and remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-hacks-son-to-death/article32340287.ece
13 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Textile bodies welcome RBI’s loan restructuring facility for MSMEs||The Confederation of Indian Textile Industry (CITI) and Apparel Export Promotion Council (AEPC) have welcomed the loan restructuring facility provided by the Reserve Bank of India for Micro, Small an Medium Enterprises (MSMEs). T. Rajkumar, chairman of CITI, said in a press release that the Indian textile and clothing sector was highly capital and labour intensive and the on-going COVID-19 crisis had badly affected the sector. Major relief The one-time loan restructuring facility provided relief to all the companies under the MSME category. He appealed to the RBI to direct banks to lend 25 % to 30 % extra working capital to textile and clothing industries and urged the government to extend partial guarantee for the same. According to A. Sakthivel, chairman of the AEPC, “This is a very timely decision as thousands of small and medium-scale enterprises are facing severe financial crisis and the extension of provision to restructure MSME loans for borrowers with loan outstanding up to Rs. 25 crore till March 31, 2021 will give a fresh lease of life to many.” The government should roll out immediately its recent decision to widen the scope for emergency credit, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/textile-bodies-welcome-rbis-loan-restructuring-facility-for-msmes/article32340294.ece
13 August 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Remand accused on the run held||The Race Course police on Wednesday arrested an accused in a murder case who escaped from the psychiatry ward of the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital on Monday. Hem Sagar Naik (30), a native of Balangir district of Odisha, who was arrested by the Palladam police in connection with the murder of his room-mate in April this year, had escaped from the hospital for a second time on Monday. He was arrested from Coimbatore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/remand-accused-on-the-run-held/article32340284.ece
13 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Drones used to monitor elephants||The Forest Department, on Wednesday, used drones to monitor elephants in some sections of Mettupalayam and Sirumugai forest ranges. The aerial surveillance was undertaken to look for ailing or weak elephants in those areas. The initiative was taken after 17 elephants died of various reasons, including unknown diseases, this year. The two forest ranges had reported maximum elephant deaths compared to other five forest ranges in the Coimbatore Forest Division.     The District Administration has called for applications from unemployed youth for three schemes - Unemployed Youth Employment Generation Programme(UYEGP), New Entrepreneur-cum-Enterprise Development Scheme (NEEDS), and Prime Minister Employment Guarantee Programme (PMEGP). For the UYEGP and NEEDS, the details and applications are available online onwww.msmeonline.tn.gov.inand for PMEGP, the details and applications are available onwww.kviconline.gov.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/drones-used-to-monitor-elephants/article32340298.ece
13 August 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 6.5-crore stolen goods recovered, six arrested||A special police team recovered stolen articles, including gold jewels and other valuables worth around Rs. 6.5 crore, and arrested six persons on Wednesday. On August 14, 2019, Kaleeswaran of Ponnagaram Anna Nagar here complained to the police that unidentified people came in a car posing themselves as CBI officials and took away valuables from his house. The police registered a case but there was no progress. When Superintendent of Police Ravali Priya G reviewed pending cases, she formed special teams which zeroed in on the suspects. They recovered 100 sovereigns of gold jewels, Rs. 5 lakh in cash and immovable assets purchased from the stolen money. DIG of Police (Dindigul Range) M S Muthusamy commended the SP, her team of SIs Marimuthu, Bastian and Dinakaran. He said the police would inform the Income Tax authorities about the case as it involved probe into income aspects of the complainant. All the accused - Gopi, 40, Malathi, 39, Vinod, 23, Ayyaparajan, 34, Muthukumar, 27, and Guhan Chetti, 48, were produced before a JM Court which remanded them in judicial custody. Sivaganga In the wake of many complaints of house break-in, waylaying and robbery in Karaikudi, Kunrakudi, Pallathur and other places in the last six months, Sivaganga SP Rohtih Nathan formed special teams. Karaikudi DSP Arun said CCTV cameras and a few other clues helped the teams in nabbing the accused, 20 of whom figured in 13 crimes. Jewels weighing 84 sovereigns and diamonds worth Rs. 4 lakh and laptops were recovred from them. The stolen properties were handed over to the complainants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-65-crore-stolen-goods-recovered-six-arrested/article32340529.ece
13 August 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||CM orders release of water from Bhavani Sagar dam||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami has ordered the release of water from Bhavani Sagar Dam from August 14 into the Lower Bhavani Project (LBP) canals to benefit 1.03 lakh acres of land in Erode, Tiruppur and Karur districts. Farmers’ request In a press release issued on Wednesday, he said that based on requests from farmers, water would be released from the dam from August 14 for 120 days in the LBP main canal with odd number sluice gates, and even number sluice gates in the Chennasamudram canal ayacut areas. Water release will benefit 1,03,500 acres in Sathyamangalam, Gobichettipalayam, Bhavani, Perundurai, Erode, Modakurichi and Kodumudi in Erode district and Kangayam block in Tiruppur district and Aravakurichi block in Karur district. He asked farmers to utilise the water judiciously and implement effective water management, and enhance productivity. At 4 p.m. on Wednesday, the water level in the dam stood at 101.16 feet against the maximum reservoir level of 105 feet. The inflow was 3,428 cusecs while the outflow was 1,200 cusecs. The storage was 29.643 tmc against the capacity of 32.800 tmc.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-orders-release-of-water-from-bhavani-sagar-dam/article32340271.ece
13 August 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||CM orders release of water into LBP canals from August 14||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami has ordered the release of water from Bhavani Sagar Dam from August 14 into the Lower Bhavani Project (LBP) canals to benefit 1.03 lakh acres of agricultural land in Erode, Tiruppur and Karur districts. In a press release issued on Wednesday, he said that based on requests from farmers, water would be released from the dam from August 14 for 120 days in the LBP main canal with ‘odd number’ sluice gates, and ‘even number’ sluice gates in the Chennasamudram canal ayacut areas. ‘Use water judiciously’ Water release will benefit 1,03,500 acres in Sathyamangalam, Gobichettipalayam, Bhavani, Perundurai, Erode, Modakurichi and Kodumudi in Erode district and Kangayam block in Tiruppur district and Aravakurichi block in Karur district. He asked farmers to use the water judiciously, implement effective water management and enhance productivity. At 4 p.m. on Wednesday, the water level in the dam stood at 101.16 feet, against the maximum reservoir level of 105 feet. The inflow was 3,428 cusecs and outflow 1,200 cusecs. The storage was 29.643 tmc, against the capacity of 32.800 tmc.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-orders-release-of-water-into-lbp-canals-from-august-14/article32340291.ece
13 August 2020||Hosur,TAMIL NADU||BEO official held for graft||A superintendent at the block education office (BEO) in Kelamangalam here was arrested on graft charges on Tuesday. The accused, Balaji, was arrested based on a complaint lodged by Kishore Kumar.  The complainant’s father was employed as a headmaster in Anusenai government high school and had committed suicide. Kishore Kumar had approached the Kelamangalam block education office to claim the service benefits of his father. Balaji had demanded Rs. 5,000 to process the claims. A complaint was lodged with the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption and a trap was laid. The accused was caught while accepting the bribe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/beo-official-held-for-graft/article32340295.ece
13 August 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Water released from Kelavarapalli Dam||Kelavarapalli Dam was opened here on Monday to irrigate 8,000 acres in 22 villages for 120 days. Water is being released from the left canal to irrigate 5,918 acres and from the main right canal to irrigate 2,082 acres, according to the administration. About 26 cusecs will be released from the right canal and 62 cusecs from the left canal. The villages to be covered are Thattaganapalli, Boodhinatham, Pethamuthali, Muthali, Attur, Kadhiraepalli, Marasandiram, Kotthur, Moranapalli, Thorapalli, Tiruchipalli, Kamandotty, Thinnur, Subagiri, Koneripalli, Chinnakollu, Bethakollu, Samanapalli, Chennathur, Attakurukki, Nallakana Kothapalli and Marthandapalli. Water level The water level now is 40.34 ft, against the full reservoir level of 44.28 ft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-released-from-kelavarapalli-dam/article32340293.ece
13 August 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Madurai restaurants badly hit||Despite relaxation of COVID-19 lockdown norms, there is no sign of business resuming to the earlier level at the restaurants in Madurai. Restaurateurs here say their profits lie in dine-ins and not in take away business. This being the case, some have not either opened their restaurants after the lockdown while a few others have downed their shutters for good. Recalling the pre-lockdown days, S.M. Sanjeev, who runs Madfellas Cafe Lounge, says his place used to be buzzing with customers after dusk. “Now we have to close all dine-in service by 7 p.m. and takeaways by 8 p.m. This hurts our business badly. The State government should extend business hours for takeaways,” he says. A. Sathish of Kari Kanji says he has not opened shop despite relaxations. “We tried it out initially but could not get bare minimum profits even through takeaways. It became pointless after a while. so I am now concentrating on other business ventures,” he says. K.L. Kumar, president of Madurai District Hotels Association and owner of Temple City chain of hotels and restaurants, says it is imperative to ensure that the restaurant timings are extended and travelling without e-pass is allowed. “For my motel to stay afloat, I need people travelling in cars to stop by for a meal,” he says. Many restaurateurs are unable to pay rent or labour by depending on orders through delivery apps alone. “The government must give subsidies to encourage us to keep the business going,” he says. M. Jayaprakash, joint secretary of Tamil Nadu Hotels Association and managing partner of Hotel Aryaas, says his restaurant remains closed since March 23. “ People go to eateries closer home now. Not many travel for eating out now. Since my restaurant is located near a service centre and industries remain closed, there will be hardly any business,” he says. Mr. Sanjeev says he is managing by limiting the number of employees. He and Mr. Jayaprakash plan to open their restaurants after they see a significant fall in COVID-19 cases and travel opens up. “We do not have any other choice. One does not know when things will be normal again,” Mr. Kumar says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madurai-restaurants-badly-hit/article32340516.ece
13 August 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||169 patients test positive for COVID-19 in Madurai||As many as 169 patients tested positive for COVID-19 in Madurai district on Wednesday taking the total number of cases to 12,366. According to the State health bulletin, all the cases were indigenous. With 23 patients having been discharged from various COVID-19 treatment facilities, the total number of cases so far has risen to 11,054. The total number of active cases as on date are 1,009. The death toll has crossed 300 as six patients succumbed to the virus. As many as 303 patients have died till date. Three more COVID-19 deaths have taken the death toll in Virudhunagar district to 142. Three men in the age group of 62 to 84 years died on Monday and Tuesday. The number of positive cases rose to 10,629 with 292 fresh cases on Wednesday. However, 260 patients got discharged on Wednesday (9,055 till date) and the total number of active cases stands at 1,432. Theni district tested 282 cases which took the tally to 8,836. However 286 patients were discharged on a single day. Dindigul district recorded 42 new cases and the total went up to 4,246. The number of discharges was 134. Ramanathapuram district reported 61 fresh cases with which the total stands at 3,271. The number of discharges was was 42 so far. Sivaganga district recorded 86 new cases, taking the tally to 3,139. The discharges was 67. Southern districts On Wednesday, 777 patients were discharged from hospitals in Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi, Kanniyakumari and Tenkasi districts. Thoothukudi,which added 157 cases, had 9,626 infections so far and the number of active cases moved up to 1,619. After losing two more patients on Wednesday, the district has so far lost 82 patients. At the same time, 207 patients have been discharged. While discharging 366 patients, Tirunelveli added 137 fresh cases, taking the tally to 6,932 and the number of active cases to 1,577. As the district lost nine patients on Wednesday, Tirunelveli has so far witnessed the death of 99 COVID-19 patients. Kanniyakumari added 117 more cases to have 6,863 infections and 1,705 active cases on Wednesday while 175 patients were discharged. In Tenkasi, the number of active cases moved up to 1,369 with the addition of 99 more cases that jacked up the total infections to 3,481. The district which lost three patients on Wednesday has so far recorded 57 deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/169-patients-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-madurai/article32340523.ece
13 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC expunges remarks on former Collector||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday expunged certain remarks made against the then Madurai Collector Anshul Mishra and Special Public Prosecutors in an order passed by the Melur Judicial Magistrate in 2016, pertaining to the PRP Granite Exports case. Justice B. Pugalendhi set aside the orders passed by the Judicial Magistrate, including the acquittal of P. Palanisamy and two others. The matter was remitted back to the Special Court constituted under Mines and Mineral (Development and Regulation) Act to examine and decide the issue on merits. Pointing out that advocates in the case had indulged in delaying tactics in arguing the case before the court, the judge observed, “The advocates, before throwing mud on the judge, must realise that by doing so they are attacking themselves and the institution. As a judge and an advocate, we command certain respect and privileges in the society and the same are derived from this institution and its judgements.” The court was hearing a batch of petitions, including the one filed by Mr. Mishra who sought relief to expunge certain observations made by the Judicial Magistrate against him. The Judicial Magistrate had recorded the remarks after dismissing the complaints filed by the Collector against the granite firm for non-appearance before the Magistrate. The then Collector, on receipt of complaints regarding illegal mining, transportation and storage of minerals in Madurai formed a special team to conduct inspection. The team, in its report, submitted that there were several illegal quarry operations. Based on it, the Collector had filed the complaint before the Melur Judicial Magistrate. Mr.Mishra had said the complaints were presented to him on July 4, 2013 and he approved the note to be filed before the Judicial Magistrate. The papers were handed over to the Special Public Prosecutor and the complaint was presented before the Court on July 18, and by then he was transferred and posted as Joint Commissioner of Commercial Tax. The Judicial Magistrate dismissed the complaints and made certain observations against the petitioner and the Special Public Prosecutor that the complaints were filed ante-dated and they had committed an offence. The Judicial Magistrate also acquitted the three persons in the case pertaining to illegal quarrying.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-expunges-remarks-on-former-collector/article32340520.ece
13 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Couple die of burns in Madurai||A couple who attempted self-immolation at Sedapatti succumbed at Government Rajaji Hospital on Tuesday. J. Kani, 34, had quarrelled with her husband R. Jayaraman, 34, of Allikundam over his drinking habit and not going for work. After the quarrel, the woman set herself ablaze and the man followed suit. Their children - Kavin, 15, and Dharsini, 12, sustained burns in their attempt to save their parents. The girl was admitted to Usilampatti GH, and the others were rushed to the GRH. The woman and the man died in the afternoon. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on helpline 104.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-die-of-burns/article32340519.ece
13 August 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Six doctors have succumbed to COVID-19: IMA||Six doctors - all from private hospitals - have died of COVID-19 in Madurai district, according to Indian Medical Association’s Madurai branch. The data, according to its president V. N. Alagavenkatesan, is based on their death certificates as their families were willing to show them. “Alhough our initial report stated that it was 11, three families said their kin died of natural causes and two others did not want to reveal the cause of death,” he said. The data comes at a time of discrepancy regarding State-level and national-level data submitted by the Indian Medical Associationin a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modiexplaining the number of doctors who have died due to COVID-19 across the country. Dr. Alagavenkatesan said members of IMA-Madurai held a discussion with State-level office-bearers. “Most of us were upset over the State-government’s lack of recognition for frontline workers who gave their lives while attempting to save others. Every single one of these doctors was on duty and helping people. With the State government asking all private hospitals and nursing homes to remain open during the time of the pandemic, it is only right that the ex-gratia amount is sent sooner to the families,” he said. The IMA has also requested the State government to arrange a life insurance plan for doctors and other frontline workers who are tackling COVID-19, with a nominal cost as premium.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/six-doctors-have-succumbed-to-covid-19-ima/article32340526.ece
13 August 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||New equipment||Equipment worth Rs. 20 lakh to perform Polysomnography- a test used to diagnose sleep disorders- was commissioned at Government Rajaji Hospital here on Wednesday. The equipment, purchased under the Self Sufficiency Scheme, will help in finding ways to treat sleep apnea and snoring-related causes and problems. Dean J. Sangumani said though the treatment was available in private hospitals, it would cost between Rs. 3,000 to Rs. 5,000 there. “Here, it is free,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-equipment/article32340530.ece
13 August 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Body of fisherman recovered, HC told||The Centre and the State on Wednesday informed the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court that the body of Ignatius, a fisherman who went missing off Kanniyakumari coast on August 7, was recovered. A Division Bench of Justices K. Kalyanasundaram and T. Krishnavalli closed the petition filed by M. Sathish Kumar from Kanniyakumari district who sought a direction to the Centre and the State to rescue Ignatius. It was said that Ignatius had gone missing after his boat capsized in the small hours while returning to the Thengaipattinam harbour. The petitioner said construction of a check dam at the harbour had an impact on water flow and due to change in direction of the tides, the fishermen were facing hardship.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/body-of-fisherman-recovered-hc-told/article32340517.ece
13 August 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Periyar dam on Wednesday stood at 136.95 feet (permissible level is 142 feet) with an inflow of 2,688 cusecs and a discharge of 2,160 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 42.88 feet (71 feet). The inflow was 2,029 cusecs and discharge was 72 cusces. The combined Periyar credit was 7,073 mcft.  The water level in Papanasam dam stood at 103.60 feet (143 feet). The dam had an inflow of 2,577.11 cusecs and 791 cusecs was discharged. The level in Manimuthar dam stood at 73.45 feet (118 feet). The dam had an inflow of 219 cusecs and 25 cusecs of water was discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article32340525.ece
13 August 2020||PERAMBALUR,TAMIL NADU||Yoga session for patients at Siddha Care Centres||Patients undergoing COVID-19 treatment at the Siddha Care Centres in Perambalur and Karur also undergo yoga therapy and counselling. Perambalur district established Siddha Care Centre a week ago to house asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic patients for treatment, doctors said. Screening is done and only patients below the age of 50, without any comorbidities, are admitted. So far 66 patients have been admitted to the centre, while around 30 have been discharged and sent home after recovery. When a patient tests positive, the district health department offers them the option of being admitted to the Siddha Care Centre for treatment. “With the stress and anxiety that comes with the viral infection, it is important for them to recover in a stress-free environment,” C. Vijayan, Siddha doctor who led a team in establishing the centre said. A day at the Siddha Care Centre begins with gargling with warm salt water, which is done around 6.30 am. Kabasura Kudineer is then provided to all the patients following which they are guided to an open area where Yoga asanas are taught for 30 minutes. The patients are also encouraged to walk around the campus during that time. At 8 a.m., every morning, doctors begin consultation for the patients, and also check for oxygen saturation levels in the body. Medicines for cold, fever and cough are also administered at the time. “Medicines made with edible green camphor and cloves are provided at the time,” said S. Senthil Kumar, Siddha doctor in-charge of the centre. Healthy breakfast is provided along with herbal tea. Lunch includes leafy vegetables, rice among other things. In the evening, another round of kabasura kudineer is provided along with herbal tea and sprouts for snacks. Following dinner, warm milk with turmeric and pepper is also given. “Along with healthy food, a pouch with turmeric, ajwain is given so patients can inhale it. Inhaling the powder helps in clearing nasal blocks and chest congestion,” Dr. Senthil said. Counsellors, Siddha doctors, yoga therapists and allopathic doctors are all present at the centre. Staff nurses too, are at their disposal. “We are practising healthy eating and clean living here. This way, any infection can be cured,” Dr. Senthil said. A patient who works at a hotel in Perambalur town and has been undergoing treatment at the centre said that within two days, he felt relieved. “Along with recovering from the infection, I feel rejuvenated. The food is healthy and the doctors take good care of us,” he said. Another patient said that he would adopt yoga therapy into his daily routine even after recovering from the infection. “Half-an-hour of yoga turns one’s entire day around. I feel fresh and relaxed and am looking forward to teaching it my wife and family too,” he said. At Karur, where the Siddha Centre was started subsequently, patients are engaged in recreational games such as chess and carrom board. Reading materials, including daily newspapers and magazines have also been provided.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/yoga-session-for-patients-at-siddha-care-centres/article32340563.ece
13 August 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Full lockdown in Puducherry on Tuesdays||The government has decided to impose a full lockdown on Tuesdays, starting next week, through August in a bid to contain the worrying rise in COVID-19 cases and deaths over the past couple of weeks, Puducherry Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy said on Wednesday. Mr. Narayanasamy, who chaired a meeting of the Puducherry State Disaster Management Authority, said all activities, including trade, industry and banks, would be suspended during the 24-hour lockdown from 6 a.m. on Tuesdays. He appealed for full compliance with the lockdown. The timings for shops would be reverted to 6 a.m. to 7 p.m. from Friday, and no one should be out on the streets between 8 p.m. and 6 a.m., he said. Puducherry had the highest COVID testing rate per lakh population in the country, the CM said. The Health Department had tested 12% of the 13-lakh population so far. Testing would be stepped up in the enclaves of Karaikal, Yanam and Mahe. “We plan to double testing rates from the current level of 1,000 samples,” he added. The administration would soon recruit manpower and stock up on diagnostic kits, PPEs and N95 masks to intensify COVID-19 management measures in the U.T., he said. A minute’s silence was observed before the meeting as a mark of respect for former Minister A. Elumalai, who died of COVID-19 on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/full-lockdown-in-puducherry-on-tuesdays/article32340257.ece
13 August 2020||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||Man found dead||A TASMAC liquor shop supervisor was murdered in his house on Wednesday. Police said S. Muthupandian, 51, of Sambavarvadakarai, was found murdered in his house on Wednesday morning while his wife and children were in his native place, Veppankulam near Sankarankovil, due to lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-found-dead/article32340521.ece
13 August 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Bid to end life by family of seven||Tension prevailed on the Collectorate premises for a while on Wednesday as seven members of a family attempted to commit suicide. According to Ganesan of Soolaivaaikkaal near Eral, he borrowed Rs. 3 lakh from one Joseph of the same area four years ago by pledging the document of his house. He claimed that he had repaid up to Rs. 7 lakh towards the principal and the interest. “However, Joseph is refusing to return the document and threatening me to give more money to settle the loan. Though I gave a complaint with the Eral police, no action has been taken,” Ganesan alleged. Ganesan, his wife Velankanni, two of their children and three other family members attempted to immolate themselves in front of the Collectorate by pouring kerosene on them. However, the policemen deployed there thwarted the attempt. They were taken to the SIPCOT police station for inquiry. Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies can seek help by calling State’s health helpline 104 or Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044 24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bid-to-end-life-by-family-of-seven/article32340527.ece
13 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||553 new cases, nine deaths recorded in central region||The central region on Wednesday recorded 553 new COVID-19 cases, and nine deaths. Perambalur, Pudukottai and Tiruchi districts recorded two deaths each. There was one death each in Tiruvarur, Karur and Ariyalur districts. A 72-year-old man with a history of coronary artery disease and a 58-year-old man with acute coronary syndrome died at a private hospital in Tiruchi, while in Pudukottai, two men aged 45 and 75 died of respiratory distress and COVID Pneumonia. Two men aged 53 and 34 in Perambalur, a 56-year-old woman in Tiruvarur and a 59-year-old woman from Ariyalur and a 55-year-old man from Karur died of respiratory failure caused by COVID-19 pneumonia. Pudukottai recorded the highest number of cases among the central districts, with 149 patients testing positive for the viral infection. Of them, 77 were immediate contacts of patients who tested positive earlier, and 39 patients had symptoms such as Severe Acute Respiratory Illnesses and Influenza-Like Illnesses, 28 local cases whose contact history had to be traced, and three antenatal mothers. In Tiruchi, 137 new cases were recorded, including many from within existing containment zones. Meanwhile, 15 patients from the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital and 25 people from the COVID Care Centre in Khajamalai were discharged after recovering from the viral infection. Nagapattinam saw 72 new cases of the viral infection, among whom were four police personnel, two staff nurses, 32 primary contacts, 16 local cases and two antenatal mothers. Of the patients, 28 were admitted to the Nagapattinam District Headquarters Hospital, 19 were admitted to the Periyar Government Hospital in Mayiladuthurai, 16 to the Sirkazhi Government Hospital while nine were admitted to hospitals in Chennai, Vellore and Pondicherry. Ariyalur recorded a spike in cases with 66 new cases reported on Wednesday. A large number of patients- 20, hailed from Thirumanur while the remaining were scattered across Ariyalur district. In Thanjavur, four doctors, a teacher at the Government Higher Secondary School Thirukarukavur, and several women who were primary contacts of patients who tested positive earlier also tested positive among the 59. Tiruvarur recorded a sharp fall in COVID-19 cases with only eight patients testing positive for the infection. Karur recorded 41 new cases on Wednesday. Meanwhile, 51 patients were discharged from Karur Government Medical College Hospital after recovering from the viral infection. Of the 21 patients who tested positive in Perambalur, many were primary contacts and interdistrict travellers. Meanwhile, 412 new throat swabs were lifted from patients showing COVID symptoms or were immediate contacts of those who tested positive earlier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/553-new-cases-nine-deaths-recorded-in-central-region/article32340557.ece
13 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Private hospitals overflow with COVID-19 cases in Tiruchi||As beds are overflowing due to a surge in COVID-19 cases, private hospitals in Tiruchi turn away patients. As per official statistics, as many as 5,240 patients were infected with the virus as on Tuesday. Of them, 4,284 patients were discharged after being treated at various hospitals. There are now 889 active case in Tiruchi districts. Of them, 123 are in home isolation and others are being treated at the K.A.P. Viswanatham Medical College Hospital in Tiruchi and private hospitals. While the K.A.P. Viswanatham Medical College Hospital takes care of nearly 50% of active cases, private hospitals treat remaining patients. About 15 private hospitals in Tiruchi district have been authorised to treat COVID-19 patients. It includes two private hospitals. Though the situation was under control up to July, COVID 19 patients started outnumbering the bed capacity thereafter. There has apparently been a sudden surge in the number of patients with COVID-19 symptoms such as fever, cough and breathing difficulties seeking admission in private hospitals for the last 10 days. Private hospitals in neighbouring Ariyalur, Perambalur and Pudukottai also face the same problem. Most of the private hospitals are understood to have turned away patients, citing unavailability of beds earmarked for COVID-19 patients. According to an estimate, private hospitals in Tiruchi have about 250 to 300 beds. But, they get more patients than the capacity, thereby forcing the hospital managements to turn away patients. “We cannot admit COVID-9 patients more than the level permitted by the Government. We also get many referrals from Tiruchi’s peripheries. Hence, private hospitals have no other option but to restrict the admission,” says S. Sethuraman, former president, Indian Medical Association, Tiruchi chapter. The denial of admission at private hospitals has forced the patients capable of meeting the cost of treatment to approach the Government Hospitals. According to a reliable source, a senior Tangedco official of Perambalur, who died of COVID-19 recently, was admitted to a private hospital in Tiruchi only after the intervention of a senior official. But, by the time he got admission, his condition worsened and died within a few hours of his admission. “We were visiting hospitals one after another in an ambulance to admit my grandmother. But, no private hospital is ready admit her. Hence, we were forced to approach the Tiruchi GH,” said a relative on condition of unanimity. An administrator of the Tiruchi GH said that there had been a sudden surge in the number of patients including COVID-19 virus for the last few days. Patients with critical conditions had been invariably referred to the Tiruchi GH. It had added strain to its employees, workers and executives. Collector S. Sivarasu told The Hindu that there were sufficient beds in the government hospitals and COVID care centre to treat the patients. However, the situation was being closely monitored. Constraints, if any, will be set right, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/private-hospitals-overflow-with-covid-19-cases-in-tiruchi/article32340561.ece
13 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Vigil stepped up||The Government Railway Police, Tiruchi, has stepped up vigil in railway stations, railway lines and bridges and commenced anti-sabotage checks as a security measure in view of the Independence Day celebrations to thwart any untoward incidents. Field-level police personnel have launched open line patrolling along various railway line stretches falling under the vast limits of Government Railway Police, Tiruchi, which starts from Villupuram and goes down south up to Kanyakumari. The open line patrolling which started from Tuesday would be done involving personnel of the Railway Protection Force and trackman of the railway department along identified stretches. Superintendent of Police, Government Railway Police, Tiruchi T. Senthil Kumar said he had written letters to the Collectors of 20 districts requesting them to depute Thalayaris / Village Assistants to accompany railway police personnel in open line patrolling to prevent any untoward incidents. The teams had been conducting checks on railway lines in their respective jurisdiction in batches. Mr. Senthil Kumar said anti-sabotage checks had also commenced ahead of the Independence Day celebrations at major railway stations falling under the limits of Government Railway Police, Tiruchi, to look out for any suspicious objects. The anti-sabotage checks would also be done in coordination with the Railway Protection Force personnel on platforms, parking areas, subways, entry points of railway stations and parcels. Field-level railway police officers have also been asked to ensure that the surveillance cameras at stations were in working condition. The anti-sabotage checks too had commenced from Tuesday, he further said, The Inspectors and Sub-Inspectors of Railway Police had conducted meetings with vendors at major stations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vigil-stepped-up/article32340564.ece
13 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||IIM-Tiruchi begins academic year with online classes||IIM-Tiruchi on Wednesday commenced online classes for its 10th batch of Postgraduate Programme in Management (PGPM), eighth batch of Fellow Programme in Management (FPM), and the first batch of Postgraduate Programme in Management – Human Resources (PGPM-HR). The online ceremony was graced by Gauthami Tadimalla, Founder - Life Again Foundation and Pushp Joshi, Director – Human Resources, HPCL. Virtual inauguration of the programmes was necessitated by the unprecedented conditions caused by the spread of COVID 19 pandemic, Director of IIM Tiruchi Bhimaraya Metri said. In her inaugural address, Ms. Gauthami highlighted the critical element of Human Resource Management in all professions and the need to treat every human as a special individual. The Director’s Merit Scholarships for best academic performance in the first year of the PGPM 2019-21 were presented to Sounak Chatterjee, Sri Vaishnavi Karusala, Tejaswini Narala, Kasu Phani Sai Reddy, Divya Shika, Shwetha Kamath, Mounika Adusumalli,Meghana Mavathur, Gurhashmat Dhaliwal, Kunal Mehta, Paul Rohit, Sanket Nigam, Shubham Sharma, Shantanu Pandey, and Drikjit Aich.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/iim-tiruchi-begins-academic-year-with-online-classes/article32340558.ece
13 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||Water level at Mettur dam stood at 97.28 feet on Wednesday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 10,672 cusecs and the discharge 10,000 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article32340559.ece
13 August 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Hindu Munnani to install 1.5 lakh idols for Vinayaka Chathurthi across T.N.||Hindu Munnani will install around 1.5 lakh idols of Lord Vinayaka across the State for the Chathurthi celebrations, State president Kadeswara C. Subramaniam said here on Wednesday. The idols would be placed at the very same spots as last year, he told the mediapersons. However, in view of the COVID-19 situation in the State, the organisation would not conduct any processions or public meetings. All other forms of celebrations would adhere to the COVID-19 precautions, particularly physical distancing, he said. Urging Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam president M.K. Stalin to publicly convey his greetings for Vinayaka Chathurthi, he said the Hindu Munnani would send an invitation to Mr. Stalin to attend the celebration at a temple. Mr. Subramaniam said the State government should protect the livelihood of idol makers whose businesses were affected due to the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hindu-munnani-to-install-15-lakh-idols-for-vinayaka-chathurthi-across-tn/article32340290.ece
13 August 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Rain damages bridge in Devala||A bridge across River Pandiaru collapsed in Devala early Wednesday, cutting off transport to five villages. The river was in spate owing to heavy rain. Devala received more than 80 mm rain over a 24-hour-period till Wednesday morning. Officials said there were other means to get to the villages and that the bridge could be repaired only when the rain eased.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rain-damages-bridge-in-devala/article32340292.ece
13 August 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Bike burnt, seven held||Seven persons, including two juveniles, were arrested in connection with burning of the motorbike of CPI(M) Virudhunagar town secretary L. Murugan, 46, in Fathima Nagar in the early hours of Wednesday. They were booked for criminal intimidation and under the provisions of Tamil Nadu Public Property (Prevention of Damage and Loss) Act. CPI(M) functionaries had sought night patrol to prevent anti-social activities. After the patrol began, these men, involved in antisocial activities, had nursed a grudge against Murugan and hence burnt his bike.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bike-burnt-seven-held/article32340528.ece
13 August 2020||August 13 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||709 new cases in western districts||The Health Department on Wednesday declared the deaths of nine more COVID-19 patients in Coimbatore district, taking the official death toll to 149. Five persons aged 58, 54, 65, 61 and 48 died at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) on Monday and two persons succumbed to the disease on Tuesday. The bodies of a 50-year-old woman and a 55-year-old man which were brought to CMCH on Monday later tested positive for the disease. The total number of positive cases reported in the district increased to 7,592. with the addition of 294 new cases on Wednesday. The Economic Offences Wing office on the premises of the office of Coimbatore City Police Commissioner was closed for fumigation on Wednesday after a special sub-inspector tested positive. The office will remain closed for three days from Wednesday. Twenty-one fireman trainees and their hostel warden also tested positive. Tiruppur district reported the highest single-day deaths and cases with seven deaths and 80 patients. According to the media bulletin, three died at Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital. In CMCH, a 66-year-old man died on Monday, while two died on Tuesday. Besides, a 68-year-old man died at a private hospital in Coimbatore on Tuesday. A 50-year-old doctor and a 24-year-old driver at the Deputy Director of Health Services (Tiruppur) office in Pooluvapatti were among the fresh cases. Salem saw 217 new cases taking the district’s tally to 5,170. While 66 persons were discharged on Wednesday, 1,404 ontinue to be under treatment. Three persons, who were under treatment, died at the hospitals taking the total number of deaths in the district to 61. Erode district reported 49 new cases taking the district’s tally to 1,164. While 17 persons were discharged on Wednesday, 419 continue to be under treatment. Two persons, died at the hospitals taking the total number of deaths in the district to 19. Namakkal district reported 32 cases taking the district’s tally to 1,064. While 32 persons were discharged, 293 continue to be under treatment. In the Nilgiris, 23 people tested positive, bringing the total number of confirmed cases to 990. The district administration said that 853 have recovered and that there are 134 active cases. Eight persons tested positive in Dharmapuri, taking the total count to 913 cases. In Krishnagiri, six tested positive on Tuesday. This has taken the total number of affected people to 1,530.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/709-new-cases-in-western-districts/article32340283.ece
13 August 2020||August 13 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||I-Day fete to be low-key affair||With the rise in COVID-19 cases in the district, the Independence Day celebrations to be held at Chikkanna Government Arts College in the city on Saturday is to be scaled down this year. According to a senior official from the Revenue Department, there will be no cultural programmes and march-past, which would involve a large number of school and college students. The usual event of honouring senior citizens from the district who participated in the freedom struggle will not be held at the celebration venue as a precautionary measure. “We will ask the tahsildars to visit the homes of 10 freedom fighters in the district and honour them with khadi shawls (on August 15),” he said, adding that personal distancing norms will be maintained during the visits. District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan will hoist the national flag at 8.50 a.m. and accept the guard of honour of the police. Following this, he will felicitate the frontline workers from the district such as conservancy workers, police personnel and healthcare personnel. In an attempt to avoid crowding, only a section of the frontline workers will be felicitated during the event and the rest will receive the certificates and mementos through their respective offices, the official said. A maximum of 500 invitees will be allowed to watch the celebrations at the college, which is expected to last for around one hour. The seating arrangements will be based on personal distancing norms. As part of the overall security beef-up for the day, around 550 police personnel will be deployed at various points in the city on Friday and Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/i-day-fete-to-be-low-key-affair/article32340281.ece
13 August 2020||August 13 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||World Elephant Day observed||World Elephant Day was observed at the Theppakadu elephant camp in Mudumalai Tiger Reserve, Topslip camp of Anamalai Tiger Reserve and Chadivayal camp of the Coimbatore Forest Division on Wednesday. At the Theppakadu camp, 27 captive elephants were fed their favourite fruits by Deputy Director of MTR (Core Zone) S. Senbagapriya and other forest officials. Elephant models created using wood from the invasive Lantana camara plants were displayed. Officials said the exercise was done to spread the message that the invasive weeds could be utilised in a constructive manner to make furniture. Forest department staff also participated in a presentation on the ‘Behaviour of Asian Elephants’ conducted by a researcher from the Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore. At the Topslip and Chadivayal camps, elephants were decorated and lined up for puja and feast that included sweet pongal, sugar cane, fruits and jaggery. I. Anwardeen, Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, Coimbatore Circle, and Field Director of the ATR (in-charge), visited the elephant camp at Topslip. Senior officials of ATR including Deputy Field Director Arockiaraj Xavier were present. D. Venkatesh, District Forest Officer, Coimbatore Forest Division, visited the Chadivayal camp. N.I. Jalaludheen of Nature Conservation Society said that an awareness session on elephants for children from tribal settlements was conducted at Madukkarai. Two books on elephants that were brought out in collaboration with Zoo Outreach Organisation were distributed to children. The books were also distributed at the function held at Chadivayal camp, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/world-elephant-day-observed/article32340297.ece
13 August 2020||August 13 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. official back at work after beating virus||Chennai Corporation Chief Engineer (General) L. Nandakumar rejoined duty on Wednesday after recovering from COVID-19. Mr. Nandakumar is also in charge of the micro plan of the COVID-19 response team, which covers all the 200 divisions of the city and has helped in bringing down the number of positive cases. He was welcomed by Chennai Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash with a bouquet. Mr. Nandakumar, who tested positive for the infection on July 27 along with his wife Lakshmi, was initially under home quarantine but was later shifted to a private hospital based on the advice of medical specialists, as he was suffering from other health issues as well. The 57-year-old senior civic official said that keeping himself busy by communicating with lower-level officials about the implementation of the micro plan helped him beat the COVID-19 blues. He said that over 35 civic officials who had contracted the virus had subsequently tested negative and rejoined duty.  Nandakumar is also in charge of the micro plan of the COVID-19 response team||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-official-back-at-work-after-beating-virus/article32340245.ece
13 August 2020||August 13 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Thousands to be booked for violating Section 144||Special prayers were also held at 42 places in the State in violation of the prohibitory orders. The police took cognisance of Qurbani offered at 22 places in the State. Acting on intelligence input that very few cases were registered in these violations, Mr. Tripathy ordered that appropriate action be initiated against all those involved in the offences, police sources told The Hindu on Wednesday. The sources said that reports received from cities/districts had revealed that about 16,000-odd Muslims participated in special prayers in mosques or public places. The State police took a serious view of the celebrations by Hindus to celebrate the Ram temple bhoomi pujan . Cases for violating the prohibitory orders and safety protocol for preventing the spread of COVID-19 would be registered against dozens of people, the sources said. The charges Besides involving provisions under the Public Health Act, Epidemic Diseases Act and Disaster Management Act, the police are booking the accused persons under Section 143 (Unlawful assembly), 269 (Unlawfully or negligently doing any act which is likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life), the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thousands-to-be-booked-for-violating-section-144/article32340248.ece
13 August 2020||August 13 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||The first step||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/the-first-step/article32340252.ece
13 August 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Gurukula students excel in SSLC exam||Students of the Sri Channabasaveshwar Gurukula Residential School and Pre University College in the small village of Karadyal near Bhalki in Bidar district have excelled in the SSLC examination, despite the COVID-19 scare. The school has consistently registered high pass percentage. This year, 98 % of students cleared the examination. A total of 314 students appeared for the SSLC examination. Of which, 117 have attained distinction, 169 First Class, 12 Second Class and one student cleared with pass class marks. As many as 66 students scored 100 % marks in Hindi, 47 in Kannada, seven in Social Sciences, six in English and five obtained 100 % marks in Mathematics. Aparajiteshwari Biradar scored 621/625 marks (99.36 %) standing fifth in the State and first in the district. Ashish Basavaraj, Chamundeshwari B. and Soumya secured 98.08 %marks. Bhagyashree R., Harish K., Vaishnavi R., Vijayalakshmi S., Vaishnavi P., Anupriya B., Veeresh R., Kavanashree N., Abhishek B., G.M. Bilwa, C. Janardhan, K. Preeti, N. Avinash, Arun R., Balaji R., Bheemaraya J., Sanjana R., G.M Bindu, Anand D., Mallikarjun P. and Ajay S. have scored more than 95 % marks. Aparajiteshwari Biradar, who hails from the small village of Uchcha village in Bidar district, has been a resident student since her fourth standard. She has topped the district and scored the fifth rank in the State, by getting 621 out of 625 marks. She has got full marks in Kannada, Hindi and Social Sciences. She has scored 99 marks in English and Science and 98 in Mathematics. “Our students have consistently done well in SSLC and PU examinations over the years. The credit goes to the team of teachers led by Principal Basavaraj Molkeri,” said Sri Basavalinga Pattaddevaru, founder of the school and former seer of the Bhalki Hiremath. Sri Gurubasava Pattaddevaru said that the educational institution, led by secretary Sri Mahalinga Swami and administrative officer Mohan Reddy, focussed on the overall development of children’s personality and not just success in examinations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gurukula-students-excel-in-sslc-exam/article32340367.ece
13 August 2020||BELAGAVI,KARNATAKA||Twins score identical marks||It is common for identical twins Saba and Zeba to be mistaken for one another by strangers and acquaintances. Now, it is time for one’s marks cards to be mistaken for the other’s. Vijayapura-based twins have scored identical marks in the SSLC exam. The students of SECAB High School have both scored 620 out of 625 marks, clocking a perfect 99.2 per cent each. The sisters want to pursue Science to become doctors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/twins-score-identical-marks/article32340369.ece
13 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Residents bolted doors and switched off lights||Rabi and Sharmila, along with their two children and elderly mother, hid in the bathroom for over two hours on Tuesday night while a mob of around 600 men vandalised their neighbour Naveen Kumar’s house in Kaval Byrasandra. The family are tenants of Naveen. “We bolted all the doors, switched off the lights and hid in the bathroom. Around 50 people broke off from the main mob, opened our main door and barged in. I rushed out of the bathroom, knelt down before them and begged them to spare us. They realised we were in no way linked to the family next door and went away, but not before vandalising our house and taking all valuables,” Rabi told The Hindu on Wednesday afternoon. T. Pavan Kumar, Naveen’s father, said his family had to cross over to the terrace of the adjoining building to escape the mob. “We were lucky to have made it alive,” he said. His house was vandalised and gutted after being set on fire. The mob also vandalised and set fire to a bar on the opposite lane. The cashier, Praveen, said the men barged in and demanded that he down the shutters. “Initially, we resisted, but then followed their orders. But the enraged mob set fire to the bar,” said Praveen. Four bikes were also torched. Ranjitha, who lives near DJ Halli, said her family was instructed by neighbours to bolt all the doors, switch off the lights and make no noise. “We stayed like that for nearly three hours, just like our neighbours. We came out of our house on Wednesday morning after seeing on TV that the violence had abated,” she said. Her husband said they heard sounds of rioting, stone pelting and even firing. “It was a very long night. We were worried for our lives. This is something we have never experienced,” said Kumar, who resides a stone’s throw away from DJ Halli Police Station.  I rushed out of the bathroom, knelt down and begged them to spare us. They realised we were in no way linked to the family next door and went away, but not before vandalising our house and taking all valuables Rabi, neighbour of Naveen Kumar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/residents-bolted-doors-and-switched-off-lights/article32340171.ece
13 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Many govt. fever clinics face shortage of rapid antigen kits||While the government has ramped up the number of rapid antigen tests conducted across the State to quickly detect COVID-19 positive cases, there is a shortage of testing kits in fever clinics. Many who visit the government fever clinics are being sent to other clinics or asked to come another day. This is forcing people to go to private labs to get tests done. Nodal officer for COVID-19 testing C.N. Manjunath told The Hindu that they had exhausted their stock of antigen tests, which were distributed across the State. “We received two lakh antigen kits on Saturday, which have been distributed. Although we had placed an order for five lakh kits, we got only two lakh. We are expecting another batch of five lakh kits to reach us later this week,” he said. Although they are minimising the number of antigen tests for the time being till new stock comes, the RT-PCR tests were being held “in full swing,” he said. He said that the State government had also approved orders for another 10 lakh antigen kits. While it takes time to get the results of RT-PCR test, the rapid antigen test results can be given in five to 10 minutes. At some centres, doctors are citing shortage of testing kits and asking people to return another day. Some fever clinics have also established mobile testing centres and are asking residents to come to a particular location if they want to get tested. A 30-year-old person working in a private company, who visited one of the government fever clinics in North Bengaluru, said: “I went along with my parents and only I was able to get the rapid antigen test. They did RT-PCR test for my parents as they had shortage of antigen kits. We will now have to wait for a couple of days to get the result. It will be a stressful wait as my father is diabetic.”  However, doctors and medical professionals at some of the clinics say that there is no shortage of testing kits at their centre, but are forced to turn away patients as they do not have adequate staff to conduct these tests. “We are supposed to give the results of rapid antigen tests in a few minutes. But if we have no staff to test, we would rather refer them to another clinic in the vicinity than make them wait,” said a doctor posted at a fever clinic. At another fever clinic, the staff had been deployed at mobile testing stations and none was available at the centre to conduct tests. “When we tell the people to come to the mobile testing centre, they refuse and tell us they will go to private labs instead,” said another doctor who heads a fever clinic.  We received two lakh antigen kits on Saturday, which have been distributed. Although we had placed an order for five lakh kits, we got only two lakh. We are expecting another batch of five lakh kits later this week.C.N. ManjunathNodal officer for COVID-19 testing in State||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/many-govt-fever-clinics-face-shortage-of-rapid-antigen-kits/article32340219.ece
13 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Not even pillows were spared in my house: MLA||Two-time MLA R. Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy of the Congress, whose house at Kaval Byrasandra in D.J. Halli police station limits was set on fire on Tuesday night, has appealed for peace and said there had been no incident of this nature in the last 25 years in the locality. “There are many minority community families in my constituency. We have been living together as brothers and sisters. There was not a single untoward incident in the past 25 years in the constituency,” said the MLA. His house was set on fire when and he and his family members were away. The rioters carried machetes and petrol bombs and looted jewellery, documents, and all other material at home, he said. “Not even pillows were spared in my house,” the MLA representing the reserved Pulakeshinagar constituency in the city said on Wednesday. Fire tenders were not able to reach the spot on time because of the large crowd on the road. “I have been living in that house for the past 50 years. I was born and raised in that house. Even my brother’s house was burnt. Where do we go now? What protection do I have as an MLA?” he said, and appealed to the government to provide protection to him and his family members. After meeting with Revenue Minister R. Ashok, the Congress MLA requested the government to order an inquiry either by the CBI or the CID. “I have faith that people of my constituency could not have done this. Whoever has done this, maybe they are from outside,” he said. The MLA said he did not doubt anyone in particular and that only an inquiry would throw more light on the incidents. “This was done to spoil my name and image,” said the MLA, who quit the JD(S) and joined the Congress on the eve of the 2018 Assembly elections.  There are many minority community families in my constituency. We have been living together as brothers and sisters. There was not a single untoward incident in the past 25 years in the constituency.    Akhanda Srinivas Murthy, Pulakeshinagar MLA||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/not-even-pillows-were-spared-in-my-house-mla/article32340176.ece
13 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||World Elephant Day: Focus on conservation and welfare||World Elephant Day — a day dedicated to the largest mammal on land, was commemorated by different organisations in different ways on Wednesday. According to Forest Department estimates, there are around 28,000 elephants in India with around 25% of them in Karnataka, and plans and programmes have been put in place to arrest their poaching and killing. Among them is the declaration of the Mysuru and Dandeli elephant reserves. A Forest Department release also said that steps are being undertaken to rid areas of lantana and eupatorium as they are preventing the growth of grass for elephants to feed on and establish barricades to prevent man-elephant conflicts, while measures have been taken to establish a cell to study forest fire prevention. Elephant tourism Some other organisations highlighted the ills of elephant tourism to commemorate the day, terming the few moments of fun on an elephant’s back for a tourist is “a lifetime of abuse for the elephant.” A release from Wildlife SOS said tourists visiting India have now started seeing through the dark side of elephant rides and no longer want this on their travel itinerary. They prefer instead to visit wildlife sanctuaries to watch elephants in the wild or visit humane elephant care centres.  The city’s Bannerghatta Biological Park (BBP) chose to acknowledge the contribution of mahouts and their families in the welfare of elephants. Elephant calves at the Bannerghatta zoo were given multiple feeding enrichment to increase foraging time and encourage natural behaviour. A release said the enrichment included two fire hose balls filled grass along with treats such as carrot, sweet potato, banana, watermelon, sugarcane, and jaggery. A fire hose was tied with multiple food items and tied to a tree to encourage animal to use its trunk to grab food from height. Display of posters and touch table made with elephant dung were put up to explain their role in maintaining a balance in the ecosystem. BBP is organising a drawing and elocution contest and entries can be sent toeducationbbp@gmail.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/world-elephant-day-focus-on-conservation-and-welfare/article32340207.ece
13 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Another single-day peak with 7,883 cases||A total of 7,883 new COVID-19 positive cases were reported in Karnataka on Wednesday, which is the highest reported in a single day. With this, the total number of positive cases stands at 1.96 lakh. The number of discharges on Wednesday stood at 7,034 and the total number of discharges so far is 1.12 lakh. A total of 113 deaths were reported in the State on Wednesday. With this, the total number of patients who died due to COVID -19 stands at 3,510. Besides this, eight patients who tested positive for COVID-19 died due to other reasons. According to the Department of Health and Family Welfare’s media bulletin, 701 patients out of the total 80,343 active cases are in intensive care units across the State. The total number of tests conducted on Tuesday crossed the 50,000 mark, with 53,326 tests done. Of these 27,250 tests are RT-PCR, while the remaining were rapid antigen tests. While 2,802 positive cases were detected in Bengaluru on Wednesday, nine other districts reported over 200 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/another-single-day-peak-with-7883-cases/article32340216.ece
13 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Positivity rate reduces to 18%||The positivity rate in Bengaluru dipped from 24% in July to 18% in August, according to the data analysed by the BBMP COVID-19 war room. Experts pointed out the need to keep the positivity rate to below 5%. A high positivity rate may indicate that many cases of COVID-19 were going undetected and new chains of transmission in the community maybe missed. Hephsiba Rani Korlapati, BBMP war room special officer, said this has been possible as the number of tests in BBMP areas has increased. “We are also doing targeted testing and ensuring all primary and secondary contacts are tested. Besides this, we are also testing Influenza like Illnesses and patients with Severe Acute Respiratory Infection aggressively,” she said. She said that BBMP is reviewing the situation from time to time and is developing strategies to ensure that the positivity rate is under check. Positivity rate is a vital parameter in assessing the spread of an outbreak. It is defined as the percentage of people who are found to be infected by the virus among those who are being tested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/positivity-rate-reduces-to-18/article32340214.ece
13 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC notice to State on property tax payment||The Karnataka High Court on Wednesday ordered issue of notice to the State government on a PIL petition seeking exemption or relaxation of payment of property tax for 2020-21 in view of financial difficulties faced by the owners of residential and non-residential properties across the State. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Ashok S Kinagi passed the order on the petition filed by K. Gurudhatta, a resident of Banashankari in Bengaluru. It has been pointed out in the petition that various types of exemptions, relaxations and financial relief and packages were announced by the Union and State governments for various sections of the society to overcome the financial difficulties cropped up due to COVID-19 pandemic, which has been notified as a disaster under the Disaster Management Act, 2005. It has been contended in the petition that several property owners who depend on revenue from properties were deprived of earnings in view of non-payment of rentals by tenants and for other reasons, but the government has not taken care of this section of the society despite representation given by the petitioner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-notice-to-state-on-property-tax-payment/article32340210.ece
13 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Trouble for family started on Aug. 5: Naveen’s father||P. Naveen Kumar, 34, whose inflammatory socialmedia posts on Islam triggered mob violence, is the nephew of Pulakeshinagar Congress MLA R. Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy. Though the two families have been estranged for nearly a decade, the mob directed its ire at the MLA’s house as well. Naveen, who was arrested for promoting enmity between religious groups, claimed his Facebook account was hacked. He deleted the account on Tuesday night itself, but the violence had spread by then. Naveen’s father, T. Pavan Kumar, a retired health official who was sitting outside his vandalised house at Kaval Byrasandra here on Wednesday afternoon, believes that trouble for the family started on August 5. “On that day when the bhoomi puja was conducted for Ram Mandir in Ayodhya, my son and his friends burst crackers and distributed sweets in the area. We have been living here for over four decades in complete harmony with both Muslims and Christians. I scolded my son and advised him against this celebration, but he did not listen to me. The celebrations did not go down well with members of the minority community in the area,” he said. Naveen, who has business interests in the real estate sector, got married two months ago. The Social Democratic Party of India, whose local leaders are the complainants against Naveen and have since been arrested as accused in the rioting case, alleged that the derogatory post was the latest in a series of social media posts he had put out targeting their religion. Senior police officials said whether Naveen’s social media handles were hacked or not was part of the probe.  Mr. Pavan Kumar said he spoke to his son after this Facebook post went viral causing trouble in the entire area. “He said someone had hacked into his account and made that post. I don’t know much about it,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/trouble-for-family-started-on-aug-5-naveens-father/article32340178.ece
13 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Admission process for I PU to start today||The admission process for I Pre University (PU) courses will begin from Thursday. The Department of Pre-University Education, on Wednesday, issued a circular to PU colleges to begin admissions. The department has asked colleges to conduct the admission process online “as much as possible” and not increase fees. “Colleges which do not have online admission facility should make sure the application and admission process is completed by strictly following the SOPs issued the government,” the circular said. It noted that the fourth working day from August 13 should be the last date for issuing of applications and a window of two working days from the last date of issuing the application should be provided for submitting the application. Upload details The department has also directed all colleges to upload information on cut-off marks for each course, fee structure, details of teaching and non-teaching staff on their website, and also provide the information on notice boards. Incidentally, the department has received complaints from parents and students that many PU colleges had already begun and many had even completed admissions based on preparatory examination marks. The department said that it would take action against such colleges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/admission-process-for-i-pu-to-start-today/article32340220.ece
13 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||No bail for Alliance varsity ex-chancellor Sudhir Angur||The Karnataka High Court on Wednesday declined bail to Sudhir Angur, co-founder and former Chancellor of Alliance University in the murder of Ayyappa R. Dore, former V-C of the varsity. Justice P.S. Dinesh Kumar, in his order, observed: “There are 180 witnesses in the case, and according to State Public Prosecutor, 80% of them are from the varsity. Therefore, the SPP’s apprehension that there is possibility of tampering with witnesses is well founded.” The court also noticed that Mr. Sudhir had deleted from his mobilephone all messages sent by Ayyappa since March 2019. The prosecution claimed that Mr. Sudhir, who had differences with his brother Madhurkar Angur, had allegedly eliminated Ayyappa by paying money to the co-accused as Ayyappa was helping Mr. Madhukar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-bail-for-alliance-varsity-ex-chancellor-sudhir-angur/article32340221.ece
13 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||KSRTC to venture into courier business||The cash-strapped Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) has decided to venture into the courier and parcel business in an attempt to boost falling revenues. The corporation will tie up with a private firm that will provide logistics, software and other support to run the business. Officials are hoping that this will generate an income of Rs. 100 crore per year. A KSRTC official said that the corporation, along with its sister organisations – NWKRTC and NEKRTC – have a huge network. “The new service will be provided in Karnataka and neighbouring States where buses are operated by the corporation,” said the official. Since the outbreak of COVID-19, all four State-run road transport corporations have incurred huge revenue losses, and are currently relying on the State government to pay their staff. The financial distress has forced the corporations to explore other revenue generating avenues, the official added.  Brand name contest KSRTC has asked the public to come out with a ‘brand name’ for the new service. The winner will get a free bus ticket to travel to the destination of his or her choice. Suggestions can be given on Twitter or Facebook by visiting the official handle of the corporation or via email to pro@ksrtc.org. Entries are allowed till 5 p.m. of August 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ksrtc-to-venture-into-courier-business/article32340222.ece
13 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Short film in Betta Kuruba language to be screened at Wildscreen festival||‘Flying Elephants – A Mother’s Hope’, a short film narrated in Betta Kuruba tribal language, in the voice of a mother elephant, is part of the inaugural Official Selection Programme at the Wildscreen Film Festival 2020. The film is supported by the Centre for Wildlife Studies and Saving Nature. A release said the film was picked as one of 18 short films from hundreds of submissions from more than 40 countries. The film took about two years to make and is six minutes long. It depicts how human interventions such as forest fragmentation and wildlife trade have disrupted the movement and lives of elephants, the release added. “Flying Elephants, told through the eyes of a mother elephant, pits their glorious past against this century’s reality of survival in the Anthropocene, where elephant habitat is being destroyed at an alarming rate. With this film, it has been my mission to shed light on these sensitive, emotional, and socially intelligent creatures that rightfully deserve their natural world,” said Prakash Matada, the director of the film. Aditi Rajagopal, the writer of the film, told The Hindu that documentaries based on India and Indian wildlife are often told through a western lens. “We wanted to bring out some of the wealth of ancient Indian storytelling through the film, but within the context of what is happening to our forests and its animals today. We used a scripted narrative style, told through the voice of a betta kuruba woman, because tribes in India are extremely under represented in art in the country, though they have some of the oldest and most beautiful traditions and still pass down their ancient wisdom through oral stories told to their children,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/short-film-in-betta-kuruba-language-to-be-screened-at-wildscreen-festival/article32340208.ece
13 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Not in touch with Naveen’||R.Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy, MLA, on Wednesday said his family had for long been estranged from his nephew P. Naveen Kumar, whose inflammatory social media posts are said tobe the trigger for violence on Tuesday. “Naveen is my sister’s son. We are not in touch with him. We have not been in touch for at least 10 years,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/not-in-touch-with-naveen/article32340175.ece
13 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘My son was a bystander’||Ansar Basha, a mutton trader, is unable to come to terms with his loss. His youngest son Yasin Basha, 19, was killed in the police firing near D.J. Halli Police Station on Tuesday night. “My son was not involved in any violence. He was an innocent bystander,” he told The Hindu at D.J. Halli Police Station on Wednesday morning. An hour after Yasin left home to have dinner in his elder brother's house, his father was alerted by friends that his son was injured in the violence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/my-son-was-a-bystander/article32340169.ece
13 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Residents did not allow communal angle||While mobs comprising mostly men from the minority community went on a rampage in D.J. Halli and the neighbouring K.G. Halli, another group of residents from the same community worked towards ensuring that the violence did not take a communal turn. A group of Muslim youths formed a human chain around a temple near local MLA R. Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy’s house in Kaval Byrasandra late Tuesday night. A video of this initiative has gone viral on social media. “The riots of Tuesday night were not communal. But the mob was very violent and directionless. If it had attacked the temple, it could have descended into a communal riot. So some of the youth, who were trying to pacify the crowds, formed a human chain around the temple,” said a resident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/residents-did-not-allow-communal-angle/article32340168.ece
13 August 2020||Bengaluru/Hubballi/Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Parties spar on reasons for violence||The violence at D.J. Halli and K.G. Halli, which resulted in the death of three people in police firing on Tuesday, has led to a political slugfest between political parties. Addressing a press meet in Hubballi, BJP State president Nalin Kumar Kateel said there seemed to be a “systematic conspiracy” behind the violence and organisations like Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) were involved in it. He sought to know how in a quick succession of events, arms and petrol bombs landed in the hands of the protesters. SDPI, meanwhile, said it was unnecessarily being dragged in to “overshadow the failure of the police”. State president of the outfit Elyas Mohammed Thumbe said delay and neglect by the D.J. Halli police in taking action on the complaint against Naveen, a relative of Congress MLA R. Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy who had put up derogatory posts on Islam, had led to the situation going out of hand. He said there were videos showing attempts by SDPI leader Muzamil Pasha and other party activists to pacify agitated people. “They did it before the police and Ulemas. But the police have now arrested Pasha and other activists for their alleged involvement in the violence,” he said. Congress leaders, sayswhile condemning the incident, also blamed the police for being unable to act in time. The police have not only failed to protect the Congress MLA, whose house was set on fire, but also a police station, said KPCC President D.K. Shivakumar. “Entire system is responsible for this,” he said, also pointing to the derogatory post against Islam that is said to be a trigger for violence. Responding to the Congress in a tweet, BJP’s national general secretary (Organisation) B.L. Santhosh asked of the Congress why it was hesitating to condemn “riots by minority groups” and failed to stand by its Dalit MLA. Meanwhile, Congress MLA U.T. Khader said it appeared as though the BJP was the “godfather” of SDPI as every time there is a violence, the BJP leaders call for a ban on the organisation but never follow it through. Cong. forms committee The Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee has constituted a six-member fact finding committee headed by former Deputy Chief Minister and former Home Minister G Parameshwara, MLA, to find out reasons for the violence. KPCC president D K Shivakumar chaired a meeting of the party’s City legislators at the party office and discussed the situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/parties-spar-on-reasons-for-violence/article32340173.ece
13 August 2020||Bengaluru/Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Rioters will pay for damage’||While the Karnataka government has ordered a magisterial inquiry into the violence that broke out in Bengaluru city on Tuesday, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said a decision was also taken to recover damages for the destruction of private and public properties from the people who indulged in violence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rioters-will-pay-for-damage/article32340172.ece
13 August 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||255 fresh cases||Hassan district witnessed 255 new COVID-19 positive cases and six deaths on Wednesday. The total number of confirmed cases now stands at 3,986. Among them, 1,688 have been discharged and 2,181 are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/255-fresh-cases/article32340379.ece
13 August 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Action sought against those involved in Tuesday’s attack on mediapersons||Condemning the attack on mediapersons at Devarajeevanahalli in Bengaluru, office-bearers and members of the district units of the Karnataka Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ) staged a demonstration in various districts of North Karnataka on Wednesday and demanded immediate action against those involved in the attack. In the districts of Haveri, Gadag and Dharwad, journalists and camerapersons from print and electronic media silently marched to the offices of the respective government departments and submitted memoranda addressed to the Chief Minister. In Hubballi, led by president of the Dharwad District Union of Working Journalists (DDUWJ) Ganapathi Gangolly and other office-bearers, mediapersons staged a demonstration in front of the Mini Vidhana Soudha and condemned in strong words the attack on media persons and camera persons in Bengaluru. They also condemned the attack on a mediaperson in Manvi taluk and demanded immediate action against all those involved in the attack on mediapersons. Addressing the protesting mediapersons, vice-presidents of DDUWJ Jagadish Burlabaddi and Gururaj Hugar condemned the attack in strong words and stressed the need for ensuring protection to mediapersons. They said that during the pandemic, mediapersons were discharging their duties responsibly and there was a need for ensuring an atmosphere where they worked without fear. Submitting the memorandum on behalf of the journalists union, Mr. Gangolli urged for requisite steps to ensure that such attacks did not recur in the State. In the memorandum, apart from seeking protection to mediapersons, they sought strict action against those involved in the attack. The memorandum was submitted to the taluk administration officials. Similar memoranda were submitted by mediapersons in Haveri and Gadag and in other places too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/action-sought-against-those-involved-in-tuesdays-attack-on-mediapersons/article32340377.ece
13 August 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Hospice converted into COVID Care Centre||“Ramila Prashanti Mandir”, constructed by Majethia Foundation under the Hospice Project, has now been converted into a 60-bed COVID Care Centre. The same will be formally handed over to the Karnataka Cancer Therapy and Research Institute (KCTRI), Navanagar, here on Friday. Addressing presspersons here on Tuesday, Majethia Foundation Chairman Jitendra Majethia said that the “Ramila Prashanti Mandir” had been built on KCTRI premises and it would be handed over to head of KCTRI B.R. Patil in the presence of Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil at noon on Friday. Mr. Majethia said that as the number of COVID-19 positive patients had been increasing in the district, the foundation had taken the initiative to address it. He said that doctors would be available at the COVID Care Centre throughout the day. “Doctors and health staff will be subjected to seven-day quarantine after their 10-day work at the centre. There will be an entry earmarked for the medical staff, while the fees for services will be kept low compared to other hospitals,” he said. Dr. Patil said that the hospital was also providing treatment to asymptomatic patients who had other health problems. For such patients, the foundation was providing lunch and dinner daily with the help of ISKCON Akshaya Patra. “The Majethia Foundation had constructed the hospice for the treatment of cancer patients who are in the last stage of the disease and who don’t want to be at home. Considering the pandemic situation, the hospice has now been converted into a COVID Care Centre. This will also reduce the burden on other hospitals in the twin cities,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hospice-converted-into-covid-care-centre/article32340365.ece
13 August 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||A little help brings home a lost man||Venkatesh, a 25-year-old mentally retarded man from Ballari, who had been missing for the last four years, reached his native place safely on Wednesday with the help of officials from Karnataka and West Bengal. As per information provided by Ballari Assistant Commissioner Ramesh Konareddy, Venkatesh, a native of Nagalapur village in Sandur taluk, was suffering from mental illness and was missing for the last four years. With no proper food and care, he continued to roam endlessly across States and suffered injuries all over his body before being noticed at Malda in West Bengal by a non-governmental organisation there. Members of the organisation rescued him and provided him with special care and also informed Malda District Collector Rajarshi Mitra. The NGO and the Malda administration, somehow, managed to find out his native place and duly informed Ballari Deputy Commissioner S.S. Nakul who immediately swung into action to bring the lost man home. Then, Mr. Nakul got two air tickets booked from Kolkata to Bengaluru — one for Venkatesh and the other for Tara Shankar Roy, a member of the NGO. Venkatesh under the care of Mr. Roy reached Bengaluru on Wednesday and was received by officials from the Revenue Department and his two brothers. He was then taken to his native village in a vehicle arranged by Mr. Nakul. “All the expenses of travel were borne by the Ballari district administration,” Mr. Ramesh Konareddy told The Hindu . Venkatesh’s family members who had lost hopes of seeing him again are now overwhelmed with joy to be reunited with him, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-little-help-brings-home-a-lost-man/article32340372.ece
13 August 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||KKRDB launches COVID-19 helpline||The Kalyana Karnataka Region Development Board (KKRDB) on Wednesday launched a helpline, “COVID-19 Suraksha Chakra”, to contain the spread of the deadly virus and also to address COVID-19-related cases in the six districts of the region. KKRDB chairman Dattatreya Patil Revoor, who inaugurated the helpline centre, said that the board, the zilla panchayat and the city corporation will jointly address queries at the helpline centre. Mr. Revoor said that all the six district hospitals in the region will soon get advanced life support ambulances through KKRDB. The helpline numbers are: 8884454424, 8884454425, 8884454426 and 8884454427.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kkrdb-launches-covid-19-helpline/article32340370.ece
13 August 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Arrested||Kota police on Wednesday arrested Amit Shantappa Naganasur (21) of Vijayapura district for the alleged theft of gold ornaments and mobile phones from the house of Pranesh in Bannady village near Kota in Udupi on August 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/arrested/article32340213.ece
13 August 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Major reservoirs in Cauvery basin are almost full||Torrential rain in Kodagu and Malnad region last week has ensured copious inflow to the four major dams in the Cauvery basin in the State all of which are close to attaining full reservoir level (FRL). As a result, the cumulative storage in the dams has also increased. The combined storage capacity of KRS, Kabini, Hemavathi, and Harangi is 114.57 tmcft as against the actual storage 108.04 tmcft on Wednesday. The cumulative outflow from KRS and Kabini reservoirs since June 1 is 63 tmcft. The water level at KRS in Mandya district was 122.57 ft on Wednesday morning as against the full reservoir level of 124.8 ft. The rate of inflow was 25,670 cusecs and the outflow was reduced to 3,629 cusecs. The dam is expected to reach FRL by Thursday. Gross storage was 46.37 tmcft against the capacity of 49.45 tmcft. Though rain has abated in the catchment area of the Cauvery in Kodagu district, intermittent rain in the region is expected to ensure steady inflow to the KRS. The Harangi reservoir in the upstream is nearly full. However, authorities are maintaining a buffer of 1 or 2 ft to cope with any sudden surge in inflow due to change in weather conditions in the upstream region. The water level at Harangi reservoir was 2,857.11 ft. as against the FRL of 2,859 ft. The inflow was 5,583 cusecs and the outflow 5,636 cusecs. The available water was 7.62 tmcft against the capacity of 8.5 tmcft. At Kabini, the reservoir level was 2,283.72 ft as against FRL 2,284 ft. The rate of inflow was 23,929 cusecs and outflow was 26,517 cusecs, as per KSNDMC. The gross storage was 18.96 tmcft as against the actual capacity of 19.52 tmcft. Water level at Hemavathi in Gorur (Hassan district) was at 2,920.66 ft against the FRL of 2,922 ft. The gross storage was 35.1 tmcft as against a capacity of 37.1 tmcft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/major-reservoirs-in-cauvery-basin-are-almost-full/article32340212.ece
13 August 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||‘Height of Kollur bridge needs to be raised’||Prabhu Chavan, Minister for Animal Husbandry and Yadgir district in charge, has directed officials to send a proposal to raise the height of the bridge across the Krishna near Kollur village in Shahpur taluk. After visiting the spot on Wednesday, Mr. Chavan said the bridge gets inundated whenever Krishna Bhagya Jala Nigam Ltd. authorities discharge water from the Basavasagar reservoir at Narayanpur into the Krishna. “When that happens, road connectivity between Raichur and Kalaburagi via Yadgir district gets cut off. Therefore there is a need to increase the height of the bridge,” he said.  He interacted with farmers and assured them that he would direct officials to release the compensation for crop loss that they had suffered last year.Later, he attended a programme where meritorious SSLC and II PU students were felicitated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/height-of-kollur-bridge-needs-to-be-raised/article32340381.ece
13 August 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||NDRF team reaches Raichur||To help tackle the flood situation, a team of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has arrived in Raichur district. The district administration has, as a precautionary measure, sought help from NDRF as the water level in the Krishna has increased after officials started discharging water from Basavasagar reservoir at Narayanpur and Almatti Dam in Bagalkot district due to heavy rainfall in Maharashtra and catchment areas. The team comprises an Inspector and 24 staff, apart from two rubber boats and other necessary equipment. Arrangements for the team to stay in shelters at Sugureshwara temple in Deosugur village on the outskirts of Raichur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ndrf-team-reaches-raichur/article32340373.ece
13 August 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Condemned||Karnataka Union of Working Journalists Association has strongly condemned the attack on a private channel reporter and a cameraman in Bengaluru on Tuesday. A mob attacked the two when they were covering the riots in Devarajeevanahalli there. Journalists under the banner of the association in Raichur and Yadgir districts have submitted memoranda addressed to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to the administrations and demanded immediate action against those who attacked the journalists. They also highlighted another incident in which a reporter of a Kannada daily at Manvi in Raichur district Sharanabasava was abused and issued a life threat. The journalists urged the government to provide security and ensure a threat-free atmosphere for them to discharge their duties. Some journalists were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/condemned/article32340374.ece
13 August 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Six COVID-19 deaths in Raichur, Yadgir dists.||As many as 298 fresh COVID-19 positive cases and six deaths were registered in Raichur and Yadgir on Wednesday. Of the 298 cases, 191 are from Raichur and 107 from Yadgir. Of the deaths four were in Raichur and two in Yadgir.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/six-covid-19-deaths-in-raichur-yadgir-dists/article32340375.ece
13 August 2020||August 13 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||BBMP warns of blocking use of unused beds||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) is considering blocking the use of unused beds in private hospitals so that they are not allotted to patients who do not have COVID-19. This comes after many private hospitals have been citing shortage of doctors, nurse and other staff as a reason for not providing 50% of beds for COVID-19 cases, as per the State government’s order. Senior BBMP officials on Wednesday held a meeting with the doctors and management of over 40 private hospitals to discuss the issue. “The BBMP has time and again warned that stringent action will be taken against hospitals manipulating and not sharing information on bed availability. We have also initiated criminal actions against such hospitals,” said a civic official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-warns-of-blocking-use-of-unused-beds/article32340205.ece
13 August 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Repair bunds: Minister||Agriculture Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar on Wednesday directed authorities concerned and padasekhara samithis  to immediately reconstruct the breached outer bunds of paddy polders in Kuttanad. He was chairing a meeting via videoconferencing. Mr. Kumar said that reconstruction of the bunds should be done by respective padasekhara samithis. Use of drones “Losses suffered by farmers should be determined immediately. Drones can be used to ascertain the extent of crop loss. The help of other departments should be sought to drain out floodwater and remove silt from paddy fields,” the Minister said. Kuttanad witnessed a series of bund breaches in recent days following heavy downpour and an increase in the flow of water from the eastern side. According to officials, 4,322.94 hectares of paddy fields remain submerged. Outer bunds of 37 paddy polders were breached and another 50 bunds overflowed. Though the flood situation improved considerably in the district, parts of Kuttanad still remain submerged. A total of 7,423 people from 2,541 families are staying in 110 relief camps opened in different parts of the district as on Wednesday evening. Besides, the district administration has opened 612 gruel centres in the district including 577 in Kuttanad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/repair-bunds-minister/article32340540.ece
13 August 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Alappuzha has 118 new patients||The district on Wednesday logged 118 COVID-19 cases. This included 105 patients who contracted the disease through local transmission, eight people who came from other States, and five from abroad. Wards 11 and 16 in Thanneermukkom, ward 2 in Ambalappuzha South grama panchayat, and ward 36 in Alappuzha municipality, were declared as containment zones. Death of a 53-year-old man has kicked up a row. The man, from Chengannur, came from abroad and was in quarantine when he experienced breathing problems early on Tuesday. As there was waterlogging in the area, his relatives sought help to take him to a hospital at 4 a.m.. They alleged that there was delay in shifting him to a hospital at Changannesery resulting in his death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/alappuzha-has-118-new-patients/article32340541.ece
13 August 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Kattappana sub registrar suspended||Minister for Public Works and Registration G. Sudhakaran has suspended Kattappana sub registrar G. Jayalakshmi for her inhuman treatment of a cancer patient when he approached the office for registration purposes. According to the staff at the sub registrar office, the incident occurred on August 6 when Suneesh Joseph, also a government staff and a cancer patient, came to her office in an ambulance for land registration. The sub registrar office is functioning on the third floor of the Kattappana mini civil station. The sub registrar directed to produce him before her chamber to complete the registration. His condition was critical and he was carried on a chair to the third floor and he waited there till the process was completed. He died on August 9. After the death, his friend posted the tragic incident on Facebook and it went viral. After receiving complaints, the Minister intervened in the matter. He directed the authorities to suspend the official from service. “The government official failed to provide natural justice to a cancer patient. The government will not allow such inhuman activities on the part of government officials. The tax department joint secretary has been directed to probe the incident and submit a detailed report,” the Minister said. He said the official could have gone near the ambulance and cleared the documents. Such humane behaviour was expected from a government staff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kattappana-sub-registrar-suspended/article32340485.ece
13 August 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Teachers of Pariyaram school unpaid for 19 months||The outbreak of COVID-19 has compounded the misery of the teaching and non-teaching staff of the Pariyaram Medical College Public School. While they have not been paid salaries for the past 19 months, the spread of the disease has further worsened their situation as they struggle to make ends meet. The school that started in 2003 was earlier functioning under the Academy of Medical Science (ACME), which was a charitable trust controlled by the Kerala State Cooperative Hospital Complex (KSCHC), that along with the Centre for Advanced Medical Service, was running the Kannur Medical College, Pariyaram. However, after the government took over the KSCHC and ACME, the school also came under its fold, said school Principal K. Shibu. The Health department, which initially took charge of the school, decided to hand it over to the Education department. But since March 2019 when the decision was taken, the administrative procedure in this regard had not been completed, he said. “We are waiting for the procedure to be complete and the staff to be paid their salaries pending for the past 19 months,” said Jyothi Babu, a teacher who is also suffering from health complications. She said her husband, who was an artist, has had no job since the pandemic outbreak. With salary being denied for the past several months, her family had been unable to meet even the basic necessities, Ms. Babu said. Plea ignored Despite submitting a petition to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, the Education Minister, and MLAs, no steps had been taken to resolve the issue, she lamented. K. Hemalatha, another teacher in the school, said that many teachers were suffering from serious ailments. Now, they did not have the money even to purchase medicines, she rued. The school syllabus was changed from CBSE to the State Board after the government took over. The strength of students too has increased. This was due to the continuous efforts of the teaching and non-teaching staff here, she said. Another teacher said that they were now ineligible for the medical benefits that they used to get earlier from the Employees State Insurance Corporation. ‘File stuck in Secretariat’ T.V. Rajesh, local MLA, said there was a procedural delay as it was for the first time that an unaided school was being taken over. The authorities had a series of meetings in this regard and a proposal had been sent to the Finance department for its approval. The files were stuck in the Secretariat due to the COVID-19 crisis, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/teachers-of-pariyaram-school-unpaid-for-19-months/article32340447.ece
13 August 2020||Kannur,KERALA||Man held on murder charge||The police arrested a suspect in connection with the death of a 78-year-old man, who was found dead near the forest fringes at Kudiyanmala, on Wednesday. The body of the victim, Kuriakose, a native of Areekamala, was found on August 8. In the following investigation, the police found that he had been strangled to death. Binoy, 42, a native of Valiya Areekamala, who was a neighbour of the victim, was arrested on the suspicion of murder by the police. The sources claimed that the suspect had admitted to having strangled the victim while indulging in sexual activity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-held-on-murder-charge/article32340448.ece
13 August 2020||Kannur,KERALA||Building for Buds school opened||Health Minister K.K. Shailaja on Wednesday said that the activities of Buds special schools should be extended to more areas. She was speaking after inaugurating online the building of a Buds school started by the Thalassery Municipality. The school was built near Pallithaza Christ College as part of the Thalassery Municipal Corporation’s annual plan for the welfare of differently abled children. World Bank fund The construction was done at a cost of Rs. 48.5 lakh sanctioned by the World Bank. MLA A.N. Shamseer presided over the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/building-for-buds-school-opened/article32340449.ece
13 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Local contact cases go up in Ernakulam||Of the 121 persons who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Wednesday, 116 acquired the disease through local contact, while five arrived from outside the State. West Kochi remains a hotbed of the disease, with 12 persons from Fort Kochi, three from Mattancherry, four from Palluruthy, and three from Thoppumpady testing positive. In Chellanam, six persons tested positive, while six officers of the Navy were also infected. Ten persons from Vennala and eight from Thrikkakara have tested positive. Places like Kadungalloor and Edathala, which were part of the larger Aluva cluster, continue to register positive cases, with four persons from Kadungalloor and three from Edathala turning positive. Other positive cases were reported from Ayavana, Kadavanthra, Vyttila, Maradu, Edakochi, Kuttampuzha, Kumbalangi, Kumbalam, Nellikuzhi, Choornikkara, Mulavukad, Vengola, Kadamakudy, and Kalamassery. A total of 51 persons recovered and tested negative, while 1,355 people are being treated for the disease. Testing to be intensified As part of the district administration’s strategy to intensify testing, 4,653 samples were collected—1,516 samples were sent from government facilities and 3,137 from private labs and hospitals. Spike in Chellanam With Chellanam recording another spike in positive cases, 107 antigen and RT-PCR tests were done on Wednesday, of which six antigen tests returned positive. At the Puthenthode Government Higher Secondary School, test kits for around 100 persons were arranged, but only 47 were used, since most symptomatic people remain reluctant to get tested, said a health official. Another testing facility was set up at St. Mary’s School in Chellanam, where 60 tests were done. A car and an ambulance were arranged to transport people to the two testing centres, the official added. After Chellanam had seen a fall in the number of cases a few days ago, the first-line treatment centres there had stopped functioning after patients were discharged, he said. Over phone, ASHA workers have been coaxing primary contacts and symptomatic people into getting tested, said Daisy Joseph, an ASHA worker from Ward 8 of the panchayat, where 22 persons had tested positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/local-contact-cases-go-up-in-ernakulam/article32340457.ece
13 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Students miss classroom learning||An assessment of online education done by the District Institute of Education Training (DIET) in Ernakulam has revealed that an increasing number of students were missing the emotional and learning support enjoyed by them in the traditional classroom mode. The feedback collection on the online learning process, which began in June, emerged at a meeting of education officers convened by DIET as part of a research on the gaps in digital learning. “Students who joined new schools, especially classes 1, 5, and 8, were facing the emotional gap of not having the traditional school atmosphere. They get support from their class teachers, who help them adjust to the new surroundings with ease. In the online mode, they seem to be missing the personal rapport they had with teachers in the conventional format,” said Gopakumar T.V., Principal, DIET. A survey is on to assess the pluses and minuses of online education in the three regions of Kothamangalam, Muvattupuzha, and Vypeen. “An assessment of the learning process among children of migrant workers found that they did not have continued access to smartphones to watch sessions. Children get hold of mobile phones only after their parents return after the day’s work. Financial constraints also remain a hurdle for renewal of mobile data package. Lack of Internet connectivity is another issue,” he said. The assessment showed that parents, already reeling under financial stress induced by the pandemic, were finding it difficult to manage the increasing expenses for online education. Many have taken loans and help from others to purchase laptops and smartphones for their children. With schools competing with one another by increasing the load of assignments given through messaging platforms, the consumption of mobile data has increased considerably. Students of Classes 10 and 12 are anxious about their future, with no clarity yet as to when schools will reopen. They are also worried about the way they will be evaluated in the wake of a prolonged shutdown. Class 12 students are concerned about their higher studies. The research found that many parents were also under stress, as they could not address subject-related doubts of their children. Moreover, there is little time for students to clear doubts in the already packed sessions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/students-miss-classroom-learning/article32340462.ece
13 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Activists slam govt. response||Environmental campaigners have objected to the “silence” of the State government to some of the provisions of the 2020 Draft EIA notification and the manner in which its views were finalised. They were also critical of the lack of public consultation before finalising the position of the State. In its four-page response, the State had opposed the proposals regarding the environment clearance for mining projects and reduction of time for public consultation while demanding the reinstatement of the district-level environment impact assessment authorities. It was strange, said V.S. Vijayan, former chairman of the Kerala State Biodiversity Board, that the State did not oppose post facto clearances, the most disastrous proposal in the draft notification. It was ridiculous to seek environment clearance after setting up a project and causing environmental damage, he said. Public consultations The suggestion to exempt huge constructions from the ambit of EIA should have been opposed. Kerala should have formed an expert panel and held public consultations before finalising its views, said Mr. Vijayan, who was also a member of the Western Ghats Ecology Expert Panel. Harish Vasudevan, environmentalist, felt that the State should have objected to the suggestions for diluting the environment clearance procedures for mining and other projects. Most of the district committees were found lacking the expertise to assess the environmental impacts of projects. N. Badusha of the Wayanad Paristhithi Samrakshana Samithi felt that the State should have asked for scrapping the draft and demanded a new set of legislations for protecting the environment. Both the State and the Central governments were supporting the cause of corporate houses and mining barons through the notification. The views of the environmentalists should have been solicited before finalising the views, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/activists-slam-govt-response/article32340489.ece
13 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Civil supplies staffer held on stock misappropriation charge||Hardly a month after he got a reprieve despite allegedly cheating a Civil Supplies Corporation outlet to the tune of Rs. 40 lakh, an employee got arrested for alleged stock misappropriation. Jeseef, 28, of Kongarappally had been a contract worker at the corporation outlet at Muppathadam for the last 10 years. He was entrusted with depositing sales proceeds in the bank. “The shop management used to give him the money with the chalan. However, instead of depositing the entire amount, he used to swindle a small portion of it every time and deposit the rest of the money using a fresh chalan. Over a period of a year, he siphoned off around Rs. 40 lakh,” said V.R. Sunil, Station House Officer, Binanipuram. The fraud was detected last month, and the manager of the outlet got suspended. However, no complaint was registered against the employee. The outlet noticed another fraud in the form of a mismatch of stock earlier this month when stock worth Rs. 3.80 lakh was found deleted from the computer records. An inquiry found that the records had been tampered with on the night of July 29. It emerged that the accused had a spare key of the outlet. The outlet then lodged a complaint with the police who summoned the accused who reportedly confessed to his act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/civil-supplies-staffer-held-on-stock-misappropriation-charge/article32340459.ece
13 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Rape survivor stable, shifted out of ICU||The 75-year-old Scheduled Caste woman who was suspected to have been brutally raped and has been under treatment at the Kolencherry Medical College since then is now stable and out of danger. She was admitted to the hospital on the night of August 2. Though she was brought in with injuries believed to have been sustained from a fall, it soon emerged that she was a rape victim. “She has been shifted out of the surgical Intensive Care Unit (ICU) to the room, and her vitals are now stable. She is now able to walk and can have food orally. She may be discharged in a few days,” said hospital sources. Psychiatric counselling will start shortly, since the primary objective is to ensure that her physical health is restored, they added. The victim was subjected to hours-long surgery for internal wounds the day after her admission. Since then, she had been kept at the surgical ICU before she was moved into the room two days ago. Her medical expenses are being met by the State government. The tragic incident was reported at Kolencherry within the Puthencruz police station limits. Three persons, including a woman and her son, were arrested in this connection late on Tuesday night. While the key accused, a lorry driver, had allegedly raped the woman, she was brutally assaulted by another accused and the son of the fellow accused woman at whose house the incident took place. According to the police, the victim, who was mentally unstable and was in the habit of wandering about, ended up at the wrong place at the wrong time. She was later dropped off at her home, and her children were told that she had suffered injuries from a fall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rape-survivor-stable-shifted-out-of-icu/article32340458.ece
13 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||MPs oppose draft EIA||United Democratic Front (UDF) convener Benny Behanan, in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, called for withdrawing the draft EIA notification and its replacement with a stringent one for protecting the environment.  Hibi Eden, Congress MP, also shot off a letter to the Prime Minister asking him to withdraw the notification.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mps-oppose-draft-eia/article32340490.ece
13 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||HC upholds conviction in murder case||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Wednesday upheld the life imprisonment awarded by the Thiruvananthapruam Additional Sessions Court to the four accused in the murder of gem dealer Harihara Varma. Harihara Varma, 59, was found murdered at the residence of his friend Haridas's daughter at Puthoorkonam in Thiruvananthapuram, on December 24, 2012. The prosecution case was that the accused had hatched a conspiracy to rob Harihara Varma of diamonds and other precious stones in his possession and committed the murder by strangulating and smothering him. Though the Bench upheld the conviction and sentence awarded to M. Jithesh, Ajeesh, Rakhil and Ragesh, it acquitted another convict Joseph. The court dismissed a petition of the victim's wife challenging the acquittal of advocate Haridas, the sixth accused and a friend of the victim.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-upholds-conviction-in-murder-case/article32340486.ece
13 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||FACT to tap more markets||The public sector Fertilizers and Chemicals Travancore (FACT) will add five lakh tonnes more to its production capacity, as it plans to tap markets in West Bengal, Odisha, Maharashtra, and Gujarat. FACT chairman and managing director Kishor Rungta told the Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry here at an online presentation that FACT was already successfully tapping the south Indian market, and that it wanted to explore the upcountry markets too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fact-to-tap-more-markets/article32340460.ece
13 August 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kollam records just 5 cases||While COVID-19 cases continue to surge in many parts of the State, Kollam has become the district with lowest test positivity rate and minimal occupation of COVID-19 first-line treatment centre (CFTC) beds. The district also comes in the fourth position after Kozhikode, Thiruvananthapuram and Thrissur for higher testing rate. At present, 85% of FTC beds are vacant. Kollam also reported a sharp dip in COVID -19 cases on Wednesday with the tally hitting a single-digit mark after a long time. While five persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2, the number of recoveries is 21. “Two major clusters—Kollam District Jail and Kottarkara Muslim Street—have been contained,” said an official. The new patients include four contact cases and one without any known source. The cases were reported from Chavara, Kundara, Veliyam, Kollam and Sasthamcotta. Kollam now has 7,228 persons under observation and the number of samples collected is 35,098. The Health Department has traced 8,209 primary and 2,125 secondary contacts of the fresh cases. The administration had put in place containment measures when the numbers started going up in early July. When coastal areas posed a challenge, intensive awareness drives were launched. Closed clusters of 10 to 15 families were formed in the coastal areas for monitoring. Police, Fisheries and Revenue officials, with people’s representatives, were part of the surveillance system. Market committees The containment measures implemented by Kollam city and rural police included formation of market committees that included merchants, employees, police and volunteers. The model will be now formed across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kollam-records-just-5-cases/article32340543.ece
13 August 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Rain recedes from parts of Kottayam||With water continuing to recede from more areas, efforts to clean up the houses in the flood-ravaged parts of Kottayam gathered momentum on Wednesday. Submerged in water and slush that came surging down the Meenachil river for about five days, the floors of several houses in the low-lying areas were covered under thick layers of slimy mud. Besides the houses, the floodwaters had also entered the roads and smashed the polder bunds at various locations. Meanwhile, the villages on the banks of the Vembanad lake continued to reel under the impact of the flood with water yet to drain out completely. Bund breaches are still being reported from the region. Paddy cultivation in about 2,849 hectares has been destroyed so far. According to sources, paddy crop in Kallara, Thalayazham, and Thiruvarpp grama panchayat was totally lost while cultivation in other panchayats like Arppookkara, Aymanam, and Kumarakom in Ettumanoor block, and Vechoor and Edayazham in Vaikom block has been significantly damaged. As per estimates by Salomi Thomas, Principal Agricultural Officer in Kottayam, about 14,308 farmers in the district sustained losses in the heavy rains, the value of which was pegged at Rs. 74.79 crore. Crops lost Besides paddy, rubber, tapioca, plantain and vegetables in over 3,000 acres of areas were also destroyed by the rain. The value of crop loss is expected to go up in the coming days, as floodwater is yet to recede from a large portion of northern Kuttanad region. Relief camps The district currently has 183 relief camps , which together accommodated 5,651 people from 1,927 Raifamilies.  Bund breaches are still being reported from parts of the region||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rain-recedes-from-parts-of-kottayam/article32340545.ece
13 August 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||76 new cases in Kottayam||As many as 76 persons, including nine employees of a rubber factory unit in Kottayam, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Wednesday. Of the fresh cases, 66 persons contracted the virus through local contact while 10 persons came from outside the State. Arpookkara panchayat reported the highest number of cases with 13 persons testing positive, followed by Kottayam municipality with 11 cases and Vijayapram Panchayat with nine cases. Vaikom municipality and Kanjirappally panchayat reported six cases each. At the same time, 24 persons who had recovered from the disease were discharged from the various treatment centres during the day. Active cases Kottayam currently has 504 active cases and 9,515 persons under surveillance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/76-new-cases-in-kottayam/article32340546.ece
13 August 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Four die of COVID-19 at Kozhikode MCH||Sixty-four of the 93 new COVID-19 cases reported from Kozhikode on Wednesday were through local transmission of the infection while 237 of 261 cases reported in Malappuram were also local transmission cases. Four deaths were reported from the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode. The deceased are, a 69-year-old man from Wayanad, a 49-year-old man and a 65-year-old woman from Kozhikode, and a 64-year-old man from Malappuram. According to a release, 19 of the new cases in Kozhikode had returned from other States and two from abroad. The source of infection of eight others is not known. The number of active cases in the district is 1,142. In city In Kozhikode Corporation, 17 more migrant labourers were tested positive for the virus. The number of cases through local transmission here is the same. The source of infection of six persons is not known. Of the 636 cases reported from here, 109 are migrant labourers. Meanwhile, four more healthcare workers attached to the medical college hospital were asked to go into quarantine after they came in contact with infected persons. In Malappuram District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan said that the new cases included three health workers. While 23 cases came from abroad, one came from another State. However, there were 107 recoveries in the district. While Malappuram saw 4,015 COVID-19 cases since March, 2,266 of them recovered. The number of infected persons under treatment rose to 1,726 on Wednesday. In Thrissur Recording a dip in cases, only 19 COVID-19 cases were reported in Thrissur on Wednesday. Of them, 16 were infected through contact. Three health workers were also tested positive. Source of infection of three persons could not be traced. So far, 2,120 COVID-19 cases have been reported from the district. In all, 9,704 people are under observation. In Palakkad In Palakkad district, 81 people tested positive on Wednesday, including two health workers and two police personnel. While nine of them came from across the border, the source of infection of 10 could not be traced. District Collector D. Balamurali said that 58 of the new cases were found to have been infected through local contacts. The number of cases currently under treatment in Palakkad rose to 725. In Kasaragod As many as 68 more persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kasaragod on Wednesday. Of them, 66 persons contracted the virus through local transmission. There are now 4,988 persons under observation in the district. In Wayanad Twelve cases of COVID-19 were reported in Wayanad district on Wednesday. Ten of the 12 new patients were found to have been infected through local contact. In Kannur A total of 31 more COVID-19 cases were reported in Kannur on Wednesday. Among the cases, 16 contracted the virus through local transmission. Two health workers were also tested positive for the virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/four-die-of-covid-19-at-kozhikode-mch/article32340451.ece
13 August 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Pandemic spread spells doom for Onam market||Onam expos are unlikely to take place this year due to the COVID situation in the State, badly affecting the prospects of a large section of entrepreneurs whose livelihood depend on the sales they make during the season. The annual week-long Onam celebration of the Tourism Department is unlikely to be conducted this year. “It is impossible to celebrate a festival like Onam by following COVID protocol,” C.P. Beena, Secretary of Kozhikode District Tourism Promotion Council, said. Handloom festivals, Khadi festivals, IRDP fairs and Kudumbashree fairs are the major attractions of the Onam season in Kozhikode. The District Industries Centre that organises Handloom Mela and an Industrial Expo every year during Onam has expressed doubts over the conduct of the fest this year. “The situation is grim. Many of the handloom units in the district manufacture products with Onam market in view. But this year, we may not be able to help them,” said Balaraj. M.K, Deputy Director of Industries in Kozhikode. The Kudumbashree District Mission has also abandoned all plans for expos this year. However, alternative steps to market products are in place. “We have allowed handloom cooperative societies to conduct sales in their own outlets and the government has announced 20% rebate from August 9 to 30. We are also planning to promote community marketing of handloom products,” Mr. Balaraj said. Kudumbashree is also contemplating distribution of kits containing its products at homes. “It will contain only selected items and the plan is to take orders by phone,” District Mission Coordinator of Kudumbashree P.C. Kavitha said. However, the COVID situation might affect the chances of successfully implementing these plans. “The government offers 56 rebate days a year. Workers in the handloom sector are heavily dependent on that. They will be in serious trouble if they don’t get enough sales this season,” Mr. Balaraj added. Kudumbashree groups that manufacture specific products for the Onam market have not been able to do so this year due to the peculiar situation. “We have submitted data to the State Mission regarding the estimated loss. A lot of our members are banking on the possibility of a compensation,” Ms. Kavitha admitted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pandemic-spread-spells-doom-for-onam-market/article32340452.ece
13 August 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||I-Day fete to have fewer than 100 participants||Transport Minister A. K. Saseendran will hoist the National Flag at the district level Independence Day celebrations to be held at Captain Vikram Maidan in the city at 9 a.m. on Saturday. The celebrations, being organised in compliance with the COVID-19 protocol as well as green protocol will have fewer than 100 participants, including officials and guests. Moreover, entry of the public, children and senior citizens has been restricted at the venue unlike in previous years, due to the pandemic situation. The District Collector and District Police Chief will take part in the celebrations. A special feature of the celebrations this year will be the participation of doctors, nurses, and paramedical staff, who have been invited to be part of the event in recognition of their role in fighting COVID-19. People who have been cured of the disease will also take part. The COVID-19 protocol will be strictly followed at the venue. All participants and guests will undergo thermal scanning at the gate while social distancing and use of facial masks will be mandatory. As for celebration in other parts of the district, including government offices, the number of participants will be limited to 50.  Painting contest The Kozhikode Local Level Committee of the National Trust in association with DLine School of Design, is organising an online painting contest as part of Independence Day celebrations. The second all-Kerala online painting contest is being held in two categories. The first category includes intellectually challenged persons coming under the National Trust Act, inclusive of persons with autism, cerebral palsy, mental retardation and multiple disabilities. Those interested may contact 8137999990 on WhatsApp for registration. The second is the general category open for people with other disabilities. They can register ondline.co.inor contact 8593841111 or 9142444474 on WhatsApp. The registration closes at 5 p.m. on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/i-day-fete-to-have-fewer-than-100-participants/article32340454.ece
13 August 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Rigorous containment strategies for Kozhikode||Kozhikode has been included in the list of districts where the Health Department has advised rigorous cluster containment strategies to tame COVID-19. This comes at a time when the number of clusters went up to 16 in the district with Feroke being added to the list on Wednesday. Twenty-one cases have been reported from Feroke, of whom 15 are undergoing treatment. Fifty-eight cases have been reported from the Kuttichira cluster, which includes Mukhadar and Kuttichira wards. Twenty people are undergoing treatment here. Five of the total number of clusters are within Kozhikode city corporation. The other clusters are Valiyangadi, Vellayil, Meenchanda, Kallayi, Chekkiad, Olavanna, Chaliyam, Vadakara, Villiappally, Puthuppady, Thiruvalloor, Nadapuram, Eramala and Chorod. The suggestion to step up containment strategies is part of the weekly bulletin for the first week of August, published by the department recently. The bulletin records that the new cases per million population here is 217. Test positivity rate, the percentage of people who test positive for SARS-CoV-2 here is 2.7. Doubling time, the days taken for the doubling of COVID-19 cases, is 13. Only 32% of beds are occupied at first-line treatment centres as on August 7. Another report by the department says that the case fatality rate, or the number of deaths happening due to the infection, is 0.48% of the total number of cases. The State figure is 0.31%. While 62.06% of the total cases were acquired through local transmission of the infection, the corresponding figure for the entire State is 59.32%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rigorous-containment-strategies-for-kozhikode/article32340455.ece
13 August 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Multi Service Centres for 26 banks||As many as 26 primary service cooperative banks in Kozhikode district will be part of the Multi Service Centre project being implemented by Kerala Bank with financial aid from NABARD. The banks will have to bear 10% of the project expense, a press release said here on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/multi-service-centres-for-26-banks/article32340484.ece
13 August 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Crops worth Rs. 16.8 crore destroyed||The unusual heavy rain that battered Pathanamthitta over the last four days has damaged crops worth Rs. 16.827 crore in the district. Preliminary estimates by the Agriculture Department suggested that cultivation in about 450.74 hectares of land was destroyed due to the heavy rain and floods. Widespread losses have been reported from areas including Mallappally, Kottangal, Panthalam, Ranni and Vadasserikkara. Upper Kuttanad At the same time, water receded from more areas of the Upper Kuttanad, and traffic along several roads, which had been rendered unmotorable by the floodwaters, were restored. Some more relief camps were shut down during the day as people continued to return to their homes. District Collector P.B. Noohu said the removal of sand deposits and debris from the Pampa river helped avoid the recurrence of yet another flood despite opening of a reservoir in the upstream. The District Disaster Management Authority had removed about 74,500 cubic meter sand from the 2.2-km-long stretch of the river at Pampa-Thriveni, earlier this year. “The removal of sand accumulated on the riverbed and along the banks facilitated a smooth flow of the excess water, thus leaving the Pampa-Thriveni largely unaffected during the latest spell of heavy rains,” the Collector said. In all, 17,500 truck loads of sand were shifted ashore, which is currently kept at a forest land nearby. Besides the base camp of the Sabarimala temple, steps were also on to clear the debris and sand accumulated at 44 points along the three major rivers in the district. Though preparatory works had begun much earlier, the process faced a delay due to the COVID-19-induced lockdown. Meanwhile, the fishermen team brought in from Kollam for flood relief work began to return on Wednesday. As on Wednesday evening, 104 relief camps were functioning in the district, which together accommodated 5,597 people from 1,755 families.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/crops-worth-rs-168-crore-destroyed/article32340548.ece
13 August 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||19 cases in Pathanamthitta||Nineteen persons tested positive for SARS- CoV- 2 in Pathanamthitta on Wednesday, taking the total number of active cases to 216. Of the fresh cases, 13 were contact cases. Five of this were linked to the Kumbazha cluster while a health worker at the Ranni Taluk hospital contracted the virus from another patient.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/19-cases-in-pathanamthitta/article32340549.ece
13 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Government issues order allowing testing on demand||The government has eased COVID-19 testing norms for the public by issuing an order allowing citizens to walk in to registered private laboratories or private hospitals and get themselves tested for COVID-19 at their own cost. While a prescription from a registered medical practitioner is preferred, it is not mandatory, says the GO. Citizens can opt for RT-PCT, CB NAAT, TruNat, or a Rapid antigen assay as is available in the testing laboratories. There are an estimated 198 private hospitals/laboratories in the State doing COVID-19 testing using various diagnostic modalities. The shift in policy has been necessitated in the context of the current epidemiological trends in the State and because of the requests from citizens apprehensive of having contracted the disease, says the GO. The Health Department, in a document brought out earlier, had also clarified that with the government spending Rs. 1.7 crore on a daily basis for testing, it would be looking to the private sector more for ramping up COVID-19 testing. Empowering and providing better access to citizens for testing will aid in the early detection and management of the disease and in keeping mortality down, it is hoped. The rates that can be charged by private laboratories for various kinds of testing have already been fixed by the government. Accordingly, the rate for RT-PCR testing will be Rs. 2,750; Rapid antigen test will be Rs. 625, and TruNat Step 1 assay will be Rs. 1,500 (If Tru Nat Step 1 assay is positive, then Step 2 assay will also be performed at Rs. 1,500). Counselling Those requesting testing will have to sign a prescribed informed consent and declaration form, to be handed over to the lab-in-charge. They will also have to provide a copy of any government-issued ID. The labs /hospitals should provide pre-test counselling to the person requesting testing. It is suggested in the GO that private labs/hospitals doing COVID-19 testing can opt for a walk-in kiosk (WISK) model, where a trained lab technician or nurse can perform the test after collecting the nasopharyngeal/oropharyngeal swab. The GO directs that the first 20 swab collection procedures should be supervised. Results The results will be disclosed to the persons who undergo the tests with proper post-test counselling, guidance, and reassurance. The lab-in-charge should report the patient details and results online real time to the government as per the current guidelines, and inform district health authorities too. The lab-in-charge should direct those who test positive as follows: Those who test positive and are asymptomatic and who do not belong to high-risk category can contact the Health Department’s DISHA helpline (1056) regarding their eligibility for room isolation at home or seek admission to COVID first-line treatment centres (FLTCs). The asymptomatic positive persons who belong to the high-risk category and symptomatic Category A patients will be admitted to an FLTC. Symptomatic Category B and C patients will be admitted to a COVID-19 hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/government-issues-order-allowing-testing-on-demand/article32340467.ece
13 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Subdued rainfall activity till Sunday||Another low pressure area is likely to shape up in the Bay of Bengal by Thursday, but it is not expected to strengthen monsoon activity over Kerala. The State, in fact, can expect ‘subdued rainfall activity’ till Sunday, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The low-pressure area is likely to develop over the north-west part of the Bay and its neighbourhood around Thursday, the IMD said. Nonetheless, the ‘upper air wind along the latitudinal belts over Kerala is not expected to strengthen and hence subdued rainfall activity is likely over Kerala’ till Sunday. After turning active in the first week of August, the southwest monsoon has now entered a lull phase. Kerala is likely to experience only light to moderate rainfall in the next few days. The national weather agency is keenly watching the developments in the Bay region. Powered by a low-pressure area which formed in the Bay of Bengal around August 4, torrential rainfall had triggered landslips and flooding in many districts. A second low pressure formation over the Bay on August 8 did not intensify, though its influence had resulted in isolated heavy rainfall in parts of north Kerala. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had pointed out on Monday that the State had received more rainfall in the first 10 days of August than is normal for the entire month. Cumulative rainfall Meanwhile, cumulative rainfall activity since the onset of monsoon on June 1 till August 12 has been ‘normal’ over Kerala, according to IMD. Kottayam, Kozhikode and Thiruvananthapuram have recorded excess rainfall, while Thrissur and Wayanad have reported deficiency. All other districts have reported normal rainfall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/subdued-rainfall-activity-till-sunday/article32340488.ece
13 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||266 new cases in capital||The district reported 266 new cases on Wednesday, of which disease transmission through contact accounted for 242 cases (91%). In 12 cases, the source of infection remained uncertain, according to statistics released by the district administration Fifty-nine inmates of the Central Prison, Poojappura, have tested positive for COVID-19, prompting the Prisons Department to launch measures to check the disease from spreading. The 59 inmates housed in block-7 had tested positive when antigen tests were performed on 100 inmates, a Prisons official said. This block is usually reserved for the senior inmates. The development has prompted the Prisons Department to extend the test to all the inmates. One more person has died of COVID-19 in Thiruvananthapuram, taking the overall death toll due to the disease to 23 in the district. The deceased is a 50-year-old man hailing from Mariyapuram, authorities said. Twenty persons have tested positive in Kuttichal. The district administration has relaxed lockdown restrictions in critical containment zones along the coast with the COVID-19 caseload in the region showing a downward trend. Shops selling essential food items will remain open from 7 a.m. to 3 p.m., as per the decision. Sub-registrar offices and scheduled banks can function with 50% staff strength. Petrol pumps too can operate from 7 a.m. to 3 p.m., District Collector Navjot Khosa said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/266-new-cases-in-capital/article32340511.ece
13 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Patients are not discharged until they test negative: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said that the government will not discharge any COVID-19 patient from the hospital unless he/she tests negative. He claimed here on Wednesday that in other States, COVID-19 patients were being discharged 10 days after admission, if the symptoms subsided, after recording them as having recovered from the disease. In the initial days of the epidemic, Kerala used to test a patient several times and did not discharge him/her till two or three tests returned negative. Recovery rate Mr. Vijayan claimed that this was the reason the State’s recovery rate had remained lower than that of other States right from the beginning. However, as caseload went up, the discharge policy had to be revised. He was responding to a statement by Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala. Mr. Vijayan claimed that neither the WHO nor the ICMR had ever said that Kerala’s COVID-19 testing was inadequate. He said the State figured amongst the top States when it came to the test per million by case per million ratio and test positivity rate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/patients-are-not-discharged-until-they-test-negative-cm/article32340468.ece
13 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Fear of shutdown plagues NTC mills||Recent moves of the National Textile Corporation (NTC), including an order to use up all pending stock of raw material and the plans to surrender the bank guarantee provided to the Kerala State Electricity Board, have raised fears among employees of Vijayamohini and other NTC mills in Kerala that they are heading for a closure. The 23 spinning mills of the NTC have remained closed since March, despite the Centre granting permission for factories and industries to open in May. According to employees of the Vijayamohini mills here, the current plan is to exhaust all raw material stock. “The unions asked the local management whether the plan is to shut down the company after using up all the stock. But there has been no convincing response to this. Another plan is to surrender the bank guarantee provided to the KSEB. These are the kind of steps companies take when they are planning to close down,” says M.T. Antony, secretary of the Trivandrum Textile Workers Union, affiliated to the CITU. “As per the audit report for the year 2019-20, the NTC can recover Rs. 2,233 crore, pending over the sale of land or mills to various agencies or State governments. No effort has taken to realise the above amount by the management, but it has transferred Rs. 17 crore of the NTC to the British India Corporation and the Handicrafts and Handlooms Export Corporation of India. On the other hand, employees of the NTC have not been getting their salary and wages. If this money is recovered, it will be sufficient for the NTC to run its units for the next 10 years,” says T.S. Vijayakumar, general secretary of the National Textiles Corporation Mills United Staff Federation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fear-of-shutdown-plagues-ntc-mills/article32340472.ece
13 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Assembly to meet on August 24||The Assembly will meet for a day to pass the Kerala Finance Bill. The Cabinet on Wednesday decided to request Governor Arif Mohammed Khan to summon the Assembly on August 24. The decision of the government to convene the House is in the wake of the byelection to the Rajya Sabha seat in Kerala scheduled for August 24. As legislators have to come to the House to vote, sources said it was decided to convene the session on the same day. Constitutional necessity Moreover, the House, which adjourned on March 13, has to meet within six months before September 13 as per the constitutional requirement. “In the prevailing situation due to the pandemic, it is not advisable for the legislators to come again to the capital and, hence, the decision to convene the House on August 24,” the sources said. The earlier decision to convene the Assembly on July 27 had to be abandoned, after the Governor summoned the Assembly, following the spurt in COVID-19 cases. Through an ordinance, the Cabinet extended the time limit for passing the finance Bill. The House is meeting for the first time after the session was called off on March 13 after a spurt in COVID cases. The sitting will be exclusively for passing the Kerala Finance Bill. The Opposition has hinted that it will move a no-confidence motion against the government in the one-day session.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/assembly-to-meet-on-august-24/article32340478.ece
13 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||PSC to conduct exams for 73 lakh candidates from Oct.||The Public Service Commission is gearing up to conduct a series of examinations for about 73 lakh candidates in compliance with the COVID-19 protocol to fill vacancies in 300 posts from October. Preparations for holding the examinations are progressing. About 73 lakh candidates have applied for various posts, including high school assistant in various subjects, lower division clerk and last grade servant in departments, and office assistant at Government Secretariat, among others. It has been proposed to conduct the examinations in phases from October so that it will not hinder the smooth movement of candidates as well as commission personnel, say commission sources. Though the virus spread has seriously derailed the smooth functioning of the commission, the main and supplementary lists will be compiled and published in a time bound manner. Seating arrangements in examination halls and other preparations will be made in consultation with health experts, without giving room for complaints. Onerous task Compilation of supplementary lists that are five times bigger than the main lists is an onerous task. Such lists are drawn up for each Backward Class in line with the Narendran Commission recommendations by including candidates who score marks below the score set for entry into the main list. But the commission is religiously sticking to the practice, braving odds, in the interest of candidates. Inclusion of a candidate in a rank list is not a right for appointment, but the commission is abiding by the pattern of preparing exhaustive lists that have validity for three years to provide optimum chances for the applicants. In high demand The posts of lower division clerk have about 17 lakh applicants, office attendant 11 lakh, and last grade staff in various departments seven lakh. These are some of the posts that are in demand among the applicants and the examinations will be conducted in phases. When the government imposed curbs on the functioning of offices following the lockdown, the commission scaled down the staff presence in its offices but worked diligently to publish the lists and also issued recruitment advice. Since the nation is in the unlock mode, the commission does not foresee any hitch in holding the examinations, the sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/psc-to-conduct-exams-for-73-lakh-candidates-from-oct/article32340480.ece
13 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Cong. running slander campaign: Pinarayi||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday said the Congress-backed troll farms had incessantly targeted Ministers, ruling front politicians, women television news presenters and writers. He took time off from his routine COVID-19 news briefing to blame Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala and KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran for inciting their supporters to unleash offensive, defamatory, false and misogynist online slander campaigns against the government and its efforts to contain the pandemic. Mr. Chennithala’s accusation that physical elimination and character assassination were powerful implements in the CPI(M)’s political tool kit had prompted Mr. Vijayan sharp reaction. When pressed, Mr. Vijayan read out a litany of charges against the Congress leadership. He said a young legislator of the party had attempted to denigrate the memory of communist leader A.K. Gopalan by making baseless charges against his moral character. At the receiving end More recently, the Congress targeted CPI(M) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan for wearing an amulet on his arm when, in fact, it was a medical device. Mr. Ramachandran had earned the ire of a leading pro-Congress Malayalam newspaper for having referred to Health Minister K.K. Shylaja as ‘rock dancer and Nipah queen.’ Mr. Vijayan said the Congress could never absolve itself of the guilt of besieging the workplace of the husband of Lini. The party targeted writer K.R. Meera, Minister J. Mercykutty and novelist Benyamin for their left-liberal views.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cong-running-slander-campaign-pinarayi/article32340469.ece
13 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Plus One last date extended||The government has ordered that if there are not enough applicants for the quota for economically weaker sections of forward communities for higher secondary and vocational higher secondary schools, the remaining seats will be considered general merit seats. The last date for submitting applications has been extended to August 20. For details, log on to www.hscap.kerala.gov.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plus-one-last-date-extended/article32340470.ece
13 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Warning against seed parcels||The Agriculture Department has asked its field offices and department farms/ nurseries to keep an eye out for suspicious seed parcels originating from unknown sources. The directive comes in the wake of a nationwide alert issued by the Union Ministry of Agriculture on August 6.  Agriculture Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar’s office said the warning had been circulated among Krishi Bhavans, department farms, and nurseries across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/warning-against-seed-parcels/article32340479.ece
13 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||New members in child rights panel||Four new members appointed to the Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights have assumed charge. They include B. Babita, Reny Antony, P.P. Shyamaladevi, and C. Vijayakumar. Besides chairman K.V. Manoj Kumar, the two existing members are Fr. Philip P.V. and K. Nazeer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-members-in-child-rights-panel/article32340471.ece
13 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||BSNL employees stage protest||Employees of BSNL, under the All Unions/Associations of BSNL (AUAB), organised protests across all offices in the State against BJP leader Anant Kumar Hegde’s comment accusing the employees of being ‘traitors.’ In a statement on Wednesday, the AUAB said that branding the employees exposed the leader’s ignorance of BSNL.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bsnl-employees-stage-protest/article32340473.ece
13 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||New postings||The government has decided to give additional charge of Land Board secretary to V. Ratheesan, Executive Officer, Sri Padmanabhaswamy Temple. A Cabinet meeting on Wednesday also decided to re-appoint V. Jayakumaran Pillai as Managing Director, Kerala State Industrial Enterprises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-postings/article32340477.ece
13 August 2020||THIRUVNANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Stone laid for Putharikandam renovation project||Mayor K.Sreekumar laid the foundation stone for the redevelopment of Putharikandam Maidanam here on Wednesday. The Rs. 15.93 crore redevelopment project is part of the Smart City projects envisaged for the capital. The design proposal includes entrance gateway which is being extended to create a grand entry to the maidanam, creation of a jogging track, landscaping, rain shelters at equal intervals, water fountains, a tensile roofing over E. K. Nayanar Memorial Plaza in order to create a shaded space to the area, an open air seating theatre, and other facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/stone-laid-for-putharikandam-renovation-project/article32340507.ece
13 August 2020||August 13 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Six deaths, 1,212 cases||Disease transmission is steadily on the rise here with the district reporting 266 cases, of which all except two are locally acquired infections. Malappuram reported 261 cases, of which 237 were due to local transmission. Among other districts Ernakulam 121, Alappuzha 118, Palakkad 81, Kozhikode 93, Kottayam 76, Kasaragod 68, Idukki 42, Kannur 31, Thrissur 19, Pathanamthitta 19, Wayanad 12 and Kollam 5. Briefing the media here on Wednesday, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that with the disease transmission in the coastal clusters in Thiruvananthapuram showing a downtrend, more relaxations would be allowed in the containment zone. However, in another coastal cluster at Chellanam in Ernakulam, after a brief respite, cases were again on the rise. He said that women fish vendors who buy fish from wholesale trading centres would be tested for COVID-19, before they would be allowed to sell fish. One of the rescue volunteers who had taken part in the relief activities at Meppady in Wayanad had tested positive, following which the entire team of volunteers as well as officials were quarantined. Similarly, a driver who had been to Pettimudy with a media team had also tested positive and it could not be ascertained how he had contracted the infection. A total of 26 persons, including media persons, were currently on quarantine and undergoing testing, Mr. Vijayan said. He said that anyone can contract COVID-19 from anywhere and hence people, especially those who have increased social interactions, should take additional precautions. A medical team of the Health Department was working alongside the rescue team at Rajamala, he said. The number of samples tested in the last 24 hours is 28,664. The number of hotspots in the State is 540.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/six-deaths-1212-cases/article32340482.ece
13 August 2020||August 13 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Looking forward||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/looking-forward/article32340551.ece
13 August 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Full quantum of Tungabhadra water for Anantapur remains a distant dream||Anantapur district getting the full complement of its share of water from the Inter-State irrigation project Tungabhadra Dam at Hospet might remain a distant dream with all the modernisation works that were taken up on the High-Level Main Canal (HLC) at an estimated cost of Rs. 470 crore in 2008 have been pre-closed by the State government. Contractors of all the six packages in the HLC Stage -I had applied for pre-closure and work worth Rs. 148.6 crore has not been completed. In the HLC Stage-II project for modernisation of HLC’s branch canals, work on Yadiki Canal System is nearing completion with Rs. 22 crore and the balance remained due to land acquisition problems. Work on another three branch canals, valued at Rs. 350 crore, is in progress. Modernisation works on the 105-km stretch of HLC in Karnataka portion have been completed bringing 4,000 cusecs up to the Andhra Pradesh border, but the A.P. portion of the canal is so weak that it cannot carry more than 1,800 to 2,000 cusecs with bunds breaching at several places and these incidents becoming a routine phenomenon now. Tungabhadra’s HLC, which is supposed to bring 32 tmcft, yields only 21 tmcft due to the siltation of the dam and in the last 10 years, the district has been able to draw only between 10 tmcft and 15 tmcft. Last year, when the dam got filled to its brim at least thrice, Andhra Pradesh was not in a position to draw its quota of water. In the current season, the inflows to TB Dam have been varying between 1 lakh cusecs and 1.5 lakh cusecs for the past one week and on Tuesday evening it was at 98,916 with reservoir storage being recorded as 80.17 tmcft. Different packages The modernisation works were tendered under different packages in 2008 from 105th KM to 189th KM of the HLC’s main canal, but the crucial structures that have to be modernised to allow full flow of water, have been left out and only canal lining and widening (earth work) has been done to some extent. The project was to be completed by 2012 without taking a crop holiday, but works worth Rs. 320 only progressed and the remaining portion remains unfinished.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/full-quantum-of-tungabhadra-water-for-anantapur-remains-a-distant-dream/article32340568.ece
13 August 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Breach in Tungabhadra HLC link canal at Raketla village plugged||The link canal from the tail-end of the Tungabhadra High Level Main Canal (HLC) to the Penna Ahobilam Balancing Reservoir that breached near Raketla village (6.35-km point) at the joint between the concrete and the earthbund on Tuesday was plugged, said Superintending Engineer N. Rajasekhar on Wednesday. The water flow in the canal was only 650 cusecs, but this portion of the canal could not take that much pressure. Last year too there was a breach at the spot, which had led to inundation of crops. Under emergency works, contract worth Rs. 19.50 lakh was then given for plugging the breach. The work was partially done as the approval was pending with the government. Now, the work needs to be taken up properly by the same contractor with additional cost. The 60-year-old structure needs to be renovated and a proposal costing Rs. 74 crore is pending with the government for years, and unless that is taken up, there will be a breach every time water is released into the HLC branch canals, which will result in crop loss and water.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/breach-in-tungabhadra-hlc-link-canal-at-raketla-village-plugged/article32340583.ece
13 August 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Frontline warriors to be felicitated on August 15||With COVID-19 still raging in the district, this year’s Independence Day celebrations will see a marked departure from the usual style as the district administration has decided to done away with the usual disbursement of of meritorious service recognition certificates and in its stead frontline warriors would be felicitated. At a preparatory meeting here on Wednesday, District Collector Gandham Chandrudu said that all those who rendered exemplary service during the pandemic would be recognised and COVID-19 survivors would be invited and a certificate would be given to them. District In-charge Minister Botcha Satyanarayana will be the chief guest at the celebrations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/frontline-warriors-to-be-felicitated-on-august-15/article32340570.ece
13 August 2020||ANANTAPUR/KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anantapur, Prakasam police get pat from DGP||Sensational triple murder case at Korthikota in Tanakal mandal of Anantapur district last year is still fresh in everyone’s mind and the mystery behind the murder was cracked within a short time by Kadiri police team, which was one among the two Award for Best Crime Detection(ABCD) Anantapur district police received from Director General of Police Gautam Sawang on Wednesday. The award for the best crime detection was received by the team headed by Deputy Superintendent of Police Shaik Lal Ahmed Rural, Rural Cicrcle Inspector Tammisetty Madhu and SI Rangadu Yadav and the second award was received by Dharmavaram DSP Ramakanth and Puttaparthi CI Balasubrahmanyam Reddy for cracking a murder case in Bukkapatnam in the district. In Kurnool district, the then Atmakur Deputy Superintendent of Police K. Supraja was awarded for Best Conviction in SCs/STs (POA) Act, 1989, The case pertained to cheating and rape of a scheduled caste woman by an upper caste person in October 2015. The accused was sentenced to imprisonment for seven years in December 2018, after Ms. Supraja examined 14 witnesses and filed a chargesheet. The Prakasam District Police received two prestigious ABCD Awards in recognition of their outstanding performance in the investigation of tough-to-crack cases in Maddipadu and Podili during the year 2019. Podili police received the award for resolving a cybercrime case leading to recovery of Rs. 14.67 lakh lost by a church functionary who had developed an acquaintance with a gang of three including a Nigerian on the social media. Podili CI V. Sriram, Konkanamitla SI Nayak, Podili SI Suresh were presented the award by Director General of Police Gautam Sawang for nabbing the accused by closely working with cybercrime wing in New Delhi. Maddipadu police received the recognition for solving a case where they recovered a torched body of a woman and her one-year-old girl. Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal and his team nabbed the woman’s husband using latest technology tools. Ongole Deputy Superintendent of Police K.V.V.P.V. Prasad, Ongole Rural CI P. Subbarao and Maddipadu SI SK.Khadar Basha received the award from the DGP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/anantapur-prakasam-police-get-pat-from-dgp/article32340571.ece
13 August 2020||ANNAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||18 more Annavaram temple staff test positive||Eighteen more staff of Sri Veera Venkata Satyanarayana Swamivari Devasthanam at Annavaram have been tested positive for coronavirus, taking the total to 50. As many as 32 staff of the temple were tested positive by August 8 and the results for samples collected from 250 staff are awaited. “No devotees will be allowed for darshan at the temple between August 14 and 23. However, the daily rituals will continue,” an official release quoted temple Executive Officer V. Trinadha Rao as saying.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/18-more-annavaram-temple-staff-test-positive/article32340603.ece
13 August 2020||B. Madhu GopalVISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sero surveillance pilot project is nearing completion: coordinator||Healthy persons with strong immunity, infected by the novel coronavirus, will not even know about it. When the virus enters the body, the infected person’s body produces antibodies, which kill the virus. Such persons with strong immunity can be rest assured that they will not get COVID-19 again. The spike in number of infection cases in the State is a cause for alarm. Though the rise in the number of positive cases is partially attributed to increased testing, knowing the immunity levels in varied groups of people and in different regions will help in better planning of remedial measures to tackle the pandemic. It will be a matter of solace for the government, if a large percentage of people have high immunity. The State government has launched sero surveillance to assess the herd immunity among people. The testing of samples as part of the pilot project in Krishna, Anantapur, East Godavari and Nellore districts, which commenced last week, is in an advanced staged of completion. “The samples will be tested for the IgG antibody, which is produced in the blood, after an infection. The presence of IgG in the blood of a person, indicates that the person concerned, was already affected and cured of the virus, without his knowledge. The sero surveillance is planned to be taken up in other districts of the State early next week,” Dr. K. Rambabu, State COVID-19 Coordinator and Professor of Medicine, Andhra Medical College, told The Hindu . The surveillance, being conducted as per the guidelines of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), involves collection of blood samples from healthy persons, who haven’t got themselves tested for COVID-19 before. A total of 15,000 samples, 3,750 from each of the four districts, is being collected in the first phase. Of the 3,750 samples, 3,000 would be collected from the general population and 750 from high-risk population. The sample collection will be in the ratio of 70:30 from rural and urban areas and in the same ratio from containment and non-containment zones respectively. “The survey in Visakhapatnam and other districts of the State is also planned on similar lines. The standard operating procedure (SOP) is yet to be prepared in this regard. However, the number of tests will depend on the testing kits to be procured. The testing in four districts is nearing completion. However, analysis of the results could take an additional 10 days,” adds Dr. Rambabu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sero-surveillance-pilot-project-is-nearing-completion-coordinator/article32340615.ece
13 August 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Liquor from Karnataka seized near Palamaner||Personnel of the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) on Wednesday seized a mini-truck, carrying pet bottles and cardboard sachets containing liquor from Karnataka, at Dandapalle village near Palamaner on the Bengaluru NH, and arrested three youth belonging to Chittoor and Gudipala mandals. Acting on a tip-off, the SEB team intercepted the vehicle and made the arrests. The accused, identified as Prakash (19), Delhi Babu (22) and Sivaji (22), were allegedly in possession of 1,049 sachets of 180 ml, and 52 one litre pet bottles containing liquor and proceeding towards Chittoor. Additional SP (SEB) Rishant Reddy said that surveillance on the Chittoor-Bengaluru NH was intensified following increase in the number of cases crossing into Chittoor from Karnataka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/liquor-from-karnataka-seized-near-palamaner/article32340572.ece
13 August 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSR Cheyutha a game-changer: Minister||Lakhs of women belonging to the BC, SC and ST communities are being benefited by the financial assistance provided under YSR Cheyutha, said Minister for Housing and district in-charge Minister Ch. Ranganatha Raju. Mr. Ranganatha Raju, along with Home Minister M. Sucharita and Member of Parliament Mopidevi Venkata Ramana Rao, took part in the launching of YSR Cheyutha via video-conference with Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy. The Minister later told reporters that the beneficiaries of the scheme, aged between 45 and 60 years, would get Rs. 18,500 per year — which translates into Rs. 75,000 in four years. Under the scheme, 1.92 lakh women will have Rs. 360.28 crore credited in their accounts. The unique feature of the scheme is the involvement of leading corporate companies like ITC, Hindustan Unilever Limited and Procter and Gamble, the Minister said. The State Government is also gearing up to distribute 30 lakh house sites to beneficiaries across the State. In Guntur district, 2.93 lakh women would be benefited by the scheme, out of which 25,700 would get houses under AP TIDCO scheme. Anyone who is applying for a house site would stand to get one within 90 days. Speaking on COVID-19 efforts, the Minister said that 2.56 lakh persons have been tested out of which 10% have been found to be positive. There are 7,125 active cases in the district, out of which 3,500 persons are getting treatment in home isolation, he said. :I would like to congratulate all the personnel of various government departments, medical and health, police, revenue and public health, for their relentless efforts in preventing the spread of COVID-19,” the Minister said. Home Minister Ms. Sucharita said that the welfare schemes are part of Navaratnalu, included in the party’s manifesto. Mr. Ramana Rao said that the CM enjoys a high level of popularity for his good governance and said that opposition parties have lost touch with people’s aspirations and problems.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysr-cheyutha-a-game-changer-minister/article32340148.ece
13 August 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Be wary of online transactions: cyber experts||The next time you click on a deal online, better beware! The details of your bank account and passwords could be hacked by cyber criminals. These points were discussed thoroughly at a webinar on 'Online transaction safety', held as part of E-Rakshabandhan by APCID jointly with AP Police and Cyber Peace Foundation. Additional Director-General (CID) P.V. Sunil Kumar asked people to be wary of online transactions. P. Vimal Aditya, IPS, who works for CBI and ACB, Visakhapatnam, E. Naresh, Project Officer, ISA, and Ondaveti Satyavati of Bhoomika Womens' Collective, participated in the webinar. Mr. Vimal Aditya explained how to set strong password to your online bank accounts and also advised not to change phone number and email ID of bank accounts. He specifically said not to use public WiFi for online transactions especially at airports, bus stations and railway stations. He also advised people not to use the devices of others for online transactions. Mr. Naresh spoke about security threat with regard to OTP, QR code, screen sharing applications, customer care numbers, and KYC verification. He advised the public not to disclose their PIN number to others while swiping their cards. ‘Complaints pouring in’ Ms. Satyavati said that the webinar was important to the public to gain knowledge about online transaction frauds. She said Bhoomika Helpline centre was getting more complaints from women on online money transactions.  On Thursday, a webinar will be held on ‘Digital shakti - responsible online behaviour, cyber crimes and awareness’. One can click onhttps://m.youtube.com/channel/UC9HKNl3ztEyK gSq8DcnLHMQfor further details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/be-wary-of-online-transactions-cyber-experts/article32340146.ece
13 August 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Civic chief calls for rigorous testing||Municipal Commissioner C. Anuradha on Wednesday conducted a surprise inspection at residential areas in Lanchester Road. The Commissioner, along with ward secretariat staff and volunteers, conducted door-to-door testing of those aged above 65 years and with comorbidities. The Commissioner said that all those with existing co-morbid conditions and above 65 years should be tested at their homes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/civic-chief-calls-for-rigorous-testing/article32340145.ece
13 August 2020||Harish Gilai,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anakapalle opts for six-day lockdown||With the increase in COVID-19 cases in Visakhapatnam district, especially in Anakapalle town of GVMC limits, the residents have gone for strict six-day voluntary lockdown starting from August 11 to 16 to break the chain of spread of the virus. In the first three months since March, no cases were reported from Anakapalle. But soon after relaxations were announced, the urban area has witnessed first case on June 3. Till date, the total number of cases is 858 which includes nine deaths. Of the total cases, nearly 400 cases were reported in the last two weeks. According to Zonal Commissioner, Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) Sri Ram Murthy, they have been conducting rapid antigen tests every day in different areas for all high-risk patients and also to those having symptoms. “We are testing 150 people per day in urban areas in which at least 45 to 50 people are positive. The positive rate is high since the last 15 days,” he said. A few days ago, merchants associations from various sectors had met Anakapalle MLA Gudivada Amarnath to discuss the situation and they had decided to go for lockdown from August 11. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr Amarnath said that from Tuesday to Friday, the lockdown will be partial with shops opening till only 1 p.m. But on Saturday and Sunday (August 15 and 16), there will be complete lockdown in the urban area as an attempt to break the chain of spread. “The positive rate is high in Anakapalle since August 1. All merchant associations including garments store, jewellery, electronic stores and others have come forward and agreed for lockdown. The public cooperation is really good since the last two days,” the MLA said. Next week, the MLA and the locals are going to meet once again to review the situation. The officials are hoping that the lockdown will have an impact and bring the cases down.  MLA Gudivada Amarnath says there will be complete lockdown in the urban area on August 14 and 15||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/anakapalle-opts-for-six-day-lockdown/article32340619.ece
13 August 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Industrialist and TDP leader dies||Industrialist and TDP leader Palem Srikanth Reddy died of coronavirus while undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Hyderabad on Wednesday. Hailing from Thatimakulapalle in Veerapunayunipalle mandal, Srikanth Reddy completed his graduation in industrial engineering from Regional Engineering College (REC), Tiruchirapalli, and post-graduation from Stanford University, U.S.A. Srikanth Reddy contested for Kadapa Lok Sabha seat in 2009, but lost to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, a Congress nominee then. After keeping a low profile in politics for a while, he decided to focus on his business venture Palred Technologies Limited as its CMD in Hyderabad. With a vision to develop the backward regions in Anantapur, Chittoor, Kadapa, Kurnool, Nellore and Prakasam districts, he founded ‘Modern Rayalaseema’. It was on February 14, Srikanth Reddy’s father Chennakesava Reddy passed away. The TDP Kadapa district unit suffered a jolt as Srikanth Reddy died a day after the demise of former Minister S.A. Khaleel Basha, who also succumbed to the virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/industrialist-and-tdp-leader-dies/article32340584.ece
13 August 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Male nurse held, 298 test kits seized||The police on Wednesday arrested a male nurse working at the Government General Hospital, Kakinada in connection with procurement of 300 rapid antigen test kits by allegedly submitting forged documents. “The prime accused in the case, identified as Sheik Basha, was arrested and produced before a local court on Wednesday. As many as 298 kits worth around Rs. 4.5 lakh were seized from his possession,” said Kakinada DSP V. Bhima Rao. The police have registered cases against the accused on the charges of criminal breach of trust and cheating. “The investigation is on. The police is inquiring about the roles of suspected employees of the GGH,” said Mr. Bhima Rao. Show-cause notice Meanwhile, DMHO B. Subramanyeswari said a show-cause notices were served on four employees on duty during the issuing of the kits to the accused based on the alleged forged document. Eight more staff entrusted with the issuing of the kits have been sent to their previous place of posting on Wednesday, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/male-nurse-arrested-298-test-kits-seized/article32340162.ece
13 August 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Uppada fishing harbour to be a reality soon||East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy on Tuesday said that the Department of Fisheries would soon invite tenders for construction of the proposed fishing harbour at Uppada-Ameenabad off the Kakinada coast. The State government has already obtained all the necessary clearances for the Rs. 350-crore harbor project in East Godavari district.  “The GMR group has proposed to develop a port near Thondangi off the Kakinada coast, while the AP Maritime Board has come forward to develop an anchorage port with an outlay of Rs. 100 crore,” said Mr. Muralidhar Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/uppada-fishing-harbour-to-be-a-reality-soon/article32340569.ece
13 August 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 30 crore sanctioned for Prakasam varsity||State Education Minister A. Suresh on Wednesday said that the government had sanctioned Rs. 30 crore for the development of Andhra Kesari Tanguturi Prakasam University and assured the staff that all the vacant posts would be filled soon for running the existing and new UG and PG courses. The Minister added that the government is making an all-out effort to make the university an important centre of higher education and named District Collector P. Bhaskar as its Vice-Chancellor. Officer on Special Duty K.V.N. Raju submitted a proposal for starting four-year BSC B Ed and BA B Ed integrated courses as also an equal number of PG courses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rs-30-crore-sanctioned-for-prakasam-varsity/article32340573.ece
13 August 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Prakasam, Nellore report 21 deaths in just a day||The pandemic continued to wreck havoc in south coastal Andhra as 21 persons-- 11 in Prakasam district and 10 in Nellore district succumbed to the viral disease in the last 24 hours, taking the combined death toll in the two districts to 255. The cumulative positive cases in Nellore district rose to 15,337 while its death toll stood at 129 and in Prakasam, the tally rose to 9,458 and the toll to 140, as per the bulletin released by the State government on Wednesday night. However, a positive development was that for the first time, recovered persons outnumbered the newly-infected ones by 362. While 723 cases were reported in Nellore, as many as 843 were recovered and discharged from the hospitals. In Prakasam too, if the number of new cases stood at 343, the number of discharged persons was 585. A two-week stringent lockdown began on Wednesday in Ongole which witnessed 73 new cases, taking the cumulative cases to 1,875. All shops and business establishments downed the shutters at 9.00 a.m. as against the usual time of 12.00 p.m. as only a three-hour relaxation was allowed by the district administration for purchase of essential commodities in view of the steep rise in COVID-19 deaths and fresh cases. As many as 68 deaths occurred in Prakasam district in less than a week. ‘No medicines without prescription’ Meanwhile, Nellore Collector K.V.N. Chakradhar Babu held a review meeting with representatives of medical shops in the district to ensure that there was no shortage of medicines for patients. Noting with concern the habit of people purchasing medicines for various diseases including fever, cold, cough without a valid prescription from doctors, he said all such persons should be subjected to testing for coronavirus. The representatives of medical shops offered to provide 2,000 medical kits to patients and record the details of persons obtaining medicines without prescription. The new positive cases continued to pour from across Prakasam district including Jarugumalli(24), J.Pangalur(23), Kandukur(17), Giddalur(16), K.K.Mitla (13), Marripadu(10), Martur(10) and Mundlamur(10).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/prakasam-nellore-report-21-deaths-in-just-a-day/article32340576.ece
13 August 2020||POLAVARAM (WEST GODAVARI DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Floodwater enters Polavaram spillway||With the Godavari bund developing a breach near Polavaram, floodwater entered the spillway and the project works were slightly disrupted on Wednesday. Floodwater was flowing on some causeways in Polavaram, Buttaigudem, Velerupadu and other mandals due to heavy rains that have been lashing for the last few days in the Agency area in the district. At 6 p.m. on Wednesday, the flood level at Bhadrachalam was 29.50 metres, coffer dam 23.700 metres, Polavaram 9.650 metres and the discharge at Dowleswaram barrage was 2.62 lakh cusecs, the officials said. Communication to about 20 villages was disrupted due to incessant rains and overflowing of rivulets in the tribal hamlets in the district. Traffic was suspended on Kothur causeway as floodwater was overflowing from the low-level bridge, and a picket was posted as a precautionary measure, the police said. ‘No flood threat’ K.R. Puram Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) Project Officer (PO) R.V. Suryanarayana said that water level in the Godavari was rising, but there was no flood threat to the villages, located on the river bund. Forecast “The forecast from the Central Water Commission (CWC) is that flood level will raise further in the Godavari River till Thursday evening, and the water level may decrease at Bhadrachalam, Kunavaram, Koida and Polavaram after 24 hours as there is no heavy rain prediction in the catchment areas,” the PO said. However, provisions were kept ready in the ration depots and medicines, generators and other emergency material were arranged as a precautionary measure, Mr. Suryanarayana said. “Floodwater may overflow from the coffer dam as the water level at the dam crossed 23 metres. As the discharge was heavy at Sir Arthur Cotton Barrage, there is no flood threat to the Agency area,” the PO said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/floodwater-enters-polavaram-spillway/article32340597.ece
13 August 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD yet to take final call on annual Brahmotsavams||The Tirumala Brahmotsavams of Lord Venkateswara this year are likely to be a low-key affair, with the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) yet to take a final call on their conduct. The nine-day festival is a showpiece event in the TTD’s calendar that witnesses the processional deities of Lord Malayappa Swamy and his two divine consorts being carried on various ‘vahanams’ twice a day through the temple town. Tirumala will witness two Brahmotsavams this year owing to ‘Adhikamasam’. While the first Brahmotsavams are scheduled to be held from September 19 to 27, the second will begin on October 16 and culminate on October 24. Preparations for the festival usually begin months in advance, but this time the lack of activity is conspicuous. Tens of thousands of devotees pour into the ‘mada’ streets to witness the two-time daily processions of the Lord that form the core part of the annual festival. No respite from virus With no respite in the spread of COVID-19 cases across the country, coupled with travel restrictions being imposed by several States, the TTD is still to arrive at a decision on the festival while making it clear that public health is of paramount importance. The district authorities imposed a two-week lockdown last month, and extended it by another ten days till August 14, to check the spread of COVID-19 in Tirupati – the threshold to the temple town. This apart, the fact that several annual events like Ugadi, annual Vasanthotsavams, Anivara Asthanam and Pavitrotsavams were observed in ekantham (private) and more than 743 employees including the senior pontiff and temple priests testing positive for the virus, has further added to speculations that the Brahmotsavams will be off-limits for devotees. However, a final decision with regard to the conduct of the festival is expected to be taken at a TTD board meeting scheduled for August-end pending approval by the State and Central Governments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-yet-to-take-final-call-on-annual-brahmotsavams/article32340600.ece
13 August 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fervour marks Janmashtami||Fervour marked the Gokulastami celebrations at the hill shrine of Lord Venkateswara at Tirumala. Ekantha Thirumanjanam was performed to the deities of Malayappa Swamy, his two consorts and Lord Sri Krishna followed by asthanam at Bangaru Vakili. Thereafter, the idol of Lord Krishna was mounted atop the golden Sarva Bhoopala Vahanam even as the Sri Vaishnavite scholars recited sacred texts from Divya Prabandham and Srimad Bhagavatam. Abhishekam performed Special abhishekam was also performed to the idol of Lord Sri Krishna in Kaliya mardhanam posture at Gogarbham dam in strict adherence to the health advisories issued in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic. In the morning, the town reverberated to the mass chantings of sacred texts from the Srimad Bhagavatham at Nadaneerajana mandapam in front of the main temple complex where the parayana yagnam entered the 125th day. TTD Additional EO A.V. Dharma Reddy and others were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fervour-marks-janmashtami/article32340604.ece
13 August 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD’s Go Puja turns low-key affair||The COVID-19 condition made ‘Sri Krishna Janmashtami’ in general and the ‘Go Puja’ celebrations at Sri Venkateswara Gosamrakshanasala (dairy farm) belonging to the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD), a low key affair. The Centre’s guidelines on COVID-19 were followed even in this small-time ritual, as was done in the case of Brahmotsavams of various temples under the TTD umbrella. Marking ‘Gokulashtami’, TTD Executive Officer Anil Kumar Singhal took part in the celebrations and garlanded a traditionally-decorated cow and its calf, amid chanting of hymns from Vedic scriptures. He later offered fodder to the bovine and performed circumambulation. Dairy farm’s Director K. Haranath Reddy and Superintending Engineer Jagadeeswara Reddy and Vigilance Guard Officer Bali Reddy participated. Meanwhile, the festival was observed in a simple manner at the sub-shrine of Sri Krishna in the sprawling Sri Padmavathi Ammavari temple in Tiruchanur here. After the daily rituals like ‘Archana’ and ‘Abhishekam’, the processional deities were given a celestial bath (Snapana Tirumanjanam). ‘Gokulashtami Asthanam’ was conducted in the evening, but devotees were barred from participating in the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttds-go-puja-turns-low-key-affair/article32340578.ece
13 August 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Tonsuring’ incident: Dalits stage novel protest||In a novel protest, Dalit leaders staged a demonstration and submitted a representation to the statue of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar here on Wednesday. The symbolic protest was to invoke his attention to the recent humiliating incident in East Godavari, wherein a Dalit was tonsured allegedly for questioning the excesses of the ruling party leaders. Amid chanting of slogans against Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, members of the Scheduled Caste community led by leaders Venkata Ratnam and Gangulaiah said the government was in no mood to repent for the incident, nor relent on its excesses. “The aggrieved Dalit man went to the extent of threatening to join the Maoist movement. This is the state of affairs in Andhra Pradesh,” they fumed. TDP leader M. Sugunamma alleged the government was oppressing the voice of those questioning it, instead of cracking the whip on the perpetrators of the crime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tonsuring-incident-dalits-stage-novel-protest/article32340579.ece
13 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tally crosses the 2.5 lakh-mark in State||The State’s COVID-19 tally crossed the 2.5 lakh-mark with the detection of 9,597 new infections and 93 deaths in the past 24 hours as of Wednesday morning. It took only about six days for the State’s tally to go up to 2.5 lakh from 2 lakh reported on August 7. Since then 57,357 new cases and over 500 deaths were reported. According to the Health Department’s bulletin, the tally reached 2,54,146 and the death toll increased to 2,296. The number of recoveries climbed to 1,61,425 with 6,676 new recoveries in the past day and as many as 90,425 persons are undergoing treatment. Death rate The death rate of the positive cases is at 0.90%. The recovery rate stands at 63.52% and the positivity rate has further increased to 9.59%. So far 26,49,767 samples were tested in the State. The tests per million ratio has gone up to 49, 621. Four districts reported 10 or more deaths in the past day. They include Guntur (13), Prakasam (11), Chittoor (10) and Nellore (10). Srikakulam reported nine deaths while Anantapur and Kadapa reported seven deaths each. Visakhapatnam reported six and East Godavari and Vizianagaram reported five deaths each. Similarly, Kurnool and West Godavari reported four deaths each. Krishna reported only two deaths. Witnessing more number of deaths in the recent past, Guntur’s death toll has gone up to 255 which is just behind Kurnool’s toll of 258. East Godavari continues to report the highest number of 1,332 cases in the State among districts. It is followed by Chittoor which saw 1,235 new infections. They are followed by West Godavari (929), Visakhapatnam (797), Kurnool (781), Anantapur (781), Guntur (762), Nellore (723), Vizianagaram (593), Srikakulam (511), Prakasam (454), Kadapa (364) and Krishna (335). Meanwhile, Prakasam district remains the only district with less than 10,000 cases currently. Vizianagaram crossed the 10,000-mark, while Kurnool crossed the 30,000-mark. West Godavari crossed the 20,000-mark. East Goda vari crossed the 30,000-mark to reach 35,642 infections. It is followed by Kurnool (30,233), Anantapur (26,478), Guntur (23,818), Visakhapatnam (21,586), West Godavari (20,476), Chittoor (19,569), Kadapa (14,819), Nellore (14,818), Srikakulam (12,348), Krishna (11,115), Vizianagaram (10,567) and Prakasam (9,782). All the districts except one have less than 50% active cases. Vizianagaram has 56% active patients. East Godavari, Nellore, Chittoor and Kadapa have around 40% active cases while, Srikakulam, Prakasam, Krishna, Kurnool, Visakhapatnam and Guntur have 40-30% active cases. Anantapur and West Godavari have only 25% and 23% active cases at present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tally-crosses-the-25-lakh-mark-in-state/article32340586.ece
13 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||President asks govt. to take action in Dalit youth tonsuring case||President Ram Nath Kovind, in response to the petition filed by a 22-year-old from East Godavari district in Andhra Pradesh, Indugumilli Vara Prasad, has asked the State government to take necessary action. The Rashtrapati Bhavan has asked Mr. Vara Prasad to further liaise in the matter directly with the Assistant Secretary, General Administration Department, A.P. Government . It is learnt that the GAD has forwarded the communication received from Rashtrapati Bhavan to Rajahmundry Rural Police. The GAD officials, however, did not respond. It may be recalled that Mr. Vara Prasad had written to the President seeking permission to join the Naxalite movement. He was upset that the system had failed to do him justice by not arresting the culprits who had allegedly tonsured his head at the police station on July 20. He allegedly faced humiliation following the incident. Tweeting Prasad’s letter and the acknowledgement from the Rashtrapati Bhavan, Telugu Desam Party president N. Chandrababu Naidu expressed fears that youth were getting disillusioned by the undemocratic deeds of the ruling YSR Congress Party men. Meanwhile, East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy has sanctioned Rs. 50,000 ex gratia to Mr. Prasad. Mr. Muralidhar said that the ex-gratia amount has been granted to the victim in the Sitanagaram case. Any further assistance from the government was yet to be decided as per the Victim’s Compensation guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/president-asks-govt-to-take-action-in-dalit-youth-tonsuring-case/article32340602.ece
13 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Strive to meet deadline on Polavaram, Jagan tells officials||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has instructed the officials of the Water Resources Department (WRD) to concentrate on the foolproof implementation of the Relief and Rehabilitation (R&R) package for the thousands of families facing displacement by the Polavaram project. He has also insisted that the officials should arrange for negotiations with their counterparts in Odisha to resolve the inter-State disputes over Neradi barrage and Jhanjhavati projects, while he wrote a letter to the Odisha Chief Minister for one-on-one deliberations. At a review meeting on the irrigation projects on Wednesday, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said while taking care of the R&R package of the Polavaram project, the construction should be carried out even during the rains so that the deadlines could be met. Officials told the Chief Minister that the Vamsadhara - Nagavali river link would be completed by this year-end and Galeru Nagari-Handri Neeva link works would begin soon. Canal works The average height of Polavaram spillway pillars was 28 metres during the TDP regime and it went up to 51 meters a year after the YSR Congress came to power. These works would be completed by September 15. The Chief Minister also ordered that the Polavaram left canal works should be expedited and there should be no compromise in complying with the quality standards. The WRD officials told the Chief Minister that the Owk-2 tunnel construction would be completed by the end of October and a fresh allocation of Rs. 500 crore would facilitate the achievement of targets with regard to the projects in north Andhra districts. Steps were taken to release water from the first tunnel of Poola Subbaiah Veligonda project in early December. The second tunnel works were going on at a brisk pace. The Phase-II Stage-2 works of the Vamsadhara project were poised to be completed by March 2021, officials informed the Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/strive-to-meet-deadline-on-polavaram-jagan-tells-officials/article32340164.ece
13 August 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||CID Cyber Crime, Eluru III Town and Nuzvid police share top honours||The Cyber Crime police station of the Crime Investigation Department (CID), Mangalagiri, the Eluru Three Town police and the Nuzvid police have won first prizes in the Award for Best Crime Detection (ABCD) category. Director-General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang, Additional Director-General (Law and Order) Ravi Shankar Ayyannar and Additional DG (CID) P.V. Sunil Kumar awarded the prizes at a programme organised at the A.P. Police Headquarters, Mangalagiri, on Wednesday. The ABCD awards were presented for best detected cases during the third and fourth quarters of 2019 and first quarter of 2020. The CID Cyber Crime police detected the case in which some offenders posted objectionable and abusive comments against Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on social media platforms. The accused had posted comments with malicious intention to hurt the religious feelings of a community in 2019, said Cyber Crime station CI S. Anthony Raj. The police zeroed in on Naveen Kumar Goud and Srinu Balaji, after verifying hundreds of social media groups. The mobile number and the accounts of the accused were traced, and they were arrested, the CI explained. Cyanide killings The Eluru Three Town police, who detected the sensational cyanide killings, won first prize in the fourth quarter of 2019. DSP O. Dilip Kiran explained that a PET, K. Nagaraju, who left home with Rs. 20 lakh cash and 4.5 sovereigns of gold ornaments, died suspiciously on October 16 last year. In the post-mortem report, it was revealed that the teacher died due to consumption of food laced with cyanide. During investigation, the police took Vellanki Simhadri and Ranaji of Himabindu Bank, who had confessed to the crime. The modus operandi was to befriend the victims and offer ‘prasadam’ laced with cyanide after taking money from them. Simhadri killed nine persons in Krishna, East and West Godavari districts in such a manner, Mr. Kiran said. The Nuzvid police detected the rape of a minor girl, though there were no CCTV footages and mobile data. The police arrested the accused in 36 hours, said DSP B. Srinivasulu. The accused, aged 22, kidnapped the girl (10 years) on a bicycle while she was standing in front of her house. He took her to an isolated place on February 26 night and committed the crime. Based on information provided by the girl that he offered her biryani, the police questioned the fast-food centres and cycle shop owners, and identified the accused, the DSP said. For the first time, the DGP presented the best detection prize to DSP Supraja, who had arrested a self-styled godman under the SC/ST (POA) Act, under the Nandikotkur police station in Kurnool district. The accused, Maddileti Swamiji, was sentenced to seven years imprisonment. The Visakhapatnam Cyber Crime and Guntakal Railway Police bagged consolation prizes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cid-cyber-crime-eluru-iii-town-and-nuzvid-police-share-top-honours/article32340595.ece
13 August 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials find lapses at COVID care centre||The health officials have reportedly found out that of the 31 patients undergoing treatment at Hotel Swarna Palace — a COVID care centre being run by Ramesh Hospitals — only four tested positive. On August 9, a fire broke out at the hotel, killing 10 patients and leaving 20 patients injured. During the post-mortem, only two patients were found to have COVID infection. Most of the survivors were tested negative for the virus. Teams from the police, health, fire, municipal and revenue departments, which visited the COVID care Centre found many violations including excess admission of patients, poor facilities, violation of COVID norms and collection of hefty fees from normal patients in the guise of COVID treatment. “The patients might be suffering from some respiratory problems, but not COVID-19. We are examining the case sheets to ascertain on what grounds they were admitted to the centre,” an investigation officer said. ‘Hospital to blame’ DGP D. Gautam Sawang on Wednesday said the hospital management was responsible for the fire. “The hospital management is the main accused in the case. The hotel management is also responsible, and we are making efforts to nab the main culprits,” he said. The city police said special teams have been sent to Hyderabad, Bengaluru, Chennai and other cities to trace the hospital MD and the hotel owner. Phones switched off Officials of the Forensic Science Laboratory, Fire Services, Medical and Health, VMC, Revenue and other teams, also visited the centre on Wednesday. Meanwhile, the cellphones of doctors and staff of Ramesh Hospitals and the family members of the hospital MD remained switched off for the last two days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/officials-find-lapses-at-covid-care-centre/article32340610.ece
13 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Job creation is need of the hour, says Naidu||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) national president N. Chandrababu Naidu has stressed on the need for attracting big industries to the State to create suitable employment opportunities for the youth. Extended greetings to the youngsters on the occasion of World Youth Day on Wednesday, Mr. Naidu said that creating the right kind of jobs and career prospects for the youth was the need of the hour. “The youth are being forced to land jobs with a paltry salary of Rs. 5,000 per month, in the absence major projects and industries in the State. How such jobs would help the youth build a bright future?” a statement quoted Mr. Naidu as saying. He said the government had agreed that 9.56 lakh industrial jobs were created during the TDP regime between 2014 and 2019. “More than 30,428 jobs were created in the IT sector alone. Job creation in the government departments is entirely a different subject,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/job-creation-is-need-of-the-hour-says-naidu/article32340590.ece
13 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Publish White Paper on funds spent to control virus, TDP tells govt.||The TDP has demanded that the State government publish a White Paper on the expenditure incurred on the COVID-19 control measures. Party Polit Bureau member Yanamala Ramakrishnudu, in a statement on Wednesday, said the government should explain how it had spent the Rs. 8,000 crore released by the Central government for the purpose. The government should release details of money spent on the purchase of masks and bleaching powder and how many TrueNat and RTPCR tests had been done so far. “The funds spent on conducting tests and purchasing testing kits are not being accounted for,” he alleged. When everyone was taking preventive measures, the State government was neglected the appointment of doctors and medical staff, he alleged. “The government has failed to prepare the administration in effectively facing the health crisis. Consequently, A.P. has earned the dubious distinction of standing next only to America and Brazil in recording the highest number of infections,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/publish-white-paper-on-funds-spent-to-control-virus-tdp-tells-govt/article32340588.ece
13 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP moves National Commission for SCs||The Telugu Desam Party (TDP) has lodged a complaint with the National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC) seeking swift action and justice in the head tonsuring case of a Dalit youth reported from East Godavari district. Indugumilli Vara Prasad, a Dalit youth, was allegedly ill-treated and his head tonsured by policemen at Seethanagaram police station last month. Collusion alleged TDP general secretary Varla Ramaiah, in a letter addressed to the NCSC on Wednesday, alleged that the YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) leaders, in connivance with the police, tonsured Mr. Vara Prasad’s head. “The government action has been confined to the suspension and arrest of an SI and two constables. Any action is yet to be taken against the real culprits and the victim is awaiting justice,” Mr. Ramaiah said in the letter. “Mr. Vara Prasad had written to the President of India seeking permission to join the naxal movement and get justice on his own,” said the TDP leader “We humbly submit to you that it is our collective responsibility to see that the youth do not choose wrong paths owing to failures of the system,” he said. The intervention of NSCS in this case would help build confidence among the victims like Mr. Vara Prasad, added Mr. Ramaiah.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-moves-national-commission-for-scs/article32340605.ece
13 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. issues guidelines for Muharram||The government has issued guildelines for Muharram, which will be observed from August 20, in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. An order released on Wednesday by Principal Secretary, Minorities Welfare Department, Mohd. Ilyas Rizvi, said besides maintaining social distance, wearing mask and washing hands; the installation of Alams at Ashoorkhanas (Peerla Chavidi) may be permitted with the Mujawars/ Muthawallies/ Managing Committees not exceeding 10 members at the Fateha and 30 to 40 members in Majlis. The devotees have been advised to offer Fateha or Majlis at their homes in view of the rapid spread of the virus. Sanitiser should be made available at Ashoorkhanas. Instructions in vernacular language on the preventive measures on COVID-19 should be displayed at Ashoorkhanas. No animal slaughter The last days (9th and 10th) of Muharram (Shahadat) should be performed only by Mujawars, Muthawallies or Managing Committees without any public processions. Slaughtering of animals at Ashoorkhanas and orchestra are strictly prohibited. The Muharram fire (alavaa/agni gundam) will be allowed, only if it is traditionally followed. Distribution of tabaruk/sharbat will be permitted in sealed packets .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-issues-guidelines-for-muharram/article32340606.ece
13 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Recruitment tests for ward, village secretariats from September 20||Panchayat Raj and Rural Development (PR&RD) Minister Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy has said that examinations for recruiting employees for the ward and village secretariats will be held from September 20. He stated this in a review meeting on filling the vacancies in the secretariats, in which Municipal Administration Minister Botcha Satyanarayana, Principal Secretary (PR&RD) Gopal Krishna Dwivedi, Commissioner M. Girija Sankar and other top officials participated. Mr. Reddy said about 10 lakh candidates were expected to write the examinations that would be held for a week from the given date. Arrangements were being made for up to 5,000 examination centres. He instructed the officials to conduct the examinations in a transparent manner and ensure that the candidates kept social distance while appearing for the examinations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/recruitment-tests-for-ward-village-secretariats-from-september-20/article32340592.ece
13 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stipend for medicos of govt. colleges enhanced||The State Government has enhanced the stipend being provided to junior doctors in Government Medical Colleges across Andhra Pradesh. A Government Order to this effect has been issued on Wednesday, and the revised stipend will be effective retrospectively from January 1, 2020. For junior doctors of MBBS and BDS internees, the stipend has been increased from Rs. 15,817 to Rs. 19,580. This amounts to a monthly hike of Rs. 3,700, officials said. Similarly, for postgraduate degree students, a hike of Rs. 8,486 for those studying in first year has been proovided. A hike of Rs. 8,958 for those studying in second year and a hike of Rs. 9430 for those studying in third year has been provided, senior government officials said. A similar hike in stipend was also extended to students pursuing MDS and PG Diploma. For students pursuing superspeciality courses, a hike of Rs. 9,430 was given to students of first year, Rs. 9,900 to students of second year and Rs. 10,372 for students of third year. The revised stipend of house surgeons will now be nearly Rs. 20,000 and that of PG students between Rs. 44,000 and Rs. 53,000. Junior doctors in the State held protests across Andhra Pradesh recently seeking a hike in stipend on the lines of other States. they had threatened to boycott duties if their pleas were not heard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/stipend-for-medicos-of-govt-colleges-enhanced/article32340144.ece
13 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bidding process for RLIS begins||The Water Resources Department opened the technical bids for the Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Scheme (RLIS) on Wednesday. As per information, three firms, including one joint venture partners, submitted proposals. While Navayuga and Max Infra submitted the proposals as individual firms, a JV partner, comprising SPML and other companies, submitted the proposal. The price bid will be opened on August 17. The auction will be conducted in the evening the same day, sources say. The government plans to complete the tendering process, including the reverse bidding, by August 19. The initial benchmark (IBM) value of the project as per the tender document is Rs. 3,278.15 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bidding-process-for-rlis-begins/article32340589.ece
13 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||RIMC test on Sept. 12, 13||The entrance exam (June 2020) for admission to the Rashtriya Indian Military College (RIMC) will be held on September 12 and 13 in Vijayawada. In a statement, Secretary of APPSC P.S.R. Anjaneyulu said that the admit cards (hall tickets) would be sent to the eligible candidates through speed post by September 5. The examination in English and Mathematics will be conducted on September 12 (Saturday) in slots of 10 a.m. to 12 noon and 2 p.m. to 3.30 p.m respectively. The examination in General Knowledge would be conducted on September 13 (Sunday) from 10 a.m. to 11 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rimc-test-on-sept-12-13/article32340607.ece
13 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID helpline||The Health Department has launched a helpline to provide information on COVID-19 via telephone. People can dial 8297104104 mobile number for information, said officials in a release. Callers can get details such as symptoms, tests, treatment facilities, home isolation, admission to COVID Care Centre, COVID hospitals, telemedicine, etc.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-helpline/article32340582.ece
13 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||With six more deaths, toll touches the 150-mark||The COVID-19 death toll in Visakhapatnam district touched the 150-mark with six more persons succumbing to the virus in the last 24 hours, on Wednesday. As many as 797 new cases were reported in the district, taking the cumulative tally to 21,998. As many as 1,004 persons have been discharged from hospitals in the district. As per the bulletin released by Special Officer for COVID-19 & Principal of Andhra Medical College (AMC), Visakhapatnam, P.V. Sudhakar, the number of active cases in the district is 6,267 while the number of discharged is 15,581. 851 clusters  The total number of clusters in the district is 851. Among them, very active clusters are 145. The number of active and dormant clusters is 234 and 472 respectively. Already 39 clusters have been denotified, he said. On a brighter side, 10,489 persons have recovered since August 4. However as many as 145 persons died since the last 38 days. Officials said that almost 90 % of the persons who succumbed to COVID-19 were elderly with various health issues. For information regarding tests in Visakhapatnam, citizens can contact Control Room 0891-2501233 or 0891-2501244.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/with-six-more-deaths-toll-touches-the-150-mark/article32340623.ece
13 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||In the forefront of ‘serving’ people||Akshaya Patra, which is credited to run the largest school meal programme in the world, has delivered over 7.1 crore servings (till July first week) across the country during the COVID-19 pandemic. Speaking to The Hindu , Akshaya Patra Chief Executive Officer Shridhar Venkat said: “The moment the country was hit by the pandemic our school midday meal programme came to a halt. We transformed our flagship programme ‘food for education’ to ‘food for relief’.” In Andhra Pradesh alone, Akshaya Patra delivered about 1.41 lakh cooked meals and supplied over 30,000 grocery kits. In Telangana, the number was close to 16.6 lakh cooked meals and 90,000 grocery kits, he said. “In addition, with our associate foundation —Hare Krishna Movement — we have delivered close to 1.25 crore cooked meals in Telangana and 1.68 lakh meals in AP,” said Mr. Venkat. Akshaya Patra started off as an initiative of ISKCON Bengaluru and later in the year 2000 it was incorporated as a separate legal entity and from 2,000 school meals, we are today serving over 1.8 million school meals on a daily basis, across 52 locations spread over 12 States and two union territories. According to Mr. Venkat, Akshaya Patra is a member of the National Disaster Management and wherever there is some disaster, be it in Assam, Chennai, Kerala or across the nation, Akshya Patra is asked to supply food and essentials. Hygienic kitchens “We have 52 fully-equipped, modern and hygienic kitchens across the country, manned by a trained staff strength of about 2,000, apart from thousands of volunteers. On a daily basis, our installed capacity handles about 400 tonnes of food raw material and can produce 2.2 million meals in a shift. Keeping in view the talk that the pandemic would reach its peak in August-September, we are ready to produce over six million meals in three shifts,” he said. He also pointed out that of the 7.1 crore servings, the majority of it was catered for the migrants, during their peak movement across the country. On the funding part, Mr. Venkat said that corporate companies not only come forward with funding but also contribute in the shape of volunteers. "We have hundreds of volunteers from the corporate and education sectors, and government," he said. During the pandemic, children from one school in Hyderabad raised over Rs. 1 crore, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/in-the-forefront-of-serving-people/article32340609.ece
13 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Be cautious while carrying out online transactions: experts||Webinars organised by the AP CID as part e-Rakshabandhan to create awareness over various cyber crimes, has been receiving good response in the district. A large number of youth, especially girls, have been taking part in the sessions to learn about growing instances of cyber crimes and how to tackle them. In a webinar organised on Wednesday, experts from cyber crime department asked the citizens to be more cautious with online transactions. The experts asked to remove unnecessary and unused apps in the mobile phones. They said that unidentified miscreants create fake websites which resemble like bank websites, through which they commit fraud. They also asked the citizens to be aware of fraud messages saying lottery, lucky draw and urged to avoid them. The cyber experts also cautioned the participants against sharing their e-mail password with strangers. It could be misused by cyber criminals, they added. Strong password They also asked the participants to have a strong password with numbers and special characters. They also urged the citizens not to reveal One Time Password (OTP) at any cost. None of the bank officials will call you ever and ask the bank details, they said. “There has been a rapid use of digital wallet platforms and the users should be very cautious while having online transactions,” they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/be-cautious-while-carrying-out-online-transactions-experts/article32340624.ece
13 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||All steps taken to check spread of virus: DRM||Divisional Railway Manager Chetan Kumar Shrivastava has said that adequate care is being taken by the railways to prevent the spread of coronavirus through passengers, who are travelling by special trains and also railway personnel, who are working in the frontline. Addressing a virtual media conference here on Wednesday, the DRM said that an automatic video thermal scanner with artificial intelligence has been installed at the entry of Visakhapatnam Railway Station. The scanner could screen 30 passengers at a time apart from a keeping a record of the passengers for future reference. ‘Rs. 1,000-crore loss’ He said that Waltair Division had incurred a loss of Rs. 1,000 crore in both freight and passenger sectors due to the outbreak of COVID-19 and the subsequent lockdown. He said that all ongoing works were in progress despite the lockdown. The movement of regular trains could be expected only after COVID-19 was fully under control. Earlier, Senior Divisional Commercial Manager G. Suneel Kumar gave a power point presentation on various safety works, developmental activities, freight transport, incentives, and other initiatives taken by the division during the lockdown period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/all-steps-taken-to-check-spread-of-virus-drm/article32340617.ece
13 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man ‘beats son to death over family dispute’||A 43-year-old man was allegedly murdered by his father at Satya Nagar area under Pendurthi Police Station limits in Visakhapatnam on Wednesday. The deceased was identified as G. Jala Raju (43), an employee of merchant navy and a resident of Satya Nagar. According to reports, there were alleged differences between the son and father G. Veerraju, a retired employee of merchant navy. According to the kin, Jala Raju allegedly used to neglect and did not take care of his father and mother properly. Meanwhile, wife of Jala Raju and their relatives alleged that ever since they were married, Veerraju and his wife used to harass them for money. Jala Raju returned home after on August 2, after a sailing stint. On Wednesday morning, Veerraju reportedly hit Jala Raju on his head with a hammer, while he was doing some work at his house. The victim reportedly died on the spot. According to police, a case has been registered. The accused is yet to be nabbed. Investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-beats-son-to-death-over-family-dispute/article32340621.ece
13 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Committee formed to ensure safety in industries||District Collector V. Vinay Chand has said that a district-level committee has been formed to ensure that full-fledged safety measures are adopted before industries reopen after the lockdown due to the COVID-19. At a meeting here on Wednesday, the Collector said that the government has issued orders based on the recommendations of the High Power Committee, which was formed after the styrene vapour leak at LG Polymers. The district-level committee would have the Joint Collector (A and W) as chairman, Deputy Chief Inspector of Factories, Inspector of Boilers, Regional Officer of APPCB, Deputy Electrical Inspector and the District Fire Officer as Members and General Manager of District Industries Centre (DIC) as member-convener. The industries and companies have to submit the Acts and guidelines to be followed by them in the prescribed format. The committee will organise special drives and check the implementation of safety norms and environmental clearances. The committee would lead and coordinate with other expert teams in the event of any eventuality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/committee-formed-to-ensure-safety-in-industries/article32340618.ece
13 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Committee discusses security aspects||The eight-member committee constituted by Director-General of Police D. Gautam Sawang, at a meeting here on Wednesday, discussed various aspects such as manpower, logistics, weapons, security, law and order, crime and traffic. Commissioner of Police Rajeev Kumar Meena, who is heading the committee, said that since the city would witness expansion once it starts operating as the Executive capital of the State, certain aspects needed to be addressed. The committee was constituted to look into these aspects, he said. The panel will submit a report to the DGP in 10 days. Mr. Meena also said a meeting would be held with the VMRDA officials to discuss the master plan. It is learnt that senior police officers such as M.C. Laddha, Intelligence IG Ch. Srikanth, and DIG, Vizag Range, L.K.V. Ranga Rao, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/committee-discusses-security-aspects/article32340593.ece
13 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Former steel plant GM passes away||The first convener of Sri Sathya Sai Ukkunagaram Mandir and former General Manager of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) M.V.N.K. Rao died due to a heart ailment at his residence here on Wednesday. A staunch devotee and former GM (Corporate Communications and town administration), Rao was instrumental in the setting up of Sri Sathya Sai Manidr at Ukkunagaram township. Rao is survived by his wife Vijayalakshmi and sons Eswar and Srikanth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/former-steel-plant-gm-passes-away/article32340616.ece
13 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||AU ATC||Officials from Andhra University organised the 129th birth anniversary celebrations of S.R. Ranganathan, father of Library and Information Science, at Dr. V. S. Krishna Library, here on Wednesday. K. Visweswara Rao, Honorary Librarian, spoke about Dr Ranganadhan’s contributions to Library & Information Science.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/au-atc/article32340620.ece
13 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID Care Centre inaugurated at VPT||A COVID Care Centre(CCC) was inaugurated by Chairman of Visakhapatnam Port Trust K. Rama Mohana Rao at VPT’s Rajiv Gandhi Indoor Stadium here on Wednesday. The facility will be open for VPT employees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-care-centre-inaugurated-at-vpt/article32340626.ece
13 August 2020||August 13 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Daily grind||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/daily-grind/article32340581.ece
13 August 2020||August 13 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Whither social distancing||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/whither-social-distancing/article32340628.ece
13 August 2020||August 13 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lending a hand||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lending-a-hand/article32340612.ece
13 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Nation yet to reach COVID peak: CCMB||The nation has not yet reached any peak or plateau in terms of coronavirus cases which means the situation will probably get worse. We have to do something to bring about the plateau or peak and it will certainly come at a cost with the number of coronavirus cases already climbing over 2 million or 20 lakh and 40,000 fatalities, cautioned CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) director Rakesh Mishra. Massive scale of testing, tracing, isolating and ‘social vaccine’ of personal hygiene of regular hand washing, maintaining social and physical distance with each other and wearing a proper face mask appropriately are the only means available to control the further spread of COVID-19, he affirmed. “If everyone followed these rules religiously, we can defeat this virus, more so since there is no vaccine coming on August 15 or till the year-end, if at all. A lot more remains to be learnt about the virus,” he said in a webinar on the role of academic institutions during pandemic times. Dr. Mishra has already been quoted stating that the Russian vaccine efficacy could be validated only if more data is available about the protocols followed considering the less number of people tested in the trials stage there. Noting that the large number of cases in the country were in the 20-30-40 age group, Dr. Mishra said it has ‘serious implications’ as these could spread to the vulnerable sections of elderly and those with co-morbidities. “We are lucky that this virus has spared lives in the sense that more than 80% are asymptomatic. We should also educate people not to stigmatise those returning to normal lives after getting cured as they are the ‘speed-breakers’ halting the march of the virus,” he maintained. A notable aspect of the virus infection after having studied 1,886 genomes from 19 States and sourced from 35 research institutions is that a single strain or clade ‘A2a’ has turned out to be the dominant one in the country. Since it has not been mutating much it would not be disadvantageous for scientists to find a way to treat the virus whether it is with drugs or the vaccine.CCMB has also initiated a study to understand why more men rather than females are prone to the infection and the genetic disposition towards being an asymptomatic virus carrier when there is a single dominant clade. But, it would require more study and pouring through lots of data, he said. This was also a challenging moment for scientific bodies, academic institutions and the industry to collaborate on finding solutions and “reaffirm the public trust in science”. “This is a lifetime opportunity to make a difference as a scientist whether to understand biology, drugs, vaccines, hospital treatment, in this worst public health crises,” he said and added the premier research institute alone has been collaborating with 15 different firms and incubating 25 start-ups.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nation-yet-to-reach-covid-peak-ccmb/article32340398.ece
13 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GHMC told to regularise services of 98 outsourced staff||Justice M.S. Ramachandra Rao of Telangana High Court directed the State government to consider regularisation of the services of 98 outsourced employees of the GHMC within two months. Pronouncing verdict in a writ petition filed by them, the judge said the petitioners are entitled for minimum of time scale of pay attached to the posts in which they are presently working till GHMC considers their claim for regularisation of services. The petitioners are working in different categories of posts like sanitary supervisor, sanitation workers, entomology field workers, entomology superior field workers, supervisors (EFA) and superior field assistants.  The GHMC should make the payments directly to the outsourced employees with effect from the day the writ petition is filed, after deducting the payments already made during this period to them. This system should be continued till their regularisation of services is considered. The arrears up to this July 31 should be paid by this September 15, the order said. Observing that the ‘outsourcing system’ adopted by the GHMC is only a ruse and sham to avoid genuine service entitlements to the petitioners, the judge said engaging employees through intermediaries/agencies/ contractors is violation of Articles 14, 16 and 21 of the Constitution. It is also against the Supreme Court verdict in Uma Devi case mandating periodic recruitment to all sanctioned posts. Lawyer Chikkudu Prabhakar contended that the petitioners had been working in different posts for over two decades. They joined duties having attended interviews following a notification issued in a Telugu daily. Not regularising their services is violation of Supreme Court’s judgment in Secretary, State of Karnataka vs Uma Devi, ONGC vs Petroleum Coal Labour Union, Mr. Prabhakar said. The GHMC said the petitioners were engaged by outsourcing agency and not directly by it. They are not recruited through an employment notification. No selection process was followed either. It was only a need based intake, the GHMC contended.  The judge noted that the GHMC is silent on the points like how many sanctioned posts of different categories were there, their scales of pay and how many of them were filled. “This is a clear case of suppression of relevant facts by the GHMC,” the order said. The absolute silence of the GHMC is mystifying, the judge remarked. The government could not cite any decision of the courts as to how employing the petitioners by ‘outsourcing’ them through an intermediate agency is constitutionally valid, the judgment said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ghmc-told-to-regularise-services-of-98-outsourced-staff/article32340408.ece
13 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Private hospitals asked to charge drugs, PPEs at MRP||Private hospitals in Telangana were instructed to charge high-end drugs and Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) at MRP. Director of Public Health (DPH) Dr. G. Srinivasa Rao on Wednesday issued directions to hospital managements to also display MRP of these drugs and PPEs at prominent places. Besides, hospitals were asked to provide itemised bills while discharging patients. Families of COVID patients at private hospitals complained that exorbitant rates were charged even for PPEs ranging up to Rs. 10,000 a day, for diagnostic tests like CT scans. The DPH said that there was a need to introduce greater transparency in the rates charged by private hospitals so that people can verify bills. According to the State government’s order issued on June 15, maximum rates for COVID-19 treatment at private hospitals ranged between Rs. 4,000 and Rs. 9,000 depending on the ward and if ventilator support is provided. The price ceiling does not include charges for PPEs, high-end medicines and diagnostic tests. As per the order, high-end drugs such as Immunoglobulins and Tocilizumab should be charged at MRP. Investigations such as CT scan and MRI have to be charged at rack rates of the hospital as on December 31, 2019. Another order issued on July 7 stated that the ceiling prices are not applicable for patients subscribing to insurance schemes. People complained that high rates were charged for the exclusions. They lodged grievances through WhatsApp number 91541470960 or 104. The DPH on Wednesday said that all hospitals have to display the rack rates (as on December 31, 2019) at prominent places in their hospital immediately. “Any deviation from these will be viewed seriously and action will be initiated as per provisions under the Epidemics Act 1987, and Telangana Allopathic Private Medical Care Establishments (Registration & Regulations) Act 2002,” Dr. Rao stated. Though permission to treat patients was revoked to two private hospitals, others continue to charge between Rs. 50,000 and Rs. 70,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/private-hospitals-asked-to-charge-drugs-ppes-at-mrp/article32340392.ece
13 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Governor urges industry leaders to amplify efforts to battle crisis||Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Wednesday exhorted commerce and industry leaders to intensify their efforts in mitigating the crisis caused by the COVID pandemic and support the government. The Governor said that the commerce and industry sector was showing a lot of resilience in overcoming the crisis and has been sustaining the livelihoods of millions of people. The Governor was the chief guest in a video conference organised by the Federation of Telangana Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FTCCI) at Raj Bhavan on the topic “Strategic interventions of Central and State governments for the mitigation of COVID-19 Crisis” on Wednesday. Referring to the Centre’s interventions, Dr. Tamilisai pointed out that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has taken the right decisions at the right time to contain the spread of the virus and thus saved many precious lives. The Governor said that India, which faced a shortage of PPE kits and other equipment, is now exporting PPE kits, N95 masks, ventilators and other life-saving medicines to various other countries through the sustained efforts of the government. “India is conducting around 7 lakh COVID tests a day and it will soon achieve the target of carrying out at least 10 lakh tests a day. The governments are implementing three-pronged strategy of aggressive testing, comprehensive tracing and efficient treatment,” she added. Suggesting the new mantra of testing, testing and more testing, she said that early detection, contact tracing and isolation would reduce the risk of spread. She expressed anguish over the non-compliance of preventive measures like maintaining physical distance and mandatory wearing of mask even by a section of politicians. FTCCI president Ramakanth Inani urged the Governor to impress upon governments to chalk out a roadmap for economic revival soon. He said that FTCCI in association with FICCI and ASCI had set up a think tank titled “Centre for Monitoring COVID” to research, analyse and create awareness on different areas related to the virus in Telangana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/governor-urges-industry-leaders-to-amplify-efforts-to-battle-crisis/article32340394.ece
13 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Narsampet MLA does his bit for COVID patients||Coronavirus is slowly spreading its tentacles to rural areas but the stigma attached to patients has already reached the rural households. The result is near social boycott of patients and even suspects. Realising its impact on people, Narsampet MLA Peddi Sudarshan Reddy has come up with a novel initiative of setting up isolation centres where those who can’t self-quarantine at homes due to stigma, can get space and medical assistance. Renting out a hostel, unused due to the lockdown, the MLA has set up a 100-bed isolation centre with 24-hour medical monitoring. Out of the 475 cases so far in his constituency, Mr. Reddy says, 350 are from 81 families. So there is a spread within the families as there is no space for self-isolation. Moreover, house owners are driving tenants away. This isolation centre fills that gap. The MLA is spending from his pocket for all the facilities for the admitted including nutritious meals three times a day and immunity boosters. All measures suggested by medical professionals on diet, medicines and exercises, are adhered to. “The district medical team is providing medicines and medical staff in three shifts to monitor the inmates continuously after CM K. Chandrasekhar Rao approved the idea,” he said. Mr. Sudarshan Reddy says he gets a report of positive patients after the daily tests are done in the primary health centres in the constituency. Then his team calls up the positive patients to find out their condition. “To ensure that the centre serves the most needy, the approval of the MRO concerned is made mandatory,” says Mr. Reddy, arguing that this is the only such facility by any MLA in India. As of now, 76 people are staying in the centre and realising that more patients would come in, the MLA is working on creating another 200-bed facility. When people are losing faith in elected representatives, particularly in COVID times, this comes as a big morale booster.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/narsampet-mla-does-his-bit-for-covid-patients/article32340401.ece
13 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Farmers toe govt. line, take up regulated cropping||The farming community in Telangana has paid heed to the government’s advice and followed the latter’s regulated cropping pattern almost completely this Vaanakalam season, with 96% of the sowing and transplantation operations concluded already. Cultivation of crops has been done on over 1.20 crore acres as on August 12 against the total planned area of over 1.25 crore acres for the season. “Except for some extent of paddy transplantation under projects in the Krishna Basin, the entire planned extent is covered without any hesitation. Perhaps, it’s for the first time in the country and may be in the world that regulated farming is being adopted,” Secretary (Agriculture) B. Janardhan Reddy said. The State government has mainly advised farmers to increase the extent of paddy, cotton and red gram and not to raise maize during the first crop season – Vaanakalam or kharif. Mr. Reddy, who also officiates as the Commissioner of Agriculture, told The Hindu: “The planned extents of the first three crops is almost on the dot and they also have heeded to the government advise on maize cultivation by restricting its cultivation for seed, green cob, sweet corn and baby corn needs of the market.” The government has planned to discourage maize cultivation during the first crop season as the market demand for it is less and the threat of pest infestation including the fall army worm attack is high during Vaanakalam season. Against the normal extent of maize cultivation in 11.77 lakh acres during the season, it has been raised only on about 1.94 lakh acres this year so far this season. “As advised by the government, farmers have raised cotton, paddy including about 25% extent with superfine varieties and red gram in higher extents this season. The three crops cover nearly 92% of the total extent covered in the Vaanakalam season already – over 1.10 crore acres out of over 1.20 crore acres”, the Agriculture Secretary said stating that it was possible by making available seed, fertilizer and investment (Rythu Bandhu) in time. Another first The Agriculture Production Commissioner said crop booking to enumerate the actual data on crops with farmer-wise and survey number-wise extent of crops was also taken up for the first time in the country. The farmers were now being sent text messages to check whether the recorded extent is correct so that it is rectified in case of any anomaly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/farmers-toe-govt-line-take-up-regulated-cropping/article32340417.ece
13 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||NSUI activists surprise police with protest at Pragathi Bhavan||Catching the police by surprise, a group of NSUI activists led by its president Venkat Balamoor tried to barge into Pragathi Bhavan on Wednesday morning demanding that the government cancel its decision to conduct examinations for all final year students in view of COVID-19 . Disguising themselves as health workers, the NSUI activists landed at Pragathi Bhavan main gate in a van wearing PPE kits. One of them also scaled the iron grill on the main road even before the police guarding the place realised what happened. The group raising slogans against the government also sat on the main road waving the NSUI flags. The sudden appearance of a large group at such a heavily guarded place surprised the police. They were arrested and shifted to Goshamahal police station. Mr. Venka Balamoor said they were protesting against the government’s decision to go ahead with the final year exams of various courses and also to conduct Common Entrance Tests (CETs) when COVID-19 was spreading rapidly. He said the issue is already in the court and their intention was to bring it to the notice of Chief Minister, K. Chandrasekhar Rao. He reminded how students were infected with coronavirus in Karnataka when it conducted the exams. The police arrested 31 persons and charged them under various sections. After the arrest, Congress leaders led by the CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka and MLAs T. Jagga Reddy and D. Sreedhar Babu went to Goshamahal police station to visit the arrested. However, they were not allowed by the police leading to argument between Mr. Jagga Reddy and police personnel there. When an officer did not budge and allegedly behaved indecently with Mr. Vikaramarka, the Youth Congress president Anil Kumar Yadav demanded that the police treat the CLP leader with respect. Mr. Jagga Reddy took strong objection to the police behaviour and reminded them that they were servants of people and not the TRS party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nsui-activists-surprise-police-with-protest-at-pragathi-bhavan/article32340431.ece
13 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Flood discharge resumes at Almatti; Jurala to get more flood||The discharge of flood from the spillway of Jurala project which was stopped early on Wednesday due to steep fall in the inflows resumed again in the evening, after a gap of about 13 hours, following resumption of heavy flood discharge at Narayanpur dam in Karnataka. After getting an alert from the authorities of Narayanpur dam that they would start discharging heavy flood of about 1.22 lakh cusecs in the evening by lifting 14 spillway gates, hardly one-tenth of it in the morning, flood monitoring officials at Jurala lifted five spillway gates at 6.30 pm discharging a flood of about 21,000 cusecs in addition to about 37,000 cusecs release of flood after power generation. The spillway discharge would be gradually increased proportionately to maintain safe level in the reservoir based on the inflows. Narayanpur dam was getting about 40,000 cusecs at 6 p.m. and the discharge of flood at Almatti was 80,000 cusecs with the trend to increase. Inflows into Almatti were at over 1.34 lakh cusecs. Similarly, Tungabhadram dam was getting over 50,000 cusecs of flood in the evening and the water storage in the reservoir crossed 86.3 tmc ft against its capacity of 100.86 tmc ft. Heavy rain forecast Following heavy rainfall in the catchment areas of upper Krishna and some of its tributaries both in Maharashtra and Karnataka on Tuesday and forecast of heavy to very heavy rainfall in the Central Maharashtra region for the next two days and heavy rainfall in Satara and Kolhapur areas for another three days, the Central Water Commission (CWC) has indicated on Wednesday a rise in water levels in upper Krishna basin in the upstream of Almatti dam. According to a CWC bulletin, heavy rainfall of 15 cm was recorded in Augumbe, the major catchment area of Tungabhadra river, 6.6 cm in Mahabaleshwar, the catchment of Krishna and 5.9 cm in Koyna, a tributary of Krishna, during the 24-hour period up to 8.30 am on Wednesday. Hidkal dam across Ghataprabha river, a tributary of Krishna above Almatti, was also approaching surplus stage as water level in the dam stood at 661.904 meters against full reservoir level (FRL) of 662.94 metres on Wednesday morning with inflows of over 13,000 cusecs. In the Godavari basin, the flood at Laxmi (Medigadda) barrage across Godavari river below Kaleshwaram in Jayashankar-Bhupalapally was about 3.5 lakh cusecs, with most of it coming from Pranahitha, and in the downstream at Polavaram in Andhra Pradesh, the flood was about 3.9 lakh cusecs. The CWC has indicated further rise in the flood below Kaleshwaram with heavy to very heavy rain forecast in Telangana and AP over the next two days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/flood-discharge-resumes-at-almatti-jurala-to-get-more-flood/article32340418.ece
13 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Deliberate silence of CM on AP projects is hurting TS’||AICC Secretary and former Kalwakurthy MLA, Ch. Vamshichand Reddy continued his attack on the government over what he called ‘deliberate silence’ on the projects of the Andhra Pradesh government on Krishna river, and demanded the government to respond to their arguments rather than keeping quiet. Mr. Vamshichand, who invited TRS leaders for an open discussion at the Press Club-Hyderabad on Wednesday, said if the government doesn’t want to respond it should at least take definitive action to convince people of south Telangana that their water rights were protected. ‘Disappointing response’ Speaking to reporters at the Press Club, he said the response of the Chief Minister on the GO No 203 issued on May 5 this year by the AP government was disappointing and looked like he was trading interests of Telangana for his personal gains. “Krishna basin projects are suffering a great deal only because of the arrogance of our CM,” he claimed. Rejecting criticism against the Congress, the AICC Secretary questioned why the Chief Minister, who was the then Union Minister, and the six TRS ministers in the Congress government did not resign when the capacity of Pothireddypadu generator was increased from 11,000 cusecs to 44,000 cusecs in 2005. Vent closure He opined that the Chief Minister should have fought for the immediate closure of four vents of Pothireddypadu when the 10 new vents were commissioned. The Telangana government has not protested anywhere against the unlawful re-direction of Krishna basin water by the Andhra people to non-Krishna basin ayacut, Mr. Vamshichand Reddy asserted.  Krishna basin projects are suffering a great deal only because of the arrogance of our Chief Minister. Ch. Vamshichand Reddy, AICC Secretary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/deliberate-silence-of-cm-on-ap-projects-is-hurting-ts/article32340423.ece
13 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Committee constituted||According gravity to the alleged instance of child sexual abuse at a protection home in city, following which the victim died on Wednesday, the Telangana Women Development and Child Welfare Department has constituted a high power enquiry committee. The committee will have members drawn from the State Commission for Protection of Child Rights, Child Welfare Committee, Women’s Safety Wing of the police, and Women’s Commission. The committee will submit its report and recommendations by August 20. Special Secretary to Government & Commissioner, WDCW, D. Divya informed that a legal advisor has been appointed to ensure that a water tight case is made against the perpetrators as per the investigations and enquiry. The Director General of Police has been requested to combine all the first information reports related to the case into one and appoint a single investigating officer not below the rank of ASP or ACP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/committee-constituted/article32340410.ece
13 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Police arrest three fake vigilance officers||The Punjagutta police apprehended three persons for allegedly impersonating as vigilance officers, taking photos of a COVID-19 ward in a private hospital, and demanding the return of Rs. 1 lakh which was paid for treatment of a COVID-19 patient. Police identified the accused as K Shiva, Shravathi Kasaram and Vijay Kumar. According to the police, Shiva’s 45-year-old father went to the hospital for treatment for another ailment but was diagnosed as a COVID-19 positive case. Shiva was then informed of the hospital charges after which treatment commenced. However, Shiva allegedly dodged making payments and also avoided discharge procedures. On August 3, Shiva along with the other accused, who pretended to be vigilance officers, allegedly arrived at the hospital and began to record videos and take pictures on their phones and threatened to post them on social media. They also allegedly demanded Rs. 1 lakh from the hospital management, and threatened staff with revocation of COVID-19 treatment permission accorded to the hospital. “We received a complaint on August 10. A team has been formed to nab the accused who are absconding,” Panjagutta sub-inspector D Nagaraju said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/police-arrest-three-fake-vigilance-officers/article32340434.ece
13 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Palred Tech CMD dies of COVID||Palred Technologies chairman and managing director Palem Srikanth Reddy passed away on Wednesday. Intimating the stock exchange of his demise, the company said that he had contracted COVID-19. A technocrat with a Bachelor’s in Engineering (Industrial Engineering) from NIT Trichy and a post graduate from Stanford University in Industrial Engineering and Engineering Management, he was behind several successful ventures. He was chairman of the Palred Group and a serial entrepreneur. One of his ventures was Four Soft, a software firm focused on solutions for the logistics sector, that he later sold off. Palred Technologies operates in areas of e-commerce. He was also behind the PTron brand of smart gadgets and accessories.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/palred-tech-cmd-dies-of-covid/article32340395.ece
13 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Nurse found dead||A nurse working at the Secunderabad branch of a corporate hospital committed suicide, police said on Wednesday. The Market Police Station, who are investigating the case, have identified the victim as 25-year-old V Soundarya, a native of Nalgonda. She was working with at the hospital four years, and was living in the hospital’s hostel in Secunderabad. Police said that the victim injected herself with a anesthesia-like substance which led to her death. She was found in the hostel around 7 p.m. on Tuesday night. Since she was working at the hospital, police said that she had access to the substance which she is said to have injected herself with.  (There is always someone to listen at: +914066202000 or 6666 1117 in case of any emotional breakdowns at this Hyderabad-based suicide intervention centre, Roshni)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nurse-found-dead/article32340413.ece
13 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||KTR launches AI for agri innovation programme||IT and Industries Minister KT Rama Rao has said that Telangana has declared 2020 as the Year of Artificial Intelligence (AI) to accelerate AI readiness and develop a conducive innovation ecosystem in the State, opening new avenues of Artificial Intelligence led innovation for social impact, especially in the public sector. He was speaking at the Launch of AI4AI: Artificial Intelligence for Agricultural Innovation in collaboration with Centre for the Fourth Industrial Revolution, India (C4IR), World Economic Forum. He said as part of ‘2020 - Year of AI’, the Telangana government has partnered with several reputed organisations from industry and academia and introduced several initiatives, including a six-pronged AI strategy. The initiatives include T-AIM (Telangana’s AI Mission), a dedicated body for AI specific initiatives in partnership with NASSCOM; Centre for Research in Applied AI, an organisation with focus on healthcare in collaboration with Intel, IIIT Hyderabad and Public Health Foundation of India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ktr-launches-ai-for-agri-innovation-programme/article32340424.ece
13 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Woman sells infant, police nab her and ‘mediators’||In a shocking case, Shaik Zoya Khan, a resident of Subhanpura, sold her two-month-old infant through ‘mediators’, for Rs. 45,000. After receiving a complaint, Habeebnagar police swung into action and apprehended the mother and five others. She allegedly sold her son to Ayesha Jabeen (28), also an accused, through the brokers. The issue came to light after Zoya’s husband Abdul Mujahed (29) filed a complaint. Police identified the other accused as mediators Shaik Mohammed (30), Tabassum (25), and Siraj Begum (50), step-mother mother of Ayesha Jabeen, and Shameem Begum (50), the biological mother of Ayesha Jabeen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/woman-sells-infant-police-nab-her-and-mediators/article32340433.ece
13 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||ASPIRE network facility launched||ASPIRE, a Section-8 company set-up by the University of Hyderabad, has created a vibrant entrepreneurial ecosystem by nurturing young entrepreneurs and early stage start-ups. It manages three incubation centres — BioNEST, TBI, and TIDE — which together host about 40 start-ups in the fields of science, technology, and engineering. An ASPIRE network facility to augment facilities required for supporting entrepreneurship and start-up culture was launched by UoH Vice-Chancellor Appa Rao Podile. The centre of over 3,500 sq.ft. is on the third floor of School of Life Sciences. It is equipped with audio-visual facilities, Wi-Fi connection, a 15-seat boardroom and a cafeteria. It can accommodate about 150 members for a meeting/conference set-up, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/aspire-network-facility-launched/article32340391.ece
13 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Pensioners’ JAC for reimbursing deducted pension amount||The Telangana Government Pensioners' Joint Action Committee has urged Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to take steps to reimburse the amount that was deducted from pensions during the lockdown imposed in the State. Problems discussed The core committee of the JAC met here under the chairmanship of K. Laxmaiah here on Wednesday and discussed about the problems faced by pensioners. Mr. Laxmaiah expressed concern that pensioners, family pensioners in particular, who were facing hardships on account of meeting their medical and other expenditure were hard hit by the cut imposed by the government. High Court directive Considering the problems of the employees and pensioners, the AP High Court had directed the State government to reimburse the deducted amount in two months. The Chief Minister too should take the initiative and repay the deducted amount along with the pension for the month of August, the JAC chairman requested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pensioners-jac-for-reimbursing-deducted-pension-amount/article32340419.ece
13 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Chemists shut shops mourning death of Association hon general secretary||The Telangana Chemists and Drugists Association members have shut their shops on Wednesday to mark mourning the death of the association’s honorary general secretary J Satish Rao. President of the association Ch Janardhan Rao said that Satish contracted COVID-19 around 20 days ago and underwent treatment at a private hospital in Hyderabad. However, he died in early hours of Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/chemists-shut-shops-mourning-death-of-association-hon-general-secretary/article32340406.ece
13 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Manthan on Saturday||Manthan, a forum for public discourse, is organising an online meeting with author and activist Radha Kumar on ‘Indian Democracy Seen Thru Kashmir’ on August15, 10.30 a.m. live on YouTube at:https://youtu.be/X1lgZnKeEps||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/manthan-on-saturday/article32340409.ece
13 August 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Palair reservoir water released well in time for kharif season||Much to the delight of ayacutdars of the Nagarjunasagar Project (NSP) left canal system in the district, water was released from the Palair balancing reservoir in Kusumanchi mandal into the irrigation canals on Wednesday. Perhaps for the first time in recent years, water from the Palair reservoir was released well in time for the kharif season. Thanks to the steady inflow of water from the Nagarjunasagar dam in Nalgonda district, the water level in the Palair reservoir reached 22 feet as against the full reservoir level of 23 feet on Tuesday night. Minister releases water Transport Minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar formally released Krishna water from the Palair reservoir by switching on the button at the head regulator near Palair on Wednesday morning. He performed puja before releasing the water into the main irrigation canal. Palair MLA K. Upender Reddy, Sattupalli MLA S. Venkata Veeraiah and Wyra MLA L. Ramulu Naik besides a host of Agriculture department officials and the NSP engineers were present. The NSP officials have prepared an action plan to release about 24 tmc of water into the NSP left canal system in seven wetting periods in on-and-off mode continuously till September 3 and for another nine days from September 10, thereafter. The timely release of water for irrigation is expected to scale up kharif operations in the ayacut of the NSP left canal system spread over more than 2.50 lakh acres in as many as 16 mandals across the district. Paddy transplantation was slightly delayed in the current crop season in several parts of the district due to labour shortage triggered by the coronavirus crisis. The cultivation target for paddy in the present kharif season in the entire district has been set at little over 2.30 lakh acres. Sources in the Agriculture department said the paddy cultivation may exceed the stipulated target due to the favourable conditions in this crop season.  Paddy cultivation may exceed the stipulated target due to favourable conditions in this crop season. Sources, Agriculture department||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/palair-reservoir-water-released-well-in-time-for-kharif-season/article32340426.ece
13 August 2020||Khandala (Adilabad District),TELANGANA||Teej concludes on colourful note||Dancing to melodious songs, the colourful nine-day annual traditional festival called Teej, celebrated in erstwhile Adilabad district concluded on a grand note on Wednesday. The festival is prominent in the hamlets populated by the region’s Banjara and Mathura communities. It holds significance for the married women from Lambada tribes and Mathura community. Unmarried women ‘raise’ the Teej, wheat grass in bamboo baskets, for a good life partner and blissful married life, while wives partake to pray for the well-being of their husbands. Also known as ‘Khaithi Labana’ in Mathura community, the nine-day festival begins on Rakhi Purnima in the auspicious month of Sravan with women sowing wheat in bamboo baskets at their houses. They take part in the festival with utmost devotion for the well-being of their family members and entire village. Clad in traditional attire, the women water the seeds everyday, which sprout up as wheat grass in less than a week. On the ninth day of festival, the final day, the women folk place the wheat grass baskets at Naik or Maharaj’s house (village chief), sing the traditional songs and dance, circling the Teej, before they are immersed in water bodies, said Noor Singh of Khandala, a tribal village, located about 25 km from Adilabad town. He said that the women worship Goddess Jagdamba and seek her blessings. The festival is similar to Bathukamma, but lacks popularity, said Sandeep Jadav, a youngster from same village.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/teej-concludes-on-colourful-note/article32340430.ece
13 August 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Ganesh Chaturthi to be a low-key affair||For the first time in recent history, Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations in Sangareddy will be devoid of the usual colour and fanfare. There will be no huge loudspeakers, no gatherings, and no colourful lighting. Needless to say that these are part of the measures taken to avoid the spread of virus. As Ganesh pandals with large gatherings will become virus hotspots, officials are taking all steps to arrest its spread. Officials are holding meetings with welfare associations and leaders explaining about the need to limit the gatherings. The meetings are expected to continue for a few more days. DSP P. Sridhar Reddy held a meeting on Wednesday with members of Ganesh Utasav Samithi and informed them about the steps that need to be taken. These instructions include keeping the height of idol below three feet, only three persons, including the priest at one time, only one Ganesh idol in a colony instead of three or four, unlike in the past, no sound systems, no distribution of food and cultural programmes. Huge processions for idol immersions with bands are also not allowed. Idol immersion would have to be done on the third day of celebrations that is on August 24. “We have decided to limit the size of the idol below three feet, as instructed by officials. The gathering will also be limited,” said a member of the Samithi. “Last year, we sold idols of at least 14 feet. By this time, we used to get over 200 idols sold. But, this year, due to COVID, things are different. We are unable to sell even a single idol,” said Kailash from Rajasthan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ganesh-chaturthi-to-be-a-low-key-affair/article32340404.ece
13 August 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Worker killed in accident at Gauravelli pump house||One labourer was killed and seven persons injured in an accident that took place at Gouravelli surge pool at Regonda on Wednesday. The injured were shifted to hospital for treatment. According to P. ahender, ACP, Akkannapet, the accident took place while fitting the pipelines in the surge pool. A pipeline blasted and water gushed with huge force falling on Vanga Ramesh (54) who died on the spot. Seven out of 12 persons present there were also injured and shifted to government hospital at Karimnagar where they are undergoing treatment. Their condition was stable. All the labourers are from Bihar. Body of Ramesh was shifted to hospital and handed over to relatives after postmortem. Husnabad police registered a case and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/worker-killed-in-accident-at-gauravelli-pump-house/article32340432.ece
13 August 2020||YADADRI-BHUVANAGIRI,TELANGANA||‘Focus on vulnerable patients, direct supervision’||Commissioner of Public Health and Family Welfare Vakati Karuna said COVID-19 patients admitted at AIIMS-Bibinagar, the general hospital and community health centres in the district should be provided all round care. Interacting with officials at a private hotel, along with Collector Anita Ramachandran in Bhongir on Wednesday, she said focus should be on high-risk patients. “Testing and treatment of primary contacts should start after fifth day of tracing. High-risk patients must be looked after, under direct supervision of medical officers,” she said and added that grievances received at COVID call centre at the Collectorate must be addressed. Travel facility for patients to reach the nearest treatment centre will be provided.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/focus-on-vulnerable-patients-direct-supervision/article32340415.ece
13 August 2020||YADADRI-BHUVANAGIRI,TELANGANA||‘Free fishlings to enhance livelihoods’||Bhongir MLA Paila Sekhar Reddy said the State-supplied free fishlings being released in village tanks was an initiative to enhance livelihoods of fishing communities. On Wednesday, along with Zilla Parishad chairman A. Sandeep Reddy and Additional Collector Srinivas Reddy, he released fishlings in the Bibinagar tank. Officials said the target was to release 4.65 lakh fishlings in tanks at Bibinagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/free-fishlings-to-enhance-livelihoods/article32340414.ece
13 August 2020||August 13 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Page 2 - Please use this revised copy. Ignore the earlier one. Reader’s Mail||At last, the State government had cracked the whip on super speciality hospitals by cancelling the permission granted to two prominent hospitals while the High Court had censured another hospital run by a high profile doctor for refusing to hand over a body till the exorbitant bill was cleared. I request the government to blacklist all such hospitals and seal them. The government should also take steps to ensure that COVID patients get free treatment at its facilities and private hospitals, insurance claims are accepted and nobody is refused admission. B. Rajendra Prasad Ramakrishnapuram     We live at Kasturi Niwas apartment on Srinagar Colony main road opposite Andhra Bank. Garbage is not being lifted by the GHMC for more than a week now. As a result, it is getting piled up every day and becoming a breeding ground for mosquitoes and making residents susceptible to all kinds of infection. Upon inquiry, we were told that the staffer concerned went out of station. I request the GHMC authorities to kindly ensure that the department concerned lifts the garbage from each apartment daily without fail. In case somebody does not turn up, they should ensure that garbage is being lifted by some others in the same locality. K. Durga Prasad Rao Srinagar Colony     Dr. B.R. Ambedkar Open University (BRAOU) announced enrolment in various courses for the year 2020-21, but is continuing to impart certain PG courses in Political Science, Public Administration, and Sociology in Telugu medium only despite several appeals for introducing English medium also. Students are allowed to write in English but the study material supplied is in Telugu language only. It is not possible to translate Telugu study matter into English for non-Telugu students. N.S.R. Murthy M. Bolarum (Readers are welcome to write to us about the civic issues in their respective areas to be highlighted in these columns. They can be sent, along with photos, to hyderabaddesk-at-thehindu.co.in. You can also post them on our Twitter handle @THHyderabad)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/page-2-please-use-this-revised-copy-ignore-the-earlier-one-readers-mail/article32340399.ece
13 August 2020||New Delhi,||In quarantine, DU student anxious about online exams||When Narola Dhar, a final-year MA computer science student at Delhi University booked her tickets to Shillong in June, she assumed her exams would be over before she returned home. Now, she finds herself in a 28-day institutional quarantine, which ends on August 17, a day before her first online open book exam. Without a stable Internet connection, a functional laptop and a phone with a clear camera, Ms. Dhar is anxious about attempting her exam. At the best, she is able to send blurred images of her notes, the only study material she was able to carry with her on WhatsApp over a patchy connection. “I broke down when everyone started talking about the exam on our WhatsApp group after the High Court order,” said Ms. Dhar, who reached out to a friend to calm her nerves, while she was alone in the middle of her quarantine on August 7. Given her situation, she has not been able to take part in the mock tests that the university held. “I just hope I'll be able to fix something by Sunday so that I don’t miserably fail in the OBE,” she said. No centre nearby Attempts to reach out to her local Common Service Centre, which Delhi University had tied up with, to assist students with poor connections, had also been futile as she couldn’t locate a nearby centre. Ms. Dhar tried to convey her issues to her department and university officials but had not received a response, and wasn’t able to get through the helpline number, she said. Pressure to vacate A resident of the Northeast Women’s Hostel, she along with some other students had initially been granted extensions on their stay, here. However hostel administration had continued to put pressure on them to vacate, she alleged, which forced her to leave. “I wanted to stay but the situation pushed me to go,” she said.  II just hope I'll be able to fix something by Sunday so that I don’t miserably fail in the OBE Narola Dhar DU final-year MA student||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/in-quarantine-du-student-anxious-about-online-exams/article32340344.ece
13 August 2020||New Delhi,||Sealed market to get new lease of life||With footfall having drastically fallen at Meharchand Market since the partial sealing of over 135 buildings in 2018, most traders here are hopeful that plans to redevelop the market, approved by the South Delhi Municipal Corporation’s (SDMC) Standing Committee on Tuesday, would give it a new lease of life. “I have been here since this place was a jungle,” said Gurubakh Singh, 85, who arrived here from Sargoda in Pakistan during the Partition. Having started off as a street vendor to setting up a small makeshift store and later his current establishment, Mr. Singh said, he has seen this market through thick and thin. Property ownership Stores here, which line one side of the broad 5th Avenue Road in the middle of Lodhi Colony, were allotted to refugees after the Partition. While initially small khokhlas were allotted, erstwhile Union Minister Mehr Chand Khanna was reportedly instrumental in setting up a brick mortar market here. Over the years, property ownership changed hands from the Land and Development Authority to some of the owners and to municipal corporations, said Om Prakash, a property dealer. His father arrived at the market about 40 years ago. Many owners started constructing multiple floors even though building bylaws had limited their floor area ratio (FAR), he explained. The market hosts a large number of high-end boutique stores and plush eateries, alongside long-time shopkeepers. However, several stores and large brands had to exit the market following the sealing drive to penalise illegal constructions, said market association president Ashok Sakhuja. SDMC approval Currently, with only high-end stores dotting the market, shopkeepers such as Santosh Kumar who runs a tailoring business laments at the dip in footfall. “As soon as people hear Meharchand Market, they get scared and don’t even come here,” he said. With the redevelopment plan, he hopes the market will become akin to Connaught Place or Khan Market and rival the best in the city. New rules approved by the SDMC have now allowed for greater FAR, as well as basements, first and second floors, which had been sealed during the drive. Approving the redevelopment of the market, the SDMC Standing Committee chairperson Raj Dutt Gehlot said that all existing structures would be demolished and new construction would be started. Not all traders here are okay with plans to demolish buildings. Mini Kaur, who recently opened a boutique garments store here said, “I just paid a bomb for this, I hope it’s not coming down!” While she welcomed plans to beautify the market, she said that the lack of footfall wasn’t as much of an issue as stores had their select clientele. Municipal officials also said that the market may be declared a “pedestrian shopping street” but most traders here opposed the idea, arguing that the availability of ample parking was one of the main features of the market. With redevelopment plans in the works, Mr. Sakhuja is hopeful that properties here, including his own, will soon be desealed and the market is soon up and running.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/sealed-market-to-get-new-lease-of-life/article32340343.ece
13 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||DDA ties up with CSCs to speed up ownership rights registration||In a bid to facilitate residents of unauthorised colonies register for grant of ownership rights, the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) has tied up with Common Service Centres (CSCs). Senior officials of the urban body explained that partnering with the CSCs will be beneficial to residents of unauthorised colonies as they will be able to walk into the nearest centres and get registered. While earlier there were around 30 functional help desks set up by the DDA, officials said that with nearly 2,500 CSCs in the city, access to the registration process will get widened. Conveyance deeds So far, the DDA has seen approximately 2.9 lakh registrations with around 20,000 completing the process. Over 1,000 conveyance deeds and authorisation slips have also been handed out by the land-owning agency. The online portal for the grant of ownership rights was launched in December last year and as of February, the DDA received around 2.32 lakh registrations, according to data. DDA Vice-Chancellor Anurag Jain told The Hindu that work on granting of ownership rights has “picked up speed” in the last month with around 200 registries handed out per month. “The work has really picked up and each step has reasonably quickened. There are several levels to the registration, including GIS mapping, verification of the same and so on. The project is being monitored at every level regularly. Once the CSC service is rolled out we are hopeful that more registrations will follow,” said Mr. Jain. Residents of illegal colonies who have completed the entire application process are likely to be granted ownership rights within 180 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/dda-ties-up-with-cscs-to-speed-up-ownership-rights-registration/article32340336.ece
13 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||ASI dies, constable sustains minor injuries as building roof collapses||A 49-year-old Assistant Sub-Inspector died and his colleague sustained minor injuries after the roof of a building collapsed on Wednesday, police said. As the roof of the building that was in poor condition caved in, ASI Zakir Hussain fell on the ground due to the impact while Constable Debu (42), who accompanied him to the third floor of the building, fell on to the second floor and sustained minor injuries, they said. With the help of people and other staff, Hussain was taken to Aruna Asaf Ali Hospital, where he was declared brought dead, police said. No one else was injured. On Wednesday morning, Hussain along with Debu, who were posted in Bara Hindu Rao police station, were conducting tenant verification drive in the area, ahead of the Independence Day celebration. According to the police, around 10.20 a.m., they reached a building on Ram Bagh Road and during tenant verification, they noticed some illegal construction being carried out on the third floor. When they went to the third floor to collect details and take photographs of the ongoing illegal construction work, the roof collapsed. Deputy Commissioner of Police (North) Monika Bhardwaj said: “We have registered a case under section 288 (negligent conduct with respect to pulling down or repairing buildings) and 304 A (causing death by negligence) of Indian Penal Code.” Hussain joined Delhi Police in 1993. He is from Ganwara village in Meerut and was staying in Wazirabad with his wife, two sons and a daughter, the DCP said. AAP demands probe AAP demanded an immediate probe against local councillor and North Municipal Corporation Mayor Jai Prakash after the death of Hussain. Addressing a video briefing, AAP leader Durgesh Pathak alleged that the three-story “illegal” building was being constructed with the involvement of Mr. Prakash.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/asi-dies-constable-sustains-minor-injuries-as-building-roof-collapses/article32340340.ece
13 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||EIA studies needed prior to construction, says NGT||Following a plea challenging the proposed construction of commercial complex by the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) above the Bhikaji Cama metro station, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has held that an Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) and carrying capacity studies need to be carried out prior to the construction. An NGT Bench said, “We find it necessary that before the proposed constructions are carried out, EIA and carrying capacity studies must be conducted by a joint committee.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/eia-studies-needed-prior-to-construction-says-ngt/article32340338.ece
13 August 2020||New Delhi,||Nikhil- brief||The Delhi zoo on Wednesday celebrated ‘International Elephant Day’ with a special feast for the elephants, an official said. “We also conducted a talk for the keepers and mahouts about taking care of elephants. We have three elephants, one of them is African and the rest two are Indian,” the official said. The zoo also organised an online competition for school students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/nikhil-brief/article32340339.ece
13 August 2020||New Delhi,||Brief||Student groups, who protested against the arrest of DU Professor Hany Babu, on Wednesday condemned FIRs registered against them. Students who belonged to the AISA and other groups were detained and had FIRs registered against them, the students said, demanding the charges be dropped and Mr. Babu and other “political prisoners” be released.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/brief/article32340337.ece
13 August 2020||New Delhi,||Man found dead at home||A 30-year-old man was found dead at his rented accommodation in north Delhi’s Jahangirpuri area, the police said on Wednesday. The incident took place on Tuesday. No note was recovered from the spot, a senior police officer said. The family alleged that the victim ended his life as he was unable to pay his rent. The police said that inquest proceedings have been initiated into the matter.  Suicide prevention helpline: Sanjivini, Society for Mental Health, 011-4076 9002, Monday-Saturday (10 a.m.-7.30 p.m.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/man-found-dead-at-home/article32340341.ece
13 August 2020||Mumbai,||Parth is immature, says Sharad Pawar||In a rare public snubbing of a family member, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Wednesday termed his grandnephew Parth Pawar, the son of Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, as ‘immature’ and someone whose words are not taken seriously. Mr. Pawar’s public display of anger over the young leader’s actions also hints that all is not well within the Pawar family. Mr. Parth had written a letter to State Home Minister Anil Deshmukh demanding a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) inquiry into the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. His position was different than that of party’s which has expressed confidence in the Mumbai Police. Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party has already demanded a CBI inquiry in the case. When asked about the demand made by the young leader, who contested the 2019 Lok Sabha polls from Maval as an NCP candidate, but lost to the Shiv Sena, Mr. Pawar said, “He is immature. There is no value to what he says. I have 100% trust in the Maharashtra and Mumbai Police. But if anyone wants to make a demand, then nobody can object.” The young leader was also in the news after he showed Hindutva leanings via his letter welcoming construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya, calling it the re-installation of Hindu faith. The NCP chief, however, had said in a statement that the temple would not help the country overcome the pandemic. The public snubbing of Mr. Parth is also seen as an indication to the Deputy CM, who had switched sides before forming the MVA government to join hands with the BJP. His rebellion could not muster support within the party and he had to back down. Over the past week. rumour mills have been abuzz with news of 12 NCP MLAs planning to switch sides and join the BJP to dethrone the MVA government. However, the party had rubbished such reports. Meanwhile, Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut held a meeting with the NCP chief and announced that there was no threat to the government. “I met Mr. Pawar and discussed all developments within the State and the country. No one has any reason to to worry,” he said. Mr. Parth has, however, not reacted to his granduncle’s statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/parth-is-immature-says-sharad-pawar/article32340359.ece
13 August 2020||Mumbai,||Beauty products seller conned of Rs. 60 lakh by cyber fraudster||Nykaa, an Indian retail seller of beauty, wellness, and fashion products, has been duped of Rs. 60 lakh by a cyber fraudster who spoofed the email ID of its Italian supplier. A complaint was lodged by Hemanshu Mehta, head, governance risk and compliance officer of the company, at the N.M. Joshi Marg police station on August 10. On November 14, 2019, the company had ordered raw material from an Italy-based company Omnicos for 71,000 euros (Rs. 60 lakh). On March 20, this year, the vendor informed the company via email and on phone that the raw material was ready and an invoice for it had been sent. The vendor also said that as per rules, the payment would have to be made within 30 days. “Due to the imposition of COVID-19-induced lockdown since March 22, the company could not import the material ordered,” the complainant in his FIR said. However, in April, Nykaa informed the Italy-based company that the procedure to make the payment had been initiated. The email ID of the Italian firm had the domain name as omnicos.it. After a few days, Nykaa received an email from an ID which had the name of the coordinator from Omnicos, along with omnicos.it, followed by the domain of gmail. The email said that due to the lockdown, its regular bank account was facing issues and a new invoice was being issued with a new bank account and all the payments henceforth would have to be made on that account. In May, the firm from Italy enquired about the payment to which Nykaa said it was done on its new account. After verifying the transaction details sent by Nykaa, Omnicos confirmed that neither the email ID belonged to it nor the bank account. “After conducting an internal enquiry, they realised that they have been duped. The accused made a lookalike email ID with a different domain and cheated them. At this stage, it is difficult to conclude if any internal employee from either of the companies is involved. With the help of a technical team, we are investigating the matter and trying to find the origin of the email sent,” senior police inspector Pandit Thorat from N.M. Joshi Marg police station said. A Nykaa spokesperson said that there was no breach in customer data. “We filed a complaint with the police after detecting fraudulent activity targeting Nykaa.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/beauty-products-seller-conned-of-rs-60-lakh-by-cyber-fraudster/article32340352.ece
13 August 2020||Mumbai,||Redevelopment of cessed buildings to be expedited||The State Cabinet on Wednesday cleared the proposal to speed up the redevelopment of cessed buildings within Mumbai city through Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (MHADA). The redevelopment projects that are being delayed or not undertaken, if undertaken by MHADA, will have to be completed within three years since taking the commencement certificate. The Cabinet decision is likely to benefit at least 14,500 cessed buildings. Cessed buildings are those for which the government collects tax for a repair fund. These buildings were mainly built before Independence, and the concept is limited to the island city and not the suburbs. “A number of redevelopment projects of cessed buildings have been delayed for various reasons,” said an official from the Housing Department. It has been delayed, stopped or left half-way by developers. The issues include non-payment of rents of tenants, or rules and conditions within the no-objection certificate being violated. However, no action has been taken despite notice from the civic body. The government has now made arrangements to set up a high-power committee to resolve disputes between the owner/developer and MHADA under the chairmanship of Principle Secretary (Housing). The State government had formed an eight-MLA committee to suggest measures to speed up the redevelopment of dangerous and dilapidated cessed buildings. “Those too shall be considered while tabling the Bill in the Legislature,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/redevelopment-of-cessed-buildings-to-be-expedited/article32340346.ece
13 August 2020||Mumbai,||‘No ban on Ganesh idol immersion in sea’||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Wednesday clarified that it had not banned immersion of Ganesh idols in the beaches, and added that artificial pond was only an added service for those living in areas far from the sea. “The civic body has already issued directions and guidelines to celebrate this year’s Ganesh festival without crowding and taking necessary precaution. The reports about banning visarjan in the sea are wrong. There are no such orders. However, the civic body has set up 167 artificial ponds under its jurisdiction to help people immerse idols by maintaining physical distancing,” a BMC statement. It further said that those living within a radius of one to two km from the sea could immerse idols in seawater. “It is advised by the civic body that those who do not live near the sea should immerse at home or in the artificial ponds,” it said. Last month, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray had held a meeting with several public Ganesh mandals in Mumbai and appealed to them to cut down on celebrations in the backdrop of the COVID-19 pandemic. He had also requested them to limit the height of the idol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/no-ban-on-ganesh-idol-immersion-in-sea/article32340353.ece
13 August 2020||Mumbai,||HC reserves order on pleas against TRAI’s tariff order||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday reserved judgement on a bunch of petitions challenging the broadcasting regulations and amended tariff orders issued by Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) in January this year. A verdict is likely on August 24. Solicitor General of India Tushar Mehta, representing TRAI, told the court that implementation of the new tariff order will be deferred till August 25. He also gave an oral assurance that no coercive action would be taken against the broadcasters. The court was hearing pleas filed by the Indian Broadcasting Foundation, Film and Television Producers Guild of India, Zee Entertainment Enterprises Limited, Sony Pictures Networks, Disney Board, Asianet Star Communication, and Star India. Challenging the TRAI order, the petitions state that “The restriction impinges (on) the fundamental right guaranteed to them under Article 19, 1 a (freedom of speech and expression) and 19, 1 g (practise any profession or to carry on any occupation, trade or business) of the Indian Constitution.” On January 1, 2020, the regulatory authority had introduced new rules that reduces the cost of a channel from the existing Rs. 19 to Rs. 12 for the television broadcasters to include it in their pack.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hc-reserves-order-on-pleas-against-trais-tariff-order/article32340350.ece
13 August 2020||Mumbai,||IMD forecasts heavy rain in Mumbai||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Wednesday predicted heavy rainfall at isolated places in Mumbai and intense showers in neighbouring districts for the next 24 hours. A brown alert of heavy to very heavy rainfall has been issued for Raigad, Nashik and Pune, an IMD official said. Isolated places in Mumbai are likely to receive heavy rain, while Thane, Raigad and Ratnagiri will witness more intense showers for the next 24 hours, the official said. “Mumbai, western suburbs, parts of Thane and Navi Mumbai received more than 60 mm rainfall in the last six hours at 2.30 pm,” tweeted K.S. Hosalikar, deputy director general of IMD Mumbai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/imd-forecasts-heavy-rain-in-mumbai/article32340356.ece
13 August 2020||Mumbai,||Aaditya to head Padma panel in Maharashtra||The Maharashtra government has set up a committee headed by State Tourism Minister Aaditya Thackeray to recommend names of eminent personalities for the Padma awards to be declared next year. A GR published on August 11 said the Centre had directed the State government to recommend names for the awards that will be declared on January 26, 2021. Accordingly, a nine-member committee headed by Aaditya Thackerayhas been constituted. Leader of Opposition in the Legislative Council Praveen Darekar said there were many deserving ministers in the State Cabinet who could have headed the committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/aaditya-to-head-padma-panel-in-maharashtra/article32340351.ece
13 August 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Govt. okays speed boat ambulance between Mandwa and Gateway||The Maharashtra government has cleared a speed boat ambulance service between the Gateway of India in Mumbai and Mandwa jetty in Raigad district. The demand for the ambulance was made by Nationalist Congress Party MLA Aditi Tatkare, this year, after she was appointed as the Guardian Minister for Raigad. “This request, made seven months ago, was for this ambulance service as a pilot project to help critical patients from Raigad reach Mumbai hospitals in a short time. A speed boat can cover the distance between the jetty and the Gateway in 20 minutes,” Ms. Tatkare said. The journey by road takes at least three hours. If this pilot project is successful, more boats could be added and the service could be extended to Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg. It will, however, take at least six months before the service becomes operational. The budget for the speed boat ambulance is expected to be approximately Rs. 6 crore. It will be the first waterway ambulance in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/govt-okays-speed-boat-ambulance-between-mandwa-and-gateway/article32340357.ece
13 August 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra records highest single-day recoveries at 13,408||Maharashtra reported a spike of 12,712 new COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the State’s total case tally to 5,48,313. A high fatality surge of 344 took the death toll to 18,650. However, the increase in number of cases — the State’s second-highest single-day spike so far — was offset by the highest number of recoveries in a day, with 13,408 patients being discharged in the last 24 hours taking the cumulative recoveries to 3,81,483. The State accounts for nearly 20% of the country’s total cases. This is the third time in less than five days that it has recorded a single-day jump of over 12,000 cases, with the highest spike of 12,822 cases being recorded on August 8. The State’s active case tally currently stands at 1,47,513 with the recovery rate rising to 69.74%, said State Health Department officials. “Till date, of 29,08,887 laboratory samples, 5,48,313 (18.84%) have tested positive, with nearly 71,000 samples being tested across the State in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate, adding that the State’s case fatality rate stood at 3.4%. Surge in Pune As per State health department figures, Pune district reported another surge of nearly 3,000 new cases and 41 deaths, taking its total case tally to 1,19,628 while its death toll reached 2,865. The district administration, however, said the number of active cases had come down to less than 26,000 with the district’s recovery rate rising above 75%. Mumbai city reported 1,132 new cases as its total case tally reached 1,26,356 of whom only 19,047 are active. With 50 new deaths reported on Wednesday, the death toll has risen to 6,943. After Mumbai and Pune, Nashik in north Maharashtra reported a sharp surge of 28 fatalities, taking its total death toll to 616. The district also witnessed a record-high surge of 1,138 fresh cases taking its total tally to 22,577, of which 7,621 are active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/maharashtra-records-highest-single-day-recoveries-at-13408/article32340348.ece
13 August 2020||Pune,||IISER Bhopal scientists’ study on seed germination may lead to crop improvement||A team of researchers at the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER), Bhopal, has conducted a study on seed germination that could have a major impact on agriculture in the long run by helping determine the optimum timing of seed germination and thus ensure high plant yields. The work carried out by Premachandran Yadukrishnan, P. Valappil Rahul and Nevedha Ravindran under the guidance of Sourav Datta, associate professor at the department of biological sciences at IISER, focused on the interplay between plant hormones like abscisic acid (ABA) which inhibit the sprouting of the seed and environmental cues like light (which promotes the sprouting process) and darkness. Their findings were recently published in two U.S.-based publications: The Plant Journal and Plant Physiology . Post-germination growth Although ABA, a ubiquitous plant hormone, was discovered almost 80 years ago and the mechanisms underlying germination inhibition by this protein have been the subject of intensive research, there is scant knowledge about the mechanisms controlled by ABA for arresting the post-germination growth in response to environmental cues. This is the gap that the IISER team has attempted to bridge with its experiments. “All plants, depending on their external environment, make the decision to open its embryonic leaves after sprouting or to enforce a growth arrest. Being ‘sessile’ [fixed to a place], plants have an extraordinary sensing mechanism to allow them assess environmental conditions before a seed decides to open up and establish as a young seedling. Like humans, plants, too, have hormones like ABA that modulate their growth and development,” Mr. Datta said, adding that just like humans were forced to mediate a COVID-19-induced lockdown, plants, too mediate a “developmental lockdown” under stressful conditions to ensure their survival. He said that just after sprouting, the young seed must take a crucial decision on whether to go ahead with the ‘seedling establishment’ process (the critical stage of plant growth) or not. The ‘right decision’ taken by the young seed ultimately allows it to secure its independence and take care of itself as it matures into an adult plant. ‘Stress defence’ “It is analogous to the baby steps in humans before a child can stand on its own feet and walk. Making the right decision in the allocation of resources to growth or stress responses is critical for the successful establishment of seedlings. If seeds germinate in adverse environmental conditions, seedlings ultimately risk expediting precious energy in ‘stress defence’ rather than growth,” Mr. Datta said. Mr. Datta said understanding the complex factors that modulate ABA sensitivity is vital to developing economically important plant varieties that have better tolerance to stress conditions. The results of the study, though in its elementary phase, are vital as they come at a time when frustrated farmers across Maharashtra have lodged thousands of complaints against seed companies, alleging them of having provided them with seeds that failed to germinate. Over the past two months, more than one lakh farmers in Maharashtra have lodged complaints against seed companies, prompting the State Agriculture department to lodge over 75 FIRs against seed companies for giving soybean seeds to farmers which failed to germinate. ‘Master regulator’ Explaining the critical role of ABA, Mr. Yadukrishnan said the protein acts as a ‘master regulator’ of the seed’s growth by controlling several aspects of plant development, including seed dormancy and germination, as well as controlling growth under adverse conditions such as drought or salinity. “Considering that survival in such conditions can be really challenging, the ABA signals the seed not to germinate until there are favourable conditions for growth. If the stress comes after the germination of a seed, ABA suppresses further growth of the seedling. This inhibition leads the seedling to invest its energies less in its growth and more in ‘defence mechanisms’ designed to ensure its survival,” he said. Mr. Yadukrishnan said that their research proved that the inhibition of seedling growth by ABA is much stronger in darkness as compared to light conditions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/iiser-bhopal-scientists-study-on-seed-germination-may-lead-to-crop-improvement/article32340355.ece
13 August 2020||August 13 2020 00:00 IST,||A supporter of criminal justice reform||Presumptive Democratic Vice Presidential candidate Kamala Harris’s connect with the African-American and Indian-American communities will be scrutinised as her campaign advances. In a country that is in the throes of a debate on race and policing, Ms. Harris’s African-American heritage but also her former role as a prosecutor is expected to come to the fore. During the Democratic primaries, Ms. Harris had outlined her plans for criminal justice reform that included legalising marijuana, abolishing the death penalty and banning private prisons. However, her record as California Attorney General had been criticised, especially by the progressive wing of the Democratic party, for continuing with establishment policies which, for instance, disproportionately incarcerated African Americans. Sanders welcomes move On Tuesday, however, other former presidential candidates, progressive Senators Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren, welcomed the announcement that Ms. Harris would be on the ticket. “She understands what it takes to stand up for working people, fight for health care for all, and take down the most corrupt administration in history. Let’s get to work and win,” Mr. Sanders tweeted. More recently, following the death of George Floyd, the unarmed black man killed in Minneapolis by police, Ms. Harris co-sponsored legislation in the Senate for justice reform. In April, she introduced legislation to address the impact of COVID-19 on minority communities, whom the disease affects disproportionately. Last year, Ms. Harris was a lead co-sponsor for legislation (which ultimately did not pass) whose impact would be to increase the number of green cards that could go to countries like India and China, which normally max out their annual resident visa quotas. Indian culture On the topic of her ethnicity, Ms. Harris has said she has not spent a lot of time trying to categorise herself. “You might need to figure it out, but I’m fine with it,” she had said in an interview to the Washington Post . In her book The Truths We Hold , she talks about being raised with a “strong awareness and appreciation” for Indian culture. Her Indian mother, who was also a civil rights activist, knew that American society would view Kamala and her sister Maya Harris as black, so raised them to be “confident, proud black women”. Around 1.3 million Indian Americans are likely to vote in November — a small but rich and increasingly politically active demographic. The Biden-Harris ticket is likely to mobilise funds from Indian Americans. “Indian Americans have already become a source of support and funding as evidenced by the 2020 primaries where several million dollars were raised by all the presidential candidates,” said M.R. Rangaswami, founder of diaspora organisation Indiaspora. “Kamala Harris is an incredibly charismatic person who will resonate with our community,” Mr. Rangaswami told The Hindu . Fundraisers are already being organised for her to raise “several millions [ of dollars] more”, he said. Impact, an advocacy group and Political Action Committee (PAC) that describes itself as helping Indian Americans run and win political office, announced that it plans to raise $10 million for “candidates who share our values like Senator Harris”. Mr. Biden’s choice of Ms. Harris as running mate is likely to impact funding more than voting choice, according to Devesh Kapur, a professor of South Asia at the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies. “Given how polarised the country is, most voters have already made up their minds. They will not change their vote. Her nomination will make a difference only to the relatively small number of undecided (Indian-American) voters,” Mr. Kapur told The Hindu . With many Indian-American voters are in deep-blue (highly Democrat) States and the Northeast, shifts in their votes will not have a major impact, as per Mr. Kapur. While the number of Indian Americans has been growing in Florida, Georgia, Texas, their relatively small numbers (many are non-citizens) will not have an impact unless the elections are close in those States. Responding to the announcement, U.S. President Donald Trump said he was “a little surprised” that Mr. Biden picked Ms. Harris and characterised as “extraordinarily nasty” Ms. Harris’s questioning of the then-Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh during his Senate confirmation. Ms. Harris had questioned the candidate Justice on multiple sexual assault accusations and any links he might have had with the Mueller probe into Russian meddling into the 2016 U.S. elections. ‘Very happy’ Ms. Harris’s maternal uncle G. Balanchandran, speaking to The Hindu from New Delhi, said he was not surprised by the news but was “very happy” to hear it. As a follower of U.S. politics, Mr Balachandran said he thought his niece “was one of the best” of all the VP candidates being considered. “Anybody who has listened to a Senate hearing would know, she can grill them like nobody’s business.” Mr. Balachandran, an academic and one time journalist with The Hindu , said. A second reason for his not being surprised was Ms. Harris’s middle-of-the-road approach to issues. “She’s not very dogmatic,” Mr. Balachandran said . “My sister Shyamala would have been extremely happy… and my parents [Ms. Harris’s grandparents] would have been very happy,” Mr. Balachandran said. Ms. Harris is married to Douglas Emhoff, an attorney, and has two step-children through him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/a-supporter-of-criminal-justice-reform/article32340065.ece
13 August 2020||CHENNAI,||‘Harris’s appointment could drive 2020 poll campaign’||Wednesday’s announcement of Kamala Harris being named as the running mate of Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden could become one of the key drivers of the 2020 campaign given the ongoing immigration debate in the U.S., according to Washington Post columnist David Ignatius. “I think the theme of her life, her background, her connections to both the African-American community and the Indian-American community, are going to be one of the drivers of the campaign,” Mr. Ignatius said. “We are coming from a Trump administration that is very much looking inward, at ‘America First’, and in some instances an outspokenly anti-immigration administration. Now, we have in a ticket in the VP [Vice President] slot somebody who directly embodies the strengths of [our] diverse culture.” Rebuilding ties Mr. Ignatius, who is a leading American writer on foreign affairs, said that a possible Biden-Harris administration would focus more on rebuilding U.S. relations with allies and partners, including India, and likely have a different view on the role of multilateralism with respect to trade. One of President Trump’s first acts in office was to withdraw from the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) trade deal. “The inability to politically carry through the TPP was one of the biggest mistakes of American foreign policy in the last few decades,” he said, speaking at a virtual forum held by the Synergia Foundation, a strategic affairs think-tank. “It was an agreement that created momentum that would have been undesirable for the Chinese. Perhaps there will be a way to find a new version of that.” He expected “new attention” on allies and partners including India. “We will turn to India for conversations on the shape of Asia, we will turn to Japan too. If the U.S. is sensible and doesn’t go about alienating allies that it is lucky to have, it begins with an enormous advantage [vis-a-vis China].” He said “the degree of Chinese assertiveness will be a driver” in shaping India-U.S. relations, and the “fact that the U.S. and India talk with such clarity and shared interest with China” was itself a recent development.  Economic aspect Former National Security Adviser Shivshankar Menon agreed with Mr. Ignatius that “it is not the time for an Asian NATO” and today’s situation was not similar to a bipolar Cold War era. “Today’s problem is anarchy and opportunism, rather than a fixed bipolar world where we are operating,” he said. “Our primary congruence with the U.S. is really maritime.” While the “time is ripe for a much more active U.S. involvement” in Asia, Mr. Menon said the economic aspect should be one focus, with the region “looking like China’s economic sphere” with the U.S. withdrawal from the TPP and India also walking away from the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) deal. “It would make sense if the U.S. re-engages economically, with the TPP or a version of it that brings the Indo-Pacific together,” he said. Traditional values On the likely foreign policy priorities of a possible Biden administration, Mr. Menon expected “a return to some traditional values like democracy, human rights and fundamentally to more multilateralism” and working with institutions. Both agreed there would, however, be some continuity in dealing with China, with a “consensus” emerging in the U.S. on a harder line in dealing with China’s rise. Mr. Menon noted that approval ratings of the U.S. were higher than he could ever remember in India. “What China's behaviour has done is revitalise the Quad [the U.S.-India-Japan-Australia grouping], and has got those of us on China’s periphery working together in ways that would not have been possible years ago,” he said. “If the U.S. comes back looking for allies, she will find willing partners.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/harriss-appointment-could-drive-2020-poll-campaign/article32340061.ece
13 August 2020||Taipei,||China warns U.S. against ‘playing with fire’||China warned Washington not to “play with fire” on Wednesday as a U.S. delegation wrapped up a historic trip to the self-ruled island of Taiwan. Beijing has been infuriated by the highest-profile visit in decades to Taiwan, which it sees as part of its territory, as U.S.-China relations plunge to a record low over a range of issues from trade to military and the COVID-19 pandemic. Health chief Alex Azar finished a three-day visit to Taiwan, during which he criticised China’s handling of the pandemic and visited the shrine of a former Taiwan President hated by the Communist Party leadership. Beijing slammed the visit Wednesday and said it “firmly opposes official exchanges between the U.S. and Taiwan under any pretext”. “On issues involving China’s core interests, some people in the U.S. must not harbour illusions, those who play with fire will get burned,” said Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian at a regular press briefing. “I would also like to remind the Taiwan authorities not to be... subservient to others, to rely on the support of foreigners, and to be bent on pursuing independence, which is a dead end,” Mr. Zhao said. On the last day of the trip, Mr. Azar visited a shrine to Taiwan’s late President Lee Teng-hui on Wednesday, praising his role in steering the island’s transition to democracy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-warns-us-against-playing-with-fire/article32340062.ece
13 August 2020||COLOMBO,||Sri Lanka Cabinet sworn in||Sri Lankan President Gotabaya Rajapaksa on Wednesday appointed a 26-member Cabinet and a team of junior Ministers, following the ruling party’s resounding victory in the election. The Cabinet was sworn in at a festive ceremony held at the famed ‘Temple of the Sacred Tooth Relic’ in the central Kandy district. The symbolism, which speaks to the brothers’ core Sinhala-Buddhist support base, was in line with that of President Gotabaya Rajapaksa’s own swearing in ceremony, following his big win in November, near the Ruwanwelisaya, a Buddhist shrine in the historic city of Anuradhapura. On Sunday, Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa took the oath of office at the Kelaniya Raja Maha Vihara, a famous Buddhist temple near Colombo. 5 from family The newly installed government has three Rajapaksa brothers and two of their sons holding ministerial positions. According to a press release issued by the Presidential Media Division, President Gotabaya Rajapaksa is Minister of Defence, while Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa holds three Ministries — Finance, Cultural Affairs and Urban Development. Their elder brother Chamal Rajapaksa is Cabinet Minister for Irrigation, in addition to being appointed State Minister for Internal Security, Home Affairs and Disaster Management. The Prime Minister’s son and legislator from the southern Hambantota district Namal Rajapaksa has been named Cabinet Minister for Youth and Sports Affairs. His cousin Shasheendra Rajapaksa, son of Mr. Chamal Rajapaksa, is a junior Minister for High Tech Agriculture, the media release said. Significantly, former President Maithripala Sirisena, who was elected to Parliament from Polonnaruwa district, was not on the list. Meanwhile, some Sri Lankans on social media questioned the legality of President Rajapaksa holding a ministerial portfolio, citing the 19th Amendment, a 2015 legislation that sought to clip the President’s executive powers. When contacted, a senior official in government said it was because the 19th Amendment was “convoluted”, that the current administration wants to repeal it. “The basis for the President assuming charge of the Defence Ministry is Article 4 of our Constitution,” the official told The Hindu , citing the Article which says: “the executive power of the People, including the defence of Sri Lanka, shall be exercised by the President”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sri-lanka-cabinet-sworn-in/article32340064.ece
13 August 2020||Taipei,||‘Data on Russia vaccine not transparent’||Washington’s health chief on Wednesday expressed scepticism about Russia’s claim of developing the world’s first safe COVID-19 vaccine, pointing to the lack of data from its trials. Moscow said on Tuesday that its vaccine offered “sustainable immunity” against the virus, but scientists have previously raised concerns about the development speed of Russian treatments, suggesting that researchers were cutting corners. U.S. Health Secretary Alex Azar echoed those concerns on Wednesday as he wrapped up a three-day visit to Taiwan. “It’s important that we provide safe, effective vaccines and that the data be transparent... This is not a race to be first,” he told reporters. “I should note that two of the six U.S. vaccines that we’ve invested in entered the phase three clinical trials weeks ago that the Russian vaccine is now only beginning,” he added. “The data from the initial trials in Russia have not been disclosed, it’s not transparent.” Russian President Vladimir Putin said the vaccine was safe, and that one of his daughters had received a dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/data-on-russia-vaccine-not-transparent/article32340068.ece
13 August 2020||August 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Festival fervour||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/festival-fervour/article32340127.ece
13 August 2020||New York,||New York, Aug 12, 2020 (AFP) -||Sumner Redstone, who built a media empire that includes ViacomCBS with a string of high-profile takeovers, has died at the age of 97, his companies said on Wednesday.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/new-york-aug-12-2020-afp/article32340067.ece
13 August 2020||August 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Stop the dismantling of environmental rules||The Sanskrit words, ‘Prakriti Rakshati Rakshita’, greet visitors at the Indira Paryavaran Bhawan, the home of the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, (MoEF&CC). They mean ‘nature protects, if she is protected’. This ancient Indic wisdom inspired Indira Gandhi throughout her life, as referenced in many of her letters and files. She shared a deep kinship with nature. She was also cognisant that the environment cannot be protected without eradicating poverty. The origins and spread of the global novel coronavirus pandemic and its catastrophic impact are a warning to the entire world. The protection of the environment must go hand in hand with promoting public health and access to dignified livelihoods for all. Erosion of the framework India with its rich biodiversity and widespread inequality must especially pay heed now. Our nation has all too often sacrificed the environment and the rights of our people while chasing the chimera of unbridled economic growth. Of course, progress requires trade-offs, but there must always be boundaries that cannot be transgressed. But over the past six years, the government has thoughtlessly — or worse, with intent — eroded our environmental protection framework. The biennial global Environmental Performance Index report has consistently put India at the bottom of its rankings. We were an alarming 177th out of 180 countries in 2018, faring badly on virtually all indicators — environmental health policy, biodiversity and habitat, air and water pollution and climate change. The pandemic should have made the government reflect and reconsider its environmental and public health governance. Instead, the Ministry is handing out clearances during the lockdown without proper public consultations. The announcement of coal auctions by the Prime Minister in previously declared ‘no go’ areas, signals that the government is in no mood to course-correct. The disastrous Draft Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA), 2020 Notification, which among other provisions, gives a clean chit to polluters violating environmental regulations through ex-post facto approvals, will unleash unprecedented devastation on our environment. Opaque reviews It was apparent that a Narendra Modi-led Bharatiya Janata Party government would be destructive to India’s environment going by Mr. Modi’s track record in Gujarat as Chief Minister. During the 2014 election campaign, Mr. Modi slandered the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government and the Environment Ministry for being an impediment to the nation’s growth. From the very start, the government has desperately sought to project an image of ‘Ease of Doing Business’ to the world, mindless of consequences. It formed multiple committees, diluted laws and regulations across the board, and opened up vast tracts of forest land to a select few in the private sector. In 2014, the T.S.R. Subramanian Committee was set up to review six major environmental laws. Another committee was formed to amend the Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ), 2011 Notification. Both faced immense criticism for opacity and not consulting a wide range of stakeholders. The TSR Committee Report was never released, but some of its recommendations were surreptitiously implemented. On similar lines, the 2018 CRZ Notification was rejected by the National Fishworkers Forum and other stakeholders, for threatening the livelihoods of fishing communities and destroying coastal ecology along India’s 7,500-km long coastline. These communities contribute more than Rs. 50,000 crore annually to the Indian economy. They are severely impacted by climate change and natural disasters and are left to fend for themselves by the government. Likewise, the National Board for Wildlife, the Forest Advisory Committee and Expert Appraisal Committees are approving projects in and around protected wildlife areas without following due process. The North Indian plains and the National Capital Region are engulfed in a debilitating smog year after year. According to a study in the British journal, The Lancet , 12.4 lakh deaths i.e. 12.5% of all deaths in India in 2017, could be attributed to air pollution. Yet, there has been no concerted action to address this public health emergency. Instead of stringent measures to control emissions from thermal power plants, the government extended deadlines for compliance and has made a U-turn on clean coal. Attack on Adivasis The government’s greatest assault has been reserved for the land and the rights of Adivasis and other traditional forest dwellers. The historic Forest Rights Act (FRA), 2006 was passed by the UPA government to undo centuries of injustice. Our deep cultural traditions as well as experience from all over the world have demonstrated that well-defined land rights to forest dwellers are beneficial for both marginalised populations and the environment. The twisted interpretation and shoddy implementation of the FRA, 2006, has led to Adivasis and forest-dwelling communities being harassed by the Forest Department. Their legal claims to land are buried in bureaucracy. The FRA link to project approvals has been abandoned in practice, and the curtailment or elimination of public hearings means that civil society and independent or concerned voices are muzzled. Indira Gandhi had once said that forest development corporations had become forest destruction corporations. The veracity of her observation is borne out by several proposals or actions that militate against the interests of forest dwellers. For example, there is a proposal to overhaul the colonial Indian Forest Act, 1927 to give enhanced policing and quasi-judicial powers of the forest officials. It gives forest officials powers to use firearms with unjustified levels of immunity from prosecution. Earlier, the Compensatory Afforestation Fund Act, 2016 was passed by the government in both Houses of Parliament, ignoring the Opposition which pointed out that it bypasses the FRA, 2006, and disempowers Adivasis, forest dwellers and gram sabhas. Promote public health In the name of reforms, the government rolled out the red carpet for crony capitalists, systematically disenfranchised the marginalised and vulnerable populations, and abandoned its responsibility to both domestic and international commitments on climate change and environmental protection. This is a completely wrong way to go about things. The government should recognise it has a social obligation to protect the environment and promote public health. India’s environmental protection framework is not a regulatory burden and the government must incentivise industry to shift its mindset from clearances to compliance. The Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) sector must be subsidised to follow green norms. Nobody denies that India needs a modern EIA framework. But it must be based on best available scientific knowledge, enhanced public participation and regular social audits. The concept of cumulative impacts of projects in a region or ecology — on the Ganga, for example, must be adopted. You cannot have ‘Nirmal Ganga’ without ‘Aviral Ganga’. India as a green hub Simply put, the government must stop dismantling India’s environmental regulations. An essential first step is to withdraw the Draft EIA 2020 Notification. What is essential is widespread public consultation to shape a national agenda that will place India at the forefront of the battle against global warming and pandemics. We have an incredible opportunity to reset our economy and demonstrate leadership to the world with a growth strategy that transforms India into a green manufacturing hub. The erstwhile Planning Commission’s expert group report on low carbon growth strategy and the many suggestions in the 2019 Congress Manifesto can be a starting point. In times of mass reverse migration, environment protection through public works programmes including afforestation and watershed development, can be turned into a grass-roots movement involving youth, women, communities, gram sabhas and non-governmental organisations. Indira Gandhi was the first major world leader to recognise the environmental crisis confronting the world in Stockholm in June 1972. Can India once again rise to the greatest challenges of the 21st century? Sonia Gandhi is the President of the Indian National Congress||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/stop-the-dismantling-of-environmental-rules/article32340048.ece
13 August 2020||August 13 2020 00:00 IST,||How the tiger can regain its stripes||On International Tiger Day, July 29, authorities proudly declared that India should “celebrate” the increase in tigers from about 2,000 in 1970 to about 3,000 now. This is an annual growth rate lower than 1% after 50 years of incredible, sometimes heroic, efforts. Clearly, India has done better than other tiger range countries, but at what cost and what efficiency needs deeper scrutiny. On the same day, a functionary of the Delhi-based Global Tiger Forum admonished us not to aspire, ever, to have more than 3,500 wild tigers. In a country with such an expansive land base, a robust economic foundation, and a rapidly urbanising educated population cheering for the tiger, this dismal projection cannot be our vision. Even a back-of-the-envelope calculation can show that India has the potential to hold 10,000 to 15,000 wild tigers. What is lacking is a pragmatic plan to get to that goal. In contrast to the above dismal scenario, I can report what I witnessed in the Malenad landscape of about 25,000 sq km in Karnataka. Field observations over 50 years and research suggest that there were only around 70 tigers in this landscape in the early 1970s. I had feared they would all be gone soon. The substantial increase of tigers that followed, against all odds, was due to the work of dedicated foresters and conservationists under the leadership of Prime Minister Indira Gandhi. There are now about 400 wild tigers in Malenad. My own estimates, based on long-term research, show that the Malenad forests can potentially harbour about 1,300 cats. Clearly my experience is at odds with the current bureaucratic projections. Mission drift in tiger protection Two legal instruments that enabled tiger recoveries in India were the Wildlife Protection Act of 1972 and the Forest (Conservation) Act of 1980, which reinforced Project Tiger. The political leadership and field efforts behind this recovery had to overcome very difficult social challenges: slow growth of the economy, excessive reliance on forest exploitation for livelihoods and government revenues, dire poverty, and protein dependency on wild meat that drove massive local hunting. These challenges were overcome and tiger recoveries occurred, but only sporadically in a few reserves. Around 2000, things began to change. There was a decline in political commitment to conservation and the gradual transition of the field-oriented Forest Department to one whose primary aspiration was to be like the multitasking Indian Administrative Service. This was followed by unnecessary and massive borrowings from the Global Environment Facility-World Bank combine to create new models for tiger recovery. Some of us conservationists, including Valmik Thapar and the late Sanjoy Debroy, wrote to the World Bank to abandon the proposed eco-development model, but to no avail. This mission drift in tiger protection overlapped with the upsurge of emancipatory political movements for the release of wildlife habitats for cultivation and exploitation by loosely defined “forest-dwellers”. This populist movement led to the implementation of the Forest Rights Act of 2006, which has turned into an open-ended process of forest conversion even within wildlife reserves. Impacts on tiger habitats have been severe. At the end of the 20th century, accompanying these broader social changes, personnel changes too played a part in weakening tiger conservation. When Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee promoted his capable and enterprising Environment Minister Suresh Prabhu, the portfolio landed in the lap of garden-variety politicians of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam. When one of the most capable leaders of Project Tiger, P.K. Sen, retired, he was replaced by a bureaucrat who managed to game the system to stay on for an unprecedented 13 years. The tiger extinction in Sariska Reserve caused a public outcry in 2005, leading to the appointment of a Tiger Task Force (TTF) by Prime Minister Manmohan Singh. Unfortunately, the TTF turned out to be unequal to the task. Its politically correct ideologies and muddled science resulted in a report that created a tiger management model that benefited the forest bureaucracy more than it did the tigers. Based on TTF recommendations, the United Progressive Alliance government began investing heavily, but not very intelligently, in tiger conservation. Excessive funding of a few reserves while neglecting large areas with greater recovery potential became the norm. Progress on voluntary village relocation schemes from within reserves slowed down (except in Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra, where major initiatives funded by these States greatly helped tiger recoveries). Tiger reserve managers were soon attracted to the massively funded eco-development activities originally formulated by the World Bank. In reality, they needlessly replicated the rural development work already being done by several other agencies and NGOs. Another feature of this emergent government monopoly over tiger management was the lack of data transparency and rigorous, independent tiger monitoring. Bound in red tape The tiger was fully bound in red tape. One had hoped when the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) took over in 2014 and began to wind down bureaucracies in favour of new initiatives and enterprise, that the red tape strangling the tiger would also be unwound. But there was no such luck: within two weeks of the NDA assuming power, the same national and international bureaucratic apparatuses that ran the show after 2005 performed a trapeze act and clasped the hands of the new masters. Therefore, the show goes on: One prime example is the aforementioned Global Tiger Forum, an international bureaucracy snugly entrenched in Delhi. It has done so in defiance of its own original charter and attempts by multilateral aid institutions to pry it loose and park it in Southeast Asia. Another case in point is the National Tiger Conservation Authority. It has bloated in size, swallowing up schemes totally unrelated to tigers, such as the recovery of snow leopards and translocation of African cheetahs to India. India needs to get out of this tiger circus. The role of the forest bureaucracy should be once again restricted to wildlife law enforcement. Merging Project Tiger with other Central schemes for wildlife conservation would be a good first step. Government monopoly over domains of tiger conservation such as tiger research, monitoring, nature education, tourism and possibly even conflict mitigation should be erased. The vast reservoir of talent and energy in society should be drawn in to engage with these diverse domains, by involving private enterprises, local communities, NGOs and scientific institutions. India’s tiger conservation needs a reboot to match the scale of the country’s aspirations in other domains — a new vision that encompasses the talents and aspirations of a growing number of citizens who want to save tigers without turning the clock back on material progress. K. Ullas Karanth is Director, Centre for Wildlife Studies, Bengaluru. Views are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/how-the-tiger-can-regain-its-stripes/article32340058.ece
13 August 2020||August 13 2020 00:00 IST,||More than a vaccine, it is about vaccination||Everyone eagerly asks: will we get a COVID-19 vaccine this year or only next year? During a pandemic, expecting vaccines the same year or the next, illustrates the power of technology, human hope, media hype — all at unprecedented frenzy. Where India stands Globally, innumerable vaccine trials are progressing; in India, two candidates have advanced considerably. An inactivated coronavirus vaccine was created by Hyderabad’s Bharat Biotech. It is safe and immunogenic (stimulates anti-coronavirus antibody) in laboratory animals and humans, to be re-confirmed in a phase 2 trial; phase 3 will assess the vaccine’s safety and protective efficacy against COVID-19. Pune’s Serum Institute of India (SII) is testing Oxford University-AstraZeneca’s vaccine using a Trojan horse approach — spiking chimpanzee adenovirus type 5 with coronavirus spike glycoprotein genes. When injected, adenoviruses are detected and devoured by immune system cells patrolling for invading microbes. The smuggled genes force these cells to synthesise and spew out spike protein that is immunogenic. This adenovirus is harmless in humans. The SII is ready to upscale production after regulatory clearances in the United Kingdom and India. Both company-owners have invested heavily, without extramural research support, or advance purchase contract by the government. Both seem to have the best interests of fellow Indians first in their hearts; profit comes second. Risks are a part of the game. Neither company has all its eggs in one basket — confidence in their flagship antigens is not absolute, both are pursuing alternate vaccine candidates also. Some wealthy nations made bilateral financial agreements with manufacturers in order to hog vaccines. Such vaccine nationalism is ‘measles of the world’, borrowing the phrase from Einstein. Global public good should not be hijacked by wealthy nations. Gavi, the global vaccine alliance, created COVAX — a funding facility to ensure up-scaling vaccine production and its access to low income countries as soon as regulatory approvals emerge. COVAX will support the SII with funds to bring down selling-price to $3 per dose. With good news on supply side, what about the delivery side? India’s Universal Immunisation Programme is a vaccine-delivery platform for children and pregnant women, funded by the central government but implemented by State governments. However, the COVID-19 vaccine is for all age groups, necessitating an innovative platform, prioritised on the basis of need. Define policy for clarity The first step is policy definition leading to a plan of action blueprint. The time to create them is now — it costs nothing, but will save time when a vaccine becomes available. Policy emerges from objective(s) for vaccine use in individuals and community. Priority for individual need is to protect those at high risk of death (senior citizens and those with medical co-morbidities) and front-line workers who expose themselves to infection while providing health care. Children may be vaccinated before schools reopen to protect them and prevent infection from being carried home. Vaccine availability will be limited at first, when we must ensure that those on the priority list receive it. Those who already had COVID-19 or novel coronavirus infection require no vaccination; but how can we ascertain that? Past COVID-19 or infection cannot be readily identified unless we track archival information of all laboratory tests and medical records. Information should be made available to the individual and the health management system, for which computerised data are critical. A nationwide database with unique identification details already exists, a valuable resource to identify those who need not be vaccinated. Identifying past asymptomatic infections requires systematic screening for IgG antibody. Antibody positives need not be vaccinated (no harm if vaccinated). All data should be saved permanently. Area-wise estimates of the numbers who need vaccination on a priority basis are necessary. Now is the time for State governments to capture all such data. A community’s need for vaccination is two-fold. All those who must rebuild essential activities, i.e. economic, educational, trade, transport, sociocultural and religious, must be protected. A more ambitious aim is to break the novel coronavirus transmission and eradicate the disease altogether. With India’s notable representation in decision-making bodies of the World Health Organization, India is uniquely positioned to play a crucial role in advocating global eradication of COVID-19. Getting a plan ready We need a vaccine-delivery platform to fulfil all such needs. A practical method is vaccination camps, supervised by a medical officer, staffed by health management and local government, and having the list of people who need vaccination. Information should be updated regularly, deleting those who got infected recently. Enumeration and registration of eligible persons can be started now. Vaccination by appointments will ensure that vaccination is without overcrowding and with minimum waiting time. Post-injection, vaccinated subjects should wait for half-an-hour in case of immediate side effects; emergency drugs to tackle side effects should be readily available. Vaccine trials document the absence of serious side effects. Minor and inconsequential reactions are self-limiting fever, pain and swelling at the injection site. As it would be a new vaccine, all side effects must be documented for first and second doses; medical events during the month following each dose must be captured through phone calls, and analysed to check full safety of the vaccine. Phase 3 trial is usually in healthy volunteers, hence efficacy and safety profile in others will not be available when a vaccine is rolled out. However, senior citizens and those with co-morbidities must be vaccinated by/on priority. Some countries require that a proportion of volunteers should be the elderly and the vulnerable. In India, careful documentation of all side effects in all individuals, senior citizens, those with co-morbidities, and children must supplement trial data on vaccine safety. This ‘post-marketing surveillance’ must be built into the vaccine roll-out. The vaccine regulatory agency should take a call on the special question of vaccine safety during pregnancy. One vaccine is an inactivated virus and the second is a live virus but non-infectious. Both may be assumed to be safe; yet safety in pregnancy must be ascertained in bridge studies that must be conducted as soon as possible. T. Jacob John is retired Professor of Clinical Virology, CMC Vellore, and Past President, Indian Academy of Pediatrics. M.S. Seshadri is retired Professor of Medical Endocrinology, CMC Vellore, and, Medical Director, Thirumalai Mission Hospital, Ranipet, Tamil Nadu||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/more-than-a-vaccine-it-is-about-vaccination/article32340051.ece
13 August 2020||August 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Shutting the door on Huawei||In a dramatic reversal of its decision in January allowing Huawei to have a limited role in its telecommunications network, the U.K. has finally decided to ban the Chinese company. This entails banning U.K. mobile providers from buying new Huawei 5G equipment after the end of this year as well as removing all of Huawei’s 5G kit from their networks by 2027. The U.K.’s Secretary of State for Digital, Culture, Media and Sport, Oliver Dowden, put the blame on U.S. sanctions imposed on Huawei in May. “Given the uncertainty this creates around Huawei’s supply chain, the U.K. can no longer be confident it will be able to guarantee the security of future Huawei 5G equipment,” he said. U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo praised the U.K.’s decision and urged other like-minded countries to “push back” against Beijing’s actions. For its part, China “strongly opposed” the U.K.’s “groundless” ban and warned that it would “take measures to safeguard” the “legitimate interests” of Chinese companies as “any decisions and actions must come at a cost”. The British government has been forthright about the delay in 5G’s roll-out as a consequence of its policy shift and the costs of its decision. At a time when London is looking to engage with major global powers in a post-Brexit environment to enhance its trade ties, this decision, which is likely to alienate China, will come with some serious strategic costs as well. A domino effect across Europe The U.S.’s imposition of sanctions on Huawei in May, which disrupted the company’s global supply of semiconductors, altered the cost calculus for the U.K. The U.K. government had to go in for another round of security review which resulted in the National Security Council’s decision to finally phase off Huawei’s involvement in the country’s 5G network. But the U.S.-U.K. relationship was also facing a moment of reckoning after the U.K.’s January decision to allow Huawei. At a time when the U.S.-China relationship is entering a phase of Cold War 2.0, the Trump administration had made it clear that the U.K.’s “special relationship” with the U.S. was under the scanner. Not only would their security and intelligence ties have been in jeopardy but crucial trade negotiations would have been hampered too. For the Trump administration, the U.K.’s change of stance is a major diplomatic win as it might also convince fence sitters to make a final decision. For Huawei, a domino effect across Europe might pose a serious challenge given that almost a quarter of its sales come from the European market. France also decided to limit the use of Huawei’s 5G kit by issuing limited term licences. This is widely seen as a de facto ban on the Chinese company though the French government has not said it in so many words. Germany too is reducing its reliance on Huawei as the mood against China has soured across Europe. After years of kowtowing to the Chinese, the European Union is becoming more explicit than ever in challenging China. The issues range from China’s initial mishandling of COVID-19 and Beijing’s disinformation campaign in Europe to the new national security law in Hong Kong. China is viewed as a “systemic rival” that is hell bent on challenging the extant global order with all its concomitant treaties, norms and institutions. And Huawei is the latest flashpoint with individual countries shunning the company and the European Commission warning in a recent report that “most Member States have not yet established or communicated clear plans to effectively address existing situations of dependency on high-risk suppliers and prevent future dependencies.” Awaiting India’s response So what once looked like a battle which the U.S. was waging on its own has suddenly been joined by a number of other players. The Indian response is being closely watched. Last year, India had allowed Huawei to participate in 5G trials which could not happen because of the disruptions caused by the pandemic. Today, India-China ties have altered due to the border crisis and Chinese insensitivity to Indian concerns. New Delhi is toughening its posture across domains and it looks rather unlikely that Huawei would get to participate in the 5G network roll-out in India. India is signalling that it is willing to bear economic and technological costs if it means limiting Chinese involvement in critical infrastructure. But what would not be lost on Beijing is that losing such a large market might be a devastating blow to Huawei as well. It is becoming increasingly clear that the decision on Huawei is not merely a technological or economic decision but a fundamentally political decision for most countries. China’s decision to weaponise trade and technology ties might now come back to haunt it as other nations begin to pay back in the same coin. Harsh V. Pant is Director, Studies at the Observer Research Foundation and Professor of International Relations, King’s College London||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/shutting-the-door-on-huawei/article32340054.ece
13 August 2020||August 13 2020 00:00 IST,||A self-reliant foreign policy||Self-reliance is the theme of India’s 74th Independence Day. This concept is commonly associated with the economy and production of key goods and services within the country in light of the global ‘supply shock’ caused by the pandemic. But it also has a parallel dimension in the domain of foreign policy. If the domestic goal is to reduce dependence on imports for critical commodities, the foreign policy corollary is to recalibrate the time-tested axiom of ‘strategic autonomy’. India has historically prided itself as an independent developing country which does not take orders from or succumb to pressure from great powers. Whether the world order was bipolar (1947 to 1991), unipolar (1991 to 2008, when the U.S. entered a long cycle of economic crises and China caught up with it in overall power), or multipolar (present times), the need for autonomy in making foreign policy choices has remained constant. Showing flexibility Yet, strategic autonomy has often been adjusted in India’s history as per the changing milieu. In moments of crisis, India has reinterpreted freedom and shown flexibility for survival. During the 1962 war with China, the high priest of non-alignment, Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru, had to appeal to the U.S. for emergency military aid to stave off the Chinese from “taking over the whole of Eastern India.” In the build-up to the 1971 war with Pakistan, Prime Minister Indira Gandhi had to enter a Treaty of Peace, Friendship and Cooperation with the Soviet Union to ward off both China and the U.S. And in Kargil in 1999, India welcomed a direct intervention by the U.S. to force Pakistan to back down. In all the above examples, India did not become any less autonomous when geopolitical circumstances compelled it to enter into de facto alliance-like cooperation with major powers. Rather, India secured its freedom, sovereignty and territorial integrity by manoeuvering the great power equations and playing the realpolitik game. Today, although there is no prospect of an outright war with China in the wake of its incursions across the Line of Actual Control, India is at an inflection point with regard to strategic autonomy. Non-alignment 2.0 with China and the U.S., as they slide into a new Cold War, makes little sense when India’s security and sovereignty are being challenged primarily by the former rather than the latter. Fears in some quarters that proximity to the U.S. will lead to loss of India’s strategic autonomy are overblown because independent India has never been subordinated to a foreign hegemon. The essence of self-reliance In the threat environment marked by a pushy China, which the U.S. is now beginning to confront frontally, India should aim to have the proverbial cake of American support and also eat the cake i.e., stay as an independent power centre by means of intensified cooperation with middle powers in Asia and around the world. For India, which values freedom, placing all its eggs in the U.S. basket to counterbalance China would be an error, as that can constrict India’s options in other theatres of national interest such as its ties with Iran and Russia and efforts to speed up indigenous defence modernisation. Diversification is the essence of self-reliance. A wide basket of strategic partners, including the U.S., with a sharper focus on constraining China, is the only viable diplomatic way forward in the current emerging multipolar world order. It is no longer a question of picking one out of two titans or oscillating between them. In an era of dense networks, India must reconfigure autonomy to mean what the American scholar Joseph Nye calls ‘power with others’ to accomplish joint goals. We are free and self-reliant not through isolation or alliance with one great power, but only in variable combinations with several like-minded partners. India is familiar with the phrase ‘multi-vector’ foreign policy. It is time to maximise its potential. Sreeram Chaulia is Dean, Jindal School of International Affairs||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-self-reliant-foreign-policy/article32340055.ece
13 August 2020||August 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Mayhem in Minsk||Belarus has seen dramatic political developments over the past few days. First, the Election Commission announced that long-term President Alexander Lukashenko was the winner of Sunday’s election. His main rival, Svetlana Tikhanovskaya, rejected the results and called for a recount. Protests broke out in the capital, Minsk, which was met with a violent security crackdown. At least 2,000 people were detained and dozens injured. Then, as the country was slipping into chaos and anarchy, she fled to neighbouring Lithuania, saying she made “a very difficult decision”. But her campaign committee has said that it would continue to support the protests against the “election fraud”. This was the hardest fought election in Belarus, a former Soviet republic, since the USSR’s disintegration. There has been widespread anger against the government over a stagnant economy. Mr. Lukashenko, often touted as Europe’s last dictator, had cracked down on the Opposition even before the election. Ms. Tikhanovskaya entered the race after her husband and a popular YouTuber, Sergei Tikhanovsky, who was to contest against Mr. Lukashenko, was detained and barred from contesting for allegedly inciting unrest. Throughout the campaigning and the election, the Opposition accused the government of intimidation, cracking down on journalists and activists, and prohibiting independent observers. All these raised doubts about the fairness of the election. It is too early to say if Ms. Tikhanovskaya’s departure would remove the hurdles Mr. Lukashenko faces in extending his term further. If the protests questioning the legitimacy of his presidency continue, at a time of growing economic troubles, it could substantially weaken him. The crisis has already derailed his plans for a strategic realignment in Eastern Europe. In recent years, Belarus, a geopolitical ally of Russia with cultural links, has shown a willingness to work closer with the West. His bet was to raise the strategic profile of his landlocked country at a time when the contest for influence in Eastern Europe between Moscow and Washington was hotting up. But many western countries have condemned the handling of the election and the protests, and called for a peaceful settlement. Moscow immediately sensed an opportunity to cement ties with Belarus, which is an important transit route of Russian gas to Europe as well as a buffer between Russia and European powers. Mr. Lukashenko has nowhere to turn to other than Moscow. He has to decide whether he wants to extend his 26-year reign at any cost or ensure the formation of a legitimate government that could address the country’s vital problems. If he chooses the last, he has to rein in the police, reach out to the Opposition and offer talks to find a peaceful settlement to the crisis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/mayhem-in-minsk/article32340044.ece
13 August 2020||August 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Running mate matters||Presumptive U.S. Democratic nominee and former Vice-President Joe Biden has picked Kamala Harris, Senator from California of Indian descent, as his vice-presidential running mate, a fillip to his party’s connect with African-Americans, the Indian-American community, women and its core base of mainstream liberals. Ms. Harris — her late mother and cancer researcher Shyamala Gopalan hailed from a Chennai-based family, and Jamaican father Donald Harris, a retired Stanford professor — made a name for herself as a tough lawyer, politically ambitious enough to throw her hat in the ring as a Biden challenger in the Democratic primaries. In a close parallel to former President Barack Obama picking his Democratic primaries rival Hillary Clinton for Secretary of State, Mr. Biden chose Ms. Harris from amidst a cohort of strong candidates, including former NSA Susan Rice and Senator from Massachusetts Elizabeth Warren. In picking Ms. Harris, Mr. Biden has consolidated his position at the helm of the Democratic Party mainstream, ensuring a convergence of views with his vice-presidential nominee on race relations, policing and criminal justice reform, immigration, the health-care insurance industry and education policy. The timing of her selection could not be better — as an outspoken leader on racism and a woman of colour, the symbolism of Mr. Biden picking her will offer hope to many, including ‘Black Lives Matter’ activists. Ms. Harris will not only bring to the Biden ticket her broad appeal across the Democratic spectrum, but at 55, will help tip the overall age profile of a potential future Democratic White House in the right direction. However, if her 2020 presidential campaign was indicative, she will need to up her game on critical talking points including her record as a prosecutor in her home State, and on specifics regarding the complex question of health-care reform. More broadly, she and Mr. Biden will have to be prepared for an unusual campaign endgame scenario, with less than three months before Election Day and the COVID-19 pandemic slashing a swathe of economic misery. Will they be able to go beyond the standard Democratic campaign playbook and adroitly craft a fresh approach to take on a politically weakened President Trump, who will nevertheless likely come out guns blazing? Have they pondered the deep lessons of Ms. Clinton’s loss to Mr. Trump in 2016 and come up with robust ideas to alleviate the economic pain of working-class Americans perceived to be the result of policies supporting globalisation and immigration? Will she be able to go toe-to-toe with incumbent Vice-President Mike Pence and yet avoid alienating independent and undecided voters? If the two Democratic leaders on the ticket learn from each other, there is a chance that they might arrive at a winning formula.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/running-mate-matters/article32340043.ece
13 August 2020||August 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Resident Mission in Cuba||The latest instalment of what is described sarcastically by some right-wing critics here as the “pianissimo and fortissimo” of Indian diplomacy is the decision to open a resident mission in Cuba headed by a Charge d’Affaires, while the Ambassador in Mexico will continue to be concurrently accredited to the Castro Government. Instead of posting a junior Foreign Service functionary as is customary in such cases, the Government proposes to appoint a former Youth Congress leader presumably to give some political importance to this gesture. In the normal course, such a decision to have a resident representative in the capital of a country with which India has been maintaining diplomatic relations since long would not have evoked much public interest, even if the appointment was intended to be a sinecure under the spoils system. But in the present topsy-turvy context it is acquiring certain political overtones out of all proportion to its intrinsic importance. In their anxiety to give credence to the charge of subservience to the Soviet Union, the Prime Minister’s political opponents cannot resist the temptation to seize on such instances and project them as part and parcel of a continual process of obeisance to Moscow by the Government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/resident-mission-in-cuba/article32340052.ece
13 August 2020||SOUTHAMPTON,||Selection issues cloud England||England may have won the series opener against Pakistan, but the absence of Ben Stokes leaves it with a selection headache going into Thursday’s second Test at Southampton. The star all-rounder, who will miss the rest of the series as he has travelled to New Zealand to be with his ill father, has been replaced by uncapped seamer Ollie Robinson. Jos Buttler underlined his skill in a run-chase last week but the wicketkeeper had a poor match with the gloves. England does have the option to recall Ben Foakes, regarded as a better ’keeper, and play Buttler purely as a batsman.  Pakistan coach Misbah-ul-Haq insisted his side could recover from the agonising loss. “We need to improve 10 to 15% and deal with pressure situations a little better but we shouldn’t be mentally down,” said Misbah. Azhar Ali, who has just one fifty in 10 innings since becoming skipper, denied captaincy was affecting his batting. Should Pakistan have concerns about the fitness of the pace trio of Mohammad Abbas, Shaheen Afridi and Naseem Shah, it could bring in another quick, Sohail Khan.  The teams (from): England: Joe Root (Capt.), James Anderson, Jofra Archer, Dominic Bess, Stuart Broad, Rory Burns, Jos Buttler (wk), Zak Crawley, Sam Curran, Ollie Pope, Ollie Robinson, Dom Sibley, Chris Woakes and Mark Wood.   Pakistan: Azhar Ali (Capt.), Babar Azam, Abid Ali, Asad Shafiq, Fawad Alam, Imam-ul-Haq, Kashif Bhatti, Mohammad Abbas, Mohammad Rizwan (wk), Naseem Shah, Sarfaraz Ahmed (wk), Shadab Khan, Shaheen Afridi, Shan Masood, Sohail Khan and Yasir Shah.   Umpires: Richard Kettleborough and Michael Gough; TV umpire: Richard Illingworth; Reserve umpire: Martin Saggers; Match referee: Chris Broad.   Match starts at 3.30 pm IST .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/selection-issues-cloud-england-in-stokes-absence/article32340201.ece
13 August 2020||MUMBAI,||Utilise the expertise of former players, says Rahul Dravid||NCA chief Rahul Dravid wants the expertise of former players to be used as much as possible in the State teams’ set-up. The legendary India batsman made this suggestion while interacting with members of affiliated units during a webinar organised by the BCCI. The secretaries and cricket operation heads of many State units joined a webinar which was attended by Dravid, BCCI-NCA head of Education Sujith Somasundar (also a former India ODI opener) and trainer Ashish Kaushik. “Rahul never said that it was mandatory, but his suggestion to States was that we should try and use former players in their area of expertise,” said a secretary of one of the State units who attended the webinar. “If they can be integrated in the set-up, their experience and expertise will not go waste.” According to the official, NCA was planning a two-phased training resumption — virtual and physical. “Virtual training will be the way forward. In the current circumstances, it will be difficut for 25 to 30 players to train together. So the State team’s trainers and phyios will have to help players ‘virtually’, and a few can come and train physically phasewise,” he said.  If they can be integrated in the set-up, their experience will not go waste, feels Dravid||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/utilise-the-expertise-of-former-players-says-rahul-dravid/article32340203.ece
13 August 2020||CHENNAI,||Eli Sabia extends stay at CFC||Chennaiyin FC, on Wednesday, announced that Brazilian defender Eli Sabia has signed a contract extension that will see the 31-year-old feature in the 2020-21 campaign for the two-time Indian Super League champion. Experienced centre-back Eli started in 19 of Chennaiyin’s 21 games last season as it put together a stunning run to the final. “I am delighted beyond words to continue my time at Chennaiyin. The love that my family and I have received from the club, fans, and the city of Chennai is unmatched. We have unfinished business from last season after we fell just short in the final. We go again in the new season with renewed hope and determination to bring a third ISL title to Chennai,” Eli said from his Santa Catarina residence in Brazil.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/eli-sabia-extends-stay-at-cfc/article32340241.ece
13 August 2020||Chennai,||Jadeja brings in dynamism and a tireless spirit to CSK||Ravi Shastri cast his gaze on the pristine blue waters of the Bay of Bengal in the team hotel at Visakhapatnam. Then he spoke. “The way Jaddu [Ravindra Jadeja] was batting, if you closed your eyes for a moment and opened them again, it appeared as if Sir Garry Sobers was out there.” Deep down, the shrewd Shastri comprehended he was exaggerating — Sobers is the greatest genius the game has witnessed — but this is the manner in which the Indian coach lifts his men; a mindgame if you like. Explosive strokeplayer Particularly, if the innings in question was a thrill-a-minute 77 of gorgeous, yet explosive, strokeplay — the protagonist was light on his feet and heavy with his strokes — and under a cloud-cover, on a seaming Manchester track in the World Cup semifinal against New Zealand. From 92 for six, India nearly made it with Jadeja batting with timing and poise, power and belief, falling at the brink. At 31, Jadeja is at the peak of his powers; bowling with control, batting with assurance and being one of the three sensational allround fielders along with Ben Stokes and Martin Guptill. From being a foil for R. Ashwin, he has evolved as a spinner with control and subtle variations. With the bat, he is applying himself. Now, each time India plays a Test outside the subcontinent, there invariably is a debate about the lone spinner. His numbers reflect his value; 1,869 runs (avg: 35.26) and 213 wickets (avg: 24.62) in 49 Tests. And his 86 not out, against England at the Oval, 2018, showcased his judgement around off-stump, adding another dimension to his batting. To the CSK, he brings enterprise, dynamism and a tireless spirit, forming a bond with skipper M.S. Dhoni. The pitches in UAE should suit this left-armer with clever use of the crease, alterations in pace, turn and accuracy. If the ball grips Jadeja is in business in the IPL. He operates capably to the southpaws from over-the-wicket, straightening his deliveries, has worked on his arm ball. While his cameos of freshness and freedom have swung games, left-armer Jadeja is ace in the spin pack — he has 81 scalps at 102 IPL matches for CSK at 24.84 — along with Harbhajan’s varied off-spin and Imran Tahir’s bamboozling leg-spin. UAE will be hot, but Jadeja could be hotter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jadeja-brings-in-dynamism-and-a-tireless-spirit-to-csk/article32340243.ece
13 August 2020||Madrid,||Current form points to Atletico Madrid||Atletico Madrid’s triumph over Liverpool in March was a throwback to a more celebrated past under Diego Simeone, but five months on and the Champions League offers it a very real opportunity in the present. Knocking out the holder at Anfield may prove to be the first glimpse of a new era under Simeone. Or it could be a last hurrah for the Simeone project, which some believe will never again scale the heights of the incredible La Liga title win in 2014 or the run to the Champion League finals in 2014 and 2016. Atletico has been unbeaten in the 11 games after resumption. It won seven matches and drew four, one of them against Barcelona. Atletico faces Leipzig on Thursday in a tournament that has gifted it the significantly kinder half of the draw.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/current-form-points-to-atletico-madrid/article32340186.ece
13 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||Sreenidhi FC to feature in I-League||Members of the bid committee of the All India Football Federation and representatives of PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) met over a video conference and decided to award playing rights to Sudeva FC in the Hero I-League 2020-21 and to the Hyderabad-based Sreenidhi FC to join the fray from the 2021-22 edition. “After scrutinising the clarifications sought for from the submitted documents, and also presentations from the respective bidders in the previous meeting the playing rights were awarded,” a statement from AIFF said. With Sudeva FC joining the fray, we now have 12 teams competing in the next Hero I-League. Most significantly, we now have a representation from the Capital,” AIFF senior vice-president Subrata Dutta said. “I would also like to congratulate and welcome Sreenidhi from the 2021-22 edition of the Hero I-League,” AIFF general-secretary Kushal Das said. “Sreenidihi is also a well-organised professional club with good infrastructure and facilities. Their participation would naturally enrich the League from 2021-22 onwards,” he said. Huge motivation “Our club being awarded the playing rights in the I-League is a huge motivation to our efforts to give the sport a new direction in Andhra Pradesh, especially in Vizag,” executive director of Sreenidhi FC K. Abhijit Rao told The Hindu . “The biggest task for us will be to develop an ecosystem which should take the sport to a new high. “We are looking forward to working in coordination with the AP Football Association and hope the Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation would identify a stadium for the club to be its ‘home’ venue,” he said. “We sincerely thank the AIFF panel and all the officials for awarding these rights,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sreenidhi-fc-to-feature-in-i-league/article32340383.ece
13 August 2020||Kochi,||Samad to stay with Kerala Blasters||With many Indian Super League clubs appearing keen on signing him, Kerala Blasters FC has offered a three-year contract extension to its talented international Sahal Abdul Samad which will keep the 23-year-old UAE-born Kerala midfielder in Kochi till 2025. Samad played in the Blasters’ reserve team in the 2017-18 Second Division I-League. Breakthrough year The 2018-19 ISL season turned out to be a breakthrough year as was adjudged as the ISL Emerging Player of the Season and the AIFF Emerging Player of the Year. His impressive performances earned him a call-up to the National under-23 team and then to the senior squad for the King’s Cup in Thailand in June 2019. “I have really enjoyed adorning the KBFC crest and playing in front of the loudest fans. I hope to achieve greater feats in the years to come. This is my State, my people and my home. I’m here to continue,” said Samad. “Sahal’s stay with the club is a reaffirmation of his commitment to Kerala and a huge responsibility too. “I’m elated for our fans who will get a chance to enjoy his game in the coming seasons,” said Karolis Skinkys, the Blasters sporting director.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/samad-to-stay-with-kerala-blasters/article32340555.ece
13 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Rejuvenated Bopanna raring to go||After spending five months with his family, especially with his one-year-old daughter Tridha, it will be hard for Rohan Bopanna to get back to the rigour of the professional tennis circuit. Yet, the 40-year-old is happy to resume, partnering Denis Shapovalov of Canada at the U.S. and French Opens. “Denis has been at the IMG Academy in the US. We will be playing the Cincinnati Masters in New York before the US Open, and Rome [Masters] before the French Open”, said Bopanna. Had it not been for the coronavirus pandemic, Bopanna’s family would have accompanied him. He was getting his covid-19 test done, even though there was no travel advice for the same. There will be a test once he gets to the United States. “When we travel to Europe later from the US, there won’t be any quarantine requirement for the tennis people”, observed Bopanna, who has competed in 47 of the last 49 Majors, including the last 41.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rejuvenated-bopanna-raring-to-go/article32340181.ece
13 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Hockey camps to restart from Aug. 19||The Sports Authority of India (SAI) has decided to go-ahead with both the men’s and women’s hockey camps, despite the COVID-19 positive tests among men, from August 19 after completion of the mandatory 14-day quarantine period, observing the SOP and social distancing norms. The players had reached Bengaluru on Aug. 4 after a 45-day break, prior to which they had been stuck at the SAI Centre, mostly without training, for more than 100 days due to the lockdown. Six players had tested positive and were moved to a multi-speciality hospital as a precautionary measure late on Tuesday. The decision was taken after Mandeep Singh was hospitalised late on Monday night when his oxygen levels dropped below normal. The other five — captain Manpreet Singh, Jaskaran Singh, Surender Kumar, Varun Kumar and Krishnan B. Pathak — had earlier been isolated at SAI. Treatment “The decision to hospitalise them was taken so as to ensure that the players were attended to at all times and could be given the best possible treatment. All six athletes are in good health and recovering well,” SAI said in a statement. Men’s coach Graham Reid said the six players would join the camp after recovery and quarantine. The women, however, will all begin training immediately on resumption. “I say it on behalf of the whole squad that we are very happy to be back resuming sports activities and feeling safe. Having spoken to all the players, I have received a positive response from each of them,” women’s chief coach Sjoerd Marijne said. There have been no COVID-19 cases among the women probables. Logistical suport “We will provide all logistical support, as required by the chief coaches of both teams in accordance with SOPs, and ensure that the teams can train in a safe environment,” SAI Regional Director Capt. Ajay Bahl said in a statement.  I say it on behalf of the whole squad that we are very happy to be back resuming sports activities and feeling safe — Sjoerd Marijne, women’s chief coach||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hockey-camps-to-restart-from-aug-19/article32340190.ece
13 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Enjoy the sport before trying to master it: Gopi Chand||Chief National badminton coach P. Gopi Chand feels community coaches and physical education teachers have a big role to play in making the country physically literate (development of fundamental movement and sports skills). Speaking during a webinar on physical literacy, organised by SAI-LNCPE, on Wednesday, Gopi said that the country, in the last 30 years, had developed in numerical literacy (ability to reason and use simple mathematical skills) but gone down in physical literacy. Unburdened Gopi said he started loving sports because his first coach Hamid Hussain didn’t burden him with the basics of badminton from day one. “Hussain sir didn’t teach me the basics of badminton on the first day. It was all fun and [he] ensured that I came back to the stadium. I want all physical education coaches to do what Hamid sir did — make the child love sports. Kids should have a positive experience so that they come back to the stadium,” said Gopi. Playing unstructured sports during his childhood laid the foundation for a career as a sportsperson, Gopi said. Such sports enabled him to learn about discipline, adaptability and leadership and he wanted parents and PE teachers to encourage children to play fun games. Indian focus Gopi felt that there was also a need to promote sports which were fundamentally Indian and less expensive [compared to the West]. “In the western model you need to spend around $10,000 each year on an athlete. But we can promote games which are imbibed in our culture and are less expensive. ‘War games’ like archery, fencing, and wrestling were popular in India even before we started following western sports. All these Indian sports need little space and are less expensive compared to western sports like cricket, golf etc,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/enjoy-the-sport-before-trying-to-master-it-gopi-chand/article32340553.ece
13 August 2020||BENGALURU,||Karun tests positive, recovers||Cricketer Karun Nair tested positive for COVID-19 and has made a full recovery, the batsman confirmed here on Wednesday. It is learnt that Karun had tested positive for coronavirus around two weeks ago. He has since recovered, and tested negative a few days ago, Karun informed The Hindu.  Karun represents Kings XI Punjab in the IPL. The league is set to commence in the UAE on September 19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/karun-tests-positive-recovers/article32340289.ece
13 August 2020||August 13 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Question Jimmy’s ability at your peril’||England captain Joe Root is confident that Jimmy Anderson will soon return to form. “You question Jimmy's record and his ability at your peril,” Root said, ahead of the second Test against Pakistan that starts on Thursday. “He is still as dedicated as ever, working very hard and looking very good in practice. I don't think it will be long before he has another five-for.” Anderson has averaged 41.16 in three Tests this summer, and Root insisted on looking beyond the 38-year-old’s wickets and averages. “There have been occasions this summer where he [Anderson] has created pressure and wickets have come at the other end. It just shows that the greats of the game still have days when it doesn’t come naturally to them,” said Root.  The England-Pakistan second Test will be aired live on Sony Six channels from August 13.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/question-jimmys-ability-at-your-peril/article32340179.ece
13 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Carlsen leads Ding in fourth||Magnus Carlsen continued his remarkable run by taking the first game of the fourth set against a fighting Ding Liren to inch closer to a place in the title-clash of the $300,000 Magnus Carlsen Chess Tour Finals on Wednesday. On Tuesday, Hikaru Nakamura became the first finalist by completing a 3-0 victory over Daniil Dubov in the other best-of-five-set encounter. Nakamura’s 2.5-1.5 victory came after he came out stronger in the third game, the only decisive game of the day.   The results: Set four, Game One: Magnus Carlsen (Nor) bt Ding Liren (Chn). Set three: Carlsen bt Ding 2.5-0.5; Hikaru Nakamura (USA) bt Daniil Dubov (Rus) 2.5-1.5 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/carlsen-leads-ding-in-fourth/article32340184.ece
13 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||Top shuttlers test negative for COVID-19||World champion P.V. Sindhu, B. Sai Praneeth, K. Srikanth, Korean coach Park Tae-Sang and his support staff, and P.V. Ramana, father of Sindhu, tested negative for COVID-19 pandemic at the Gopi Academy on Wednesday. The Olympic probables, minus London Olympics bronze medallist Saina Nehwal who is training at another private Academy as she sought time to join Gopi Academy, had undergone the test on Tuesday as part of the protocol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/top-shuttlers-test-negative-for-covid-19/article32340382.ece
13 August 2020||New Delhi,||Asia’s FIFA WC Qualifiers postponed||The Indian football team will not see any action this year with the Asian qualifying matches for the 2022 FIFA World Cup on Wednesday getting postponed to 2021 owing to the COVID-19 pandemic. The Asian Football Confederation postponed all men’s qualifiers scheduled in October and November for the 2022 World Cup and the 2023 Asian Cup. India’s last international match was the joint qualifying round match against Oman in Muscat in November last year, which they had lost 0-1. Though out of contention for a place in the next round of World Cup qualifiers, India is still in the reckoning for a spot in the 2023 Asian Cup. It was scheduled to play Qatar at home on October 8 followed by matches against Afghanistan (home) and Bangladesh (away) in November. A third-place finish in the group will help India get a direct berth in the third round of the qualifiers for the 2023 Asian Cup.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/asias-fifa-wc-qualifiers-postponed-to-next-year/article32340188.ece
13 August 2020||DUISBERG (Germany),||Ocampos is Sevilla’s hero||Sevilla midfielder Lucas Ocampos headed a late goal to snatch a 1-0 win over Wolverhampton Wanderers as it reached the Europa League semifinals here on Tuesday after the English side paid the price for an early penalty miss. Ocampos rose to direct a cross from fellow Argentine Ever Banega past goalkeeper Rui Patricio in the 88th minute of the single leg match and earn the five-times winner Sevilla a last-four clash with Manchester United. Wolves forward Raul Jimenez missed the best chance in the 13th minute when his hesitant penalty was saved by keeper Bono. Shakhtar Donetsk booked a clash with Inter Milan after goals from Brazilians Junior Moraes, Taison, Alan Patrick and Dodo gave it a thumping 4-1 win over FC Basel in a one-sided last-eight clash at Gelsenkirchen.   Semifinal line-up: Aug. 16 (Cologne): Sevilla vs. Manchester United; Aug. 17 (Dusseldorf): Inter Milan v Shakhtar.   The results (quarterfinals): Shakhtar Donetsk 4 (Moraes 2, Taison 22, Patrick 75-pen, Dodo 88) bt Basel 1 (Van Wolfswinkel 90+2); Wolverhampton Wanderers 0 lost to Sevilla 1 (Ocampos 88).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ocampos-is-sevillas-hero/article32340187.ece
13 August 2020||MUMBAI,||Royals fielding coach tests positive||Rajasthan Royals fielding coach Dishant Yagnik has tested positive for COVID-19 and will not join the rest of the contingent in Mumbai ahead of their departure to the United Arab Emirates for the Indian Premier League’s 2020 edition. While the former Rajasthan wicketkeeper confirmed his test results through a tweet, the franchise issued a detailed statement. Additional test According to the statement, Yagnik’s was an additional test besides the two mandatory tests prescribed by the BCCI before departing for UAE “to ensure as robust a process as possible”. “Dishant is currently in his hometown Udaipur and has been advised to get admitted to hospital for his 14-day quarantine. Post 14 days, Dishant will be undergoing two tests as per the protocols of BCCI. “On return of two negative reports, he will be allowed to join the team after self-isolating for six days and receiving three further negative tests upon his arrival in the UA,” the statement added. Yagnik thus becomes the first member to be tested positive for COVID-19 ahead of the IPL tournament. The pandemic has resulted in the BCCI rescheduling the T20 league’s 2020 edition to UAE from September 19 to November 10. Considering lack of training since March and quarantine protocols, all the eight participating teams are set to leave for UAE between August 19 and 22. While Yagnik sought “blessings” from his well-wishers, he advised individuals who have come in close contact with him in the last 10 days to get tested for the virus as a preventive measure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/royals-fielding-coach-tests-positive/article32340199.ece
13 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||Carrom official Hari Haranath no more||One of the founder-members of the Hyderabad Carrom Association (now Carrom Association of Telangana), B. Hari Haranath, passed away here on Tuesday. He was 87 and survived by a son. Hari was also the former national veterans’ champion and a regular in the Senior nationals for long, having led the State team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/carrom-official-hari-haranath-no-more/article32340384.ece
13 August 2020||Kolkata,||Forest Ministry releases guide to managing human-elephant conflict||The Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change has compiled the best practices of human-elephant conflict management in India. “A variety of management strategies and practices has been developed and customised for implementing at different scales by the State Forest Departments for preventing and mitigating human-elephant conflict,” said the document released by the Ministry earlier this week to mark World Elephant Day (August 12). The publication running over 40 pages presents a pictorial guide and also points out that though the majority of existing prevention strategies are driven by site-specific factors that offer short-term solutions, many interventions adopted have resulted in successfully removing elephants from human habitations. These best practices have been discussed under several categories such as retaining elephants in their natural habitats by creating water sources and management of forest fires. The other best practices include elephant-proof trenches in Tamil Nadu, hanging fences and rubble walls in Karnataka, use of chili smoke in north Bengal and playing the sound of bees or carnivores in Assam. The document also talks about an elephant corridor initiative where 25.37 acres of private land was purchased at Edayarahalli-Doddasampige in Karnataka as part of conservation efforts. Monitoring pachyderms The document details a process of individual identification and monitoring of elephants in south Bengal. Other ideas include sending SMS alerts to warn of elephant presence. Ecologist Raman Sukumar of the Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru, welcomed the publication and said the best practices need to be evaluated. “What we need is to narrow down the set of practices or methods that can be applied on a large scale,” Mr. Sukumar said. The elephant expert recommended cost-benefit analysis for these policies and said that it should be done in context of the economic damage caused by elephants to crops. Practices such as elephant-proof trenches should be discouraged in areas that receive more than 1,500 mm rainfall a year. “Hanging wire electric fences that produce electricity for milliseconds have given positive results. These practices have been tried in Sri Lanka and Tamil Nadu,” Mr. Sukumar said. The document also points out that India has the largest number of wild Asian Elephants, estimated at 29,964 according to the 2017 census by Project Elephant. The figure amounts to about 60% of the species’ global population. “Over 500 humans are killed in encounters with elephants annually, and crops and property worth millions are also damaged. Many elephants are also killed in retaliation due to conflict,” the publication said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-life/forest-ministry-releases-guide-to-managing-human-elephant-conflict/article32340153.ece
13 August 2020||Guwahati,||Forest cover loss threatens hornbills in Arunachal Pradesh||A study based on satellite data has flagged a high rate of deforestation in a major hornbill habitat in Arunachal Pradesh. Using fine-scale satellite imagery, a trio of ecologists assessed the changes in forest cover of the 1,064 sq.km. Papum Reserve Forest (RF) adjoining the Pakke Tiger Reserve as well as a part of Assam affected by illegal felling and ethnic conflict. Papum RF is a nesting habitat of three species of the large, colourful fruit-eating hornbills: Great, Wreathed and Oriental Pied. The 862 sq.km. Pakke reserve houses a fourth species, the Rufous-Necked. The study by Chintan Sheth of the Bengaluru-based National Centre for Biological Sciences and Aparajita Datta and Devathi Parashuram of the Mysuru-based Nature Conservation Foundation was published in Silva Fennica , a forest journal of Finland. “The satellite data pointed to alarming deforestation rates in Papum RF with annual loss rates as high as 8.2 sq.km. as per estimates from 2013-2017 where forest cover declined to 76% of the total RF area,” Mr. Sheth said. “Our results show the loss and degradation of critical hornbill habitat in the biologically rich forests of the Indian Eastern Himalaya,” he added. Illegal logging The ecologists assessed the habitat loss due to illegal logging within a 1 km radius around 29 hornbill nest trees. From 2011 to 2019, the forest cover was found to have declined from 38.55 sq.km. to 21.94 sq.km. around these trees. Illegal logging, however, has however led to fewer tall trees where the birds nest. While the protected areas such as Pakke are better guarded, the forests are often under pressure due to agricultural expansion, conversion to plantations or logging.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-life/tree-loss-in-arunachal-threatens-hornbills/article32340151.ece
13 August 2020||Kolkata,||Tiger gives birth to triplets||A tigress gave birth to three cubs on Wednesday at the North Bengal Wild Animal Park in Siliguri, which has been closed since March due to COVID-19 .“The three cubs and the mother are doing fine. The gender of the cubs is yet to be ascertained, as we cannot go close to Sheela [the tigress] right now,” said Dharamdeo Rai, director of the park. With the three newborns, the number of tigers in the park has risen to seven. The park is spread over 297 hectares and houses one-horned rhinos, Himalayan black bears, elephants, gharials and deer, among other wildlife.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-life/tiger-gives-birth-to-triplets/article32340436.ece
13 August 2020||August 13 2020 07:25 IST,||Sudoku - August 13, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-august-13-2020/article32340842.ece
13 August 2020||August 13 2020 00:00 IST,||#Gymselfies, once again||It was 6 am and Amirtha waited eagerly at the front desk of Slim & Shape gym in Chrompet, Chennai. After a complete shutdown for five months, the gym reopened its doors on August 10. In about 10 minutes, a member arrived — the first of 45 who would turn up on the first day. She recognised him as a student from a college nearby. “We checked his weight; he had gained almost seven kilograms during lockdown. He seemed quite happy to be back,” says Amirtha. Pre-COVID19, the gym received about 100 visitors a day, but Jothi Jayaprasad, who is incharge of HR is upbeat: “This is a good sign of things to come.” In fact, they had to turn away a few people whose ages could not be verified. A State Government order, issued under Unlock 3.0 guidelines, allowing gyms and yoga centres to reopen following social distancing norms, does not allow those under 15 and over 50 to enter a gym. “We will ask people to bring their Aadhaar cards for better identification,” Jothi says. That will be just one of many changes her gym will need to make for the post-COVID-19 world. Under other restrictions like these, in Chennai, standalone gyms have been allowed to function. But what will they look like, over the next year? Social surveillance Bengaluru’s members-only BLVD Club opened its doors on August 7. “Gyms and yoga studios in the State were allowed to open on August 5, but we delayed it by two days, because we wanted to use the time to educate our members about the new safety protocols,” says Emanda Vaz, who heads the institution. The club hosted two-day online sessions to introduce its members to the new rules at its luxury premises. “No one can enter the club without a mask [Government guidelines say people have to wear masks or visors while working out in a gym]. Staff and members will have to go through temperature and oxygen saturation checks at the entrance. At any given point only two users will be allowed in the gym and yoga studio. For this, members will have to book a slot 24 hours in advance. After every slot we will have a 30-minute break to sanitise the area,” says Emanda. The club is advising members to carry their own yoga mats, towels, and sanitisers to minimise the contact between members and staff, and at the end of the day there is deep cleaning of the gym and studio. A similar protocol has been put in place at 10 Gold Gym centres across India, from Bengaluru and Hyderabad to Sirsa and Guwahati. “We do not allow walk-ins. They will first have to book their slots via our app,” says Shraddha Sheth, vice-president, Gold’s Gym India. Even in gyms such as Slim & Shape, which depend on walk-ins, every client has to sign themselves in and out for better tracking, on the off chance of transmission of the virus. As per the rules, wet areas such as saunas and steam showers cannot be used. “We have not made any structural changes to the interior design of the gym, other than aligning the equipment to social distancing norms. In case we cannot move the equipment, we make sure that members only use alternate machines.” The only addition to the gym interiors has been four sanitisation stations, with housekeeping staff in PPE. In Chennai’s SLAM Fitness however, clear plastic dividers have been placed between most equipment including treadmills. “The number of people working out in the one-hour slots has been restricted but we also want to give our clients a comfort zone,” says Anirudh Ram, vice- president at SLAM. Smarter operation Sanitisation has been an additional expenditure for gyms already struggling to meet their maintenance expenses. “We have to spend over Rs. 25,000 for the first batch of sanitisers, masks, and face shields that we purchased. Only after a few weeks, will we have a clearer picture of how much it will cost,” says Emanda. Sailesh Bolisetti, who runs Anytime Fitness in Visakhapatnam, says for the 15 members who now come (previously there would be about 230), the maintenance cost remains the same. “In addition to it, we will be spending over Rs. 20,000 a month on sanitisation,” he says. With such economic pressures, owners are rethinking their business models. Gympik Health Solutions, a software company that connects fitness buffs to centres across the country, recently came out with an ebook, Gym Owner’s Playbook To Survive The COVID-19 Challenge.  “We have spoken to over 200 trainers and gym owners, about how centres should change. Before COVID-19, they focussed more on membership offers, but they need to move towards personal training. People are willing to pay more for that, so even with a smaller number of clients, they will be able to generate the same revenue,” says Amaresh Ojha, founder, Gympik. He bats for hybridisation of the training model, adding a virtual arm. In such a model, people could workout at the gym for two days a week, reducing the load on the centres, and for the rest of the week depend on online Lives. However, of the 15,000 gyms registered with Gympik, “Less than 10% were able to branch into the online space during the lockdown.” Slim & Shape tried it, but their trainers, who had gone back to their villages and towns, did not have reliable Internet connections. Online sessions are a challenge for the humble gyms that dot the country’s urban landscape and are haunts for bodybuilders. “I see it like a temple,” says body-builder Y Annamalai. He works out for a fee of Rs. 200 per month, and trains others at Winners Gym, a small space at Royapuram, Chennai. For him, spending three hours here has been an everyday ritual for the past 30 years. Now he is training his son, Vignesh. “This is the first time in all these years that I have not been able to work out in a gym,” says the 50-year-old who won gold in 1997 in the 70 kilograms category in Mr India. “I felt like I would go mad.” With inputs fromAishwarya Upadhyeand Akila Kannadasan  NUMBER CRUNCHING Gympik’s survey of gym-goers says: 60% would prefer a mixture of online plus on-site workouts 25% would prefer purely online 15% would go for purely onsite workouts   Gyms going digital Gold’s Gym launched a free app about two months after lockdown. It has 1,50,000-2,00,000 live members across 150 clubs, with 35,000 active users on the app, of which 15,000 are non-members and new users. Sarva Yoga launched online innovations (like yoga for immunity) during lockdown and remain online-first. Their centres have a maximum capacity of 200 each, and are running at 60% occupancy. They now have 3,00,000 people from 100 countries who take part in online classes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/gymselfies-once-again/article32340027.ece
13 August 2020||August 13 2020 00:00 IST,||History in hairpin bends||History begins with a road in the planters’ town of Coonoor in the Nilgiris. The Ghat Road, which connected the railhead at Mettupalayam with Udhagamandalam (Ooty), passed through what was then no larger than a Badaga village. Today, that village, about 20 kilometres from the popular hill station Ooty, is Coonoor with a population that has crossed 50,000. “The need for a proper road arose when Udhagamandalam gained popularity as a military sanatorium and a summer retreat, and that is when Coonoor came into existence in 1833,” says Dr PJ Vasanthan, trustee of the NGO, Clean Coonoor. The NGO, with the municipality, recently inaugurated a Coonoor Heritage Gallery. Set in a municipal building near Bedford, it has a rare and fascinating collection of painstakingly sourced maps, sketches, lithographs, watercolours and photographs that trace the history of the town: how it evolved into a municipality with hundreds of plantations, and grew into the hub of natural history and ornithology it is today. In the 1870s, Lieutenant Colonel GV Law, who was part of the Madras Sappers and Miners regiment, undertook the massive task of transforming the modest track meant for cartloads, tongas, and people on horseback into something that was motorable. “The alignment was faulty and the gradient so steep that it had to be relaid with 14 hairpin bends,” explains Vasanthan. Visitors can get an idea of what the track looked like from a lithograph made by Captain Stephen Ponsonsby Peacocke in 1847. A watercolour by Edward Lear in 1870s captures the new ghat road in all its glory. The total population of Coonoor in 1847 included 30 Europeans and 250-plus Indians. Two hundred and fifty acres of land were under coffee and mulberry cultivation. The Europeans were enterprising and developed coffee plantations. Vasanthan culled out this information from a survey report by Lt Col J Ouchterlony. He says a panoramic sketch of Coonoor made by Lieutenant Burton is the most valuable as it is one of the earliest ones to show the town with nine European residences, a local shandy, ‘chettrum’ for Indians and the Davison’s hotel built in the 1800s, which was destroyed in a ﬁre. A new building was erected in its place in 1987 which is today home to the United Planters’ Association of South India, the apex body of planters of tea, coffee, rubber, cardamon and pepper in the southern states of India. Plantation hub “It was primarily a coffee town which later moved to tea cultivation. We have documented the data to ensure that the next generation knows its history,” says Samantha Iyyanna, managing trustee of Clean Coonoor. Among the exhibits are rare finds such as a map of the district sketched by Captain BS Ward in 1822. “Christopher Penn from the UK donated photographs taken by his great grandfather, ATW Penn, a pioneering photographer in the Nilgiris between 1860 and 1880. Water colour sketches and lithos were sourced online from the British Library website while we got the maps from gazettes and manuals,” says Vasanthan. There is a also a section devoted to Ornithology. The first documentation ever of birds in the Nilgiris is credited to TC Jerdon, a pioneering ornithologist, who observed, identified and described bird species in sketches. Jerdon was active in the district between 1839 and 1845. “Species like the Nilgiri flycatcher, Nilgiri laughing thrush, black and orange flycatcher and Malabar lark that are endemic to the Western Ghats can be seen in Coonoor,” says Vasanthan, a physician-turned-bird watcher. William Ruxton Davison (an analytical chemist of the Nilgiri Cinchona Plantations at Naduvattam), listed over 200 bird species during a trip covering the Nilgiris, Wayanad, South Karnataka and Coorg. The section also showcases a series of bird paintings by Miss MargaretCockburn, considered the first bird-woman of the Nilgiris. The gallery narrates landmark moments including Mahatma Gandhi’s visit. Besides heritage buildings such as the Church of All Saint’s and Pasteur Institute, the town is well known for its UNESCO World Heritage site, the Nilgiri Mountain Railway. Many buildings that still stand today are testimony to history, says K Balu, Municipal Commissioner, Coonoor. For example, the first traveller’s bungalow is where the Magistrate Court functions today. He adds, “The gallery informs the public about modern settlements, historical milestones and heritage structures. We want to inspire the younger generation to protect and preserve them. We plan to bring in more exhibits. We have also appealed to the public to contribute rare photos or other artefacts that they may have.”  There will be a virtual tour of the gallery soon.        The first documentation ever of birds in the Nilgiris is credited to TC Jerdon||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/history-in-hairpin-bends/article32340034.ece
13 August 2020||August 13 2020 00:00 IST,||A peregrine spirit||Longevity is a mark of a true academic. Even after retirement, an academic may continue to read, write, publish, deliver occasional lectures, often becoming a nightingale which sings to please its own soul, as Shelley would have it. But it is very rare to know of an academic who had a living relationship with the classroom and his students until he almost dropped dead. That was Professor P Rajani for you, who passed away in Coimbatore last week, leaving academic circles and students across Tamil Nadu in mourning. “I was born in Pakistan in 1939. After Partition in 1947, we came to India because of the rise [in violence] both in Punjab and Sind. Why we came to Coimbatore, I have no idea,” said Dr Rajani about his Sindhi roots in an interview. After his schooling at Stanes Anglo-Indian Higher Secondary School, he graduated from Coimbatore Government Arts College and earned his Master of Arts from Thyagaraja College, Madurai, eventually becoming integrated with the Tamil Nadu milieu. He took his doctorate in English Literature from Madras University and a diploma in Filmmaking too. Though his family was in business, he chose to be an academic. Whenever I asked him to take rest, he replied, “I want to die in harness”. His salad days were spent in Madras Christian College (1968-1998) after brief stints in Government colleges, notably Presidency College in Chennai, until he retired. He wintered in Madras University, for over a decade from 1998 to 2010, like a lingering pelican from Europe enjoying its days in the warm Pallikaranai marsh. He spent his twilight years near Thiruvarur where the Central University of Tamil Nadu was set up (till 2015), briefly in Bharathiyar University, Coimbatore, and finally, in a private college in Sulur before COVID-19 came to snatch his life. He was teaching, directing and staging plays, wherever he worked. The meek came to speak, the timid turned jaunty, the indifferent became involved. His passion was poetry and drama, and his forte, theatre. He felt that women’s roles were not taken seriously in dramatic representations. Hence, his theatre foregrounded women-oriented plays, anticipating the paradigm shift in films today. Some of his women students became directors. It was this awareness of his métier that prompted me to invite him to Madras University to offer courses in Theatre. Very soon, his elective was thrown open to the entire university and the rest is history, as they say. I must acknowledge that my university helped me accommodate Prof Rajani under one scheme or the other over a decade, the crowning one being the Tagore Chair for Theatre followed by Emeritus Professorship. Thanks to Beatrix D’Souza, then Anglo-Indian Member of Parliament, we acquired theatre equipment under the MPLAD Fund. We carried it wherever we went. He taught the students technical skills to handle it. Prof Rajani’s repertoire also widened with the introduction of Australian and Canadian Studies in the University department. He produced culturally thought-provoking plays at international conferences. He produced Sriraman’s English translation of Indira Parthasarathy’s Tamil play, Ramanujar  at TAG Centre, Chennai. The performance was telecast on Doordarshan. Sponsorship from Australian and Canadian High Commissions, and the Fulbright Foundation, was a recognition of his commitment. Even a drab veranda was transformed into a theatre for rehearsals in true Bakhtinian spirit. Prof Rajani was punctual and conscientious however preoccupied he was with theatre. He was generous and took all department work as his own. Fare forward, old voyager!  The writer is Professor and former Head of the Department of English, University of Madras   The meek came to speak, the timid turned jaunty, the indifferent became involved||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-peregrine-spirit/article32339994.ece
13 August 2020||August 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Hip, hop and happening||Hiphop Adhi’s love for the Tamil language is well known. The young musician-actor has spoken about it in multiple forums, even in his films. Last year, he released a research documentary series, Tamizhi , which traces the evolution of the written Tamil script. “I was intrigued seeing a lot of foreigners reacting to that. We need to take Tamil to the world,” he says, over phone. Part of that plan involves dubbing Tamizhi in English and producing another documentary on the same subject that he hopes to send to film festivals. This is in line with what Adhi has been mulling over the past few months during lockdown. “Earlier, we were running around and did not have any time to reflect. We have now, and it’s time we got our priorities right and understand what is important and what isn’t,” he adds. What is important to him is not only spreading the glory of Tamil but also giving a thrust to the independent music scene. Adhi broke into the scene way back in 2012 — with the superhit ‘Hip Hop Tamizha’ — and is set to make a comeback now with ‘Naa Oru Alien’, presented by Think Music. Join the tribe The album’s first single, ‘Net Ah Thoranda’, released to much expectation a few days ago and has already clocked more than a million views; the remaining songs release this weekend. Its six songs (including ‘Dark Horse’, ‘Imayam Enbadhu Mayakkanadi’, ‘Ellame Konjam Kaalam’ and ‘Pogattum Po’) are all musical representations of his current state of mind.  He hopes that this will bring back attention to independent music, something he has been gunning for since his debut in 2012. “Our recent ‘Underground Tribe’ initiative too was a success. We have facilitated the process for people to showcase their talents. You never know... in a few years, we might have a dozen artistes who are bigger than Hip Hop Tamizha. That is a dream I want to make happen,” he adds. The way forward The last few years have also seen Adhi in front of the camera, with successful outings in films like Meesaya Murukku and Natpe Thunai . He next has a “big project” produced by TG Thyagarajan of Sathya Jyothi Films (details of which is expected soon), but assures that he will devote a lot of time to music as well. “My next five years will revolve around creating an independent music industry. I’m coordinating with a lot of aspiring artistes, connecting them with labels and hoping to expand their reach to other parts of the world.” A big inspiration for him in this plan is the influence of Latin trap, a sub-genre of Latin hiphop, in the world music scene. “They are also like us. Ten years ago, there was no music industry there, but today, three of their songs feature in Billboard’s 10 songs. Today, they are a global industry. Why cannot Tamil hiphop also follow suit?” asks Adhi. With his recent songs talking about the need to abstain from negativity, Adhi is, in his own words, “looking at spreading some cheer”. Interestingly, this comes just a few weeks after the controversy surrounding stand-up comedian Jagan Krishnan’s take on his music in the recent Acadummy Awards 2019 . Adhi refuses to be drawn into that, but says that his recent songs are an answer to all his critics. He adds: “I feel people lose focus because they feel they are very important in the virtual world. We have people who post sad things about Sushant Singh’s suicide and troll someone the very next minute. If you look at yourself as a third person and see what you are doing, you will get all the answers for things bothering you. Also, spread some love... it will only come back to you in a beautiful circle.”  Ten years ago, Latin trap was non-existent in the music scene, but today, they are a global industry. Why cannot Tamil hip-hop do the same? Adhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/hip-hop-and-happening/article32340004.ece
13 August 2020||August 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Madras’ indigo story||Deep within Triplicane’s belly, is a shop called Madras Edible Stores. The small space, currently being run by the third generation of the founding family, has something special about it. It is its indigo name board with white lettering. Kaushik Kumar from Akarmaa Foundation, an organisation that works in the fields of education, environment, design, and heritage, interacted with the owners as part of Indigo Boards of Madras, their collective research initiative. “They told me fascinating stories about how the shop was started many years ago by their grandfather,” says the 30-year-old. Indigo boards, remnants from the British era, continue to hang from rusty nails at some of Chennai’s oldest business establishments. “These boards are historical markers,” feels Kaushik. “They show how much a city has evolved over the years; they are urban planning tools.” Akarmaa did all its on-field research before the pandemic started: the team visited these establishments, spoke to people concerned, collected stories about the locality and how it has changed over the years. Touch of history “We’ve been documenting these boards for five years now,” says Kaushik, adding that they have so far recorded 50 of them in Triplicane, George Town, and Mylapore. The boards, explains Kaushik, have a glossy coating of enamel on tin sheets. “Those days, most of them were made at Madras Enamel Works in Sowcarpet,” he adds. Gradually, most business establishments switched over to the garish flex boards that we see today. The old boards add character to an establishment. “Imagine an iconic place like the Dabba Chetty Shop in Mylapore with a flex board. It doesn’t fit, right?” he asks. Apart from shops, Kaushik points out that in some parts of the city, we can still come across old boards that read ‘Wait for Taxi’. “Neighbourhoods such as Mandavelipakkam and RA Puram too still retain the old indigo boards,” he adds. The Akarmaa team plans to map indigo boards across Tamil Nadu. “We plan to make this resource open to all; anyone can add details of the boards they come across,” he explains. What purpose does this initiative serve? Kaushik pauses, and then adds: “Ultimately, when we interact with these shop owners, we hope to instil a sense of pride in them about the vintage name boards they retain. Hopefully, they will continue to keep them.” The best thing about these boards, according to Kaushik, is that at the bottom where the address is mentioned, all of them have the word ‘Madras’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/madras-indigo-story/article32340031.ece
13 August 2020||August 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Kicking into gear||As the camera dolly rolls forward, a woman in a white floral print sari comes into focus. She seems upset; her eyes staring into the unknown, as she folds saris sitting on a flight of stairs that leads into this farmhouse-type residence located off East Coast Road, near Akkarai. Praveen Bennett’s voice interrupts this melancholic moment. “Roshni, action! You are upset about what was said and you are going over the incident in your head,” he says, before prompting her lines that Roshni dutifully repeats as the camera pans from left to right. We are at the shooting spot of Bennett’s popular soap on Star Vijay, Bharathi Kannamma — the woman in the floral print sari is Kannamma, played by Roshni Haripriyan. Camera rolling It is the first day of a nearly fortnight long shooting schedule for the cast and crew of Bharathi Kannamma at this property. “There are about 35 people on set today. We only have the lead actors with us here, others will join in the next few days,” says Praveen. He explains the logic of shifting the shoot to the outskirts. “There is turmoil happening in Kannamma’s family. We wrote it into the storyline that the family is taking a break and spending some time at a farmhouse to rekindle bonds,” he says, adding, “Besides, it is also a good break for the crew.” It has been over a month since soaps running in all major TV networks resumed filming. The Government of Tamil Nadu (GoTN), however, only allows less than 60 people on set. At the entrance, a security guard lets no one enter unless verified by a crew member. A register to note down body temperatures of everyone on set rests on his desk. Everybody, except actors when they are on camera or applying makeup, is wearing a mask. While Praveen shoots on one side, one of his assistants takes charge of another scene being shot on the other side of the farmhouse; the latter scene involves two of the lead actors: Akilan SPR and Kanmani Manoharan aka Sweety. Sometimes, assistants drop masks to their chins when they find it difficult to communicate dialogues or shots to actors. In this instance, a funny dialogue makes an assistant drop his mask as Akilan and Kanmani burst into laughter when he asks them to repeat it. Guard up Although work has been going smoothly, the cast has never let their guard down. Says Akilan, “I don’t think I can say I feel comfortable. I’m feeling confident, however, because our team has undergone COVID tests and it returned negative. But there is always the thought to remain careful, especially when more artistes or crew members come on set.” Roshni concurs, and explains her hesitation from earlier in the day. “This is a new location and it is just the first day. I was a little unsure of what to touch and what not to. There was a shot of me sitting on a bed here and I was a tad uncomfortable doing it. I even requested a separate chair from the production to sit on,” she says. Besides, current circumstance dictates the team has to put in additional hours of work to create and bank content; it is not a situation that augurs well for Praveen since he also helms another soap ( Bommukutty Ammavukku ). More hours at work means less father time for him. “In the first few months of lockdown, I was always around to play with my son. I’m not around much now, and he is upset about it,” he says. We depart a little past 4pm having spent around an hour, but for those on the set there still was much work left to do.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/kicking-into-gear/article32340007.ece
13 August 2020||August 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Hands on the keypad||When we speak on phone, ophthalmologist and quizmaster Dr Navin Jayakumar is sifting through a box of memories from 30 years ago. “I found the registration card for the first Landmark Quiz of 1988 in pristine condition,” he laughs. Alongside, he also found a bunch of slides and a sheet of paper bearing the “very first question of the very first quiz”. The annual quiz held on Independence Day draws nearly 1,500 gladiators of general knowledge who battle for top honours, putting their omnivorous reading to good use. Held to mark the first anniversaries of the Landmark bookstore and the Quiz Foundation of India (QFI) in 1988, it brought 180 teams to Narada Gana Sabha hall; it grew to become a Chennai landmark when it resumed in 1994 and moved to The Music Academy premises to accommodate more people. “Hemu Ramaiah of Landmark said ‘let’s pick a date that will allow everyone to participate’. Except for the year when Landmark changed ownership, and this year when the event has moved to September because of COVID-19, it has been held on Independence Day. In Chennai, it has taken on a life of its own; now everyone knows what the afternoon of August 15 is meant for,” says Navin, who has been its quizmaster except for two breaks in between. While the 27th edition of the quiz will be held online for three-member teams on September 13, the event on August 15 is for individuals and will feature video clips of classic moments from previous quizzes. It is anchored by author-journalist and quizzer Samanth Subramanian who, from London will be in conversation with the quizmaster, special guests and participants. Quizzers will answer on a form online and the early correct answers will be announced. The first 13 editions were published as books by Penguin, but Navin says sifting through thousands of questions from three decades — some from the years the quiz was conducted in other centres simultaneously — has been quite a task. “There is the problem of riches. The final mix is from all topics culled from different years, periods and locations that indicate its range. Sometimes, the questions have been memorable because of fantastic answers. They have also been interesting add-ons to those earlier questions.” This version resembles a friendly information mela and is non-competitive; there are no prizes. “We want participants to have fun; want it to be educative and nostalgic,” says Navin. “We want it to be a Chennai tradition.”  The Best of Landmark Quiz is presented by QFI, in aid of The Banyan (a Chennai-based NGO that enables access to mental health care for persons living in poverty and homelessness), on August 15, 5 pm. For details and registration,visitBOL.quizfoundation.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/hands-on-the-keypad/article32340042.ece
13 August 2020||August 13 2020 00:00 IST,||My city, in verse||The East and North Mada Streets of Mylapore weep in jealousy; for they do not have a chathiram as magnificent as Vyasarpadi Vinayaka Mudaliyar Chathiram: goes a verse written by scholar Meenakshi Sundaram Pillai. Historian Sriram V mentions this over phone during a conversation about Poetry on Chennai, a new series he has recently started on his blog (https://sriramv.wordpress.com/). And seated at home, far from the bustle of Mylapore, all that is quintessentially Madras comes rushing to my mind. Sriram’s series — he has so far published only one poem — promises to do just that. He plans to translate one Tamil poem on Madras once a week into English. “There are tons and tons of Tamil poetry on the city, but we seem to be obsessed with prose,” points out Sriram, adding that he particularly chose Tamil because history is largely focussed on English. He explains that through the series, he will “try to see how, over the centuries, the city was referred to in these poems”. His first entry is from Moonram Thiruvanthathi by Peyazhwar. “I’m not following any particular timeline,” says Sriram. The next poem he will be translating, is by Saivaite poet Pattinathaar, and it will describe the beauty of seaside Thiruvottriyur — Sriram throws up a verse as example: ‘…all other towns fade to insignificance in comparison to this one’. The poems are all from Sriram’s “very large collection” of literature on Madras. The series, incidentally, has been kick-started just in time for Madras Day, which falls on August 22. “This is just a coincidence,” says Sriram. “I keep working on Chennai all the time.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/my-city-in-verse/article32340013.ece
13 August 2020||August 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Did you Binod yet?||Log onto any online platform and you cannot miss it. The omnipresent Binod is everywhere, from the comments section and headlines to newly-crafted memes. If you are subscribed to YouTube channel Slayy Point, you would already know that the channel’s creators Abhyudaya Mohan and Gautami Kawale are behind this Internet implosion. Speaking over phone, the YouTubers recall the video — ‘Why the Indian comments section is garbage (Binod)’ (more than seven million views) — that, in the channel’s signature hilarious way, narrates the Internet’s way of subconsciously taking on weird trends. Binod as a comment went viral, which was odd for the two. After all, Binod took up barely 20 seconds in the nearly-nine minute video, describing the nonsensical vitriol of YouTube comments. At the start of the video, Abhyudaya admits to reading comments sections as a pastime and recalls seeing a commenter Binod Tharu leave a comment on a random video: ‘Binod’ with no subsequent explanation. The video then moves onto discuss other types of comments. Then one day, Mumbai Police tweeted about Binod and Gautami recalls panicking, wondering why the police were getting involved. “But we saw they had tweeted something creative and fun. Then when it started trending on Twitter, we realised it had taken a turn.” The duo admits there is no way to track the analytics now. “It’s just gone wild,” she exclaims. So, do you Binod like the rest of the Internet?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/did-you-binod-yet/article32340015.ece
13 August 2020||August 13 2020 00:00 IST,||The buffet is dead. Long live the buffet||Sunday brunch used to mean live bands, sunny swimming pools and chilled flutes of champagne. Dim sum, roast chicken and festive macaroons. Friends, families, chefs, waiters, singers, guitarists, balloon artists, painters, clowns… Now, it’s lukewarm porridge over a patchy Zoom call. Mark 2020 as the year the buffet died. In an age of physical distancing, anxious disinfection and constant handwashing, the breezy charm of a row of warm chafing dishes has been replaced by an ever-lurking fear of contamination. Fortunately, this has pushed the city’s hotels into finding creative ways to package luxury, from concierge services to door delivery by liveried waiters (live band not included).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-buffet-is-dead-long-live-the-buffet/article32340018.ece
13 August 2020||August 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Vimala Ramamurthy, 93, Chennai||I got married at the age of 13, so I studied up to Class VIII. My husband was a banker. We lived in various cities in South India as he had a transferable job. We have three sons and three daughters. When I was in my late 60s, my daughter suggested that I learn art in order to ward off boredom, and enrolled me in a postal art class where I would receive materials through post. The course helped me a lot and I started sketching cows and temples, themes I was familiar with. Four years ago my grandson GV Raman, presented me with a book of sketches by Manohar Devadoss, Multiple Facets of Madurai , and he explained to me how in spite of being visually challenged, he had made such intricate work. He encouraged me to try something like that and gave me all the materials that I required. When I opened the book, I was spellbound by the work. As I had spent a substantial part of my life in Madurai, his sketches of that city caught my attention and rekindled memories of my younger days. Two years ago I started replicating his work, I would observe the work and recreate it. It has now become an obsession, day and night I keep working. During lockdown, I completed almost four sketches, and in total completed 30 works of art. I am now sketching the Maiya Mandapam in the Vaigai River in Madurai, and it is my wish to gift this to my maanaseega guru Manohar Devadoss on September 10, his birthday. I have met and interacted with him twice and it was such an unforgettable experience. I spent a long time with him at his residence in December 2019, I asked him many questions and he answered them all patiently. What I do is just scribble like a child and copy his work. It gives me much joy to sketch iconic locations of Madurai such as Naikar Mahal, Madurai Sandhai and Pudhu Mandapam. I am a dog lover, especially stray dogs and I collect money from my grandchildren and use it to educate underprivileged girls and boys. I can call myself tech-savvy, as I have learnt to use smart phones. I periodically send voice messages to my family members, and weekends are packed as I make video calls to my 11 grandchildren and 13 great grandchildren who are in different parts of the world. I love to browse YouTube and choose content that I like to watch. I hope I will be able to complete the sketch which I intend to give to my guru. Will lockdown end by that time? Will I be able to meet him personally and hand it over to him?  As told toChitradeepa Anantharam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/vimala-ramamurthy-93-chennai/article32340039.ece
13 August 2020||August 13 2020 00:00 IST,||The butterfly next door||Isn’t it odd that in a city that’s increasingly concretised, the Plain Tiger butterfly is thriving? That’s because their choice of larval host plants (food for caterpillars) — milkweed (aak in Hindi). These plants contain toxins — cardenolides in the case of milkweed — that make the caterpillar as well the butterfly unpalatable. This plant also aids in the survival of the Painted Grasshopper and other insects. In fact, tribes across the world use the poison in the plant on arrow-heads to aid in hunting. The vibrant colouration of the Plain Tiger sends a warning signal to its predators — birds, lizards — that they could be toxic. This defence mechanism is known as aposematism. The colouration is mimicked by other species like the female Danaid Eggfly butterfy that often move with Plain Tiger butterflies to avoid being eaten alive. This is another of nature’s defence mechanisms, called Batesian Mimicry. Yet another survival mechanism is the haphazard zig-zag flight that the butterfly has, to avoid capture. The Plain Tiger ( Danaus chrysippus ) is a medium-sized vibrant butterfly with orange on the upperside with wings edged with black and white. The segmented body (head, thorax and abdomen) is black. The underside of the wings are a lighter shade of orange. The Plain Tiger belongs to Nymphalidae , the largest family of butterflies with over 6,000 species. It is capable of adapting to a wide variety of habitats across the country: arid, open areas, deciduous forests, urban territory, and others. Soon after mating, the female Plain Tiger butterfly lays ridged dome-shaped eggs singly on the underside of the larval host plant, to avoid detection by predators. Depending on the weather conditions, the egg may hatch between three and five days. When ready to hatch, the larva inside the egg busts open the shell and comes out before devouring it. The caterpillar feeds voraciously on all parts of the plant and rapidly grows too big for its outer skin. During this process, a layer of newer skin is formed under the old skin, thereby entering the next stage of growth called instar. A Plain Tiger caterpillar develops through five instar stages with varying sizes and the differences in physical appearance at least until the third instar. Once the larva reaches the final instar, it stops eating and looks for a convenient place to pupate. It spins a silk pad, suspends itself from it and remains motionless for a couple of hours before shedding its skin one last time, then forminga pupa. Initially the pupa of the Plain Tiger is green with a black line with golden circles on it. A day before the butterfly is ready to emerge, you can see the colours of the butterfly from the outside. It then splits open the pupa, slowly coming out, clinging to the branches of the plant, dries off completely, and makes its first flight. Regardless of the stage the butterfly is in, it deals with several dangers for survival, considering that it is prey for a plethora of predators around. Their toxic nature, due to their diet, makes them one of the commonest butterflies in India.  The writer is the founder of NINOX - OwlAbout Nature, a nature-awareness initiative. He is the Delhi-NCR reviewer for Ebird, a Cornell University initiative, monitoring rare sightings of birds. He formerly led a programme of WWF India.   The National Butterfly Photography Contest September is Butterfly Month, and for the first time in four years, it’s going all-India, organised by Bombay Natural History Society, in collaboration with NINOX - Owl about Nature, and the Delight Factory from Delhi, partnering with 26 organisations dedicated to the cause. Get in touch with us at ninox.edu@gmail.com for guidelines on how to submit your entries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-butterfly-next-door/article32340315.ece
13 August 2020||August 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Hands on the keypad||When we speak on phone, ophthalmologist and quizmaster Dr Navin Jayakumar is sifting through a box of memories from 30 years ago. “I found the registration card for the first Landmark Quiz of 1988 in pristine condition,” he laughs. Alongside, he also found a bunch of slides and a sheet of paper bearing the “very first question of the very first quiz”. The annual quiz held on Independence Day draws nearly 1,500 gladiators of general knowledge who battle for top honours, putting their omnivorous reading to good use. Held to mark the first anniversaries of the Landmark bookstore and the Quiz Foundation of India (QFI) in 1988, it brought 180 teams to Narada Gana Sabha hall; it grew to become a Chennai landmark when it resumed in 1994 and moved to The Music Academy premises to accommodate more people. “Hemu Ramaiah of Landmark said ‘let’s pick a date that will allow everyone to participate’. Except for the year when Landmark changed ownership, and this year when the event has moved to September because of COVID-19, it has been held on Independence Day. In Chennai, it has taken on a life of its own; now everyone knows what the afternoon of August 15 is meant for,” says Navin, who has been its quizmaster except for two breaks in between. While the 27th edition of the quiz will be held online for three-member teams on September 13, the event on August 15 is for individuals and will feature video clips of classic moments from previous quizzes. It is anchored by author-journalist and quizzer Samanth Subramanian who, from London will be in conversation with the quizmaster, special guests and participants. Quizzers will answer on a form online and the early correct answers will be announced. The first 13 editions were published as books by Penguin, but Navin says sifting through thousands of questions from three decades — some from the years the quiz was conducted in other centres simultaneously — has been quite a task. “There is the problem of riches. The final mix is from all topics culled from different years, periods and locations that indicate its range. Sometimes, the questions have been memorable because of fantastic answers. They have also been interesting add-ons to those earlier questions.” This version resembles a friendly information mela and is non-competitive; there are no prizes. “We want participants to have fun; want it to be educative and nostalgic,” says Navin. “We want it to be a Chennai tradition.”  The Best of Landmark Quiz is presented by QFI, in aid of The Banyan (a Chennai-based NGO that enables access to mental health care for persons living in poverty and homelessness), on August 15, 5 pm. For details and registration,visitBOL.quizfoundation.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/hands-on-the-keypad/article32340312.ece
13 August 2020||August 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Did you Binod yet?||Log onto any online platform and you cannot miss it. Binod is everywhere, from the comments section and headlines to newly-crafted memes. If you are subscribed to YouTube channel Slayy Point, you would already know that the channel’s creators Abhyudaya Mohan and Gautami Kawale are behind this Internet implosion. Speaking over the phone, the YouTubers recall the video — ‘Why the Indian comments section is garbage (Binod)’ (more than seven million views) — that, in the channel’s signature hilarious way, narrates the Internet’s way of subconsciously taking on weird trends. Binod as a comment went viral, which was odd for the two. After all, Binod took up barely 20 seconds in the nearly-nine minute video, describing the nonsensical vitriol of YouTube comments. At the start of the video, Abhyudaya admits to reading comments sections as a pastime and recalls seeing a commenter Binod Tharu leave a comment on a random video: ‘Binod’ with no subsequent explanation. The video then moves onto discuss other types of comments. Then one day, Mumbai Police tweeted about Binod and Gautami recalls panicking, wondering why the police were getting involved. “But we saw they had tweeted something creative and fun. Then when it started trending on Twitter, we realised it had taken a turn.” The duo admits there is no way to track the analytics now. “It’s just gone wild,” she exclaims. So, do you Binod like the rest of the Internet?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/did-you-binod-yet/article32340317.ece
13 August 2020||August 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Vimala Ramamurthy, 93, Chennai||I got married at the age of 13, so I studied up to Class VIII. My husband was a banker. We lived in various cities in South India as he had a transferable job. We have three sons and three daughters. When I was in my late 60s, my daughter suggested that I learn art in order to ward off boredom, and enrolled me in a postal art class where I would receive materials through post. The course helped me a lot and I started sketching cows and temples, themes I was familiar with. Four years ago my grandson GV Raman, presented me with a book of sketches by Manohar Devadoss, Multiple Facets of Madurai , and he explained to me how in spite of being visually challenged, he had made such intricate work. He encouraged me to try something like that and gave me all the materials that I required. When I opened the book, I was spellbound by the work. As I had spent a substantial part of my life in Madurai, his sketches of that city caught my attention and rekindled memories of my younger days. Two years ago I started replicating his work, I would observe the work and recreate it. It has now become an obsession, day and night I keep working. During lockdown, I completed almost four sketches, and in total completed 30 works of art. I am now sketching the Maiya Mandapam in the Vaigai River in Madurai, and it is my wish to gift this to my maanaseega guru Manohar Devadoss on September 10, his birthday. I have met and interacted with him twice and it was such an unforgettable experience. I spent a long time with him at his residence in December 2019, I asked him many questions and he answered them all patiently. What I do is just scribble like a child and copy his work. It gives me much joy to sketch iconic locations of Madurai such as Naikar Mahal, Madurai Sandhai and Pudhu Mandapam. I am a dog lover, especially stray dogs and I collect money from my grandchildren and use it to educate underprivileged girls and boys. I can call myself tech-savvy, as I have learnt to use smart phones. I periodically send voice messages to my family members, and weekends are packed as I make video calls to my 11 grandchildren and 13 great grandchildren who are in different parts of the world. I love to browse YouTube and choose content that I like to watch. I hope I will be able to complete the sketch which I intend to give to my guru. Will lockdown end by that time? Will I be able to meet him personally and hand it over to him?  As told toChitradeepa Anantharam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/vimala-ramamurthy-93-chennai/article32340311.ece
13 August 2020||August 13 2020 00:00 IST,||History in hairpin bends||History begins with a road in the planters’ town of Coonoor in the Nilgiris. The Ghat Road, which connected the railhead at Mettupalayam with Udhagamandalam (Ooty), passed through what was then no larger than a Badaga village. Today, that village, about 20 kilometres from the popular hill station Ooty, is Coonoor with a population that has crossed 50,000. “The need for a proper road arose when Udhagamandalam gained popularity as a military sanatorium and a summer retreat, and that is when Coonoor came into existence in 1833,” says Dr PJ Vasanthan, trustee of the NGO, Clean Coonoor. The NGO, with the municipality, recently inaugurated a Coonoor Heritage Gallery. Set in a municipal building near Bedford, it has a rare and fascinating collection of painstakingly sourced maps, sketches, lithographs, watercolours and photographs that trace the history of the town: how it evolved into a municipality with hundreds of plantations, and grew into the hub of natural history and ornithology it is today. In the 1870s, Lieutenant Colonel GV Law, who was part of the Madras Sappers and Miners regiment, undertook the massive task of transforming the modest track meant for cartloads, tongas, and people on horseback into something that was motorable. “The alignment was faulty and the gradient so steep that it had to be relaid with 14 hairpin bends,” explains Vasanthan. Visitors can get an idea of what the track looked like from a lithograph made by Captain Stephen Ponsonsby Peacocke in 1847. A watercolour by Edward Lear in 1870s captures the new ghat road in all its glory. The total population of Coonoor in 1847 included 30 Europeans and 250-plus Indians. Two hundred and fifty acres of land were under coffee and mulberry cultivation. The Europeans were enterprising and developed coffee plantations. Vasanthan culled out this information from a survey report by Lt Col J Ouchterlony. He says a panoramic sketch of Coonoor made by Lieutenant Burton is the most valuable as it is one of the earliest ones to show the town with nine European residences, a local shandy, ‘chettrum’ for Indians and the Davison’s hotel built in the 1800s, which was destroyed in a ﬁre. A new building was erected in its place in 1987 which is today home to the United Planters’ Association of South India, the apex body of planters of tea, coffee, rubber, cardamon and pepper in the southern states of India. Plantation hub “It was primarily a coffee town which later moved to tea cultivation. We have documented the data to ensure that the next generation knows its history,” says Samantha Iyyanna, managing trustee of Clean Coonoor. Among the exhibits are rare finds such as a map of the district sketched by Captain BS Ward in 1822. “Christopher Penn from the UK donated photographs taken by his great grandfather, ATW Penn, a pioneering photographer in the Nilgiris between 1860 and 1880. Water colour sketches and lithos were sourced online from the British Library website while we got the maps from gazettes and manuals,” says Vasanthan. There is a also a section devoted to Ornithology. The first documentation ever of birds in the Nilgiris is credited to TC Jerdon, a pioneering ornithologist, who observed, identified and described bird species in sketches. Jerdon was active in the district between 1839 and 1845. “Species like the Nilgiri flycatcher, Nilgiri laughing thrush, black and orange flycatcher and Malabar lark that are endemic to the Western Ghats can be seen in Coonoor,” says Vasanthan, a physician-turned-bird watcher. William Ruxton Davison (an analytical chemist of the Nilgiri Cinchona Plantations at Naduvattam), listed over 200 bird species during a trip covering the Nilgiris, Wayanad, South Karnataka and Coorg. The section also showcases a series of bird paintings by Miss MargaretCockburn, considered the first bird-woman of the Nilgiris. The gallery narrates landmark moments including Mahatma Gandhi’s visit. Besides heritage buildings such as the Church of All Saint’s and Pasteur Institute, the town is well known for its UNESCO World Heritage site, the Nilgiri Mountain Railway. Many buildings that still stand today are testimony to history, says K Balu, Municipal Commissioner, Coonoor. For example, the first traveller’s bungalow is where the Magistrate Court functions today. He adds, “The gallery informs the public about modern settlements, historical milestones and heritage structures. We want to inspire the younger generation to protect and preserve them. We plan to bring in more exhibits. We have also appealed to the public to contribute rare photos or other artefacts that they may have.”  There will be a virtual tour of the gallery soon.        The first documentation ever of birds in the Nilgiris is credited to TC Jerdon||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/history-in-hairpin-bends/article32340310.ece
13 August 2020||Ghaziabad,||BJP MLA alleges assault by U.P. police, party workers protest||The Bharatiya Janata Party MLA from Iglas (reserved) constituency in Aligarh district, Rajkumar Sahyogi, alleged on Wednesday that he was beaten up by policemen, including the SHO, and his clothes were torn off when he went to protest over an FIR registered against a VHP worker at the Gonda police station in Iglas tehseel. Senior police officers said they were checking the CCTV footage before taking any action. Scores of local BJP workers assembled at the Gonda police station and raised slogans against the police. The local market was shut and police presence increased on Wednesday evening. Local sources said a few days ago there was a fracas between members of two communities in Gonda over a minor issue and the MLA was angry why an FIR was registered against his man. Earlier, Mr. Sahyogi told reporters that he went to the police station to ask officers why an FIR was registered against Rohit Varshney, a VHP worker, in the case. He alleged that the local police had taken money from the other party. “In the fight, Rohit was beaten up still the police lodged an FIR against him. When I raised the issue, three officers, including SHO Anuj Saini, beat me up and used casteist slurs against me,” he said. Responding to the allegations, Atul Sharma, SP (Rural), Aligarh told The Hindu , “In the said case, the FIR was registered against both the parties after the complaint came from both Rohit and Saleem. A medical was done and none of them had serious injuries. Preliminary investigation reveals that the MLA raised an objection on why the second FIR was lodged.” A chowkidar posted at the station told reporters that he was present at the spot at the time of the incident and it was Mr. Sahyogi who lost his cool first and slapped a police officer. “We are looking into the CCTV footage before arriving at any conclusion. The police station has two cameras and one of them was working at the time of the incident,” Mr. Sharma said.  We are looking into CCTV footage before arriving at any conclusion. The police station has two cameras and one of them was working at the time of the incident Atul SharmaSuperintendent of Police (Rural)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-mla-alleges-assault-by-up-police-party-workers-protest/article32340326.ece
13 August 2020||New Delhi,||Marginal rise in patients admitted to hospitals||As many as 1,113 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 1,48,504, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Wednesday. Also, 14 more deaths have been reported, taking the total number of deaths to 4,153. Of the total cases, 1,33,405 people have recovered and there are 10,946 active cases. The number of people admitted in hospitals has gone up by a small margin during the past four days — from 3,058 to 3,351— whereas the number of active cases has gone up steadily over the past two days in a row from 10,346 to 10,946. Both figures had dropped considerably in July. However, the number of new cases has been less than 1,500 for the past 27 consecutive days, which is less compared to June. On June 23, daily new cases touched almost 4,000 – highest so far – and since then it has been dropping. Though Delhi has a capacity to conduct around 11,000 RT-PCR tests in a day, only 6,472 such tests were done in the past 24 hours. Of the total 18,894 tests done in the past 24 hours, over 65% were rapid antigen tests, which have shown a low positivity compared to RT-PCR tests. The positivity rate, which is the percentage of people who test positive, has also dropped from 12.2% to 5.8% compared to July 1. The number of containment zones in the city was 523 as on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/marginal-rise-in-patients-admitted-to-hospitals/article32340306.ece
13 August 2020||New Delhi,||Kapil Mishra front runner for BJP gen. secy. post in Delhi||Allegations related to the February riots in north-east Delhi against him notwithstanding, Kapil Mishra has emerged as a front runner for one of the three general secretary posts in the reorganised State unit of the BJP. Party sources said Mr. Mishra, who was unsuccessfully fielded from the Model Town segment in the Delhi Assembly elections earlier this year, checks all the right boxes in this regard given his popularity, Poorvanchali background and caste. “He is young, popular, and is just the kind of face the party needs in the city in the run-up to the civic elections [which are around the corner]. These factors have also made him one of the Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh’s top choices for the post,” said a senior leader. “There may be allegations against him but that is all they are; his speech [prior to the Delhi riots] was only regarding a blocked road. His appointment will fulfil the Brahmin-Poorvanchali criteria,” said another leader. According to party sources, around a hundred individuals have staked their claim to the three general secretary posts in the Delhi BJP. Among the other leaders being considered for the posts are Rajiv Babbar, Harsh Malhotra, Virender Sachdeva, Rajendra Tiwari, Ashok Goel Devraha, Ashish Sood, Aditya Jha, Rekha Gupta and Kamaljeet Sehrawat, said sources.  BJYM choices Leaders such as Impreet Bakshi, Ram Khiladi Yadav, Shivam Chhabra and Vasu Rukhad are among the choices for the leadership of the party’s State youth wing, the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha. The reorganisation of the unit is currently under way and the names of its new office-bearers are scheduled to be announced later this month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/kapil-mishra-front-runner-for-bjp-gen-secy-post-in-delhi/article32340332.ece
13 August 2020||JAIPUR,||Licencing system for tobacco sellers sought||Voluntary groups working for tobacco control in Rajasthan on Wednesday demanded a licencing mechanism for retail tobacco sellers which would restrict the sale of tobacco products and curb their consumption by the youths. Activists said this would protect the health of youths during the COVID-19 pandemic and ensure the success of a de-addiction campaign starting here shortly. Though the State government had authorised municipal bodies in 2018 to regulate the sale of tobacco products, the vendors violating the rules pay a petty fine and go back to selling tobacco. Activists have been pressing for enforcement of a vendor licensing system with the framing of rules under the Cigarette and Other Tobacco Products Act, 2003.  Vulnerable section Young tobacco users were vulnerable to catching influenza-like infections and they could expose non-users to the tobacco products, besides spreading contagious diseases by the habits such as spitting in the open, said the activists on the occasion of the International Youth Day. Jayesh Joshi, secretary of Banswara-based Vaagdhara group, said here that the youths were getting addicted to tobacco “faster than ever before” and the projected number of deaths from tobacco far exceeded than those of COVID-19. He said the State government had failed to take any concrete step to curb the menace even after accepting the high number of fatalities by tobacco-related diseases. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has announced the launch of a comprehensive de-addiction campaign from August 15 with the focus on the youth vulnerable to substance abuse. As part of its steps to discourage youths from addiction, the State government had banned e-cigarettes on May 30, a day before World No Tobacco Day, in 2019. The spitting of betel leaf and chewable tobacco and non-tobacco products or sputum in public places and institutions was also banned under the Rajasthan Epidemic Diseases Act, 1957, in April this year.  ‘Bold step’ sought Mr. Joshi said the State government should take a “bold step” to stop unregulated tobacco sales by allowing only licensed sellers through the municipal bodies in order to curb the access to tobacco products and shield the youths and children from the biggest cause of preventable death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/licencing-system-for-tobacco-sellers-sought/article32340329.ece
13 August 2020||Bhopal,||Skateboarding heralds social change in M.P.||When a skatepark was being built at a village in Panna district five years ago, locals were confused: Is it a hospital? A hostel maybe? But as the structure began taking shape, children rolled down its slippery edges, roaring with laughter, content with finally having their own set of slides. The same park, called Janwaar Castle, in Janwaar village, sent India’s two of the three skateboarders to a world championship in China in 2018. “It is because of skateboarding my parents haven’t married me off yet,” said Asha Gond, 21, a farmer’s daughter who has taken part in two national competitions. The sport, yet to find a toehold in the country, is helping challenge caste and gender prejudices in the village. With children and youth as changemakers, and the disruptive force driving skateboarding has unsettled a few locals, but accorded an identity to tens of children and their families, most just below or above the poverty line. As agriculture remains unsustainable locally, children find hope in skateboarding to pull their households out of penury. Inspired by a similar initiative in Afghanistan, German national Ulrike Reinhard asked artists worldwide to transform skateboards into art, and auctioned them online raising $17,000 to build the park in 2015. Currently, two such parks cater to around 50 children, the second one owned by Barefoot Skateboarder, which is managed Ms. Gond. Ms. Reinhard’s non-profit organisation, the Rural Changemakers, has helped locals build skateparks in Andhra Pradesh, Odisha and Rajasthan. Young skaters must stick to three non-negotiable rules: ‘No school, no skating’, ‘Everyone is equal’ and ‘Girls first’. “This has improved school attendance,” said Ms. Reinhard. From 30, the attendance had jumped to 55-60 at the local school before the lockdown. Boys share their boards with girls during practice hours from 7 a.m. to 9 a.m. and in the evening after school. “There are around 20-25 girls practising every day,” said Ms. Gond, who said they learnt mostly by watching videos online and peer-learning. When she started off, villagers told her parents she must stay home, do chores like other girls. “They told them I roamed around with boys. But when I won medals, they were ok with it,” said Ms. Gond, who shares her salary with her parents.  ‘On same platform’ The sport has brought the village’s two communities — tribals and the dominant Yadavs — on the same platform. “Most importantly, a conversation ensued between the two communities who could hardly see eye-to-eye in the past,” said Ms. Reinhard. Initially, only Yadav boys took part, but slowly tribal children were absorbed, creating an equitable space. When you want to change a closed system, a disruptive factor is required, she added. “You have to confront the predominant mainstream with a counter-culture. And in Janwaar, skateboarding was the perfect counter-culture, standing for open-ended development,” she said. Skateboards, shoes and trips to tournaments are crowd-funded. “We are yet to receive any support from the government,” she said. She demanded that the government cover expenses while organising championships, provide medical support and offer training.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/skateboarding-heralds-social-change-in-mp/article32340334.ece
13 August 2020||Guwahati,||‘Keep Arunachal out of any Naga peace deal’||Keep Arunachal Pradesh out of the purview of the push for a solution to the Naga political problem, the apex students’ body in the Frontier State has told the Centre. The All Arunachal Pradesh Students’ Union (AAPSU) also rejected claims that there were Nagas living in their State while making it clear that any “territorial changes” while finding a solution would not be tolerated. “The decades-old Naga peace process should not affect Arunachal Pradesh and its people in any way,” the AAPSU said in reaction to the Centre’s purported decision to conclude the talks with various Naga groups by September. The largest of these groups is the National Socialist Council of Nagalim or Isak-Muivah faction of the NSCN. Seven other stakeholders, including factions of the rival NSCN (Khaplang), form the Naga National Political Groups. “We are aware of the NSCN (IM)'s vision of Nagalim or Greater Nagaland but there are no Nagas in Arunachal Pradesh. All the tribes inhabiting the State are Arunachalees and Indians,” a statement from the AAPSU said on Tuesday evening. Nagalim, a long-term goal of the NSCN (IM), encompasses Naga-inhabited areas of Myanmar and the north-eastern States bordering Nagaland. The Nagalim map the outfit released a few years ago includes Tirap, Changlang, Longding, Anjaw, Lohit and Namsai districts of Arunachal Pradesh. Territorial integrity The AAPSU said the Centre should stand by the assurances on territorial integrity given by Nagaland Governor R.N. Ravi, also the interlocutor for the Naga peace process. Mr. Ravi had during a meeting with the AASU in 2015 promised that the interest of Arunachal Pradesh would not be compromised when the final draft of the Naga Peace Accord is executed. “We have already submitted representations regarding the matter to President Ram Nath Kovind and former Union Home Minister Rajnath Singh besides the Arunachal Pradesh Governor and the State government,” the union said. “We welcome the initiative for resolving the Naga issue. But we will strongly oppose any attempts made to change the territorial jurisdiction of the State or any kind of administrative, political or other interventions,” the AAPSU said. The union called upon the State’s MPs and MLAs as well as the political parties to take a strong stand against any deal that affects Arunachal Pradesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/keep-arunachal-out-of-any-naga-peace-deal/article32340330.ece
13 August 2020||New Delhi,||I-Day celebrations to be organised at Delhi Secretariat this year||Independence Day celebrations will be held at the Delhi Secretariat instead of the Chhatrasal Stadium this year in accordance with social distancing norms in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic, General Administration Minister Gopal Rai announced here on Wednesday. A small function was being organised at the Players Building with 100 dignitaries, including Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, the Cabinet of Ministers, Members of Parliament, legislators and the Delhi High Court Chief Justice. among the main invitees, he said. ‘COVID warriors’, including doctors, nurses, sanitation workers, plasma donors, ambulance drivers and the police will also be present at the function on August 15 where central jail officers will be honoured for their good work. “Every year the Delhi government celebrates the Independence Day at the Chhatrasal Stadium. But this year due to the COVID 19 pandemic any such mega celebration would not be possible. The Delhi government has decided to celebrate the Independence Day at the Delhi Secretariat,” Mr. Rai said. The cultural programme would not take place this year, he said, and a small celebration would be held instead. According to Mr. Rai, the Delhi Chief Minister, Cabinet Ministers, all the 70 MLAs, seven Lok Sabha MPs and three Rajya Sabha MPs and the three MCD Mayors had also been invited. The Chief Justice of Delhi High Court, senior IAS and DANICS officers were also among the invitees. This time, he said, the special attraction would be the ‘COVID warriors’ of Delhi. “One representative of the doctors, nurses, sanitation workers, plasma donors, ambulance drivers and the police will be present,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/i-day-celebrations-to-be-organised-at-delhi-secretariat-this-year/article32340301.ece
13 August 2020||New Delhi,||HC allows rape victim to terminate pregnancy||The Delhi High Court has allowed a 16-year-old rape victim, who is 22-week-pregnant, to undergo termination of the pregnancy after a clinical psychologist said continuation of pregnancy would result in “psychological complications”. Justice Vibhu Bakhru asked the girl to be admitted to Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital for necessary procedures. The court had on last hearing asked the Superintendent of the hospital to form a medical board to examine the minor and report whether termination of the pregnancy involved risk. “In view of the report and psychological assessment of the petitioner, it does appear that the petitioner [minor girl] is at considerable risk of psychological complications if the pregnancy is continued,” the court said. “The doctors have explained that there may be some risks in terminating the pregnancy but the same are not higher than what is acceptable and expected at this stage,” it noted. The court’s direction came on a plea of the girl seeking court’s permission to medically terminate the pregnancy as she found about her pregnancy at an advanced stage. The Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act stipulates a ceiling of 20 weeks for termination of pregnancy, beyond which abortion of a foetus is statutorily impermissible. The girl, in her plea, stated that she had not been keeping well for the past one-and-a-half years and used to faint quite often. She said once, when she regained consciousness, “one Pankaj bhaiya”, the accused, was there. The plea said she suspected something had happened when she was unconscious. Later on, when she started feeling nauseous and dizzy, she was taken for medical check-up, where she was found pregnant. A case has been registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-allows-rape-victim-to-terminate-pregnancy/article32340299.ece
13 August 2020||Ghaziabad,||Accused in Hapur child rape case identified||The police on Wednesday released the photograph of the alleged rapist of a six-year-old child in a Hapur village and also announced a reward of Rs. 50,00 for his arrest. “The accused has been identified as Rohtas alias Dalpat. The survivor and witnesses have recognised him,” Sarvesh Mishra, Additional Superintendent of Police, Hapur, told The Hindu . The girl was abducted from her village in Garh area on August 6 by a bike-borne man and was found by a farmer near a sugarcane field in the early hours of August 7. The police took her to a local hospital from where she was referred to Meerut Medical College where the doctors confirmed that she was brutally raped. After a surgery, the girl is said to be stable. Mr. Mishra said they could identify the culprit through the motorcycle he had borrowed from his brother-in-law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/accused-in-hapur-child-rape-case-identified/article32340328.ece
13 August 2020||New Delhi,||‘15% dip in students in govt. schools a matter of concern’||The Opposition BJP on Wednesday said it is concerned about the decreasing percentage of students in Delhi government schools, which have seen a dip of more than 15%. Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta said that about 14 lakh students study in schools in Delhi and there has been a drop of more than 2.5 lakh in this number, but the Kejriwal government was “not concerned”. “A majority of the children studying in 1,030 government schools in Delhi belong to poor families. At the time of the COVID-19 crisis, the government, which left the people of Delhi on its own, did not even care about the children,” Mr. Gupta also alleged. ‘Fake claims’ “Due to such a decrease in this number, it becomes clear that the Kejriwal government kept making fake claims of educational revolution in advertisements and it did not care about the children. Otherwise these numbers of children would not have diminished today. All claims of giving online education to the children also have proved to be false by this,” he alleged. ‘Students being failed’ Since the Kejriwal government came to power, every year, Mr. Gupta alleged, in order to “improve” exam results, a large number of children were being failed in the Class IX and XI examinations, so that only a small number of children could appear in the Class X and XII examinations. The decreasing number of examinees every year testified to this, he said. The number of students appearing for Class XII exams in Delhi government schools, he said, was decreasing rapidly every year; from 2005 to 2014, the number of students appearing in Class XII in Delhi increased from 60,570 to 1,66,257; but in 2015, after the Kejriwal government came to power, the number of students appearing in Class XII reduced to 1,12,826.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/15-dip-in-students-in-govt-schools-a-matter-of-concern/article32340302.ece
13 August 2020||New Delhi,||Riots: notice to police on Pinjra Tod activist’s bail plea||The Delhi High Court has issued notice to the city police on a plea by Pinjrra Tod activist Natasha Narwal seeking bail in connection with a case related to communal violence in north-east Delhi earlier this year. Justice Vibhu Bakhru asked Delhi Police to submit their status report within 10 days and posted the case for further hearing on August 26. Ms. Narwal has challenged a trial court’s order that had dismissed her bail plea. She was arrested on May 23, along with fellow JNU student Devangana Kalita in connection with an FIR registered on February 24 over a sit-in at Jaffrabad metro station against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. The Crime Branch has lodged separate FIRs against both Ms. Narwal and Ms. Kalita in connection with the Delhi riots and charged them under Sections 147 (rioting), 353 (using criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 307 (attempt to murder) and 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code. The FIR also named relevant sections of the Arms Act and the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act. On June 14, a trial court dismissed the bail pleas of Ms. Natasha and Ms. Kalita on the grounds that there was no merit in the applications, that it was amply clear from the chargesheet that the investigation was still pending and that it was filed against other accused persons also.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/riots-notice-to-police-on-pinjra-tod-activists-bail-plea/article32340309.ece
13 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Journalists attacked: no FIR lodged by police yet||A day after three journalists were allegedly attacked by a mob in north-east Delhi while covering a story, Delhi Police has not registered any case in the incident, according to a senior police officer on Wednesday. DCP (North-East) Ved Prakash Surya said that police have received complaints from both the sides. An investigation has been ordered into the incident and based on its report, an FIR will be registered under appropriate sections of the Indian Penal Code. The opposite party had lodged a complaint against the journalists for asking inciting questions that could have disrupted peace in the area, according to the police. One of the journalists said they had not been contacted by any police officer. They said they came to know that police would file a cross-FIR over the incident in order to put pressure on them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/journalists-attacked-no-fir-lodged-by-police-yet/article32340307.ece
13 August 2020||Agartala,||Six psychiatric patients still untraced||Six patients who fled with nine others from the State’s main psychiatry hospital remained untraced three days after the incident. They were inmates of the Modern Psychiatry Hospital at Narsingarh, near MBB Airport here. Fifteen patients gave the guards a slip before dawn on Sunday last to flee from the hospital. They broke the iron grill of a toilet window to make their way out. Airport police station was alerted after hospital officials came to know of the incident. Police tracked down nine patients from nearby localities within 24 hours of their escape, but are yet to rescue the remaining six. Police stations across west Tripura were put on alert.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/six-psychiatric-patients-still-untraced/article32340327.ece
13 August 2020||August 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Must carry||A report in The Hindu’s edition dated August 10 had carried a line stating “Ram Nath Kovind is the first Dalit President of India”. It was factually wrong as K.R. Narayanan was India’s first Dalit President. The error is regretted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/must-carry/article32340303.ece
