25 August 2020||New Delhi,||Sonia to stay on as interim Cong. chief||Sonia Gandhi will continue to be the interim president of the Congress until the All India Congress Committee (AICC) holds its next session, the Congress Working Committee (CWC) said in a resolution on Monday, after a marathon virtual meeting. The seven-hour meeting witnessed high drama, with Ms. Gandhi reiterating her intention to step down, Rahul Gandhi questioning the timing of a letter from a section of party leaders seeking a leadership change and calling it “an insult to his mother”, sharp comments against the dissenters, Leader of the Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad offering to resign over barbs from colleagues, and Ahmed Patel asking Mr. Gandhi to take back the reins of the party. Personal barbs The meeting also witnessed verbal exchanges between members supporting the Gandhis and the dissenters, with the party’s leader in the Lok Sabha, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, accusing Mr. Azad of “defending the indefensible”, forcing Ms. Gandhi to intervene. The CWC session was prompted by the letter, written by 23 senior Congress leaders, including Mr. Azad, Rajya Sabha Deputy Leader Anand Sharma and Lok Sabha members Shashi Tharoor and Manish Tewari, among others, which questioned the party’s style of functioning, demanded collective leadership and talked of a “full time and visible party president”. At least four signatories to the letter — Mr. Azad, Mr. Sharma, Mukul Wasnik and Jitin Prasada — are members of the CWC and were present at the meeting. Though some of them expressed regret for hurting sentiments, they maintained that they did not speak against the Gandhis. They said they were ready to face any penal action, but would always remain in the Congress. The resolution at the end of the meeting sought to paper over the rifts. “The CWC, reflecting the overwhelming view and desire of the rank and file of the Congress, unanimously resolved to strengthen the hands of Smt. Sonia Gandhi and Shri. Rahul Gandhi in every possible way. The CWC makes it clear that no one will be or can be permitted to undermine or weaken the party and its leadership at this juncture,” party general secretary (organisation) K.C. Venugopal and chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said, reading out a resolution at a press conference. The CWC also authorised Ms. Gandhi to carry out organisational changes and accordingly a committee will be constituted to assist her in day-to-day functioning. In her concluding remarks, Ms. Gandhi said, “The Congress is one big family and I don’t hold anything against anyone. But all, especially senior leaders, should raise concerns at the party forum only.” The stormy meet got under way with Mr. Venugopal reading out an August 20 letter in which Ms. Gandhi had asked the general secretary to start the process of appointing the next party chief.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sonia-to-stay-on-as-interim-cong-chief/article32433700.ece
25 August 2020||Srinagar,||Will fight for return of our rights, says Farooq Abdullah||National Conference (NC) president and former J&K Chief Minister Farooq Abdullah, who is leading a formation of around six political parties, on Monday said all these parties will start a campaign in Ladakh and Jammu soon “to fight for return of rights of people” as per the Gupkar Declaration. “The recent joint statement was a reiteration of what we said on August 4 last year. I hope Ms. (Mehbooba) Mufti is freed soon and we will carry this fight forward not only in Kashmir but will have people of Jammu, Leh and Kargil with us. It’s a fight for our rights,” Dr. Abdullah, also the Member of Parliament from Srinagar, told The Hindu in an exclusive interview. Dr. Abdullah, who was detained for several months after August 5 last year, said, “There will be no unilateral decision accepted by one party or by one Farooq Abdullah now. The goal will be achieved in which the honour of our people and of this (erstwhile) State is restored. It’s not a fight for power.” ‘Need to sit together’ He did not rule out the new grouping turning into an electoral alliance in the future. “We need to sit together to take a final call on this,” he said. ‘Treated like a criminal’ Recounting his days in detention, Dr. Abdullah said he was “treated like a criminal”. “I was called a thief. I was slapped with draconian law. That I am a terrorist. I was an MP but without a phone line. I wonder whether I would have been better off as a terrorist,” he added. He said watching his daughter collapse at the door when he was detained was “the second most difficult moment of his life”. Dr. Abdullah said he blamed “the Prime Minister of India for the new chapter of alienation” in J&K. “Every decision is taken at his level. There is no other man,” Dr. Abdullah said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/will-fight-for-return-of-our-rights-says-farooq-abdullah/article32433696.ece
25 August 2020||CHENNAI,||Chennai sees surge in people put under travel quarantine||The Greater Chennai Corporation has registered an increase in the number of persons in quarantine in the 15 zones of the city owing to the relaxations to the intra-State e-pass system. And people who travelled to the city comprise a majority of cases. Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash on Monday said the number of persons quarantined had crossed 20 lakh in the 15 zones of the city during the COVID-19 pandemic. “The number of persons who are on travel quarantine has significantly increased due to the free pass system. In a week’s time, we will be crossing the 25-lakh mark,” said Mr. Prakash. According to HQIMS (Home Quarantine Information Management System) of the civic body, 4.21 lakh persons were under quarantine in the 15 zones. Over 16 lakh persons have been moved out of quarantine. “Travel quarantine has doubled in Chennai after relaxation of norms pertaining to issuance of e-pass. Focus volunteers have been directed to help the quarantined residents who require assistance in getting essential commodities,” said Corporation Deputy Commissioner (Revenue and Finance) Meghanatha Reddy. After the relaxation of e-pass issuance, the number of persons on travel quarantine has increased in most of the 15 zones by 100%. Anna Nagar zone on top Earlier, the city used to receive less than 7,000 travellers every day. The number of travellers reaching the city has increased to more than 14,000 every day. Anna Nagar zone, with 54,803 persons on quarantine, has registered the largest number of individuals monitored by the Corporation officials. The quarantined individuals monitored by HQIMS of the civic body include COVID-19 positive persons, contacts, persons who are waiting for COVID-19 test results and those who reached the city from other parts of the world. The number of persons on quarantine is the lowest in Manali zone, with just 6,978 persons on quarantine. The number of persons on quarantine in Tondiarpet is 9,277; Madhavaram 16,015; Tondiarpet 25,470; Royapuram 32,210; Thiru. Vi. Ka. Nagar 26,430; Ambattur 40,215; Teynampet 35,460; Kodambakkam 43,760; Valasaravakkam 35,684; Alandur 19,897; Adyar 37,761; Perungudi 18,306; and Sholinganallur 19,482. The city has monitored 2.52 lakh persons on quarantine after receiving them at airports and at checkposts in the past few weeks. Anna Nagar has received the largest number of travellers so far. As many as 31,712 travellers have reached Anna Nagar zone. Manali (2,886) has received the lowest number of travellers. However, ward-level sanitary inspectors said many guest workers had started reaching the city without e-pass, and thus they were not in the monitoring system. Naturally, such persons cannot be quarantined because they are reportedly entering the city without proper notice to the civic body.   Volunteers asked to help quarantined residents in getting essential commodities Meghanatha Reddy Corporation Deputy Commissioner||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chennai-sees-surge-in-people-put-under-travel-quarantine/article32433785.ece
25 August 2020||Srinagar,||Will fight for return of our rights, says Farooq Abdullah||National Conference president and former J&K Chief Minister Farooq Abdullah, who is leading a formation of six political parties, on Monday said all these parties will start a campaign in Ladakh and Jammu soon “to fight for return of rights of people” as per the Gupkar Declaration. “The recent joint statement was a reiteration of what we said on August 4 last year. I hope Ms. (Mehbooba) Mufti is freed soon and we will carry this fight forward not only in Kashmir but will have people of Jammu, Leh and Kargil with us. It’s a fight for our rights,” Dr. Abdullah, also the Srinagar MP, toldThe Hinduin an exclusive interview. Dr. Abdullah, who was detained for several months after August 5 last year, said, “The goal will be achieved in which the honour of our people and of this (erstwhile) State is restored. It’s not a fight for power.” He did not rule out the new grouping turning into an electoral alliance in the future. Recounting his days in detention, Dr. Abdullah said he was “treated like a criminal”. “I was slapped with a draconian law. I was called a thief. That I am a terrorist. I was an MP but without a phone line. I wonder whether I would have been better off as a terrorist,” Dr. Abdullah added. Dr. Abdullah said he blamed “the Prime Minister for the new chapter of alienation” in J&K. “Every decision is taken at his level. There is no other man,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/will-fight-for-return-of-our-rights-says-farooq-abdullah/article32433914.ece
25 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||CM unveils roadmap to tackle corruption||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Monday revealed the government’s intention to invite reverse tenders in all sectors wherever the tender amount exceeds Rs. 1 crore, and to fix a time line for completing the trial in corruption cases by bringing about a legislation for it on the lines of the Disha Act. At a high-level review meeting on corruption cases, where a team of IIM-Ahmedabad led by Sundaravalli Narayanaswami submitted its report on good governance, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said corruption should be tackled at the top level and it should percolate down. He directed that complaints from the village secretariats should be received by the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) and linked to the Collectors for prompt redress. Toll-free number He instructed the officials concerned that all complaints on corruption made to 1092 should be diverted to ACB toll-free number 14440 which covers village secretariats also. The CM said the renegotiation of solar/wind power projects has yielded Rs. 3,382 crore. The previous government had allotted roughly 4,767 acres for the Pinnapuram power project in Kurnool district at a cost of Rs. 2.50 lakh per acre. The present government renegotiated with the same company and with the same specifications and the company agreed to pay Rs. 5 lakh per acre which benefited the State to the tune of Rs. 119 crore. For the Bhogapuram airport project, the TDP government had allotted 2,703 acres to the successful bidder and on renegotiations, it agreed to develop the airport in 2,203 acres, giving back 500 acres which is worth about Rs. 1,500 crore.  Officials told the CM that reverse tendering of 788 works yielded 15.01% saving. For the year ending August 2020, 45 projects costing approximately Rs. 14,285 crore were sent for judicial review. In their report on good governance, the IIM team identified the grey areas of corruption in government departments and ways to tackle the menace. Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney, Director-General of Police Gautam Sawang and ACB DIG P.S.R. Anjaneyulu were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-unveils-roadmap-to-tackle-corruption/article32433634.ece
25 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC to study ‘effect’ of Bhushan’s statement||A three-judge Bench of the Supreme Court, led by Justice Arun Mishra, will on Tuesday examine the “effect” of a statement filed by advocate Prashant Bhushan that an insincere apology for his tweets, which are an expression of his bona fide beliefs, would amount to “contempt of my conscience and of an institution that I hold in highest esteem”. “My tweets represented this bona fide belief that I continue to hold. Public expression of these beliefs was, I believe, in line with my higher obligations as a citizen and a loyal officer of this court. Therefore, an apology for expression of these beliefs, conditional or unconditional, would be insincere,” he said in the supplementary statement filed on Monday. On August 20, while reserving the suo motu contempt case for order on sentencing, the Bench gave Mr. Bhushan an opportunity to tender an unconditional apology by August 24. The court said it would schedule a hearing on August 25 in case Mr. Bhushan filed a statement by August 24. In his statement read out to the court on August 20, Mr. Bhushan refused to apologise for his tweet about Chief Justice S.A. Bobde astride a bike and another on the role of the SC in the past six years. He quoted Mahatma Gandhi to say that he neither asked for mercy nor magnanimity and would cheerfully accept whatever punishment the court deemed fit. In the supplementary statement, Mr. Bhushan said “an apology cannot be a mere incantation and any apology has to, as the court has itself put it, be sincerely made”. “If I retract a statement before this court that I otherwise believe to be true or offer an insincere apology, that in my eyes would amount to the contempt of my conscience and of an institution that I hold in highest esteem,” he stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-to-study-effect-of-bhushans-statement/article32433694.ece
25 August 2020||New Delhi,||DNA Bill can be misused: draft report||The Bill that proposes DNA sampling and profiling of citizens accused of crime or reported missing and storing their unique genetic information for administrative purposes has some alarming provisions that could be misused for caste or community-based profiling, a draft report of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Science and Technology has flagged. The committee, headed by Congress leader Jairam Ramesh, met on Monday, but for want of quorum, the draft report, which has been circulated among the members, was not finalised. The DNA Technology (Use and Application) Regulation Bill, 2019, has been in the works for 15 years now. Nearly 60 countries have enacted similar legislation, with the U.S. bringing in a law as far back as in 1994. The committee, in its draft report, pointed out that DNA profiles can reveal extremely sensitive information of an individual such as pedigree, skin colour, behaviour, illness, health status and susceptibility to diseases. “Under the provisions of the Bill, access to such intrusive information can be misused to specifically target individuals and their families with their own genetic data. This is particularly worrying as it could even be used to incorrectly link a particular caste/community to criminal activities,” the report noted. DNA database The report also red-flagged disregard to an individual’s privacy and other safeguards. The Bill proposes to store DNA profiles of suspects, undertrials, victims and their relatives for future investigations. “While there is a good case for a DNA database of convicts, so that repeat offenders may be easily identified, there is no legal or moral justification for a database with DNA of the other categories as noted above, given the high potential for misuse,” the report noted. In the Bill, if a person is arrested for an offence that carries punishment up to seven years, investigation authorities must take the person’s written consent before taking the DNA sample. But this consent is only “perfunctory”, the report said. “The Bill refers to consent in several provisions, but in each of those, a magistrate can easily override consent, thereby in effect, making consent perfunctory. There is also no guidance in the Bill on the grounds and reasons when the magistrate can override consent, which could become a fatal flaw.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dna-bill-can-be-misused-draft-report/article32433698.ece
25 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||Online classes in govt. schools from Sept. 1||The State government has given the go-ahead to Education department to conduct online classes in government schools from September 1. School Education Director A. Sridevasena told The Hindu that the guidelines for the classes were being issued. The Education department had proposed to the government a month ago for permission to conduct digital classes for school children as there was no likelihood of educational institutions reopening for some more time in view of COVID pandemic. The government studied the proposal and gave the permission, sources said. In the wake of the permission, the Education department has already begun preparations for classes involving Doordarshan and Society for Telangana State Network (T-SAT), an initiative of Department of Information Technology, Electronics and Communications of the State government to provide quality education, harnessing the potential of satellite communications and IT. The Education department has already entered into an agreement with the twin agencies. The online classes from September 1 should be viewed in the background of the government directing teachers to attend to schools from August 27. Private schools have already introduced online classes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/online-classes-in-govt-schools-from-sept-1/article32433973.ece
25 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Sibal targets Rahul, then deletes tweet||Senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal targeted former party chief Rahul Gandhi while the Congress Working Committee meeting was under way on Monday by tweeting that Mr. Gandhi had accused the dissenting leaders as “colluding with the BJP.” He subsequently deleted his tweet after being informed by Mr. Gandhi that no such thing was said. Mr. Sibal said he never made a statement in favour of the BJP in the past 30 years. “Rahul Gandhi says we are colluding with BJP. Succeeded in Rajasthan High Court defending the Congress party. Defending party in Manipur to bring down BJP Government. Last 30 years have never made a statement in favour of BJP on any issue yet ‘we are colluding with the BJP!’” Mr. Sibal tweeted. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala then tweeted that Mr. Gandhi had not made any such statement. However, Mr. Sibal was pacified only after Mr. Gandhi personally informed him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sibal-targets-rahul-then-deletes-tweet/article32433697.ece
25 August 2020||New Delhi,||Metro rail services likely to resume||The Ministry of Home Affairs is likely to allow resumption of Metro rail services when it issues Unlock 4.0 guidelines later this month, a senior official said on Monday. Many States had demanded resumption of services. There had been a demand from many States to reopen the Metro services. “Domestic flights that sometimes span over three hours are operating; there is a thinking in the government that Metro services can also be resumed since a passenger will not spend more than an hour at a stretch inside the train,” the official said. Public transport buses and AC buses were operating by following strict social distancing norms, he pointed out. Educational institutions and cinema halls would remain shut and all kinds of congregations barred. Bars, would remain shut. “Some States have allowed the sale of alcohol from bar counters but not consumption on the premises”, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/metro-rail-services-likely-to-resume/article32433699.ece
25 August 2020||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan HC asks Speaker to decide on plea||The Rajasthan High Court on Monday asked the Assembly Speaker to decide afresh a plea on merit against the merger of six Bahujan Samaj Party MLAs with the ruling Congress within three months. Speaker C.P. Joshi had on July 22 rejected a plaint filed by BJP MLA Madan Dilawar in this connection amid the political turmoil in the State. Order set aside A Single Judge Bench of Justice Mahendra Goyal set aside the Speaker’s order in which he had refused to disqualify the six MLAs, while partially allowing a writ petition moved by Mr. Dilawar challenging the merger. Another writ plea moved by the BSP seeking a similar relief was also disposed of by the court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rajasthan-hc-asks-speaker-to-decide-on-plea/article32433701.ece
25 August 2020||August 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Quick crossing||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/quick-crossing/article32433740.ece
25 August 2020||CHENNAI,||Tamil Nadu records 5,967 new cases, 97 deaths||Tamil Nadu recorded 5,967 new cases of COVID-19 and 97 deaths on Monday. Chennai accounted for 1,278 cases (including one imported case) while four other districts reported 300-plus cases each. The fresh cases took the State’s overall tally to 3,85,352.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tamil-nadu-records-5967-new-cases-97-deaths/article32433787.ece
25 August 2020||CHENNAI,||Markets to be opened soon, govt. tells traders||The government has assured traders that it will reopen the Koyambedu wholesale market complex and other markets across Tamil Nadu soon. The date of reopening of the Koyambedu complex is likely to be announced shortly, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami told a delegation of traders at a meeting on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/markets-to-be-opened-soon-govt-tells-traders/article32433788.ece
25 August 2020||CHENNAI,||SPB still on ventilator, condition is stable||Singer S.P. Balasubrahmanyam continues to be on ventilator and ECMO support in the intensive care unit, and his current clinical condition is stable, a health bulletin on Monday said. The singer was admitted to MGM Healthcare in Chennai earlier this month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/spb-still-on-ventilator-condition-is-stable/article32433789.ece
25 August 2020||Bengaluru,||K.R. Market to open on September 1||K.R. Market and the adjoining Kalasipalyam market will reopen for business on September 1. The announcement on Monday by the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike came on a day which saw a delegation of farmers and traders taking out a protest march demanding their reopening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kr-market-to-open-on-september-1/article32433744.ece
25 August 2020||Bengaluru,||Cubbon Park: Horticulture Dept. makes a U-turn||Vehicular movement inside Cubbon Park was to be allowed from Monday after the State government had directed the Department of Horticulture to do so. But Department officials claim they had not received any instructions on the same.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cubbon-park-horticulture-dept-makes-a-u-turn/article32433745.ece
25 August 2020||MYSURU,||Track doubling work to proceed on priority mode||Track doubling work along different stretches of the Bengaluru-Hubballi section is set for completion by March 2021. Officials said that post-monsoon it will be on a priority mode and the actual physical progress is likely to commence from September.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/track-doubling-work-to-proceed-on-priority-mode/article32433746.ece
25 August 2020||Chandigarh,||Haryana Chief Minister, Speaker test positive||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal and Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta on Monday tested positive for COVID-19. Both the leaders confirmed it on Twitter. The Assembly session, slated to start on August 26, will be presided over by Deputy Speaker Ranbir Gangwar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/haryana-chief-minister-speaker-test-positive/article32433911.ece
25 August 2020||New Delhi,||Tax collection in Delhi 57% less than expected||The different phases of lockdown and unlock has taken a toll on the Delhi government’s tax collection. According to data accessed byThe Hindu, tax collection for the April-June period is about 57.2% less than what was expected as per the annual budget 2020-21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tax-collection-in-delhi-57-less-than-expected/article32433912.ece
25 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Police used voter data in Delhi riots cases||The Election Commission in March allowed the Delhi police to check electoral rolls for the North East Delhi Lok Sabha constituency to identify those involved in the riots in February, according to a letter to the Chief Electoral Officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/police-used-voter-data-in-delhi-riots-cases/article32433913.ece
25 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||Infection rates hold steady in southern States||The addition of 1,842 COVID-19 cases on Sunday took Telangana’s total to 1,06,091. On Friday and Saturday, the new cases were over 2,300 and over 40,000 tests were conducted each day. On Sunday, 36,282 tests were conducted. Six more COVID-19 patients died, and the overall toll touched 761. The new cases included 373 from Greater Hyderabad, 158 in Nizamabad, 134 in Karimnagar, 113 in Suryapet, and 109 in Rangareddy. These were the highest number in a day in Nizamabad, Karimnagar and Suryapet. Results of 895 samples were awaited. Of the total cases, 22,919 were active and 761 died. Till Sunday, 9,68,121 tests were conducted. Andhra Pradesh reported 86 COVID-19 deaths and 8,601 new infections on Monday taking the toll to 3,368 and tally to 3,61,712. There were 89,516 active cases. So far 32.92 lakh samples had been tested, including 54,563 in the past day and the overall positivity rate was 10.99%. The tally of infections in East Godavari stood at 50,686. Three other districts, Visakhapatnam, West Godavari and Chittoor crossed the 30,000-mark on Monday. Nellore and Prakasam reported 10 deaths each, while East Godavari reported the maximum new infections. The new cases and deaths were as follows: East Godavari (1441 cases, 9 deaths), Nellore (965, 10), Anantapur (933, 6), Visakhapatnam (911,7), Kadapa (639, 8), Prakasam (589, 10), Vizianagaram (572, 4), Chittoor (495, 8), Srikakulam (485,7), Kurnool (484, 2), Guntur (467, 9), West Godavari (466,1) and Krishna (154,5). Kerala had a total of 59,504 positive cases, with the addition of 1,242 cases on Monday. Active cases were at 20,323. The Health Department, confirming 11 more deaths, said the cumulative toll was 234. Three deaths were reported in Kasaragod, two each in Kollam and Thiruvananthapuram, and the rest from Ernakulam, Malappuram, and Kottayam. Nearly 90% of Monday’s cases were locally acquired infections, including 34 health care workers. No infection source was known in 95 cases. Thiruvananthapuram reported 182 cases, including 17 health care workers, Malappuram 169 cases, Alappuzha 60, Ernakulam 165, Malappuram 186, Kannur 76, Kollam 112, Kozhikode 81, Thrissur 46, Kottayam 82, Pathanamthitta 6, Kasaragod 118, Palakkad 99, Idukki 19, and Wayanad 10. Tests conducted in a 24-hour period stood at 26,186. Karnataka’s case additions on Monday stood at 5,851 and total at 2.83 lakh. On mortality, 130 new COVID-19 deaths were reported. Of 81,211 active cases, 768 patients were in intensive care. Bengaluru Urban had 1,918 cases. On Monday, 39,817 tests were conducted, 11,586 of rapid antigen type.           (With inputs from Vijayawada, Bengaluru and Thiruvananthapuram)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/infection-rates-hold-steady-in-southern-states/article32433651.ece
25 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||India and China prepare for fresh talks||As the stand-off along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh entered the 17th week, India and China are preparing for another round of military talks in an attempt to resolve the tensions, a defence source said. “Both sides agreed to hold the next round of military talks. Discussions are under way on the issue but dates have not been fixed yet. Even the level at which the talks would be held has not been fixed yet,” the defence source said. It could be either at the Corps Commander level or at the Major General level, the source stated. This follows the diplomatic-level talks at the Joint Secretary level last week of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on India-China Border Affairs. Following the WMCC talks, over the weekend Defence Minister Rajnath Singh reviewed the situation with National Security Adviser Ajit Doval, Chief of the Defence Staff Gen. Bipin Rawat and the three service chiefs. Five rounds so far So far, five rounds of Corps Commander-level talks have been held but there has been little progress on the ground to restore status quo ante of pre-May positions beyond the initial steps taken for disengagement and de-escalation. The last round of military talks were on August 8 at the Major General level at Daulat Beg Oldie (DBO), specially to discuss the strategic Depsang plains where China has undertaken massive build-up of forces on its side of the LAC, and PLA troops have also been blocking Indian Army patrols from reaching the patrolling points. Depsang Plains and Pangong Tso remain major areas of concern with Chinese troops continuing to occupy the ridgelines of Finger 4, about 8 km inside from Finger 8, up to which India’s claim extends. There has been no change in situation on the ground, the source added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-and-china-prepare-for-fresh-talks/article32433659.ece
25 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Consider online NEET from next year’||The Supreme Court on Monday asked the Medical Council of India (MCI) to consider providing an online option for taking the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance (NEET) from next year. “If Joint Entrance Examination [JEE] is allowed online, why not NEET? It is the same National Testing Agency (NTA) conducting both exams. Why can’t you think of something next year... You can think about it,” Justice L. Nageswara Rao, heading a three-judge Bench, orally addressed MCI counsel Gaurav Sharma during the virtual court hearing. But the court refused to order authorities to set up exam centres abroad or have the NEET held online this year to facilitate candidates abroad, especially those in West Asia. The entrance exam is fixed for September 13. “Unless there is something arbitrary, how can we pass orders? You [candidates] live in Dubai, you have studied there. You want to come to India to write NEET, who is stopping you... Take the Vande Bharat flights. This year it is too late,” Justice Rao said. Advocate Haris Beeran, representing the interests of the candidates, said it was hard for students to travel to India amid the COVID-19 pandemic. Besides, they would be quarantined once they reach here. In response, the court said there was still enough time to take a Vande Bharat flight to India and complete quarantine here. The court requested Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta to consider facilitating travel for NEET candidates in these flights. Quarantine norms The court refused to order easing of quarantine norms for NEET candidates coming from abroad. Both the court and the Centre said the fixing of a quarantine period was entirely the prerogative of the State. Mr. Beeran had said the quarantine in some places in Kerala extended to 28 days. “We have to take care of the health and welfare of the public too. Mr. Beeran, you are in Kerala? There are 2,500 cases reported every day... Tell them [candidates] to catch the flights now itself and write the exams here. There are still days left,” said Justice Rao. The court, however, acquiesced to Mr. Beeran’s plea that students could approach the respective State governments to relax quarantine. Mr. Beeran had argued that a large number of students were appearing for both the JEE and the NEET. It would be impossible for these students to take the JEE, which is held between September 1 to September 6, fly to India, observe quarantine and then appear physically for the NEET on September 13. “Sixty percent of students who take the NEET are also aspirants of the JEE. The JEE has both online and exam centres in various places, including Dubai and Doha,” the lawyer submitted. But Justice Rao reasoned that only a “miniscule” number of candidates appeared for both the exams. “People who write the NEET would be from the medical branch of studies like physics, chemistry and biology... A large number of people start preparing for the NEET when they are studying in Class 10 or earlier,” he observed orally. The court said the petition had not shown any arbitrariness in the conduct of the NEET. Hence the scope of judicial review was limited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/consider-online-neet-from-next-year/article32433674.ece
25 August 2020||August 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Guwahati gets India’s ‘longest’ river ropeway||India’s ‘longest’ passenger ropeway across a river was unveiled in Guwahati on Monday, almost a year after it was completed. The 1.82-km bi-cable jig-back ropeway connects a forest campus near the Kamrup (Metro) Deputy Commissioner’s office in the city on the southern bank of the Brahmaputra and a hillock behind the Doul Govinda temple in north Guwahati on the other. The ropeway passes over the mid-river Peacock Island that houses Umananda, a medieval Shiva temple. Scenic ride “The long wait for a ropeway is over. People dependent on ferry services to travel between the two banks now have an alternative that also offers a view,” Assam’s Finance and Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said after unveiling the ropeway with Guwahati Development Department Minister Siddhartha Bhattacharya. The Rs. 56.08-crore ropeway project was assigned to the Guwahati Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) in 2006. The foundation stone was laid in December 2009, a year after a Kolkata-based firm was awarded the construction work. A Swiss firm designed the cabins later. The ropeway was scheduled to have been commissioned in May 2011 but an objection from the Archaeological Survey of India stopped the work in February that year. GMDA received the permission to restart the project in 2015 on the condition that a pillar on a heritage island be realigned. “We are not sure about the second longest river ropeway, but engineers who worked on the project said the Guwahati-North Guwahati ropeway is India’s longest in its category. The longest on land, of course, is the one in Gulmarg, Kashmir,” GMDA’s chief executive officer Umananda Doley told The Hindu . “We have installed CCTV cameras strategically to ensure security of the ropeway system,” he said, adding that the trial run for the ropeway was done in 2019. Each cabin could carry 32 people, including the operator, and the ride took about nine minutes one way, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/guwahati-gets-indias-longest-river-ropeway/article32433686.ece
25 August 2020||New Delhi,||Congress leaders continue parleys||After getting rapped on the knuckles by the Congress Working Committee (CWC) for making public the letter written to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, raising a host of questions on the party’s functioning, the group of leaders who authored the letter had a long meeting at party General Secretary Ghulam Nabi Azad’s residence in Delhi. According to sources, the meeting, held soon after the seven-hour CWC meeting, was attended by Anand Sharma, Mukul Wasnik, Kapil Sibal, Shashi Tharoor and Manish Tewari. Though the CWC ended on a conciliatory note, it clearly said “inner party issues cannot be deliberated through the media or in public fora. The CWC urges and advises all concerned to raise such issues only in party fora in the interest of propriety and discipline.” Out of the signatories only four are part of the CWC — Mr. Azad, Mr. Sharma, Mr. Wasnik and Jitin Prasada. Also, another CWC member, Deependra Hooda’s father Bhupender Hooda, signed the letter. These four were bitterly attacked during the meeting with many personal remarks directed at them. Gandhi family loyalist Ambika Soni said Mr. Azad is the only person who is holding a constitutional position, as Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, after the 2014 debacle. Ms. Soni also raked up the subject of Mr. Prasada’s father, Jitendra Prasada, having fought against Ms. Gandhi. According to sources, Mr. Prasada said it was unfortunate that the letter got leaked, but it was not to undermine the Gandhi family or weaken the party. He also said that he would welcome any action that the CWC decides to take against him and other signatories. Mr. Sharma, it is learnt, proposed during the meeting that the letter should be made public to clear the air that it did not target any individual. The suggestion was not agreed upon. Senior party leaders indicated that there will be no immediate repercussion or disciplinary action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-leaders-continue-parleys/article32433668.ece
25 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||RSS organ pans Aamir, pats Devgn||Bollywood has come under the scanner of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh’s mouthpiece Panchjanya with the cover story of its latest edition making a frontal attack on certain film stars, including Aamir Khan, as not being nationalist enough. Magazine editor Hitesh Shankar told The Hindu that while it was true that Mr. Khan had made films such as Lagaan , Sarfarosh and 1857: The Rising , his current actions were not of the nationalist hue. “The meeting between Aamir Khan and Turkey’s first lady Mrs Erdogan hurt feelings in India as the Erdogan government has been opposing India’s legitimate actions in Jammu and Kashmir. We also wanted to decode why Aamir Khan was so popular in China compared with other Indian film stars, why Dangal did better there than Sultan (starring Salman Khan) which had almost the same content. Aamir Khan also endorses particular Chinese brands, and no one flourishes in China till the Chinese state decides to promote them,” Mr. Shankar said. ‘Lost tradition’ The title of the write-up, Dragon Ka Pyara Khan (“The Khan beloved of the dragon”), is self-explanatory and lauds stars like Akshay Kumar, Kangana Ranaut and Ajay Devgn for continuing the “lost” tradition of making films based on nationalist sentiments or brave deeds of the armed forces. “After Indian and Chinese forces faced off in Galwan Valley, film star Ajay Devgn announced a film on the incident. This was enough for a few English-speaking intellectuals on Twitter to mockingly state that after Akshay Kumar, the bug of nationalism seems to have bitten Devgn. It seems Devgn’s move sparked some vested interests,” the piece says. Streaming platforms have been lauded for a number of web series on issues of “nationalism” such as the Manoj Bajpayee-starrer The Family Man that the same magazine criticised when it first came out, on the grounds that some dialogues indicated a sympathetic view of the origins of terrorism in Jammu and Kashmir. The criticism of Mr. Khan also mentions his comments at a journalism award function a few years ago where he spoke of growing intolerance in India and fears for his family’s safety. At that time too, his remarks had created a controversy and Sangh Parivar outfits had termed them politically motivated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rss-organ-pans-aamir-pats-devgn/article32433688.ece
25 August 2020||Srinagar,||‘People governing Delhi believe in no Constitution’||As National Conference president Farooq Abdullah takes the lead by rallying parties around the Gupkar Declaration to revive politics in J&K, which has by and large remained suspended after August 5 last year, he speaks of the bitter past and the tough future ahead.  Two political events — on August 9, 1953 and August 5, 2019 — have reshaped J&K’s course. Are there any parallels? August 9, 1953 was the first blow to the autonomy of the State. My father was arrested and was taken to the Udhampur Palace. Our own Prime Ministers and Chief Ministers have betrayed the people. The erosion of Article 370 had taken place by our own people. Delhi was behind it but we were the instruments of theirs to do that. This time, the change was that they did not find our people to betray. They tried with the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) but couldn’t do it. That is why this lady [PDP president Mehbooba Mufti] is suffering as they want to punish her. Yes, they tried to persuade a splinter group of the PDP to implement changes on the ground. They failed. Thus they took this thing [revoking J&K’s special status] to Parliament and their own Governor, with no Assembly or Chief Minister to back it. The people governing Delhi believe in no Constitution. I am sure one day if they have their way, they will throw the Constitution into Ganga or Jamuna. There is every possibility. These fascists can do anything. Do you regret the decision to return to politics in 1996 on the persuasion of New Delhi at a time when J&K was facing the peak of militancy? We sought guarantees from the Prime Minister of the day, P.V. Narasimha Rao. On the floor of Parliament, he announced that “we will restore autonomy of the State to the sky, sky is the limit but no freedom or azaadi ”. We never asked for azaadi but for our rights to be returned. He promised. It’s on that promise [that] I went to the polls and carried people with me. I was in London when Delhi sent me an emissary, Harkishan Singh Surjeet of the CPI(M), to see me. Before that George Fernandes came to see me and kept on telling me that the State is going downhill... I said I will come but first we will have to talk to the PM. Let him listen to us. Our senior colleagues met the PM and pointed out how it was for (NC founder) Sheikh Muhammad Abdullah that J&K chose for India because we have Hindus, Sikhs, Buddhists. I never thought I would be repaid in this fashion. I always thought they would increase our degree of autonomy. We never revolted against India. My people died, my Ministers and workers died holding the tricolour. Did they realise this before they did August 5? Who was here in 1996? Was the BJP here or any party? I was alone. How were you treated during your detention? I was treated like a criminal. That I am a thief and the three families have looted the place. That I am a terrorist. I wonder whether I would have been better off as a terrorist. It reminds me of an English saying “I wish I had served my lord more than I served the king, this would not have been my fate”. I wish I could have served my people better and thought of them. Did you meet former RAW chief A.S. Dulat as Delhi’s emissary during detention? Yes. He came to see me and he must have been sent by them to see whether I have come down, I have compromised and if I was ready for this or that. He had lunch with me. I said no. He later gave an interview, which they didn’t expect him to do. That exposed them that they gave him a special plane. I don’t think they talk to him any more. Is the Gupkar Declaration also about an electoral alliance? The Declaration has a line in it “Nothing about us without us”. Elections are not. When announced, every party will decide first. And then collectively we will think about it and take a final decision. People are accusing you of changing the goal post from the restoration of pre-1953 position to pre-August 5 position. The National Conference (NC) stands for pre-1953 position and the Gupkar Declaration stands for August 4, 2019. The NC's fight will continue for that. The Lt. Governor's administration claims a number of development projects are under way in J&K for the first time The L-G sits in the palace and his great advisers click pictures of meeting with people. Could they show guts to go and meet ordinary people in a village or go to Jamia Masjid without security bandobast and with every street blocked? They are living in the cuckoo world. Why did you stay away from the official August 15 function? We were invited for the LG’s swearing-in when all of my people were locked up. How will Farooq Abdullah go and have tea when people are dying and suffering. I didn’t go to August 15 as we celebrated it as a black day.  We never asked for azaadi but for our rights to be returned||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/people-governing-delhi-believe-in-no-constitution/article32433690.ece
25 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Pinarayi weathers no-trust vote, slams Opposition||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan predictably weathered a no-confidence motion against his government in the Assembly on Monday. The Left Democratic Front (LDF) rallied behind Mr. Vijayan. It defeated the no-confidence motion moved by the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) Opposition by 87 votes to 40. The UDF appeared diminished on the floor of the House after two MLAs aligned to the Jose K. Mani faction of the Kerala Congress (M) stayed away from the voting. 11-hour debate The 11-hour marathon debate saw the opposing fronts wrangle bitterly over a range of political hot potato talking points centred on the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO). Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala hovered over the alleged corruption at the CMO. He said a cabal of corrupt bureaucrats and gold smugglers had held sway in the CMO since 2016. They had circumvented the due process of governance to earn kickbacks. At least three Central agencies were at Mr. Vijayan’s doorstep. He said Mr. Vijayan was at a loss to explain how Swapna Suresh, the second accused in the gold smuggling case, came to represent the CMO in the government’s interactions with the United Arab Emirates. “The CM has to clarify whether he colluded with Swapna and his former Principal Secretary M. Sivasankar or was beguiled by them. Either way, Mr. Vijayan has lost the right to continue in office,” he said. Opposition criticised Mr. Vijayan’s nearly four-hour reply to the debate was simultaneously a progress card on governance and a strong indictment of the Opposition. He said the Congress spoke the language of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Kerala. It was facing an identity crisis. The BJP had followed the economic agenda set by the Congress. Now, the Congress had welcomed the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya by the RSS. The party had paved the way for the rise of revanchist forces. “Are you sure you would be the only Opposition in the Kerala Assembly after the next elections,” Mr. Vijayan asked. The fissures in the national leadership of the Congress had come to the fore. The party could not elect a president. Mr. Vijayan defended the government on all counts. He said the government would cut red tape and invite investment without losing its commitment to social welfare. The no-confidence motion had diminished the UDF and strengthened the LDF. The government had won two by-elections after coming to power. It had wrested the Pala seat from the UDF. The victories testified to the public support the government enjoyed, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pinarayi-weathers-no-trust-vote-slams-opposition/article32433640.ece
25 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Police used voter data in riots cases||The Election Commission (EC) in March allowed the Delhi police to check electoral rolls for the Northeast Delhi Lok Sabha constituency to identify those involved in the riots in February, according to a letter to the Chief Electoral Officer (CEO). A photo of the letter from the EC to the Delhi CEO on March 12 was shared by activist Saket Gokhale on Twitter on Monday. He alleged the EC “broke its own rules & shared photos & addresses of all residents of NE Delhi with the police after the February 2020 pogrom”. CEO’s letter In response to the CEO’s letter on March 6, the EC wrote back saying the “electoral database of the entire AC [Assembly constituency]/district should not be shared with the police authorities in accordance with the Commission’s prevailing policy and practice.” However, keeping in mind the request by the Delhi police for electoral roll with photos of electors of Northeast, Shahdara and East Delhi districts to match with the images of culprits as seen in CCTV footage, the EC allowed the CEO to ‘display’ the electoral roll with photos in his office to the investigating officers. A top EC official said the decision was in accordance with the Commission’s rule not to hand over the photo electoral database as the police were allowed to view it at the CEO’s office. In a statement, the EC said its 2008 guidelines regarding sharing the electoral roll with government agencies were followed. The guidelines state that the database with photos can be shared with government departments by special permission of the EC on a case by case basis due to “citizen privacy issues”. “It is hereby clarified in view of the anecdotal reports which are not based on empirical facts that the Commission has not in any way deviated from the original guidelines of 2008 and clarificatory orders of 2020 in any manner,” the EC statement said. Criminal investigation The poll body said criminal investigations could be challenged in court. “It also needs to be stated that as far as criminal investigations by regulatory departments/enforcement agencies is concerned, it is under their own extant Acts, Rules and guidelines, which in any case can be challenged in the Hon’ble Courts of law. In fact, the entire super structure of criminal justice system is erected on this,” the EC said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/police-used-voter-data-in-riots-cases/article32433655.ece
25 August 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Virus breaches another wall, four Bondas test positive||The COVID-19 pandemic has reached the Bondas, a tribal community residing in the hill ranges of Malkangiri district in Odisha. Four members of the community have tested positive for COVID-19. They have been isolated from the rest of the community members. Bondas, a particularly vulnerable tribal group (PVTG), live in settlements comprising small hutments in the hills of the Khairaput block. Their population is around 7,000. “Three persons from the Bonda community from Mudulipada village and one from Bandhaguda village have tested positive. They have been sent to COVID-19 hospital. We have already declared villages as containment zones. Movements to Bonda hamlets have been restricted. We will send ambulance to carry out COVID-19 tests,” Hrudaya Ranjan Sahoo, Khairaput Block Development Officer, told The Hindu . As of now, 41 people in the block (not all Bondas), where a small concentration of the Bonda population is found, have tested positive. While 24 COVID-19 patients have recovered, active cases stand at 17. Odisha is home to 62 tribal communities — the largest diverse groups of tribal population in India. Thirteen of them are PVTGs. Tribal populations are found in the entire seven districts of Kandhamal, Mayurbhanj, Sundargarh, Nabarangpur, Koraput, Malkanagiri and Rayagada, and in parts of six other districts. There are around 20 blocks where 13 PVTGs have sizeable populations. None of the blocks have been spared by the pandemic. Bissamcuttack and Kalyansinghpur blocks of the Rayagada district, having the Dongria Kandh tribal population, have so far reported 64 and 40 positive cases respectively. Similarly, 171 persons have been found infected in Lanjigarh block of Kalahandi district, where the Dongrias live. Cases were also detected in Lahunipada (Sundargarh), Barkot (Deogarh) and Pallahara (Angul) blocks, where Paudi Bhuyans live. Patrapur block, where the population of Sauras population is scattered, has reported 551 COVID-19 cases. Gajapati’s Guma block, which is home to the Lanjiasaura community, had 295 persons infected by the COVID-19. The government has translated COVID-19 awareness leaflets in 10 tribal languages to ensure that they are effectively utilised in the villages. Meanwhile, Odisha on Monday reported 2,949 cases. With this, the State’s tally jumped to 81,479.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/virus-breaches-another-wall-four-bondas-test-positive/article32433670.ece
25 August 2020||Bengaluru,||Karnataka to amend laws to implement education policy||The State government is doing all it can to bring in administrative reforms and amendments to the law, which are essential to implement the National Education Policy 2020, said Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan, who also holds the Higher Education portfolio. Karnataka would become the first State in the country to implement the policy, he said. Addressing the inaugural session of the ‘Highlights of the National Education Policy and its implementation’, a five-day online workshop organised by Bengaluru University, he said that the State government was going ahead with regard to this with specific goals and a clear agenda. “A high-level task force was constituted after the draft of the policy reached us and this committee has already held several meetings,” he explained. The committee has already come out with suggestions to implement the policy in a phased manner. Only the recommendations of the final stage are awaited. The administrative and legal steps would be taken as soon as the final recommendations are made, the Dy. CM said. The new policy would make high-quality education available to all students. The whole system would benefit from the quality of teaching. This would pave the way for the elimination of the ‘inspector raj’ mindset and an era of transformation would begin,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/karnataka-to-amend-laws-to-implement-education-policy/article32433636.ece
25 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Search on for Sri Lankan drug trafficker’s accomplice||Enforcement agencies are on the lookout for Athurugiriye Ladiya, a close associate of drug trafficker Angoda Lokka from Sri Lanka who had been living in India under a pseudonym since 2017. Lokka died under mysterious circumstances in Tamil Nadu’s Coimbatore in July. While the Tamil Nadu police are investigating the circumstances in which Lokka died, Central agencies like the Narcotics Control Bureau are trying to identify his associates involved in drug smuggling. Lokka and Ladiya had vanished from Sri Lanka following an attack on a prison bus in February 2017, in which their rival “Samayan” and five other jail inmates were killed along with two prison officials. Escape in boats It is believed they escaped using the boats of international drug traffickers, at the instance of their gang leader, Makandure Madhush, who then operated from Dubai along with one Kanjipani Imran. The authorities found that before fleeing, Lokka had arranged for himself a Sri Lankan passport in the name of Sadun el Valage and Ladiya got a passport in the name of Chanuka Dahanayaka. Last year, Madhush and Imran were arrested in Dubai and extradited to Sri Lanka. While they remained lodged in a Colombo jail, from where they had been running drug trade, the whereabouts of Lokka and Ladiya remained unknown. The mystery surrounding Lokka’s location started unfolding when, suspecting that he was the same person who died in Coimbatore on July 3 night, the Sri Lankan authorities contacted their counterparts in Tamil Nadu. As it turned out, the 35-year-old man who had been living in Coimbatore since October 2018 under an assumed identity, Pradeep Singh, was indeed Lokka. He was taken to a local hospital where he was declared dead. Based on an Aadhaar card, which later turned out to have been obtained fraudulently, his body was released after post-mortem and it was cremated in Madurai. The new facts led the police to arrest Lokka’s girlfriend Amani Thanshi, Dyaneswaran and Sivagami Sundari on multiple charges. The agencies suspect that Lokka was murdered. They are trying to gather information on his local associates and all the places he visited in India. “Lokka was a nefarious underworld figure in Sri Lanka, who along with the other gang members was involved in the trafficking of drugs received from Pakistan-based syndicates via sea route,” said an agency official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/search-on-for-sri-lankan-drug-traffickers-accomplice/article32433644.ece
25 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Plea for equal compensation to families of victims dismissed||The Supreme Court on Monday declined a plea seeking formulation of a national policy for providing uniform compensation to families of those who died of COVID-19. A Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan dismissed the plea saying every State has a policy and gives compensation as per its financial power. National policy Advocate Deepak Prakash, appearing for petitioner Hashik Thayikandy, said all he is asking for is a national policy. So many people have died due to the virus and the victims are not getting equal compensation, Mr. Prakash said. He said in some cases, the Delhi government has given Rs. 1 crore as compensation while some States are giving Rs. 1 lakh. The Bench said it is dismissing the plea, after which the counsel sought to withdraw it. Essential workers The petitioner had also sought a direction to the Centre and the State governments to formulate an appropriate “compensation plan” to provide ex gratia to the kin of essential workers and healthcare workers who have succumbed to the pandemic. “The said citizens are also tax payers. In such a structure, whereby the death rate is only increasing at an alarming rate per day, it is imperative for the State to formulate appropriate guidelines, on compassionate grounds, for compensation to families of the COVID-19 casualties,” the plea had said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/plea-for-equal-compensation-to-families-of-victims-dismissed/article32433678.ece
25 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Plea to hike cess on tobacco products||Public health groups, along with doctors and economists, have urged the GST Council to increase compensation cess on all tobacco products that can provide an additional tax revenue of Rs. 49,740 crore. “This additional revenue could significantly contribute to the increased need for compensation by different States during the pandemic and to disburse the dues already owed by the Centre,’’ said the groups. Two benefits “Increasing compensation cess on all tobacco products, including bidis, is a winning proposition for government as it will provide the much-needed additional tax revenue for a COVID-19 stimulus package while motivating millions of tobacco users to quit and preventing youngsters from initiating tobacco use,” said Ashim Sanyal, COO, Voluntary Organisation in Interest of Consumer Education (VOICE). India has the second largest number of tobacco users (268 million) in the world — of these at least 12 lakh die every year from tobacco-related diseases, said the group.  Rijo John, health policy analyst, said that unprecedented financial resources would be needed for the country to recover from the economic shock COVID-19 had created. “A Rs. 1 compensation cess per stick of bidi and significant cess increases on cigarettes and smokeless tobacco products are expected to generate additional tax revenue to the tune of Rs. 50,000 crore.’’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/plea-to-hike-cess-on-tobacco-products/article32433682.ece
25 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Author puts the blame on Bloomsbury UK||Advocate Monika Arora, one of the authors of a book on the Delhi riots that was dropped by its publisher, Bloomsbury India, on August 22, said on Monday that the decision was taken under “pressure from Bloomsbury UK”. “Long live colonialism. The white man is indeed still ruling us,” she wrote in a statement. The book written by Ms. Arora and Delhi University professors Sonali Chitalkar and Prerna Malhotra, Delhi Riots 2020 - The Untold Story , was withdrawn by the publisher half an hour before a virtual pre-launch event organised by the authors. Ms. Arora said the book arose out of a report on the riots by Group of Intellectuals and Academicians that was presented to Union Minister of State for Home Affairs G. Kishen Reddy on March 11. “We worked on draft after draft, taking inputs from Bloomsbury editors and legal experts. The final draft was approved by Bloomsbury editors,” she wrote. Without reading the book, she said the critics on social media said it blamed minorities. The book would now be published by Garuda Prakashan, an Indian publisher. “The book is based on thorough ground research. The authors interviewed persons belonging to both communities. The book documents the way that political forces and ideologically radicalised persons created a communal rift in the city from December 2019 over the issue of the Citizenship [Amendment] Act,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/author-puts-the-blame-on-bloomsbury-uk/article32433683.ece
25 August 2020||Hyderabad,||Dismembered body of flower vendor found in open plots||A 26-year-old history-sheeter from Mahbubabad district, who wanted to create fear, killed a person and left the torso and head in two open plots in the village on Monday. The accused, A. Harish, was eyeing on two open plots in Girinitanda under Kesamudram police station. “He wanted to create fear among the actual owners and occupy the land. So, he invited Venkanna (40), a flower vendor, to his house on Sunday night, where they consumed liquor. Around 1 a.m. Harish killed the victim, decapitated him and dumped the remains in two plots,” Sub-Inspector B Satish said. Venkanna, who migrated to Girinitanda from Ananthapur 10 years ago, was no way connected to the land owners or the accused, he said. “Harish saw him passing-by and invited him for a drink and later killed him,” Mr. Satish said. On Monday morning, when locals noticed the torso, police immediately rushed to the spot and suspected Harish’s role as he was already a history-sheeter in the area. “We found a knife and bloodstains in his house. He was soon picked-up and taken to the police station for questioning, during which he confessed to his crime,” the officer said, adding that Harish wanted to claim the ownership of the plots . Harish, who is also mentally unsound, was arrested and remanded to judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dismembered-body-of-flower-vendor-found-in-open-plots/article32433975.ece
25 August 2020||Kolkata,||‘No CM face for BJP in West Bengal election’||Former Meghalaya Governor Tathagata Roy arrived at the Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose International Airport here on Sunday and was greeted by a huge crowd of BJP supporters. Mr. Roy has already expressed his wish to join active politics and said he has no reservations if the party projects him as the Chief Minister candidate. The State unit has a number of CM candidate hopefuls, including president Dilip Ghosh, who helped the party increase its Lok Sabha tally from two to 18 in the 2019 polls. The central leadership on Sunday tried to put all speculation to rest saying a decision on the post will be taken after the polls. “We will fight the elections under the leadership of Narendra Modi,” said national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya. He also told journalists that all the leaders — Dilip Ghosh, Mukul Roy and Rahul Sinha — will work as a team. The central leadership has always maintained that in States where the party is not in power there is no question of going to the polls with a chief ministerial candidate. Active role On Monday, Mr. Tathagata Roy also said it is “premature to think” about who the CM candidate will be. “At this moment it is important for us to take note of the shortcomings of the party and strengthen it.” He also met Mr .Vijayvargiya during the day, giving clear hints that he will play an active role in State politics. Political observers say with different factions trying to assert themselves, the central leadership has few options but to put all speculation to rest. “The inner party feud can intensify with more CM contenders joining the party fold, particularly with the return of Tathagata Roy. The BJP is left with little option but to give a clear message that it will go to polls under Narendra Modi’s leadership and not any State leader,” said Biswanath Chakrborty, political observer and head of the department of political science at the Rabindra Bharati University.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-cm-face-for-bjp-in-west-bengal-election/article32433663.ece
25 August 2020||New Delhi,||DNA Bill can be misused, flags draft report||The Bill that proposes DNA sampling and profiling of citizens accused of crime or reported missing and storing their unique genetic information for administrative purposes has some alarming provisions that could be misused for caste or community-based profiling, a draft report of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Science and Technology has flagged. The committee, headed by Congress leader Jairam Ramesh, met on Monday, but for want of quorum, the draft report, which has been circulated among the members, was not finalised. The DNA Technology (Use and Application) Regulation Act, 2019, has been in the works for 15 years now. Nearly 60 countries have enacted similar legislation, with the U.S. bringing in a law as far back as in 1994. The committee, in its draft report, pointed out that DNA profiles can reveal extremely sensitive information of an individual such as pedigree, skin colour, behaviour, illness, health status and susceptibility to diseases. “Under the provisions of the Bill, access to such intrusive information can be misused to specifically target individuals and their families with their own genetic data. This is particularly worrying as it could even be used to incorrectly link a particular caste/community to criminal activities,” the report noted. DNA database The report also red-flagged disregard to an individual’s privacy and other safeguards. The Bill proposes to store DNA profiles of suspects, undertrials, victims and their relatives for future investigations. “While there is a good case for a DNA database of convicts, so that repeat offenders may be easily identified, there is no legal or moral justification for a database with DNA of the other categories as noted above, given the high potential for misuse,” the report noted. In the Bill, if a person is arrested for an offence that carries punishment up to seven years, investigation authorities must take the person’s written consent before taking the DNA sample. But this consent is only “perfunctory”, the report said. “The Bill refers to consent in several provisions, but in each of those, a magistrate can easily override consent, thereby in effect, making consent perfunctory. There is also no guidance in the Bill on the grounds and reasons when the magistrate can override consent, which could become a fatal flaw.”  ( Bill premature Page 10)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dna-bill-can-be-misused-flags-draft-report/article32433917.ece
25 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Veerendrakumar’s son elected to RS||Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD) Kerala State president M.V. Shreyams Kumar was on Monday elected to the Rajya Sabha where he will fill the seat that had fallen vacant following the death of his father and former Union Minister M.P. Veerendrakumar. Mr. Shreyams, who contested the poll as the Left Democratic Front (LDF) candidate against Congress leader Lal Varghese Kalpakavadi of the United Democratic Front (UDF), secured 88 of the 130 votes that were polled. While Mr. Kalpakavadi garnered 41 votes, one vote was declared invalid. With only 69 first preference votes required for a win, Mr. Shreyams’ victory remained a foregone conclusion. Polling to the lone seat got under way at 9 a.m. and concluded at 4 p.m. Adhering to the COVID-19 protocol, only one legislator was allowed to enter the booth at a time. All members were subjected to COVID-19 test prior to arriving at the Assembly. Fissures in KC(M) While V.S. Achuthanandan, C.F. Thomas, and George M. Thomas abstained from voting for health reasons, those who decided against voting were BJP leader O. Rajagopal, and the Kerala Congress (M) legislators Roshy Augustine and N. Jayaraj. The KC(M) members, associated with the Jose K. Mani faction, defied the whip issued by the P.J. Joseph faction of the party to vote in favour of the UDF. Their abstention is likely to worsen the faction’s strained relations with the UDF.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/veerendrakumars-son-elected-to-rs/article32433642.ece
25 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||DRDO lists 108 defence items for Indian firms||A list of 108 military subsystems and components has been identified for development by the Indian industry and the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) will provide support for the process, the Defence Ministry said on Monday. “A DRDO delegation met Defence Minister Rajnath Singh to apprise him about 108 systems and subsystems which have been identified for designing and development by the Indian Industry only,” the Ministry said in a statement. The DRDO would also provide support to industries for design, development and testing of these systems on requirement basis. All the requirements of these systems by research and development establishments, armed forces and other security agencies could be met through development contracts or production orders on suitable Indian industry, the Ministry said. The development of the subsystems and components would be done over the next couple of years. The DRDO has been partnering with industry for many years, including the development of full systems like the Advanced Towed Artillery Gun System (ATAGS) and Pinaka rocket launchers, among others. “Collaborating with DRDO in the development of major weapon systems the Indian industry has matured to a stage where they can develop systems on their own. Indian industry has progressed from a ‘build to print’ partner to ‘build to specification’ partner,” the Ministry stated. The present industry base for the DRDO consists of 1,800 Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) along with Defence Public Sector Undertakings (DPSUs), ordnance factories and large-scale industries. The DRDO already offers its technologies to industry for manufacture at a nominal cost and has been providing free access to its patents. Negative import list The announcement follows the 101 items on the negative import list issued by the Defence Ministry on August 9, which have to be domestically procured in a phased manner. This was part of a series of measures announced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in May to promote domestic defence manufacturing as part of the “Atmanirbhar Bharat” initiative. These include the negative import list, separate budgetary allocation for domestic procurements, indigenisation of spares and components and raising the FDI cap in defence through automatic route from 49% to 74%. Separately, the Godrej group said in a statement that it had partnered with Ordinance Factory Chandrapur (OFC) in Maharashtra to conceptualise and develop an indigenous automated assembly line for production of Pinaka Rockets at a new facility that was inaugurated early this month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/drdo-lists-108-defence-items-for-indian-firms/article32433657.ece
25 August 2020||New Delhi,||Parliamentary panel calls DNA Bill premature||The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Science and Technology, in a draft report, has called the DNA Technology Regulation Bill “premature”. The Bill proposes DNA sampling and profiling of citizens accused of crime or reported missing and storing their unique genetic information for administrative purposes. The committee said in the absence of a robust data protection legislation, the security of a huge number of DNA profiles that will be placed with the National DNA Data bank and its regional centres is questionable. The draft report also red-flagged certain provisions of the Bill. The Bill permits retention of DNA found at a crime scene in perpetuity, even if conviction of the offender has been overturned. The committee urged the government to amend the provisions to ensure that if the person has been found innocent his DNA profile must be removed immediately from the data bank. The committee recommended that independent scrutiny must be done of the proposals to destroy biological samples and remove DNA profiles from the database. The Bill also provides that DNA profiles for civil matters will be stored in the data banks, but without a clear and separate index. The committee questioned the necessity for storage of such profiles, pointing out that this violates the fundamental right to privacy and does not serve any public purpose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/parliamentary-panel-calls-dna-bill-premature/article32433676.ece
25 August 2020||M. RajeevHYDERABAD,||Inter-State bus services hit a roadblock||Resumption of inter-State bus services between Telangana and Andhra Pradesh appears to be unlikely in the immediate future. The Executive Director-level talks between the two States on the issue remained inconclusive and the officials agreed to work out the finer details of the agreement at the next meeting. The talks assume significance as the RTC services between the two States were stopped on March 22 after the announcement of lockdown. The two corporations resumed services to neighbouring States like Karnataka, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu since relaxations were announced towards May-end as part of Unlock 1.0, but services between the two Telugu States remained suspended since the past couple of months. The more than three-hour discussions, according to sources, were focused on formulation of an agreement for operating inter-State services between the two States. The States did not enter into an understanding in this direction since the formation of separate Telangana State in 2014. The discussions were centred on the guidelines that should be adopted and the operational issues that should form part of the agreement between the two States. During a high-level meeting between the two States in Vijayawada in the first week of June, the officials on the two sides agreed in principle for signing an agreement, but the process could not make much headway thereafter. While the Telangana side officials wanted a formal agreement to be signed to avoid scope for any losses to the TSRTC, the AP officials said that they would discuss the issue with their government and seek its directions in this regard, leading to a stalemate in the discussions. The AP officials, however, said they would return to the discussions sooner than later after taking the view of their government. The officials reportedly discussed about the extent which the TSRTC services would cover in the neighbouring State and the extent of coverage by APSRTC here. Issues like the number of halts and the areas where the services could be operated were reported to have figured in the talks. The discussions assume significance as this was the first time the officials of the rank of EDs met at TSRTC headquarters, Bus Bhavan, for finalising an agreement between the two States since bifurcation. The operation of services between the two States, however, continued over the past few years till the lockdown was announced. Important option With novel COVID-19 hitting the services and buses remaining in depots for a long time, the managements of the public sector undertakings were of the firm view that resumption of inter-State services was one important option available to sustain themselves. Though a meeting in this direction was convened in June first week, it had to be deferred after employees of the Bus Bhavan were tested positive to COVID-19. APSRTC executive director K.S. Brahmananda Reddy, Telangana EDs Purushotham Reddy and E. Yadagiri and other senior officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/inter-state-bus-services-hit-a-roadblock/article32434021.ece
25 August 2020||August 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Sonia to stay on as interim Congress chief||Former Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Singh then called the letter from the 23 senior leaders ‘unfortunate’ and asked Ms. Gandhi to continue until the next AICC session. Echoing him, senior Kerala leader and former defence minister A.K. Antony called “the contents of the letter cruel” and asked how could party leaders write a letter that weakens the High command as well as the party. Rahul counters Speaking after them, Rahul Gandhi questioned the timing of the letter when the Congress was vulnerable, fighting the BJP in Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh and his mother was unwell and hospitalized. “Rahul ji said the BJP attacks the Gandhi family because of ideology but he was surprised to see our own leaders doing so and that too leaked in the media. He said it was an insult to his mother,” a CWC member said who didn’t wish to be identified. Talking about the letter episode, former Union minister Bhanwar Jitendra Singh, known to be close to Mr. Gandhi, said there are Jaichands or traitors in the Congress party. Later the party clarified that Mr. Gandhi had not accused the dissenting leaders of ‘colluding with the BJP” as was initially reported by a section of the media. Senior leader Ahmed Patel said he never expected Mr. Azad, Mr. Sharma and Mr. Wasnik to write a letter since he had told them that all of them could meet the Congress president. Referring to media leaks, he pointed out that several media outlets were giving a ‘running commentary’ of the closed-door CWC proceedings. Selective leaks Mr. Azad asserted that selected portions of the letter were leaked to the media, and that the group had never uttered a word against the Gandhi family. He offered his resignation over accusations that the senior leaders had acted at the behest of the BJP. Mr, Azad was the target of many CWC members, with A Chella Kumar going to the extent of wondering why one former Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) Chief Minister was never detained by the Centre post dilution of Article 370 when all others were. Mr Azad responded that one should see parliamentary records to know how much he attacked the Modi government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sonia-to-stay-on-as-interim-congress-chief/article32433645.ece
25 August 2020||August 25 2020 00:00 IST,||SC to study ‘effect’ of Bhushan statement||Mr. Bhushan said he had never stood on ceremony for offering his apology for a mistake or wrongdoing on his part. “It has been a privilege for me to have served this institution and bring several important public interest causes before it. I live with the realisation that I have received from this institution much more than I have had the opportunity to give it. I cannot but have the highest regard for the institution of the Supreme Court,” he said. ‘Last bastion of hope’ He stated that he believed the Supreme Court to be the last bastion of hope for the protection of the fundamental rights, the watchdog institutions and indeed the constitutional democracy itself. The hopes of the people vested on the Supreme Court in “these troubling times” to ensure rule of law and not the untrammelled rule of the Executive, he said. “This casts a duty, especially for an officer of this court like myself, to speak up, when I believe there is a deviation from its sterling record. Therefore, I expressed myself in good faith, not to malign the Supreme Court or any particular Chief Justice, but to offer constructive criticism so that the court can arrest any drift away from its long-standing role as a guardian of the Constitution and custodian of peoples’ rights,” he noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-to-study-effect-of-bhushan-statement/article32433646.ece
25 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Bhushan files questions of law in SC on contempt||Advocate Prashant Bhushan on Tuesday filed a series of questions of law in the Supreme Court, including whether an expression of a bona fide opinion about the extent of corruption in any section of the judiciary would amount to contempt of court. The questions have been filed in connection with a 2009 contempt case against him for his remarks about judicial corruption during an interview to Tehelka magazine. A three-judge Bench led by Justice Arun Mishra is scheduled to hear the case on August 25. The Bench in the last hearing on August 17 had decided to launch a detailed examination into the circumstances under which a person can make public allegations of corruption against the judiciary. It had also decided to hear arguments on laying down a procedure to be adopted if such statements of corruption are made in public against sitting as well as retired judges. Adding to this, Mr. Bhushan’s lawyer, advocate Kamini Jaiswal, has asked whether a person who expresses bona fide opinion about judicial corruption is obliged to prove it or “whether it is enough to show that he bona fide held that opinion”. The lawyer has also asked the Supreme Court whether its suo motu powers to take contempt under Article 129 to curtail free speech and expression are restrained by the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bhushan-files-questions-of-law-in-sc-on-contempt/article32433671.ece
25 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Substantial amount disbursed under OROP’||The Supreme Court on Monday said the government had already disbursed Rs. 10,794 crore towards the One Rank One Pension (OROP) scheme for retired defence personnel. “We cannot say the government has not done anything. It is not that they have not acted. They have disbursed substantial amounts,” Justice D.Y. Chandrachud observed orally. The petition filed by the Indian Ex-Servicemen Movement, represented by senior advocate Huzefa Ahmadi and advocate Balaji Srinivasan and Shadan Farasat, accused the government of reneging on its promise to implement OROP. The bone of contention in the petition is that equalisation of pension would happen every five years. It wanted automatic equalisation, whenever there is disparity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/substantial-amount-disbursed-under-orop/article32433672.ece
25 August 2020||Kochi,||‘Church takeover may lead to COVID-19 spread’||The State government on Monday informed the Kerala High Court that in the event of a forcible takeover of the Kothamangalam church, now located in a containment zone, the public, driven by religious fervour, are likely to gather, leading to a breach of physical distancing norms and super spread of COVID-19. In a report filed in response to a contempt of court petition filed by the vicar of the Orthodox faction, the government said the takeover of a church at Mullaringad in Idukki district had resulted in an assembly of 250-odd people belonging to the parish and the police had to forcibly remove them. The incident had resulted in a super spread of COVID-19 in the Mullaringad area of Vannapppuram panchayat. The Kothamangalam church is located in ward 17 of Kothamangalam municipality that had been declared as a containment zone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/church-takeover-may-lead-to-covid-19-spread/article32433637.ece
25 August 2020||August 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Rajasthan HC asks Speaker to decide on plea||The court had earlier refused to grant an interim relief through a stay on the participation of the six MLAs in the Assembly proceedings as the Congress legislators. On Monday, the court gave liberty to the BSP to file a disqualification petition with the Speaker, while disposing of its writ petition. The six legislators — Sandeep Yadav, Wajib Ali, Deepchand Kheria, Lakhan Meena, Jogendra Awana and Rajendra Gudha — had contested the 2018 Assembly election on the BSP symbol and defected to the Congress in September last year. All of them supported the Ashok Gehlot government in the voting on the confidence motion moved in the House on August 14. The MLAs had submitted an application for merger on September 16, 2019, on which the Speaker issued an order on September 18, 2019. Mr. Dilawar had filed the plaint seeking disqualification of the BSP MLAs on March 16 this year, which was rejected by the Speaker on technical grounds on July 22. With the BSP legislators defecting to the ruling party, the tally of the Congress in the 200-member Assembly had increased to 107. The BSP maintained that the merger of MLAs was unconstitutional because the party did not merge with the Congress at the national or State levels and the legislators could not merge with another party on their own. After the Speaker rejected his plaint in the matter, Mr. Dilawar challenged the decision in the High Court through a writ petition on July 28. The BSP also filed a writ petition the next day. The matter was later taken to a Division Bench, which directed that the Single Judge’s notices be served on the six MLAs who were staying along with other Congress legislators at a resort near Jaisalmer. ‘Victory of the truth’ Reacting to the court’s verdict, BSP-turned-Congress MLA Mr. Jogendra Awana said all the legislators were confident about the legality of their merger with the Congress, which they had done for strengthening the State government. “The High Court’s judgment is victory of the truth,” he said. Meanwhile, the Assembly was adjourned sine die on Monday after the passage of 13 Bills in the session, which also witnessed a trust vote won by the government on its opening day on August 14 following a patch-up with dissident Congress MLAs led by former Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rajasthan-hc-asks-speaker-to-decide-on-plea/article32433647.ece
25 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Bring quarries under govt. control: House panel||Taking serious note of environmental problems caused by quarries, a Kerala Assembly panel has called for a mining policy for the State and recommended that quarries be brought under government control. The recommendations are part of a report prepared by the Assembly Committee on Environment on the environmental problems caused by quarries and crusher units. The panel headed by Mullakkara Ratnakaran, MLA, tabled its report in the House on Monday. No quarries other than the 723 licensed ones should be allowed to operate in the State. Approvals to these should be cancelled if the rules are violated. A mining policy, based on guidelines issued by the National Green Tribunal and the Supreme Court, is required for making quarry and crusher unit operations environment-friendly and scientific. Instead of issuing licences to individuals, quarries should be brought under public ownership/government control, according to the recommendations. Soil study vital Scientific studies on the impact of quarrying and mining/filling of soil on soil structure and waterbodies are needed, the committee said. “ It needs to be scientifically proven whether quarry operations are a cause of landslips in Kerala. The committee recommends that studies should be carried out by agencies such as the Geological Survey of India or the National Centre for Earth Science Studies.” The use of chemicals like ammonium nitrate for rock fragmentation in quarries should be discarded. The panel also wanted the government to control the price of rock as everyone has equal right to it. Quarry owners should supply a fixed volume to BPL families in the vicinity of the quarries at subsidised rates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bring-quarries-under-govt-control-house-panel/article32434035.ece
25 August 2020||August 25 2020 00:00 IST,||He obeys His devotees||In Parasara Bhatta’s commentary for Vishnu Sahasranama, name 626 is vijitatma. Sankara Bhagavadpada interpreted this to mean — He who has controlled His mind. Parasara Bhatta explained this as the One who lowers Himself for the sake of those who surrender to Him, despite Himself being the wealth of Lakshmi Herself. The next name is videyatma. Sankara took this as avideyatma, and gave the meaning as One who is subordinate to none. Parasara Bhatta, on the other hand, said videyatma means One who obeys His devotees. We see the Lord doing so even in His archa form, in which He should not move. But He broke this rule to obey His bhaktha, said M.A. Venkatakrishnan, in a discourse. When Kani Kannan was banished by the King, Thirumazhisai Azhvar sang that since Kani Kannan was leaving, he too was leaving, and that the Lord of Thiruvekha should roll up His serpent-bed and follow them. The Lord obeyed Thirumazhisai Azhvar’s order, and left! The King, realising his mistake, asked Kani Kannan to return, and Thirumazhisai Azhvar sang that since Kani Kannan was returning to Kanchi, he too was returning to Kanchi. “So, unroll your snake bed,” he said to the Lord, and the Lord at once did as He was told. Thus the name videyatma is justified. We again see this when Krishna becomes Arjuna’s charioteer. The warrior in the chariot would be seated while the chariot was being driven, and in the din in the battlefield, he would not be able to give orders. So, to indicate the direction the charioteer was to take, he would press his feet against the driver in different ways, to indicate the directions. The warrior was the one giving commands and the driver was the one who obeyed. Krishna submitted Himself to such treatment for the sake of His bhaktha Arjuna.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/he-obeys-his-devotees/article32433691.ece
25 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC rejects plea on religious structures||The Supreme Court on Monday declined a plea for a direction to the Centre and the Telangana government to reconstruct the religious structures razed during the demolition of the old Secretariat building in Hyderabad. The State government has decided to demolish the old Secretariat for constructing the new one in Hyderabad and in the process, two mosques and a temple have been razed, the plea said. A Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan allowed Hyderabad-based lawyer and petitioner Khaja Aijazuddin to withdraw the plea to pursue the remedy in the High Court, but refused to direct the lower court to decide the case pertaining to demolition of the places of worship.  The plea said ‘Nalla Pochamma temple’ and masjid Dafaatir-e-Muatamadi and ‘masjid-e-Hashmi’ inside the old secretariat building premises have been demolished.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-rejects-plea-on-religious-structures/article32433648.ece
25 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC rejects plea against merger of BSP MLAs||The Supreme Court on Monday dismissed a plea filed by a BJP leader challenging the approval granted by Rajasthan Assembly Speaker C.P. Joshi to the merger of six BSP MLAs in Rajasthan with the ruling Congress party. On Monday, a Bench led by Justice Arun Mishra found the petition filed by BJP MLA Madan Dilawar to be infructuous after it learnt that the Rajasthan High Court had, earlier in the day, given the Speaker three months to decide a petition filed by Mr. Dilawar for the disqualification of the six MLAs for defection. On August 13, the court had refused to stay Speaker Joshi’s September 18, 2019 decision to recognise the merger. Mr. Dilawar said in his plea that the Speaker, instead of accepting the merger, ought to have disqualified the MLAs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-rejects-plea-against-merger-of-bsp-mlas/article32433661.ece
25 August 2020||GUWAHATI,||Outrage after 9 accused of rape get bail||Scheduled Caste and tribal organisations in Assam’s Biswanath have upped the ante against the authorities after coming to know belatedly that nine boys accused of raping and killing a 12-year-old have been granted bail. The girl was reported missing from her village near Gohpur on February 28. Her body, hanging from a tree, was recovered from a forest near the village the following night. The police subsequently arrested the nine boys from the same village. One of the boys was granted bail on May 23. The others were also released on bail within the next four days. “We are not happy with the way the police handled the case and the sluggishness of the local court,” said Bipul Hira, secretary of the Gohpur unit of All Assam Scheduled Caste Students’ Union.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/outrage-after-9-accused-of-rape-get-bail/article32433675.ece
25 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delimitation Commission gets new office||The Delimitation Commission headed by Justice (retired) Ranjana Desai had already held four meetings and with the opening of its new office premises on Monday, it could start deliberations with associate members soon, the Election Commission said in a statement. Justice Desai inaugurated the office located at Ashoka Hotel in the presence of Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora and Election Commissioners Ashok Lavasa and Sushil Chandra, who is also a member of the Delimitation Commission. “The Delimitation Commission has already started functioning since March 2020. All associate members have already been nominated for each State/Union Territory concerned,” the EC said. The Commission is in the process of redrawing Assembly constituency boundaries in the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir, among others. “The Commission has kept June 15, 2020 as the date for freezing of administrative districts in these States/UTs. With the opening of this office, it is hoped that deliberations with associate members would start soon to expedite the process of delimitation,” the EC statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/delimitation-commission-gets-new-office/article32433684.ece
25 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||NSG unit conferred Army chief unit appreciation||Army Chief General Manoj Naravane on Monday conferred the COAS (Chief of Army Staff) Unit Appreciation to 51 Special Action Group (SAG) of the National Security Guard (NSG) in recognition of the Group’s outstanding achievements in combating terrorism, the Army said on Monday. The NSG was raised in 1984 and functions under the Union Home Ministry. The group’s most noteworthy operation is the Operation Black Tornado, during which it eliminated eight terrorists during the 2008 Mumbai terror attack, freeing over 600 hostages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nsg-unit-conferred-army-chief-unit-appreciation/article32433660.ece
25 August 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Haryana CM, and Speaker infected||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal and Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta on Monday tested positive for COVID-19. Both the leaders confirmed it on Twitter. The Assembly session, slated to start on August 26, will be presided by Deputy Speaker Ranbir Gangwar. In view of the Assembly session, the government had asked all legislators who intend to visit the House, to conduct a test for COVID-19. Earlier, Mr. Gupta’s political secretary and a nephew had tested positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/haryana-cm-and-speaker-infected/article32433665.ece
25 August 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Naxal material dump found in Odisha||The BSF and the District Voluntary Force of Odisha’s Malkangiri district have stumbled upon a material dump of the CPI(Maoist) in a forested area. The materials were stored for making country-made guns. “It is suspected that these products might have been used for illegal manufacture and repair of arms and ammunition to be used for anti-national activities,” said the police. Meanwhile, ayoung Maoist, Mahadev Madkami, surrendered before the police on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/naxal-material-dump-found-in-odisha/article32433916.ece
25 August 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||How performing arts in the city changed with the times||At a time when there is a paradigm shift in the way audiences are taking to performing arts, due to the ongoing pandemic and lockdowns, it may make sense to pause and rewind to the city’s culture and arts scene nearly a century ago. Till the early part of the 20th century, performing arts were largely confined to temples, and many who were living in villages slowly began spending more time in Madras, in search of such entertainment, says Pradeep Chakravarthy, historian and author who also conducts heritage tours. December 1927 witnessed the All India Congress Session being held in Madras, a significant event that later helped in the formation of the Music Academy. On August 18, 1928, the institution was inaugurated at the YMCA Auditorium, Esplanade. But the Margazhi Music Festival, which now draws people from across the globe to various sabhas , big and small, was originally not held in December. “The Madras Music Conference, 1929, organised by the Music Academy Madras, will take place during the Easter holidays (29 March to 1 April, 1929),” archives of The Hindu show. “One can say that performing arts bloomed in the city in the 1900s, and much later, Kalakshetra played a crucial role in bringing more focus to the city, in terms of performing arts,” Mr. Chakravarthy says. Kalakshetra, which was founded in 1936 by Rukmini Devi Arundale, contributed a great deal to the world of dance. In 1943, the Tamil Isai Sangam emerged, and a decade later, the Raja Annamalai Mandram was born. The last decade has been particularly important for performing arts in the city, as both artistes and the public have come together to push boundaries. In 2015, an alternative cultural festival, the Urur Olcott-Kuppam Vizha (now called the Chennai Kalai Theru Vizha), co-founded by T.M. Krishna, emerged and focused on taking the marginalised arts to high arts places and vice-versa. Railway stations, metro rail stations, beaches and even a public transport bus became venues for music and dance performances. Reimagining the city’s famed Sathyam Cinemas as a concert space, MadRasana, an arts organisation, hosted a series of concerts over the last two years during the December season. Popularising paraiattam , the 'Friends Kalaikuzhu' from Korukkupet also has gained prominence over the last few years. “The city is synonymous with the live experiences it has to offer for performing arts. While this can never be replaced, the online medium has emerged as an effective alternative platform,” says Akhila Krishnamurthy, whose company ‘Aalaap’ has played host to several events online.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/how-performing-arts-in-the-city-changed-with-the-times/article32433826.ece
25 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||City police seek CB-CID probe into encounter||The Greater Chennai Police have written to Director-General of Police J.K. Tripathy seeking transfer of cases pertaining to death of 48-year-old Shankar in an encounter on Friday, to the CB-CID. “We are doing this as per the guidelines of the National Human Rights Commission. To initiate a fair probe into the incident, it is appropriate that another agency, such as State CID, investigates it,” said a senior police officer. Commissioner of Police Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal has recommended the transfer. Once the DGP gives his nod, the CB-CID will take over the case. Family receives body Meanwhile, the family of Shankar received his body on Monday. His family, including his sister Renuka and mother Govindammal, had refused to receive the body as they held the police responsible for his death. Shankar, who had more than 51 criminal cases against him, was gunned down by the police on Friday when he allegedly attacked a constable with a knife on New Avadi Road in the early hours of Friday. Post-mortem was conducted on his body at the Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital in the presence of a judicial magistrate and was videographed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/city-police-seek-cb-cid-probe-into-encounter/article32433791.ece
25 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. to focus on Salem, Coimbatore and Cuddalore||Following an increase in COVID-19 cases in Coimbatore, Salem and Cuddalore, the State government has decided to focus on these districts. Coimbatore saw 389, 392 and 387 new COVID-19 patients on Saturday, Sunday and Monday respectively. The new cases in Cuddalore for these days were 309, 380 and 370 respectively. Salem recorded 288, 261 and 273 new patients. In comparison with Chennai and its three neighbouring districts, these figures, were however, lower. “All districts are being monitored. Since more cases were recorded in these three districts, the focus is on them,” a top official told The Hindu on Monday. The numbers in these districts were scrutinised in detail at a virtual meeting of District Collectors chaired by Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam on Monday evening. Steps being taken by Collectors were reviewed and they were instructed on efforts needed to bring down the number of new positive cases as well as deaths. Best practices Another official said best practices implemented in some districts were reviewed and recommended for other districts. For instance, some districts have put in place a scheme to deploy a fresh batch of doctors, nurses and health workers for duty between 2 a.m. and 6 a.m. in COVID hospitals, since the night duty staff are exhausted by that time. “These special batch of doctors and nurses would be posted only during that time. That way, the rotation is not disturbed and all of them get sufficient rest,” the official explained. Deaths of COVID-19 patients in accidents too came up for discussion. “Since many vehicles are back on roads, there are accidents and those killed included COVID-19 positive patients and hence it was discussed whether they should be included in COVID-19-related deaths or not,” the official added. No decision yet on e-pass The meeting, however, did not decide anything on the e-pass system in the wake of the communication received from the Union Home Ministry not to impose any restrictions on inter and intra-state movement of persons and goods. A top official said: “The Chief Minister would discuss the issue with Collectors on Saturday.” Thereafter, the Chief Minister is expected to announce a decision on whether to extend the COVID-19 lockdown beyond August 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-to-shift-focus-on-salem-coimbatore-and-cuddalore/article32433849.ece
25 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||5,967 new cases of COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu||Tamil Nadu recorded another 5,967 cases of COVID-19 and 97 deaths on Monday. Chennai accounted for 1,278 of the fresh cases (including one imported case), while four other districts reported 300-plus infections. The fresh cases took the State’s tally to 3,85,352. As many as 6,129 persons, including 1,234 in Chennai, were discharged from hospitals after treatment. Till date, a total of 3,25,456 persons have been discharged in the State, while 53,282 persons are currently undergoing treatment. Of the 97 persons who died (67 in government facilities and 30 in private hospitals), 23 died in hospitals in Chennai, eight in Kancheepuram and seven in Coimbatore. As of date, a total of 6,614 persons have died of the infection in the State. Two women — a 23-year-old from Tirupattur and 32-year-old from Kancheepuram — died at the Institute of Obstetrics and Gynaecology and Hospital for Women and Children, Egmore, after delivery. Officials said both women had heart ailments and had tested positive for COVID-19. They were referred late to the hospital, they added. The 23-year-old woman was admitted on August 12. She died on August 19 due to rheumatic heart disease, severe mitral stenosis and COVID-19, while the other woman died on August 22 due to rheumatic heart disease, severe mitral stenosis, severe pulmonary hypertension, moderate tricuspid regurgitation, mild aortic regurgitation, cardiogenic shock and COVID-19. A 27-year-old woman from Kancheepuram with acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) relapse died in a private hospital on August 21, a day after being admitted with complaints of fever, cough for five days and breathing difficulty for three days. Chennai’s overall case tally stood at 1,26,677 — 1,10,819 discharged, 13,255 active cases and 2,603 deaths. The northern districts continued to record a surge in cases. Cuddalore reported 370 cases, while Tiruvallur and Chengalpattu had 320 and 306 cases, respectively. Among the western districts, Coimbatore led with 387 cases, while Salem and Erode had 273 and 189 cases, respectively. In the south, Theni recorded 193 cases, Kanniyakumari 149 and Dindigul 132. A private laboratory — Krishna MRI and CT, Virudhunagar — has been approved for COVID-19 testing. With this, there are 140 testing facilities in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/5967-new-cases-of-covid-19-in-tamil-nadu/article32433822.ece
25 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. colleges begin admissions||Students who have been allotted seats in government arts and science colleges will receive intimation through SMS and e-mail from Wednesday. The process of preparing merit list of candidates in government arts and science colleges began on Monday. College officials will submit the list to their respective principals by Tuesday evening. Owing to COVID-19 pandemic, the Department of Collegiate Education had to go for online counselling. Nearly 3.12 lakh candidates had applied for 95,000 seats in 109 government colleges in the State. Seat allotment On Sunday, the department despatched soft copies of applications to the colleges. On Monday, colleges began sorting the applications. Seat allotment would be based on the first choice opted by applicants in the form. Since a student could apply to all departments in a college, a soft copy of the application had been sent to all departments the student had applied. The officials must verify with other departments based on the choices the student had marked in the form. “For instance, if a student had applied for Mathematics as a second choice and Physics as the first choice, we would verify with the Physics department if he had been allotted a seat. If not, we would allot him a seat in Mathematics department,” said a professor. After drawing up the merit list based on community rotation, each department must hand over to the Principal who would countersign it. The students will start receiving information through SMS or by email on Wednesday from the head of the departments. Two waiting lists The colleges will draw up two waiting lists. Those who have not been selected in the first round would be called in the second round. In each college, the head of the department and two staff members have been deployed for the work. Students under special category will have to pay the fee on August 28. From August 29 till September 4, students under general category must pay the fees. Candidate who have applied for a college in his own city can pay in person. Candidates who have been selected for a college in another town may pay the fee in the local college. The list of such students will be mailed to the college concerned based on which the admission will be completed, an official said. The DCE had been conducting verification of certificates online. However, in case, malpractice is detected during physical verification of the certificates, the college would cancel the admission of such candidates and the seat would be allotted to a student in the waiting list.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-colleges-begin-admissions/article32433796.ece
25 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Sembakkam lake restoration planned||Cognizant and Grundfos have announced funding support for restoring the Sembakkam lake in Chennai. Cognizant will contribute more than Rs. 2.7 crore and Grundfos Rs. 1.7 crore and up to Rs. 7.5 lakh in kind for civil works, waste water treatment and landscaping to rejuvenate the 100-acre lake that flows into the Pallikaranai wetland, one of south India’s last remaining natural marshlands. The two companies will collaborate with the India chapter of the Nature Conservancy, Indian Institute of Technology Madras, and Chennai-based Care Earth Trust, a non-governmental organisation that works in the area of biodiversity conservation. Expected to be completed in 2021, the work will involve cleaning the inlets and outlets, improving the lake’s connectivity with upstream and downstream waterbodies, building an eco-friendly wastewater treatment system, and constructing walkways and green buffer zones along the lake. Improving storage The project will help clear the lake of solid waste, silt and invasive plants, improve the lake’s storage capacity by 50%, enhance groundwater recharge and improve water quality. It will benefit over 10,000 households living around the lake and conserve the local biodiversity consisting of around 180 plant species (including 11 aquatic species) and more than 65 bird species. In addition, after the COVID-19 situation improves, volunteers from Cognizant Outreach and Grundfos, together with project partners, will run a range of community engagement and awareness initiatives, expert talks, lake festivals and tree plantation drives — to ensure long-term impact of the restoration project. Poul Due Jensen, group executive vice-president, CSO, Grundfos, said, “By restoring this lake, we are not only strengthening its ecosystem, but also the connection between people and nature by providing a platform.” Muthu Kumaran, global head of delivery for Cognizant Digital Business and the head of Cognizant’s Chennai operations, said: “The Sembakkam is one of Chennai’s 54 inter-connected lakes of the Pallikaranai watershed basin that are critical to the city’s water security. We believe this initiative has the potential to become an inspiring example of how the coming together of various stakeholders for a rejuvenation project of this scale can redefine the future sustainability of urban ecology.” Science-based solutions Seema Paul, managing director of the Nature Conservancy’s India programme, said, “We are deploying science-based and nature-led solutions using constructed wetland systems that use minimal energy, require zero chemical additives, and are inexpensive for wastewater treatment at the lake.” Some of the other experts involved in this project are the Consortia of FINISH society, Indian Leather Institute Foundation, The Solutions Centre and Oasis Designs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sembakkam-lake-restoration-planned/article32433844.ece
25 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Doctors fund toilets for the needy in the Nilgiris||In the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic, more than 60 government doctors from across Tamil Nadu have come together to pool in funds to construct toilets for families of Selvip Nagar in Adigaratty panchayat in The Nilgiris district. After constructing a toilet for an elderly man suffering from paralysis, the doctors have a list of families in need of toilets on a priority basis. It all started with a group of five government doctors pooling in funds to construct a toilet for Kalimuthu, a resident of the village in Coonoor taluk, who was suffering from paralysis for eight years, and did not have a toilet at home. “I read a report about him in a magazine and went in search of him. The hamlet has 63 houses and came under a containment zone after one person tested positive for COVID-19. Yet, people were moving in and out frequently. When I inquired, they said the majority of the households did not have toilets and they had to defecate in the open,” said Kiran Kumar, assistant surgeon, Government Primary Health Centre, Ketty. Despite being paralysed, Kalimuthu, in his 60s, had to walk for a kilometre from his home to relieve himself, he said, adding: “He struggled to walk with the help of a stick. The area is very steep, and was barricaded as it was a containment zone. In steeper areas, someone had to carry him. As a result, he was not eating well.” Five of them pooled in Rs. 32,000 and engaged local workers to construct a toilet for Kalimuthu. It was completed and handed over recently. As the search for Kalimuthu led the government doctors to other families that had no toilets, they decided to pool in funds to construct toilets for them. From a group of five government doctors, the list has grown to 65. “We have prepared a list of families. We are prioritising families with girl children and elderly persons. This list has about 10 families. Once this is over, we will move to the next list. Basic sanitation is a must for people. Our ultimate aim is to make this hamlet open defecation free,” Dr. Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/doctors-fund-toilets-for-the-needy-in-the-nilgiris/article32433820.ece
25 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IIT Madras, German team find ways to safely dispose of pharma waste||Researchers of the Indian Institute of Technology Madras along with their German counterparts have developed ‘co-composting’ methods to safely dispose of toxic pharmaceutical waste water sludge. They have established composting facilities in several villages across the country based on their studies. The compost thus obtained complies with the required international standards, according to the researchers. The research team led by Ligy Philip, Department of Civil Engineering, comprised research scholar Anu Rachel Thomas from the Institute and Martin Kranert from the Germany-based Institute for Sanitary Engineering, Water Quality and Solid Waste Management, Stuttgart University. Ms. Thomas, Ms. Philip and Mr. Kranert published the results of their study in the peer-reviewed journal Waste Management . Studies have shown that 10-90% of the pharmaceutical and personal care discarded waste are expelled in the parent form and the rest in conjugated form. “With the increasing population, the usage of onsite sanitation systems like septic tanks have been increasing, leading to the disposal of an enormous quantity of septage into the environment without proper treatment. Untreated septage disposal creates environmental degradation, which includes contamination of precious surface and groundwater sources, serious health threats and potential greenhouse gas emissions,” explained Ms. Philip. The team studied the degradation pattern of triclosan and carbamazepine. Triclosan is a commonly used antimicrobial compound in toothpaste, detergents and soap, among other products. Carbamazepine is a widely used anti-epileptic drug. Ms. Philip said adding organic waste and coir pith to pharmaceutical and personal care product provided a conducive environment to remove carbamazepine. The researchers conducted experiments in an in-vessel composter where the dewatered septage collected from a sewer plant and mixed organic waste was used apart from the pollutants, triclosan and carbamazepine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/iit-madras-german-team-find-ways-to-safely-dispose-of-pharma-waste/article32433833.ece
25 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Thoraipakkam-Pallavaram road widening picks pace||Work to widen the 4-km stretch of the Thoraipakkam-Pallavaram radial road into a six-lane wide facility with service lanes between Keelkattalai and Pallavaram is picking up pace. Widening of the sides is on with the limited workforce that is available. “We got some workers back at the site sometime ago. More workers who are willing to work at our location have already begun moving from their native places. We hope that they will be available for work in a month,” said a source in the Highways Department. “Since we have to widen 10 pipe culverts into wider box culverts to carry a large volume of rainwater from either side, the road would have to be cut at these locations. We will divert traffic to the sides and begin that work. The widening is being carried out on land belonging to the department,” an official said. The 10-km-long road is slated to be six lanes wide except for the 2-km stretch of the Pallikaranai marsh. The cost of the work is estimaed at Rs. 36 crore. The road carries over 70,000 vehicles a day, necessitating the widening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thoraipakkam-pallavaram-road-widening-picks-pace/article32433851.ece
25 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Dr. Cherian moves HC, says red tapism is hitting research||Renowned heart surgeon K.M. Cherian has filed a public interest litigation (PIL) petition in the Madras High Court expressing deep anguish over numerous obstacles faced by scientists across the country due to lack of farsighted government policies for the promotion of medical research by eliminating red tapism, providing government funds and easing norms for obtaining as well as repaying bank loans. His petition has been listed before Justices M.M. Sundresh and R. Hemalatha on Tuesday. In his affidavit, Dr. Cherian said that after his postgraduate studies and training in the field of cardiac surgery in Australia and New Zealand, he returned to India in 1975 to serve his country, despite having had offers from the United States and Australia. He joined the Indian Medical Railway Service for a monthly salary of Rs. 1,070.  Thereafter, he went on to serve different institutions in the country and played a pivotal role in putting India in the forefront of open heart surgeries in Asia. He had many firsts to his credit. He was awarded the Padma Shri in 1991 and was a honorary surgeon to the President between 2002 and 2004. He was the only Indian member of American Thoracic Society since 2002 and the first Indian to become president of World Society of Cardiac Thoracic Surgeons in 2010. He founded Frontier Mediville, the country’s first medical science research park, at Elavur village near Gummidipoondi in Tiruvallur district, on 360 acres of land allotted during the stint of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa. The park was promoted by Frontier Lifeline Hospital as well as Dr.K.M. Cherian Heart Foundation and all earnest efforts were taken to promote it as a world class facility. However, efforts could not fructify due to lack of government support, he said. Lack of support Delay in getting approvals from government authorities and rigidity of banks which treat medical research facilities like commercial establishments were the reasons for the failure, he said. “Heart surgeries at a cheaper cost can be achieved but there is complete lack of support from the government and other statutory bodies,” the petitioner lamented and stated to have brought this to the notice of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in a personal meeting on June 25, 2015. The PM, in turn, asked the petitioner to approach the chairman of NITI Aayog and accordingly a meeting was held with the latter on March 21, 2018. The minutes of the meeting, along with the recommendations, were forwarded to various government bodies but “till date no action was taken by any of the respondents to redress the grievances/hurdles faced by the petitioner or the entire research,” Dr. Cherian said and sought a direction to lay down clear guidelines to aid medical research. The surgeon insisted upon the court’s intervention in the matter so that at least in the future, the young scientists in the country do not end up facing all the difficulties that he had to face despite having so many achievements to his credit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dr-cherian-moves-hc-says-red-tapism-is-hitting-research/article32433858.ece
25 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Microlithic tools found in Agaram and Sivagalai in Sivaganga district||With the sixth phase of the excavations at the Keeladi cluster and the excavations at other sites to come to a close in September for the year, the Tamil Nadu Department of Archaeology released an interim status report on Monday. The finds range from semi precious stones like carnelian, agate, amethyst, to terracotta seals, skeletons, Microlithic tools such as blades and scrapers coins, iron objects and swords and roofing tiles. Key among the finds are carbonised rice grains and the microlithic tools found at Agaram. While the carbonised rice was found on the surface during excavations at Agaram, in Sivagalai this was found in an offering pot. Both will be sent to a lab for carbon dating to identify the time period. Releasing the report to the media, Minister for Tamil Official Language and Tamil Culture MaFoi K. Pandiarajan said a total of 3,959 artefacts have been found during the excavations at the Keeladi cluster and Erode till July across all seasons. So far 128 carbon samples have been collected in Keeladi and its clusters. The report was earlier released on Monday morning by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami. New findings In the current season of excavations, a fine variety of red-slipped ware containing Tamizhi letters reading Ka-y was found embedded in the soil at Keeladi, apart from semi-precious stones, weighing units and terracotta seals. A spinal cord with ribs of a bovine having a length of 0.80 metres was also found. At Kondagai, a burial site, 40 urn burials, one pit burial and 16 surface burials were identified. Also, 17 human skeletons and two animal skeletons were unearthed with bowls of red-ware, red-slipped-ware and black-and-red ware. Of particular interest to the archaeologists are the finds at Agaram, where the first season of excavations was initiated. These include Microlithic tools such as blades and lunate found in association with fluted core indicating that these tools were produced at the site. Carbonised rice grains Carbonised rice grains were recovered at a depth of 1.75 metres. Polished stone axe, ceramic wares were also found. Manalur excavations which started in May 2020 threw up smoking pipes, terracotta wheels, hop-scotches and traits of architectural activity. At Adichanallur too, Microlithic tools were found, consisting of blade, point and scraper made of chert. A total of 10 urn burials were also exposed and 438 antiquities were collected. Iron objects and roofing tiles were also found. The excavation at Sivagalai, being undertaken to know the Iron Age burial culture and locate the earliest settlement of the region, yielded finds such as potsherds, Mesolithic tools and other artefacts. Kodumanal excavation reaped Tamizhi inscribed potsherds and structures built of stone masonry. Mr. Pandiarajan said the department has tied-up with nearly 10 institutions to scientifically analyse the excavated material. Madurai Kamaraj University has taken steps to establish an ‘ancient DNA lab’ at a cost of Rs. 3 crore and this would help in faster turnaround times of identifying the artefacts’ antiquity, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/microlithic-tools-found-in-agaram-and-sivagalai/article32433814.ece
25 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Experts highlight agriculture as a career||“Agriculture cannot be ignored”. This was the message from experts at the webinar on “Current and Emerging Opportunities in the field of Agriculture” hosted by The Hindu Education Plus and presented by SRMIST, Chennai, on August 22. “Every science that we practice, except medicine and a few others, comes under agriculture, including horticulture, biotechnology, forestry, home science, sericulture, and others,” said J.P. Sharma, Vice-Chancellor, Sher-e-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu. “We have about 130 Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) institutes and over 1,000 agriculture colleges and universities offering related courses. Now, the focus is to convert agriculture into a dynamic entity as agro business, so that the youth get enhanced income and employment, and can work with self-respect.” K. Alagusundaram, Deputy Director General (Agricultural Engineering), ICAR, Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare, Government of India, cited the example of M.S. Swaminathan. “Back in the 1940s, when thousands died in the Bengal famine, Dr. Swaminathan chose to leave his medical studies and pursue agriculture. Today, he is renowned as the father of green revolution. It is all about cashing in on the right opportunities at the right time. Now, the time for agriculture education is ripe, especially at the undergraduate, postgraduate and Ph. D levels.” L. Ramasamy, Director of Faculty and Academics, SRMIST, said that agriculture was no longer just a traditional practice. “Today, robotics, drones and automation being used and India is developing several technologies. But agriculture faces challenges not just due to climate change and other natural factors, but due to changes in technology. Today, agriculture is not just about sowing seeds, cultivating crops and selling them; it is about coming out with organic, pesticide-free production, quality control, variety of produce, and more. Courses should, therefore, be taught by those with hands-on experience and include practical work to those pursuing it.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/experts-highlight-agriculture-as-a-career/article32433797.ece
25 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ayurveda institute’s search for land continues||For the past two years, officials of the Captain Srinivasa Murthy Regional Ayurveda Drug Development Institute have been seeking land to build a hospital and research institute. The AYUSH Ministry had allocated Rs. 100 crore but the State government has to provide the land. The institute officials have been seeking out authorities to expedite this without success. Soon after the sanction of funds, a parcel of land in Madambakkam was identified but due to legal issues the institute was advised to find an alternative. The institute is currently operating out of a building in Arumbakkam along with the hospitals for other Indian systems of medicine. “We have a small room in the Voluntary Health Services in Adyar where we get around 15-20 patients daily. The State has only one government Ayurveda hospital in Nagercoil. We have the funds but the land has to be allotted by the State government,” said R. Ilavarasan, assistant director (scientist-4), who is in charge of the institute in the city. “We are asking for land along the national highway to ensure access to the institute,” he added. Mr. Ilavarasan has met the deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar and several secretaries. He has also met the district collectors of Chengalpattu, Tiruvallur and Kancheepuram. In February he wrote to Minister for Tamil Official Language and Tamil Culture K. Pandiarajan, who represents Avadi constituency. The Minister had assured him of help. In March, Mr. Ilavarasan wrote to the Tiruvallur district Collector Mageswari Ravikumar. “We want a place that is accessible, like the National Institute for Siddha in Tambaram, which now gets 1,000 people daily in outpatient department. We also conduct outreach programmes as far as Villupuram,” Mr. Ilavarasan added. “This will be a project for Tamil Nadu as there are no large institutions for Ayurveda in the State,” he added. Resident welfare associations in Tiruninravur and Nemilicheri have urged the government to expedite land allocation. R.M. Rajasekar, general secretary of Nemilicheri Indira Nagar, Padmavathi Nagar Residents Welfare Association said the State government could provide 10 acres from the 117 acres allocated for construction of parking yard for containers. According to V. Rangachari, a resident of Tiruninravur, the institution would be a god-send. “The Central government is proposing a scheme for integrated medicine. In the south, Ayurvedic medicine is well received. So it will be good if the State speeded up the process,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ayurveda-institutes-search-for-land-continues/article32433846.ece
25 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tweeted Vinayaka idol photo for my daughter: Udhayanidhi||DMK youth wing leader Udhayanidhi Stalin courted political controversy on Monday after he tweeted a photo of his daughter holding a clay idol of Lord Vinayaka. With critics accusing him of deviating from the DMK’s rationalist ideology, he later clarified that he had posted the photo — past midnight on Monday — as per his daughter’s wish. In his statement, Mr. Udhayanidhi said neither he nor his wife had faith in God. “Everyone knows that my mother has faith in God. We have a pooja room with the pictures of our ancestors and my mother’s favourite Gods. When we take important decisions we stand before our ancestors’ photos,” he said. According to him, his daughter had liked the idol bought by his mother Durga for Vinayaka Chaturthi. When his daughter asked how the idol was made, he had explained that it was made of clay and would be immersed in water after the pooja. “She wondered why it should be immersed in the water. I told her that it was the practice and that a new idol would be bought next year,” he said. The DMK youth wing leader said those who were not ready to discuss his “stringent criticism against the fascist-BJP rule and its slave government in Tamil Nadu” had launched a discussion on the tweeted photograph. Mr. Udhayanidhi said when there were a lot of serious issues, opportunists had sought to turn the issue against the DMK.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tweeted-vinayaka-idol-photo-for-my-daughter-udhayanidhi/article32433854.ece
25 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||A sleepy town that turned a happening place||Chromepet was once a sleepy town where even finding a good road would be a hard task. But now, the area, cut across by the busiest corridor in the State – the GST Road — has become a happening place, with flyovers, commercial establishments and big textile and jewellery showrooms dominating the landscape. V. Santhanam, a resident of Chromepet for the past 50 years, has closely observed the various civic development activities that have been carried out over the years. He said proactiveness on the part of members of residents’ welfare associations and initiatives of various government departments had helped in transforming the locality. “Today, the locality is almost self-sufficient on various civic fronts, including good roads, water supply and a number of bridges for speedy movement of vehicles. It shines in all civic amenities, and is on a par with the localities of the Greater Chennai Corporation,” he added. Civic improvements and well-networked public transport facilities in the form of buses and suburban trains have helped the locality get well-recognised schools and a number of prominent textile and jewellery showrooms. The only thing Mr. Santhanam regrets is the lost opportunity for residents of Chromepet, Pallavaram and Tambaram to make their areas a part of the Chennai Corporation, which was expanded in 2014. Doing so would complete Chromepet’s evolution over the decades, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-sleepy-town-that-turned-a-happening-place/article32433829.ece
25 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Mahatma wanted tricolour to represent different religions’||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) functionary and actor S.Ve. Shekher on Monday claimed before the Madras High Court that even Mahatma Gandhi wanted the colours of the national flag to represent different religions in the country and so there was nothing wrong in him equating the colours of the flag with various religions. The submission was made in an anticipatory bail petition filed by him before Justice A.D. Jagadish Chandira. The Central Crime Branch (CCB) police here had booked him under the Prevention of Insults to National Honour Act of 1971 and the bone of contention was a video message uploaded by him in social media on August 3. In the video, the petitioner had taken exception to Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami condemning an incident of a saffron shawl draped on a statue of AIADMK founder M.G. Ramachandran in Puducherry on July 23. He had asked the Chief Minister why he considered saffron a disgrace. “Does that mean even our national flag is a digrace? Are you going to hoist a disgraceful national flag on August 15? Have you come to a conclusion to cut off the saffron representing Hindus and retain only the white and green colours representing Christians and Muslims? It’s really saddening,” he had said in the video message. Conceding to have said so the actor told the court that while writing in Young India on April 13, 1921, Mahatma Gandhi himself had clearly stated that he wanted the national flag to represent different religions. After hearing both sides, the judge decided to wait for the police inquiry to be completed on Friday. He asked the State Public Prosecutor to make sure that the matter was not precipitated and the petitioner did not get arrested without informing the court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mahatma-wanted-tricolour-to-represent-different-religions/article32433856.ece
25 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Plea to shut all bars in Tasmac shops rejected||The Madras High Court on Monday refused to entertain a public interest litigation petition which sought for a direction to the State government to close down permanently all the bars attached to State-run liquor shops since their closure during the COVID-19 lockdown period had reportedly shown a significant decline in road accidents and criminal cases. Justices M.M. Sundresh and R. Hemalatha rejected the plea right at the admission stage on the ground that such an omnibus direction could not be issued in matters involving policy decisions of the State. Pointing out that another Division Bench led by Justice M. Sathyanarayanan had already taken cognisance of several bars in the State being operated without licences required under different enactments, the judges said the present litigant could also file a plea seeking such relief since public money should not be allowed to go to private coffers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-to-shut-all-bars-in-tasmac-shops-rejected/article32433862.ece
25 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||SPB stable, remains on life support, says hospital||Singer S.P. Balasubrahmanyam continues to be on ventilator and ECMO support in the intensive care unit, and his current clinical condition is stable, a health bulletin on Monday said. The singer was admitted to MGM Healthcare after testing positive for COVID-19 earlier this month. The hospital said he is under continuous monitoring by their multidisciplinary clinical team. In a video message, the veteran singer’s son S.P. Charan gave a clarification in response to rumours about the singer having tested negative for COVID-19. “Regardless of whether he has tested positive or negative, the status is still the same. Clinically, he is still on life support and stable, fortunately,” he said. Mr. Charan said they were hoping that this stability would help his lungs recover as early as possible. Stating that he would be sharing health updates after discussions with the medical team, Mr. Charan asked people to refrain from rumour mongering.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/spb-stable-remains-on-life-support-says-hospital/article32433815.ece
25 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Koyambedu market likely to reopen soon||The State government has assured traders that it will reopen the Koyambedu wholesale market complex and other markets across Tamil Nadu soon. The date of reopening of the Koyambedu complex, which was shut following the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic, is likely to be announced shortly. In a meeting with the representatives of various traders’ organisations on Monday, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami assured them the market that remained closed for over three months now would be reopened soon. Similarly, measures would be taken to reopen the fruits, flowers, vegetables and meat markets across the State. There are chances for the Koyambedu market to be reopened next month, traders said. A.M.Vikramaraja, State president, Tamil Nadu Vanigar Sankangalin Peramaippu, said a decision on reopening the markets, including the Koyambedu market, would be announced soon after consultation with Deputy Chief Minister O.Panneerselvam who is expected to return to Chennai on Wednesday. At present, repair work to improve the basic infrastructure is in progress in the Koyambedu market. The traders’ body had also represented a charter of demands including opening of shops that were sealed and withdrawal of cases against traders during the lockdown and extension of operating hours for shops, particularly restaurants. Members of the Federation of All Traders Associations of Koyambedu market complex also participated in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/koyambedu-market-likely-to-reopen-soon/article32433818.ece
25 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||BJP working against the Constitution, says Stalin||Within hours of BJP president J.P. Nadda attacking the DMK on Monday, its leader M.K. Stalin countered it sharply and accused the national party of working against the Indian Constitution. In a statement, he charged that the BJP had taken advantage of its majority in the Lok Sabha and was working against the Constitution, pluralism, unity and the development of the country by resorting to communalism and linguistic hegemony. Repudiating Mr. Nadda’s allegations that the DMK was sheltering those not working for the nation’s interest and was always inciting feelings against national spirit, Mr. Stalin charged that the BJP was trying to introduce the culture of ‘man-hunting’ and it was an enemy of Tamil culture, democratic norms and the Constitution. He said Mr. Nadda should learn from history that it was the late Murasoli Maran, as a member of the Union Cabinet led by A.B. Vajpayee, who was instrumental in signing the agreement in the Doha Conference that saved developing countries like India from falling prey to the designs of developed nations. The DMK is a democratic movement with strong faith in national aspirations and had been working tirelessly for the development of the nation, he said. “It sacrificed its government during the emergency to safeguard democracy and fundamental freedom of the people. Today, Tamil Nadu has been plunged into an emergency like situation in the BJP government,” Mr. Stalin alleged. He said the BJP government had forced people to speak in Hindi in airports and in the AYUSH conference and it had been imposing Hindi and Sanskrit. “It is against the culture of Tamil Nadu. If DMK challenges its [BJP] designs, it accuses us of inciting feelings against the national spirit. It only shows the BJP’s helplessness,” Mr. Stalin said. He said it had become the habit of some BJP leaders to portray as anti-nationals those who spoke the truth loudly and claimed the rights of State governments. “Mr. Nadda has proved he is also no exception,” he said. Mr. Stalin said the DMK would not remain silent and raise its voice when the States were deprived of their rights, even if the ruling AIADMK preferred to remain silent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-working-against-the-constitution-says-stalin/article32433809.ece
25 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Efforts on to promulgate Ordinance for 7.5% quota in medical seats’||The AIADMK government, which through a Cabinet decision approved a 7.5% horizontal reservation in the State government’s quota of MBBS/BDS seats, was taking efforts to promulgate an Ordinance in this regard to benefit students, who studied between Classes 6 and 12 in government higher secondary schools, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said on Tuesday. Speaking at the 15th e-convocation of Saveetha Institute of Medical and Technical Sciences, Mr. Palaniswami said that the policy of the AIADMK government was to open a medical college in districts that did not have one. In the past eight years, a total of 1,350 additional medical seats have been added to the medical colleges in the State, he pointed out. The ruling party aimed at benefiting rural students and those from economically backward sections, the Chief Minister said, and hence it was for opening more medical colleges. As of now, there were 3,250 medical seats in the States and from 2021-22, admissions would commence for the additional 1,650 seats, Mr. Palaniswami said. The CM also listed out the various schemes being implemented by the AIADMK government during the past few years. Due to the efforts taken by the AIADMK government, Tamil Nadu remained the healthcare capital of the country, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ordinance-soon-for-75-horizontal-reservation-in-mbbsbds-seats-says-cm/article32433853.ece
25 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||The Madras firmament of theatre||Theatre in the Madras of yore grew thanks mainly to the Victoria Public Hall (VPH) and the Suguna Vilasa Sabha (SVS). Since the late 1880s, when the hall on Poonamallee High Road was inaugurated, it has witnessed hundreds of theatrical performances. Pioneers like Sankaradoss Swamigal and Pammal Sambanda Mudaliar staged their plays at the hall, which also played host to the city’s first cinema show. It was a time when men played the roles of female characters. During the first 30 years of its existence the SVS, which was founded in 1891, remained at the VPH where it introduced the concept of conducting evening drama shows. Plays used to go on for six hours, ending at 3.30 a.m. But the SVS changed that, and for the first time on October 21, 1906, the play Kaadalar Kangal was staged within three hours, beginning at 6 p.m. With films being made from drama scripts, the theatre scene remained vibrant, and actors who moved on to the silver screen would make it a point to act in at least a few plays. “When artistes M.G. Ramachandran and Sivaji Ganesan were invited to watch shows, they would come in early, watch the entire play and take time to appreciate every single artiste,” recalled actor A.R.S. alias A.R. Srinivasan. “In the 1969s, there were plenty of sabhas in the city and people would flock to them for entertainment. I debuted in the same play where former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa did,” he said. Actor-directors, including S.V. Sahasranamam, Cho Ramaswamy, K. Balachander, B.S. Raghavan and N.S. Nataraja Iyer, staged plays. Then, another crop of youngsters joined the band — Visu, Crazy Mohan, Mouli, Y.Gee. Mahendra, S.Ve. Shekhar and Kathadi Ramamurthi. Though theatre in the city may no longer be as vibrant as it once was, the plays still have their own audiences in both sabhas and online.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/the-madras-firmament-of-theatre/article32433816.ece
25 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CCB questions actor||BJP functionary and actor S.Ve. Shekher on Monday appeared for an inquiry in connection with a case registered against him by the Cyber Crime Wing of the Central Crime Branch early this month. He was booked under Section 2 of the Prevention of Insults to National Honour Act, 1971. In a YouTube video, the actor, while responding to Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami’s strong reaction to the recent draping of a saffron cloth around a M.G.R. statue in Puducherry sought to allude that each colour in the national flag represented a religion. Following this, a Nungambakkam resident Rajarathinam lodged a complaint and accused him of seeking to incite communal violence. The CCB has asked the actor to reappear for questioning on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ccb-questions-actor/article32433859.ece
25 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State heading towards famine, Kamal tells govt.||Makkal Needhi Maiam president Kamal Haasan on Monday demanded that the State government ‘leave’ if it is unable to address losses in jobs and income as a result of lockdown imposed due to COVID-19. In a statement, Kamal Haasan said that unemployment rates and loss of income has reached an all-time high. “Rise in incidents of crime and price of commodities and industries getting affected are all pointers to a famine that we are going to face in future,” he said. Mr. Haasan said that every family in Tamil Nadu has begun feeling it. “Wake up, State Government. Else, leave way,” Mr. Haasan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-heading-towards-famine-kamal-tells-govt/article32433811.ece
25 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Implement OBC quota in PSUs’||PMK founder Dr. S. Ramadoss on Monday demanded that Centre should release a White Paper regarding the implementation of OBC reservations in public sector undertakings in India. In a statement, Dr. Ramadoss said reports that ONGC has not properly implemented reservations for OBCs in jobs showed that the Centre was betraying them. “In 1993, the Central government implemented the 27% reservations for OBCs in jobs in ONGC. But the National Commission of Backward Classes has confirmed that the policy has not been implemented properly. “In 1993, 286 appointments were made in ONGC. Of these, 77 OBC candidates should have been appointed. However, only 11 OBCs were actually appointed, he said. “Only nine OBC candidates were appointed in 1994 when 26 candidates should have been appointed,” he added. “If you cannot fill up all OBC vacancies, then the unfilled vacancies should be treated as backlog vacancies and filled up next year along with new vacancies.” He urged the Centre to take stock of OBC representation in Central government PSUs and ensure backlog vacancies are filled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/centre-should-implement-obc-reservation-in-psus/article32433812.ece
25 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Veeramani questions Kotecha’s appointment||Dravidar Kazhagam president K. Veeramani on Monday raised concerns over the appointment of Vaidya Rajesh Kotecha as AYUSH’s Secretary, insinuating that he had the backing of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh. Mr. Kotecha recently courted controversy when he asked non-Hindi knowing delegates to leave an AYUSH national conference after they urged him to speak in English instead of Hindi. In a statement, Mr. Veeramani asked if primary membership in the RSS was the eligibility to be appointed to key posts in the Central government institutions. “Be it in Election Commission or as Vice-Chancellors in central universities, it seems like being a card carrying member of RSS is the main eligibility to be appointed to key posts,” he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/veeramani-questions-kotechas-appointment/article32433852.ece
25 August 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Madurai as 2nd capital: CM will take a final call, says Minister||State Revenue Minister R.B. Udhayakumar on Monday said that a representation has been sent to Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami to announce Madurai as the State’s second capital and he will take a final call. In a statement, Mr. Udhayakumar said the request was made on behalf of the people in southern Tamil Nadu. “We have made a request as representatives of people from southern Tamil Nadu. Chief Minister is looking into the matter and will decide on it,” he said. On Centre’s directive to abolish the e-pass system, Mr. Udhayakumar said, “The Chief Secretary of Tamil Nadu has set up a committee which is looking into it. Based on the committee's recommendations, the Chief Minister will take a decision.” Mr. Udhayakumar also announced that Tamil Nadu had recorded 28% more rainfall this year than last year due to south- west monsoon. The Minister said the monsoon had been providing rainfall since June and around 252 mm rainfall had been recorded in the State. “This is 28% more than what was recorded last year. Vellore district has recorded the highest rainfall of 52.93 mm on August 23,” he said. The water level at Bhavanisagar, Manimuthaaru, Pechipaarai, Perunchani, Periyaaru, Vaigai, Sathanur, Parambikulam, Azhiyaru, Amaravathi and Thirumurthy dams are higher than what it was last year. Mr. Udhayakumar said water level in drinking water sources for Chennai such as Poondi, Senkundram, Chembarambakkam and Veeranam reservoirs was also higher than last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madurai-as-second-capital-cm-will-take-a-final-call-says-minister/article32433806.ece
25 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||SRMIST opens telemedicine centre||A new campus was commissioned at SRM Institute of Science and Technology (SRMIST) to house a college of agricultural science and a telemedicine centre. The campus was commissioned by T.R. Paarivendhar, SRM University Chancellor. The campus is situated in Vendhar Nagar, Baburayanpettai, Chengalpattu district, and the telemedicine centre will function from SRM Medical College Hospital and Research Centre (SRM MCHRC) in Kattankulathur. Mr. Paarivendhar said the new campus had all facilities. The telemedicine centre would try and give solutions to all medical problems in the comfort of the patients’ homes. Pro Chancellor (Academics) P. Sathyanarayanan said: “We hope that our newly opened telemedicine centre becomes one of the most sought-after facilities.” The telemedicine centre will function on all days, except Sundays and government holidays, from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Consultation fee will be Rs. 400 and Rs. 250 will be charged for a review. For scheduling appointments, call 044-47432303/7358026016 or emailhemalatm@srmist.edu.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/srmist-opens-telemedicine-centre/article32433798.ece
25 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||25 BJP cadres booked for idol procession||The police have registered cases against 25 BJP members on charges of taking out a Vinayaka idol procession in Velachery on Sunday, despite lockdown and against the restriction imposed by the government and Madras High Court. Police received information about a Vinayakar idol installed for public worship. When V. Vikraman, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Adyar, rushed to the spot and the cadres argued with him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/25-bjp-cadres-booked-for-idol-procession/article32433792.ece
25 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||N95 masks donated to Chennai police||Maheshwara Medical College & Hospital, Hyderabad, has donated 1,000 N95 masks to the Chennai police. Varsha Aswani and Aditi Madhusudan, representing the hospital, handed over the equipment to Chennai Police Commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal . Government COVID hospitals in need of PPE kits and N95 masks may contact Dr. Savitha Sukhdev, Deputy Director, Maheshwara Medical College & Hospital, at +91 9133043333.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/n95-masks-donated-to-chennai-police/article32433831.ece
25 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Following Maoism is my basic right’||Following Maoism in my basic right, said C. Veeramani, who was released from the Coimbatore Central Prison, after spending five years in judicial custody in different cases, on Monday. “I adhere to the Maoist ideology. Like people adhere to ideologies such as Vedanta or Gandhism, it is my basic right to follow Maoism… What will prison do to me? As Socrates said you cannot destroy my thoughts. Similarly, nobody can do anything to my views and ambitions,” said the 71-year-old man from Rayanallur in Cuddalore district. Though Mr. Veeramani tried to interact with mediapersons, the Race Course police forced his advocate to escort him away from the prison compound. “You (the Government) have the right to imprison me for five years but I don’t have the right to speak my views for five minutes? ... What regime is this? This is the police regime,” he said. Before leaving, he offered condolences to the doctors and policemen who died due to COVID-19. An advocate, who was rendering legal aid to Mr. Veeramani, said that the latter had eight cases registered against him in Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. “He was acquitted from a murder case in Karnataka. He was granted bail in all the other seven cases,” said the advocate. Mr. Veeramani was arrested along with four others namely Roopesh, his wife Shyna, Kannan and Anoop Mathew from a bakery at Karumathampatti in Coimbatore rural in May 2015. Ms. Shyna had obtained bail and had come out of prison in August 2018. Mr. Veeramani obtained bail from the Principal District Court, Erode, on August 19 in a case registered by the Kadathur police related to alleged use of fake documents for obtaining sim cards in 2015. He has to put his signature before the Kadathur police in Erode at 10 a.m. everyday until further order from the court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/following-maoism-is-my-basic-right/article32433872.ece
25 August 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Shops on Cross Cut Road closed after employees test positive||Coimbatore Corporation on Monday closed more than four commercial establishments on Cross Cut Road after a few workers there tested positive for COVID-19. The establishments that were closed included a branch of a popular restaurant chain, a textile showroom, and two shops selling home essentials, said a Corporation officer. With the Corporation closing down the restaurant, all other shops in the shopping complex that houses the restaurant, also downed shutters, the officer said, adding that the North Coimbatore branch of the restaurant also was shut. Another officer, however, denied the civic body ordering the closure of the North Coimbatore branch. In one of the two home essentials shop, more than 10 workers tested positive. In the second one, four workers and in the restaurant two persons including a supplier tested positive, the officer added. Premises disinfected Following the shutting down of the shops, the Corporation workers carried out disinfection measures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shops-on-cross-cut-road-closed-after-employees-test-positive/article32433883.ece
25 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Angoda Lokka case: Court denies bail to Madurai woman||The Chief Judicial Magistrate Court here denied bail to D. Sivakamasundari of Madurai, alleged to be an aide of Sri Lankan gangster Angoda Lokka, on Monday. P. Srikumar, Principal Subordinate Judge in-charge of CJM Court, dismissed the bail plea of Sivakamasundari, who is currently in judicial remand. The CB-CID,which is investigating the death of Lokka and alleged support he received from three accused including Sivakamasundari, submitted before the court that she could destroy evidence in the case and influence witnesses if she was granted bail. The CB-CID is currently investigating two cases, one related to the death of a man suspected to be Lokka, who lived at Balaji Nagar near Cheran Ma Nagar in Coimbatore in the guise of one Pradeep Singh early this July, and the second one against the three, including Sivakamasundari for various charges including furnishing false documents, harbouring offender, criminal conspiracy and forgery of records. A Sri Lankan woman named Amani Thanji and Sivakamasundari’s friend S. Dyaneswaran from Erode are the other two accused in the second case. They did not move the court seeking bail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/angoda-lokka-case-court-denies-bail-to-madurai-woman/article32433873.ece
25 August 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Constable accused of beating minor shifted to control room||A policeman attached to the Singanallur police station in Coimbatore was shifted to the city police control room on Monday after he was accused of having beaten up a minor boy with lathi on Sunday. Senior officers of the Coimbatore city police said that the process of initiating further disciplinary action on police constable Durgaraj was under way. Parents of the 13-year-old boy from Surya Nagar near Ondipudur alleged that Durgaraj beat him with lathi on Sunday when he had gone out with friends. The boy had gone out with two friends in a two-wheeler on Sunday. As complete lockdown was in place in Coimbatore on Sunday, Durgaraj and other policemen were on patrol duty. Sources said that when boys did not stop the two-wheeler after seeing the police, Durgaraj and other policemen allegedly chased them. Durgaraj managed to catch the boy and allegedly beat him with a lathi. “We are in the process of initiating further action against the policeman,” said a senior officer to The Hindu .  Parents of the boy alleged that Durgaraj beat him with lathi on Sunday when he had gone out with friends||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/constable-accused-of-beating-minor-boy-shifted-to-control-room/article32433839.ece
25 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||BPCL’s digital initiative||Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited (BPCL) has recently introduced digital initiative to book the refilling of LPG cylinders. A release said that the customers shall choose to book via WhatsApp or through the Bharatgas mobile application. They may also choose to leave a missed call at 77109 55555, in which the customers get a link by SMS for online payment. Other options for booking include online booking and payment throughwww.ebharatgas.comand through Interactive Voice Response System by dialling 77180 12345 or 77150 12345.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bpcls-digital-initiative/article32433874.ece
25 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Jewellery stolen from house||Unknown persons broke open a house near Selvapuram and took away six sovereigns of jewellery late on Saturday. The police said the burglary took place at the house of K. Chandra of Priya Nagar at Telugupalayam near Selvapuram, when the family members were sleeping. The Selvapuram police have registered a case.    A youth died after he accidentally fell into a water tank under the influence of alcohol on Sunday evening. The deceased was identified as P. Manikandan of Varavanai in Karur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jewellery-stolen-from-house/article32433875.ece
25 August 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||In view of the proposed maintenance works to be carried out at the Kuniamuthur sub-station on August 26 (Wednesday), there will be no power supply from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. in the following areas: Kuniamuthur, Puttuvikki, Edayarpalayam, Sundarapuram part one, BK Pudur part one, Kovaipudur, NS Puram, Sundakkamuthur, Ramachettipalayam, Arumuga Goundanur, Perur Chettipalayam and Perur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article32433867.ece
25 August 2020||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||CPI(M) to stage demonstrations in 10,000 locations across T.N.||To voice the anguish of the people of Tamil Nadu against the Central and State governments, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) has planned to stage demonstrations in 10,000 locations across the State on August 25 and 26, said state secretary K. Balakrishnan here on Monday. Speaking to reporters, he said that at a time, when Opposition parties had expressed concern and demanded the Centre to stop conducting NEET examination, the Union government had announced to go ahead with it on September 13. “This is not the time to test the aptitude of the students, when the State was reeling under COVID-19. The people are upset. There is no job. Everyday, problems are multiplying for the common people”, he charged. “It is not just the NEET exams. There are very many other issues on which the Centre has taken an opposite view despite experts in the respective disciplines giving their opinion”, Mr. Balakrishnan said. He also came down heavily against the TN government for indulging in ‘corruption’ in all major contracts, including the COVID-19 pandemic related tenders. Reacting sharply to the remarks of an official from the Union government during a review meeting that he can't speak in English and that people may walk out if they cannot understand Hindi was nothing but the BJP's hidden agenda to impose the language. What happened to DMK MP Kanimozhi can't be ignored, he added. The Edappadi Palaniswami's government, knowing pretty well that they would not return to power, were swallowing public funds. The CPI (M) would take it to the people by organising demonstrations in as many as 10,000 locations in the next two days. The ensuing elections should be the beginning of the end in politics for both the AIADMK and the BJP, he challenged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpim-to-stage-demonstrations-in-10000-locations-across-tn/article32434121.ece
25 August 2020||KARAIKAL,TAMIL NADU||Business units relieved in Karaikal||The business community in Karaikal has heaved a sigh of relief after the abolition of e-pass system by the Puducherry government, but government officials in the thick of containing spread of the pandemic are a worried lot. The lifting of e-pass system, according to traders, has reflected in brisk movement of people from Nagapattinam district into Karaikal without any restrictions, though they were screened at the border. But there is as yet no sign of the pandemic abating in the Karaikal enclave. On Monday, about 20 positive cases were detected in a jewellery and textile units. There were a total of 345 new cases . There have been nine deaths of which five were recorded on Monday. There are 94 positive patients undergoing treatment at the government hospital and 57 more infected patients are under home quarantine, says daily data released by the Director of Health. On Monday, police officials held talks with representatives of trade organisations on the ways to sustain enforcement of physical distancing and hand hygiene among the public and traders.  Last month, the Karaikal Chamber of Commerce made a representation to the district administration, expressing concern over the harsh action of officials enforcing the safety protocols against the backdrop of decline in economic activities. The traders had been pushed into financial turmoil as they had to operate within the restricted hours of business, and meet expenditures incurred towards salary of employees, business taxes, municipal taxes and payment of rent to landlords. As the business activities in Karaikal was dependent on floating population, the abolition of e-pass system has infused hopes for sustenance of trade, A. Muthaiya, president of Karaikal Chamber of Commerce, said He assured support and cooperation of traders to efforts to contain the spread of the pandemic through strict adherence to safety protocol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/business-units-relieved-in-karaikal/article32434176.ece
25 August 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Education dept. orders inquiry against aided school in Krishnagiri||The Education Department has ordered an inquiry against a government-aided school at Bargur in Krishnagiri, after parents alleged that the school management manipulated records of poor performing students and made them write Class 10 examinations as private candidates. According to officials, of the 105 Class X students in the school, 20 were registered as private candidates. The affected included four visually-impaired students. Parents of the affected students petitioned the Education Department and demanded action against the school. The parents also said that they were not informed about their children’s results yet as admissions to Class 11 began on Monday. According to officials, an inquiry was under way and necessary action would be taken based on report of the District Education Officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/education-dept-orders-inquiry-against-aided-school-in-krishnagiri/article32433886.ece
25 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Shops along temple tank razed||A row of shops on the southern side of Perumal Teppam on Town Hall Road were demolished by the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR and CE) department recently as part of the restoration of the Koodal Azhagar Perumal Temple tank. Executive Officer of the Temple M. Ramasamy said, “There were 95 shops and they were demolished over a period of time. The shops on the other three sides of the tank would be demolished following the court directive,” he said. According to Water Watch, a monthly magazine from the Dhan Foundation, the temple tank once received water from Vaigai river. However, the old connection was lost as a result of urbanisation. “It has been more than 60 years since the tank was brimming with water,” said A. Ponraj, a shopkeeper near the tank. Mr. Ramasamy said that till 1960 a grand float festival was celebrated in the tank during the Tamil month of Masi. “From the early 1970s, the HR and CE department allowed shops to come up around the tank after collecting a rent every month. However, a dispute arose between the shopkeepers and the department when shops were needed to be demolished as part of the restoration of the tank,” he said. T. Muthuramalingam, treasurer of Perumal Teppakulam South Shopkeepers’ Association, said they must be provided alternative shops in the vicinity. “Many families were dependent on these shops for their livelihood,” he said. City Engineer of Madurai Corporation S. Arasu said work was under way to construct a storm water drain that will bring rainwater from West Veli Street to the tank as the stretch between Periyar bus stand and railway station gets flooded whenever it rained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shops-along-temple-tank-razed/article32434143.ece
25 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||King Thirumalai Nayak and the Kallar connection||A nondescript house at Dharmathupatti near Tirumangalam holds a significant place in understanding the region’s history. It is where 80-year-old Mukkupari alias Thavamani Kalyani Thevar resides. He can easily be mistaken to be one of the many villagers. But he says he is the 11th descendant of Thirumalai Pinna Thevan, a leader of Piramalai Kallar community, who had a special relationship with king Thirumalai Nayak. Mr. Kalyani Thevar has several artefacts given to Thirumalai Pinna Thevan by king Thirumalai Nayak - three copper plates, a ‘kambali’ (blanket), ‘kalanji’ (a bronze vessel that is kept with the community leader during meetings) and ‘padhakuradu’ (sandal) . Louis Dumont, a French anthropologist and author of ‘A South Indian subcaste: social organisation and religion of Piramalai Kallar,’ had met Mr. Kalyani Thevar and his father after the World War II while doing fieldwork for his book, says Mr. Kalyani Thevar. Art historian K.T. Gandhirajan, who recently met him, says Piramalai Kallar used to reside along the Nagamalai hill range till Elumalai near Usilampatti. There is a reference in the District Gazetteer, 1960, which says Thirumalai Pinna Thevan was a headman of the community. Recalling his family’s oral tradition, Mr. Kalyani Thevar says it all started after king Thirumalai Nayak challenged the public to try breaking into the highly fortified palace. A group of Piramalai Kallars managed to gain entry using an ‘udumbu’ (monitor lizard) and stole valuables from the king’s bedroom. Following this incident, the king made an announcement asking the thieves to turn in by themselves. “Since the intention of the Piramarai Kallars was not to steal, they returned the belongings to the king. Impressed by it, the king gave several rights to Thirumalai Pinna Thevan. It has also been recorded in the copper plates,” says Mr. Kalyani Thevar. Curator of Thirumalai Nayak Palace K. Sakthivel says this incident is usually narrated during the evening light-and-sound show that used to take place at the palace. Artefacts A detailed description of the three copper plates has been recorded in the book, ‘Thirumalai Naicker Seppedugal’ which was released by the State Archaeological Department in 1994. These copper plates were issued between 1645 and 1656. Among the three, one copper plate measuring 21 cm in height and 14 cm in width, which was issued in 1655, holds significance. It says Thirumalai Pinna Thevan got two titles from the king - Peththa Pillai and Thirumalai. He received a ‘kambali’, ‘pathakuradu’ and ‘kalanji.’ The king also permitted the female descendants of the family to use the title, ‘Thirumalai Punniakka.’ Two villages - Dharmathupatti and Uchapatti - were given as grants to him. Mr. Kalyani Thevar says his ancestors used to settle disputes among members of their community while sitting on the ‘kambali,’ along with the ‘padhakuradu’ and ‘kalanji.’ He adds, “It is said that those who are accused of charges can only speak the truth when they stand on the ‘padhakuradu.’ Apart from these artefacts, Mr. Kalyani Thevar also possesses several palm leaf manuscripts, which, according to Mr. Gandhirajan, are around 150 years old. “There are also several paper documents to show that there was an organised system by which disputes among Piramalai Kallars were settled by this family until the colonial rule. However, the colonial government classified the Piramalai Kallars as a ‘criminal tribe’ under the Criminal Tribes Act,” he says. Photographs of the copper plates can be kept at Thirumalai Nayak Palace so that those who are interested can visit the family to understand the history, adds Mr. Gandhirajan. Mr. Kalyani Thevar, who lives with his son Thirumalai alias Karthikeyan, says their family continues to preserve these artefacts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/king-thirumalai-nayak-and-the-kallar-connection/article32434153.ece
25 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Mattuthavani flower market reopens after five months||After a gap of around five months, the flower market in Mattuthavani here reopened on Monday with safety precautions. S. Ramachandran, president of a flower merchants’ association, said all safety measures were being followed, based on the directive of the Collector. The market was closed on March 24 owing to the COVID-19 pandemic-induced lockdown. With the closure of the flower market, makeshift shops were set up on various spots across the city during the lockdown period. Currently, there is one entrance and an exit for customers at the back of the market. Hand sanitisers are provided for customers at the entrance. The customers also have to undergo thermal screening before entering the market. Steel barricades, which are in the shape of cuboids and are seven metres wide, are placed in the market to ensure personal distancing between customers. Mr. Ramachandran said that only one customer can enter between two barricades. “All customers and shopkeepers are asked to wear face masks. We are ensuring that only a limited number of customers are present inside the market to prevent overcrowding,” he added. M. Sundarapandi, a flower seller, said all shopkeepers were happy after the reopening of the market. “But, it will take more than a month for business to return to normality,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mattuthavani-flower-market-reopens-after-five-months/article32434145.ece
25 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||74 test positive in Madurai||A total of 74 people tested positive for COVID-19 here on Monday, taking the tally to 13,508. A total of 68 people were dischargedand the total number of discharged rose to 12,191. There are 979 active cases as on date. Three persons succumbed to COVID-19, taking the death toll to 388. Even as the total number of positive cases in Virudhunagar district is inching towards the 12,000-mark, the district saw number of active cases coming down below 500.With 56 fresh cases, the tally rose to 11,952. However, after 121 patients got discharged, the number of active patients stood at 437. There were four deaths that took the death toll to 174. Theni recorded 193 cases taking the tally to 11,638, and 295 were discharged. The district had 1,974 active cases and 134 have succumbed. Dindigul saw 132 cases taking the tally to 5,869. There were 222 discharges, 912 active cases and 114 have died till date. Ramanathapuram recorded 30 cases, taking the tally to 4,415. The hospitals discharged 58 people. The district has 479 active cases and the virus has claimed 97 lives. Sivaganga saw 49 cases and the tally rose to 3,783. The hospitals discharged 55 people. The district has 312 active cases and 102 have died till date. Southern districts While 625 patients were discharged in the four southern districts, 17 died and 418 cases were reported on Monday. Of this, 149 new patients were from Kanniyakumari, taking the tally to 8,687 and the number of active cases to 1,439 after 206 patients were discharged. Thoothukudi added 98 patients and its tally rose to 10,736 and the number of active cases to 627. A total of 57 patients were discharged. The infection tally in Tenkasi moved up to 4,840 with the addition of 94 new patients and the district has 883 active cases as 243 patients were discharged. The number of new patients in Tirunelveli district is falling as it added 77 fresh cases taking the tally to 8,565. After 119 patients were discharged, the district has 627 active cases. While Kanniyakumari, Thoothukudi and Tirunelveli districts lost five patients e, Tenkasi’s death toll stood at two.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/74-test-positive-in-madurai/article32434140.ece
25 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Clarification sought on jurisdiction to try Sattankulam custodial deaths case||Thoothukudi Principal District Judge N. Logeswaran has submitted a reference to the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court seeking a clarification on the jurisdiction to try the Sattankulam custodial deaths case. The Principal District Judge has said in his communication that while he had dismissed the bail petitions of two accused, another accused Murugan had filed a bail petition before the Madurai Principal District Judge, which too was dismissed. In the bail petitions filed before the Thoothukudi PDJ, the Public Prosecutor for CBI had raised objections and said the Chief Judicial Magistrate, Madurai, was designated to try cases investigated by the CBI, as per a court notification. According to the Public Prosecutor for CBI, the Chief Judicial Magistrate in Madurai will commit the case to the Madurai Principal District Judge after a final report is filed in the case and only the Madurai PDJ was having the jurisdiction to try the case. The Thoothukudi PDJ said that under Section 177 of CrPC every offence shall ordinarily be inquired into and tried by a court within whose local jurisdiction the offence was committed. He sought clarification in the issue. A Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and V. Bharathidasan impleaded the CBI and the CB-CID as respondents in the case. The judges directed the High Court Registry to submit to the court the notifications on the jurisdictional powers of the courts concerned. The court also directed the Madurai Principal District Judge to file a report on the jurisdiction to entertain the bail petitions. The case was adjourned by a week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/clarification-sought-on-jurisdiction-to-try-sattankulam-custodial-deaths-case/article32434146.ece
25 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Clarification sought over jurisdiction||Thoothukudi Principal District Judge N. Logeswaran has submitted a reference to the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court seeking a clarification on the jurisdiction to try the Sattankulam custodial deaths case. The Principal District Judge (PDJ), in a communication to the High Court, said that while the PDJ had dismissed the bail petitions of two accused in the case, another accused Murugan had filed a bail petition before the Madurai Principal District Judge, which too was dismissed. Objections raised He pointed out that in the bail petitions filed before the Thoothukudi PDJ, the Public Prosecutor for CBI has raised objections and said that the Chief Judicial Magistrate, Madurai, was designated to try cases investigated by the CBI, as per a court notification. According to the Public Prosecutor for CBI, the Chief Judicial Magistrate at Madurai will commit the case to the Madurai Principal District Judge after a final report is filed in the case and only the Madurai PDJ was having the jurisdiction to try the case. The Thoothukudi PDJ said that under Section 177 of CrPC every offence shall ordinarily be inquired into and tried by a court within whose local jurisdiction the offence was committed. He sought clarification in the issue. A Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and V. Bharathidasan impleaded the CBI and the CB-CID as respondents in the case. The judges directed the High Court Registry to submit to the court the notifications on the jurisdictional powers of the courts concerned. The court also directed the Madurai Principal District Judge to file a report on the jurisdiction to entertain the bail petitions. The case was adjourned by a week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/clarification-sought-over-jurisdiction/article32433861.ece
25 August 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||TCE gets patent for making tiles, blocks||Thiagarajar College of Engineering in Madurai has received patent for manufacturing tiles and blocks from waste plastic, college chairman Karumuttu T Kannan said here on Monday. Commending the team headed by R Vasudevan, Mr. Kannan said the patent was filed in 2017. Getting the patent would help in enlarging the scope of using waste plastics, particularly multi-layered and metallised plastic sheets. The tiles could withstand heavy loads and could be used as paver blocks for indoor and outdoor use. Mr. Vasudevan was assisted by A .Ramalinga Chandra Sekar and B. Sundarakannan. The TCE holds seven patents, out of which five were US registered. Mr Vasudevan said plastics should not be banned, but planned for reuse. It could be used in construction of low-cost houses and canal lining. It could withstand a load of 300 tonnes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tce-gets-patent-for-making-tiles-blocks/article32434130.ece
25 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Webinar on career opportunities tomorrow||The Hindu Education Plus will host a webinar on August 26, between 3 p.m. and 4.30 p.m., on the ‘Current and Emerging Career Opportunities in the field of Architecture’ as part of its free webinar series on career counselling. The webinar series, presented by SRM Institute of Science and Technology, Chennai, will be helpful to parents and students from Classes 9 to 12 to make informed decisions on higher education. The speakers will be Dr. A. Srivathsan, Executive Director, Centre for Research on Architecture and Urbanism, CEPT University, Ahmedabad; Ar. Habeeb Khan, president, Council of Architecture, New Delhi; and Dr. P. Satheesh Kumar, Dean, School of Architecture and Interior Design, SRM Institute of Science and Technology, Chennai. Those interested can register athttp://bit.ly/SRMTHEP2or scan the QR code to attend the seminar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/webinar-on-career-opportunities-tomorrow/article32434135.ece
25 August 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Cylinder delivery men seek Sunday off||Those making door delivery of LPG refills must be given a weekly off compulsorily on Sunday, said Tamil Nadu Cylinder Delivery Men’s Union. Its State president R. Ganesh said at the Collectorate here on Monday that the delivery men needed a break at least once a week, particularly since their workload had risen during lockdown. Though gas agencies must extend provident fund (PF) and Employees’ State Insurance (ESI) benefits to all gas agency employees, many did not do so. “Recently, delivery men at a Vadipatti agency confronted their employer about not paying PF and ESI. The employer terminated the service of 14 employees,” he said. The PF must cover future medical expenses for delivery men as most tend to suffer from spinal cord or lower back injuries after carrying cylinder which weigh 44 kg or 57 kg. Contract workers Contract workers of Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (TANGEDCO) demanded that they be paid Rs. 350 a day as promised by the government. TANGEDCO Contract Workers’ Union president K. Subash Chandra Bose said there were about 250 contract workers in Madurai. “We do odd jobs at day and night. The only time we get a sizeable income is when we fix transformers or attend to major faults,” he said. The TANGEDCO had recruited workers in the category of Gangman.“But they receive Rs. 18,000 during training. It is unfair that we are treated differently,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cylinder-delivery-men-seek-sunday-off/article32434141.ece
25 August 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||6,100 seats reserved under RTE||As many as 6,100 seats have been reserved for students from underprivileged families in private schools in Madurai district under Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education (RTE) Act, 2009. According to the RTE Act, private schools have to set aside 25% of their entry-level seats for such students. An official said the final list of schools and seats were submitted to the head office in Chennai on Monday. “A total of 457 private schools - matriculation, CBSE, ICSE, nursery and primary - have been registered. Online admission for RTE seats will begin from Thursday. Interested parents can visithttp://rte.tnschools.gov.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/6100-seats-reserved-under-rte/article32434150.ece
25 August 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Use wellness clinic: Dean||Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai has formed a team of professionals to do follow-up with patients recovered from COVID-19. The team also encourages them to use the COVID-19 wellness clinic at the hospital. Dean J. Sangumani said the wellness clinic, which was started in mid-August, which functions as an outpatient ward, sees every day five or six patients who have recovered from COVID-19, said Treatment Coordinator of GRH COVID-19 speciality wing K. Senthil. They were mostly patients who come under ‘moderate’ and ‘severe’ categories. Patients also called in to check whether they had developed antibodies. “If it is the case, we encourage them to donate their plasma for treatment of other patients,” he said. About 15% of COVID-19 patients came under ‘severe’ and 30% under ‘moderate.’ If the recovered patients came for review, they can know their current health status, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/use-wellness-clinic-dean/article32434136.ece
25 August 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Kendriya Vidyalaya: MP thanks Centre||Su. Venkatesan, MP, has thanked the Union HRD Minister for granting permission to begin admissions at Madurai's third Kendriya Vidyalaya to come up at the Indo-Tibetan Border Police camp at Idayapatti. The MP had made efforts to expedite the process to establish the school. He had also written to the Ministry requesting them to start the admissions from this academic year without further delay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kendriya-vidyalaya-mp-thanks-centre/article32434137.ece
25 August 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Search on for history-sheeter||Thideer Nagar police are on the lookout for history-sheeter Karuppaiah alias Bodhagar, 29, of Melavasal on a charge of attempting to murder a boy, his neighbour, on Friday. Police said Karuppaiah had thought that the boy, A. Santhosh, had tipped off the police about his ganja and illegal liquor business. After verbally abusing the boy, he had assaulted him with a pipe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/search-on-for-history-sheeter/article32434151.ece
25 August 2020||Nagapattinam,TAMIL NADU||Training programme||Dr. M.G.R Fisheries College and Research Institute will hold online training programme on ‘Integration of Artemia in salt pans’ from 10a.m. to noon on September 2. Various aspects of Artemia biomass and cyst production such as status of salt pans, role of Artemia in fish hatcheries, site selection, modification of existing salt pans for Artemia integration, pond preparation, inoculation of Artemia nauplii in salt ponds, hatching techniques of Artemia cyst, harvesting of Artemia biomass / cyst and economic aspects will be taught. The fee for the training programme is Rs. 300. Interested candidates can register their names with the Head, Department of Aquaculture, Dr.M.G.R Fisheries College and Research Institute, Oradiyambulam, on or before September 1. For more details, dial 9442288850 or email toathithan@tnfu.ac.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/training-programme/article32434170.ece
25 August 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown in U.T. only on Tuesdays: Narayanasamy||Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy on Monday said that the government would continue with the lockdown on Tuesdays instead of resorting to harsher measures like an extended lockdown. Shortly after chairing a meeting of the State Disaster Management Authority, the Chief Minister, who addressed a live streamed press conference dismissed reports about any government decision to impose a week-long lockdown. Referring to reports appearing on social media about the government’s decision to impose complete lockdown, the Chief Minister said, “they are completely untrue and the government has asked the police to initiate action against those spreading such rumours. The government will continue with the lockdown on Tuesdays only as of now.’’ The Chief Minister also appealed to the public to avoid gatherings for private functions. As per the advisory of the Central government and WHO chief scientist Soumya Swaminathan, the government has decided to step up testing and provide better health facility for COVID-19 patients quarantined at homes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lockdown-in-ut-only-on-tuesdays-narayanasamy/article32433841.ece
25 August 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. death toll rises to 164||Puducherry recorded five more deaths taking the COVID-19 toll to 164 on Monday even as 345 new admissions added to the overall tally of cases. All the deaths were in Puducherry hospitals with the patients, including three women, belonging to the 56 to 63 age group. Active cases stood at 3,753 after 285 patients were discharged during the last 24 hours. Cuddalore district reported 370 COVID-19 positive cases. Two more deaths were recorded taking the toll in the district to 99.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-death-toll-rises-to-164/article32433835.ece
25 August 2020||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||Minor girl reunited with mother after 14 years||A 14-year-old girl, who lost her foster parents, was united with her biological mother recently thanks to the swift intervention of the Pudukottai district police, making it truly an emotional moment for the minor and her family. Durgadevi was born to Kunju and Pitchaimmal of Patnapatti Rajalipatti village near Viralimalai in 2006 at the Government Hospital in Manapparai. She was the fifth child of the couple who already had two sons and two daughters. Police sources said Mr. Kunju was finding it financially difficult to raise the children as he was a labourer. Durgadevi was given to a childless couple Subramanian - Saroja. Subramanian, a private bus conductor then resided in Pudukottai. The girl was informed by Subramanian and Saroja that they were her foster parents. A few months ago, Saroja passed away and Subramanian who was about 80 years old died three months ago. Saroja's distant relative Kala, who was over 50 years old, found it difficult to provide for the girl and informed the matter to Sub Inspector R. Lalitha Priyadarshini who was known to her. SI Lalitha Priyardharshini who works in the CCTNS section of Pudukottai District Police told The Hindu on Tuesday that she immediately took it up with her counterpart Sub Inspector Thiruvengadam serving in the Viralimalai police station. The birth certificate of the girl was a vital document. Else it would have been extremely difficult to trace her biological parents, said Sub Inspector Priyadharshini. Following a petition from the girl, the Viralimalai police swung into action contacting the panchayat president of the village. During inquiries, it came to light that the girl's biological mother Pitchaimmal resided at the same village along with her sons while her husband had passed away. Pitchaimmal was briefed by the panchayat president about Durgadevi’s position and the family along with him came to meet the girl in Pudukottai a few days ago. After conducting detailed inquiries, the girl was finally reunited with her biological mother on Sunday, said SI Lalitha Priyadarshini.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minor-girl-reunited-with-mother-after-14-years/article32434169.ece
25 August 2020||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Carcass of bottlenose dolphin washed ashore||The carcass of a male bottlenose dolphin was found on the Dhanushkodi seashore on Monday morning. Forest Ranger, Mandapam, G. Venkatesh, said that incidents of dead dolphins washing ashore were reported last year. “This area is an ideal breeding ground for them. It is rarely disturbed by fishing vessels as it is a shallow area. We have a healthy population in this region. However, during the last week, the area experienced strong winds and this could have caused the dolphin to hit against the rocks and perish, he said. He added that the dolphin had injury marks near its mouth. “Postmortem has been performed and we have buried the carcass on the shore,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/carcass-of-bottlenose-dolphin-washed-ashore/article32434123.ece
25 August 2020||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Four killed in accident||In a tragic incident, four persons - in two two-wheelers collided head on and died on the spot at Kallikulam stretch near Mudukalathur in the district on Monday. Police investigations revealed that Velmurugan and his friend Munneswaran of Ayyanarpuram near Mudukalathur had been to a wedding on a two-wheeler. Likewise, Palani and his friend Muniasami of Konduvali village had been to another wedding on a bike. The two bikes collided head on near Kallkulam. In the impact, all the four were thrown off their bikes, according to eye-witness accounts. On information, the Perayur police came to the spot and removed the bodies to the Government Hospital. Further investigation was on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-killed-in-accident/article32434127.ece
25 August 2020||salem,TAMIL NADU||Vinayaka idols immersed in water bodies in Salem||Despite the lockdown, many residents brought Vinayaka idols from their houses and immersed them in the Mookaneri, Kumaragiri and Veeranam lakes here on Monday. According to police, the immersion of the idols were carried out in Salem rural areas and in Namakkal on Saturday itself.  Officials from the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board said that they may collect samples later to check water quality and assess level of pollution, if any. Immersion of Vinayaka idols were also held in Krishnagiri district. Two teenagers, who went to immerse the idols in Thoorai lake near Shoolagiri, drowned on Monday after they went to the deeper part of the waterbody. The deceased were identified as Bhagavathi (13) and Murali (13). Shoolagiri police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vinayaka-idols-immersed-in-water-bodies-in-salem/article32433870.ece
25 August 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Inquiry against SI after man alleges attack before suicide||The Salem District Police have ordered an inquiry against a Sub-Inspector after a video by a man alleging attack by the officer went viral on social media. He committed suicide after recording the video. According to the police, Saravanan, a sadhu near Thevoor here, alleged in the video that he was attacked by Sub Inspector Antony Michael of Thevoor police station which pushed him to take the extreme step. Superintendent of Police S. Deepa Ganiger said an officer in the rank of ADSP was conducting the inquiry on the allegations. According to senior police officials, the police officer had only warned Saravanan as they had received a verbal complaint against him. Meanwhile, in a petition to the Collector, Arjun Sampath, president of Hindu Makkal Katchi, demanded CB-CID investigation into the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/inquiry-against-si-after-man-alleges-attack-before-suicide/article32433868.ece
25 August 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Contract workers at Tangedco stage protest||Contract workers at Tangedco protested near the Collectorate on Monday demanding job permanency among other demands. In their petition, the members of Tamil Nadu Electricity Board Contract Workers Association said over 300 staff in Salem district alone had been working on contract for over 16 years. Despite repeated requests, the governments and authorities had turned a deaf ear towards their demand for job permanency. The petitioners said the government was not ready to implement or provide them daily wage of Rs. 380. They demanded that the government should take steps to make their job permanent. Similar protests were held in Namakkal as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/contract-workers-at-tangedco-stage-protest/article32433878.ece
25 August 2020||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Irked by ‘interference,’ 31 village panchayat presidents join hands||Presidents of 31 village panchayats under the Karunkulam panchayat union submitted a petition to Collector Sandeep Nanduri on Monday accusing the Karunkulam panchayat union chairman of deploying his men to work in the development projects being executed under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Programme. In a petition submitted to the Collector, the panchayat presidents, led by C. Arunachalavadivu, president of Confederation of Thoothukudi District Village Panchayats, said good number of development works had been taken-up in Karunkulam union under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Programme with the consent of village panchayat presidents and the secretaries concerned. Even as the MNREGP works were progressing well as scheduled, the Karungulam panchayat union chairman was interfering in these works “unnecessarily” by deploying the workforce selected by him. Besides hampering the progress of the works selected under MNREGP, the “undue interference” was creating confusion in the village panchayat. “Moreover, the panchayat presidents are being coerced to issue ‘work orders’ in a new ‘package system’ formulated by the District Rural Development Agency, which has been designed with the prime objective of hand-picking the contractor of the chairman’s choice. Hence, the Collector should intervene to restore the statutory rights of 31 village panchayat presidents under the Karungulam union,” they said. Makkal Neethi Maiyam cadre, led by the party’s district secretary R. Sekar, submitted a petition seeking increased compensation of Rs. 1 crore to the family of constable P. Subramanian, who was killed by a history-sheeter on August 18 near Murappanaadu. A section of the residents from Selseeni Colony, Aruna Nagar and Kausalyapuram, all falling under ward 50 of Thoothukudi Corporation submitted a petition seeking regular supply of drinking water.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/irked-by-interference-31-village-panchayat-presidents-join-hands/article32434129.ece
25 August 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Centre refuses to rectify flaws in NEP: Kanimozhi||The Union government, after adamantly refusing to accept the suggestions being made by any political party or the academicians across the country to rectify the flaws in the New Education Policy (NEP), has now invited the teachers to express their opinion on it, Lok Sabha MP Kanimozhi said. During an informal chat with reporters at the Thoothukudi airport on Monday, Ms. Kanimozhi said the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam constituted a committee to study the NEP and submitted recommendations to the Union government with the objective of rectifying the flaws in the policy before its implementation. Similarly, various political parties across the country and academicians too had submitted their opinion on the New Education Policy. However, the Centre was not for making any positive changes based on the suggestions made by the Opposition parties including the DMK and the educationists. “We are against the NEP as it trespasses on the rights of States and is forcibly pushing a third language in Tamil Nadu. It undermines the social justice being followed in the State for decades and hence, we oppose it vehemently. If the Union government is really open to new ideas or suggestions to be put forward by the teachers and the educationists, we welcome the move,” Ms. Kanimozhi said. She said the Centre should desist from conducting NEET at least during this year in the wake of the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/centre-refuses-to-rectify-flaws-in-nep-kanimozhi/article32433807.ece
25 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Seven deaths, 685 new positive cases in central region||The central districts accounted for 685 fresh positive cases and recorded seven fatalities on Monday. Four of the eight districts in the region, Pudukottai, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and Tiruchi, recorded more than 100 new cases. According to the medical bulletin issued by the State Health Department, the maximum number of cases in the region was recorded in Pudukottai. The district accounted for 187 cases followed by Thanjavur with 119. Tiruvarur and Tiruchi district accounted for 111 and 104 cases. Karur had the least number of new cases with 23, while Perambalur reported 26. Ariyalur reported 52 cases and Nagapattinam 63. A five-year-old child, a 25-year-old male and a 25-year-old female were among those infected in Karur district. Cases were reported from Vengamedu, Vennaimalai, Pasupathipalayam, Manmangalam, Thanthonrimalai and TNPL colony. Four patients were discharged. With Monday's count, the total number of active cases in the district went up to 403. In Tiruchi, 119 patients were discharged after treatment. The number of active cases stood at 947. Of the 26 fresh cases reported in Perambalur district on Monday, 11 were from Perambalur block. Veppanthattai and Alathur reported eight and four cases. Veppur had three cases. With 65 new cases reported on Monday, the total number of cases in Nagapattinam district went up to 1954. Of the seven deaths reported in central districts, four were from Thanjavur and three from Pudukottai. A 64-old male from Thanjavur, who was admitted to Thanjavur Medical College Hospital on August 17, succumbed to the virus on Friday. He had pre-existing conditions including type-2 diabetes mellitus. Patients aged 62,65 and 56 also died of novel coronavirus. They had been under treatment for various diseases such as systemic hypertension, type-2 diabetes and kidney malfunction. A 70-year-old male from Pudukottai, who was admitted to Pudukottai Government Medical College Hospital (PGMCH) on Friday with the complaints of cold, fever and respiratory difficulties, died of respiratory failure within a day of admission. It was said that he had been under treatment for acute kidney injury. Another patient, who died of acute respiratory distress syndrome from Pudukottai, was 75-year-old. He was admitted to PGMCH on August 20 and died on Saturday. He had systemic hypertension and type-2 diabetes mellitus. Pudukottai district witnessed the death of another 70-year-old patient due to COVID pneumonia. He died on Saturday within two days of admission in PGMCH. He too had comorbid conditions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seven-deaths-685-new-positive-cases-in-central-region/article32434180.ece
25 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Puthur fish market to be shifted soon||The Puthur fish market will be shut down over the next 15 to 20 days and shifted to the new venue at Kasivilangai on Kuzhumani Road in Woraiyur. Originally established to accommodate vegetable shops, a portion of the market was allocated to wholesale and retail fish traders after closure of a private market at Bheema Nagar several years ago. When the market began functioning at Puthur, there were only a few residential colonies around it. But with rapid urbanisation, the unhygienic surroundings and stench emanating from the fish market resulted in protests from residents. The Tiruchi Corporation decided to shift the fish market a few years ago and began construction of a new complex at Kasivilangai at a cost of Rs. 3.32 crore. It decided to build a shopping complex at Puthur market by dismantling the existing infrastructure. In the first phase, the Corporation shifted the vegetable shops to Woraiyur market and demolished a portion of Puthur market. Since fish traders filed a case in the Madurai bench of the Madras High Court, seeking allocation of shops to all traders in the new market, the Corporation authorities waited for the verdict. It is learnt that the High Court has disposed the case after recording the promise of the Corporation that priority would be given to all fish traders at the new market. Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian told The Hindu that the Puthur fish market would cease to be operational within two to three weeks and the process of allocation of shops to fish traders at the newly constructed market at Kasivilangai would begin shortly. Steps were being taken to inaugurate the new market in September. The built-up area at the new market would be 10,854 sq ft. A retail market with 25 shops would be set up on a 6,905-sq ft area, and seven wholesale outlets would function in the remaining space. Provisions had also been made for a restroom, bathroom and parking facilities for two-wheelers and four-wheelers. Space had been earmarked for installation of an ATM kiosk, he said. G. Kumaresan, Executive Engineer, said the shifting of the fish market from Puthur was a long-pending demand of the residents. Soon after the shifting of the fish market to Kasivilangai, the remaining structure at the existing fish market would be demolished for construction of a new shopping complex.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puthur-fish-market-to-be-shifted-soon/article32434183.ece
25 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Four thoroughfares in Tiruchi to get separate lanes for two-wheelers||The city police have identified four busy thoroughfares where it has proposed to earmark separate lanes for two-wheelers soon. The two-wheeler lanes will come up along stretches from Head Post Office to MGR statue, covering the whole of Bharathidasan Salai, Head Post Office to Tiruchi railway junction, MGR statue to Uzhavar Sandhai, and MGR statue to Periyamilaguparai via District Collectorate. The police will rope in the Corporation to draw markings on the roads to indicate the separate track. To begin with, they will take up the stretch from Head Post Office to MGR statue near Cantonment, which is one of the busiest in the city, say sources. The markings on either side of the road from Head Post Office to MGR statue will be done using reflective paint to ensure visibility at night, say senior police officers. As the entire stretch is dotted with business and commercial establishments, reasonable parking space will be provided and the markings done accordingly. Symbols of two-wheelers will be painted on the lane. The painting work is expected to begin soon, say police sources. “The initiative is to ascertain how it works and make further improvements,” says Commissioner of Police J. Loganathan. The city police will also conduct a study on other wider roads falling within its jurisdiction for the purpose, according to him. Traffic police sources say the four thoroughfares have been identified initially as they witness heavy density of vehicular traffic. Two-wheeler movements have witnessed a sharp rise over the years within the city limits on the existing road space. Accident data The idea of creating a separate track for two-wheelers emerged after the city police found that two-wheelers nearly accounted for a vast majority of accidents reported within the city limits, which comprises 14 law and order police stations and Traffic Investigation Wing (North) and Traffic Investigation Wing (South).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-thoroughfares-in-tiruchi-to-get-separate-lanes-for-two-wheelers/article32434185.ece
25 August 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||Power supply will be suspended from 9.45 a.m. to 5.30 p.m. on Tuesday in the following places owing to shifting of overhead power lines to facilitate widening of Karur By-pass Road: Karur By-pass Road, Roja Salai, Tajmahal Salai, Sevvanthi Salai, Thamarai Salai, Cauvery College Main Road, Manoranjitha Salai, Kurinchi Salai, Malar Sala and Alli Salai. Power supply to the following places would also remain suspended from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. on Tuesday owing to maintenance work to be taken up by Tangedco at the Thuvakudi Sub-Station: BHEL Township A, D, E, R and PH, and a part of C sector, AOL, Nehru Nagar, Anna Arch, Akbar Salai, MD Road, Government Polytechnic, National Institute of Technology, Rowthanmedu, BHEL Nagar, Indira Nagar, Thuvakudi, Thuvakudi Industrial Estate, Burma Nagar, Devarayaneri, Asoor, Thaeneerpatti and Poikaikudi.    Wednesday Power supply will remain suspended from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. on Wednesday in the following areas owing to maintenance works at the Thiruvanaikovil sub-station: Thiruvanaikovil Sannidhi Street, North and South Inner Streets, Othatheru, Raghavendra Garden, Gandhi Road, Trunk Road, Kumbakonam Salai, Sivaram Nagar, M.K.Pettai, Chennai By-pass Road, Kallanai Road, Keezh Kondayampettai, Nadu Kondayampettai, Jambukeswarar Nagar, Akilandeswari Nagar, Periyar Nagar Akila Nagar, Ganapathi Nagar, Veereswaram, Venkateswara Nagar, Tagore Street, Thiruvennainallur, Ponnurangapuram, Thiruvalarsolai, Panaiyapuram, Uttamarseeli, Killikoodu, Tollgate, Bikshandarkovil, Maruthi Nagar, Gokulam Colony, V.N.Nagar, Raja Nagar, Anand Nagar, Rayar Thoppu and Thalakudi, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article32434187.ece
25 August 2020||Tiruchuli,TAMIL NADU||Rampant sand smuggling on Gundar riverbed near Tiruchuli||Large-scale sand smuggling has been reported on Gundar riverbed and adjacent patta lands, especially in Udayanampatti panchayat near here in Virudhunagar district in the last few days. “Despite complaints lodged with the police and a team of police coming to our village on Saturday night, the smugglers managed to take away heaps of sand kept ready on the riverbed,” charged a landlord, T. Gurusamy (70). A youth alleged that after scooping out sand for several feet deep on the riverbed, the smugglers were now targeting the farm lands along the Gundar river. They were using heavy machinery and trucks. “This has been going on for the last one week and we have also complained to the Village Administrative Officer,” he said. However, the Udayanampatti VAO, Kesavan, said that there was no written complaint from the patta holders about sand smuggling. He said that the heaps of sand found on riverbed were not within his jurisdiction. Mr. Gurusamy said that the farmland along the riverbed had been rendered uncultivable for the last few years due to lack of adequate rain. “Now, there are only thorny bushes on the land. But, if the level of land goes down due to deep mining of sand, agriculture can never be done,” he said. Mr. Gurusamy, who now lives in Sivakasi, said that neither he nor other farm owners have been able to stop sand mining as the crime takes place in the night. Udayanampatti panchayat president M. Jayamurugan, said that smuggling was taking place at nights on many stretches of the Gundar river. “In my village, I am told the landlords themselves have allowed sand mining in return of money,” he said. A revenue officer said that despite patrolling, the smugglers were are good at switching places. “We are unable to stop the crime,” he said. Even a zonal deputy tahsildar, Sivanandi, who chased a sand-laden lorry near Tamilpadi, was attacked by the smugglers. His motorbike was damaged by them, he added. Tiruchuli Tahsildar S. Ravichandran, said that a meeting of officials from Revenue, Police and Mining has been called for on Tuesday to discuss the issue. “We have been instructed to deal strictly with sand smugglers. Hereafter, revenue officials are not going to stop with just imposing fine on the trucks seized for sand smuggling. Under the new guidelines, the Revenue Divisional Officer will order for filing a first information report by the police and the owner of vehicle involved in sand smuggling needs to get the seized vehicle from the Court of Law,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rampant-sand-smuggling-on-gundar-riverbed-near-tiruchuli/article32434126.ece
25 August 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 analysis report posted online||The district administration has put in place an online system in which the public, after giving their blood and swab samples for COVID-19 analysis, can download their results within 36 hours from the portal. Formally launching the website here on Monday,tvmcreport.org, District Collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish, said the individual’s details including the phone number would be obtained when the sample is collected. The result will be posted on the website from 24 hours to 36 hours after the sample is collected. To get the result, the individual should visit the website and fill-in the phone number. On getting the one-time password on his mobile phone, it should be filled-in the website to get the result, which will carry the Medical Officer’s signature. Those in need may download it. “Those who have given the samples from August 23 may download their reports,” Ms. Shilpa said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-analysis-report-posted-online/article32434132.ece
25 August 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||‘Permit cattle shandies to function’||With cattle shandies not being allowed to function across the State due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Palayakottai Pattagar Cattle Farm and Research Centre recently requested the Tiruppur district administration to allow them to function in order to protect the Kangeyam breed of cattle. The cattle farm, which is based near Palayakottai village in Kangeyam taluk, which organises weekly cattle shandies, appealed to District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan in a letter and said farmers were unable to buy cows and bulls as shandies had not been functioning for the past five months. “Farmers are also facing a severe financial crunch as they are not able to sell their livestock at a nearby shandy at market price,” said V. Sivakumar, Trustee of Palayakottai Pattagar Cattle Farm and Research Centre. During the lockdown, thousands of heads of Kangeyam cattle had been sent for slaughter, he said. Mr. Vijayakarthikeyan said he would discuss the issue with officials of the Department of Animal Husbandry and initiate necessary action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/permit-cattle-shandies-to-function/article32433817.ece
25 August 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Ecology assn. welcomes Centre’s decision on Sillahalla project||The Sillahalla Ecology and Social Association (SESA), which has been spearheading a campaign of resistance against the proposed Sillahalla Pumped Hydroelectric Storage Project (PHESP), has welcomed the Central government’s decision to conduct an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) and hold public hearings before granting approval for the project. Earlier, a Central government appointed sub-committee had recommended that the project be given environmental clearances without the need for public consultations to be held. In a statement, the SESA said that they hoped that the EIA would be conducted through competent authorities and institutions that will study the geographical stability of the area, the impact of infrastructure accompanying the project, such as roads, bridges, housing, sanitation and drainage would have on the area and on the biodiversity and native forests. The SESA added that the impact assessment must take into account the impact the project would have on the heritage and culture of local communities inhabiting the region, its impact on tourism and the safety of the dam structure itself. SESA welcomed the decision to refer the project to the National Board of Wildlife and to abide by the forthcoming Western Ghat Eco-Sensitive Area Notification. “It is hoped that the public hearings (which are yet to be held) will give due opportunity to the people of the project area and the public of the district, NGOs and environmental activists to put forth their views,” said M. Sivalingam, a representative of SESA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ecology-assn-welcomes-centres-decision-on-sillahalla-project/article32433866.ece
25 August 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Nilgiris police launch app to help local residents contact senior officers||A mobile application, to facilitate communication between members of the public and the police top brass during the time of the COVID-19 pandemic was launched by the Nilgiris Superintendent of Police V. Sasi Mohan on Monday. The 'Nilgiris District Police' app, available on the Android Play Store to download, will also serve to provide information to tourists about nearby water ATMs, public transport hubs, parking lots, popular tourist spots and how to get there. Mr Mohan, told The Hindu , that the launch of the mobile application will serve many purposes. “Firstly, it is impractical for people from Gudalur, Pandalur, Devala and Coonoor to come to Udhagamandalam to meet either the SP or the DSP. So using this app, members of the public can get in touch with us safely and securely,” he said. “For instance, if a resident from Erumadu wants to submit a complaint to the SP, the person will have to travel a distance of 60-70 kilometers, and now as there is no public transport, it has become even harder for them to travel to Udhagamandalam town,” he pointed out. Submit petitions This will ensure that people living away from the towns do not have to travel long distances during the time of the COVID-19 pandemic to raise complaints or submit petitions to the top police officers. Members of the public can also file police complaints including that of theft using the app, while they can also get information about local police stations, officers at the station and other key information. They can also intimate police of traffic snarls or any violations by taking a picture on their phones and uploading it onto the application. Assistance for tourists The mobile application will also be extremely useful for tourists, as key alerts, like the movement of wildlife along particular stretches of road, landslips, road blocks and other information will also be displayed in the application. “Tourists can also see which are the tourist destinations closest to them, and using Google maps, find the quickest and most efficient way to get there,” said Mr. Sasi Mohan. The police plan to refine the app in the coming months, with plans to have details about parking slots available for vehicles and other information being made available to users. They also hope to roll out a version for iOS phones in the coming weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nilgiris-police-launch-app-to-help-local-residents-contact-senior-officers/article32433864.ece
25 August 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Drivers stage protest in the Nilgiris||Drivers of tourist vehicles in the Nilgiris staged a protest in front of the Regional Transport Officer’s office in Udhagamandalam demanding financial assistance from the government. The protesters, belonging to the Nilgiris district tourist taxi drivers and owners’ association, appealed to the government to provide financial assistance amounting to Rs. 10,000 each to all taxi drivers to help them tide over the current pandemic. They said they were not getting any business due to the ban on tourists visiting the Nilgiris. They urged the government to delay collection of road taxes and vehicle insurance and also postpone renewal of Fitness Certificate for tourist vehicles. The protesters also wanted the government to enact guidelines that would enable the vehicle owners to delay loan payments by six months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/drivers-stage-protest-in-the-nilgiris/article32433877.ece
25 August 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Residents seek NOC for constructing permanent building for ration shop||Residents of Perumalkoil Street in the town have sought the district administration to provide no objection certificate (NOC) from the Department of Revenue to a piece of land on the street to construct a permanent building for the local ration shop. “Even two months after Virudhunagar MP, B. Manickam Tagore, sanctioned Rs. 10.50 lakh for construction of the ration shop, the Revenue Department has not given the NOC,” said a local resident, C. Manikandan. The land was housing a dilapidated building that was constructed 25 years back for the office of Revenue Inspector. However, it was never occupied by the officials and was rendered useless. For long, it has been a den for antisocial elements where they used to consume liquor. After repeated complaints, the district administration demolished the building in 2019. The present ration shop at Periya Pallivasal Street was housed in a rented building. “While at present, the ration shop is located in a corner of our area, the vacant space in Perumalkoil Temple lies in the centre,” Mr. Manikandan said. The local people fear that further delay in getting NOC could render the fund sanctioned by the District Rural Development Agency under the MP Local Area Development Fund null and void.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-seek-noc-for-constructing-permanent-building-for-ration-shop/article32434131.ece
25 August 2020||Virudhunagr,TAMIL NADU||Farmers invited to raise fodder with subsidy||Department of Animal Husbandry has invited farmers to raise fodder under State Fodder Development Scheme. A statement said that a target of 350 acres for raising green fodder under lift irrigation has been planned. The farmers would get seeds and fertilizer as subsidy under the scheme. Beneficiary farmer should have at least two milch animals and a minimum of 25 cents of land either owned or on lease. Under rain-fed irrigation, the department has a target to raise cholam or red cow peas on 300 acres. Seeds would be provided with 100% subsidy, the statement said. In order to encourage commercial production of green fodder, farmers and rural youth are invited to raise green fodder on 50 acres under guaranteed purchase scheme for which all agricultural inputs would be provided as subsidy. The scheme was also aimed to provide self employment. The department was also offering 100 numbers of grass cutters with a 75% subsidy to farmers. The Department also had a scheme to raise fodder on grazing land through village panchayats. The fodder thus raised would benefit poor farmers. Those farmers interested to raise fodder under these schemes should approach the Assistant Veterinarian, and apply with name, address, Aadhar number, survey number of land and details of animals in possession for registration. A 30% reservation is provided in all the schemes, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-invited-to-raise-fodder-with-subsidy/article32434124.ece
25 August 2020||August 25 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Seven deaths and 387 cases in Coimbatore district||Among the districts in the Western region, Coimbatore reported 387 COVID-19 cases and seven deaths on Monday. The total number of cases in the district increased to 12,141 and the death tally touched 244 on Monday. As per the media bulletin issued by the Health Department, 3,143 patients were under treatment at various hospitals and COVID-19 Care Centres (CCC) in the district as of Monday. The bulletin said that seven patients died of the disease at various hospitals between August 20 and 23. While three persons died at the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital, four died in private hospitals. A policewoman attached to the Mettupalayam police station tested positive for the disease. As many as 338 persons were discharged from various hospitals and COVID-19 Care Centres on Monday. Salem district reported 273 COVID-19 cases on Monday. Health officials said that 161 cases were from Salem Corporation limits. Six patients had travelled to Tiruchi, Villupuram, Cuddalore, Kallakuruchi and Dharmapuri. Namakkal district reported 59 new cases. Eight persons had travelled to Erode, Ariyalur and Salem. Krishnagiri district reported 61 new cases of which 59 were indigenous. The eight new cases reported in Dharmapuri district were indigenous. Children among positive cases Tiruppur district reported 76 new cases on Monday, taking the overall tally of the district to 2,099. A one-year-old boy from Dharapuram, three boys aged three, seven and 12, and a girl aged 10 from Tiruppur Corporation limits were among the new cases reported on Monday, Health Department sources said. Spinning mills closed Revenue Department officials on Saturday closed two spinning mills in Kundadam and Dharapuram in Dharapuram taluk after a few employees there tested positive. Dharapuram Sub-Collector Pavankumar Giriyappanavar said on Monday that four employees in the two mills tested positive for the disease on Saturday. Following this, both the mills were closed for fumigation. Health Department officials lifted swab samples from hundreds of employees working in the mills and those residing in the neighbourhood as part of contact tracing process, he said. The spinning mills would be allowed to reopen based on the test results, Mr. Giriyappanavar said. Tiruppur district did not report any COVID-19 deaths on Sunday and Monday. Out of the 2,099 cases, 1,374 have recovered and 672 were active cases. Erode district reported 189 new cases on Monday, taking the district’s tally to 2,252. The number of persons under treatment stood at 1,003. Sixty-five persons were discharged on the day. 75 in Nilgiris The Nilgiris district reported 75 new cases on Monday. With the latest infections, the total number of cases reported in the district stood at 1,400.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seven-deaths-and-387-cases-in-coimbatore-district/article32433888.ece
25 August 2020||August 25 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||BJP president Nadda slams T.N. administration, DMK||The administration in Tamil Nadu and the opposition DMK have become a sheltering ground for people who are not working in the interests of the nation, BJP national president J.P. Nadda charged on Monday. Speaking via video-conferencing during the meeting of the party’s Tamil Nadu executive committee, Mr. Nadda alleged: “The DMK and the administration have become a sheltering ground for people who are not working in the interests of the nation. They are being provided shelter by the administration in Tamil Nadu.” Mr. Nadda asked the administration and political parties in the State to be on alert to see that divisive forces do not get strengthened in Tamil Nadu. He asked the BJP workers to be on alert and provide a fitting reply to such people, who according to him are working against the interest of the nation. The BJP president also accused the DMK of “inciting feelings against the national spirit”. He said, “The DMK has always been on the lookout to see to it that in the national mainstream, the assimilation, the formation is always disrupted. They [DMK] have been anti-development by coming out with issues which are not in the interest of the nation,” Mr. Nadda charged. He also called upon the BJP cadres to explain to the people of Tamil Nadu as to “how Prime Minister Narendra Modi is trying to see to it that the people of Tamil Nadu are brought into the mainstream and contribute to the nation”. Mr. Nadda said the recent controversy over the YouTube channel Karuppar Kootam issue enlightened the people of Tamil Nadu, who agitated in a peaceful manner. On the issue of the National Education Policy, he said it would bring in accessibility, affordability and since regional languages were to be the medium of instruction till class 8, it would give opportunities to children from rural backgrounds to have access to education. The BJP president also called upon the Tamil Nadu cadres to give emphasis to youth, tribal people, Dalits and bring them into the mainstream and into the BJP. He expressed confidence that the party will poll a good vote share in the upcoming Assembly elections in 2021. The Executive Committee passed a number of resolutions at the meeting and criticised the DMK, accusing it of practising fake secularism. “The meeting condemns the DMK’s fake secularism and acting against the nation’s growth. We request the nationalists and spiritual people of Tamil Nadu to boycott the DMK and its allies in the upcoming Assembly elections,” one of the resolutions said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-president-nadda-slams-tn-administration-dmk/article32433804.ece
25 August 2020||August 25 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tribal women in pursuit of sustainable livelihood||People belonging to the Boom Boom Maatukarar community in Sellur and across Nagapattinam have been without any earnings since the lockdown came into force in March. While many are in the habit of seeking alms, some sell hairclips, chains and other accessories in trains. Post-lockdown, they have lost even the meagre sources of revenue, says R. Revathi, founder, Vaanavil Trust. Now, through Vaanavil, a group of 25 nomadic tribal women in Nagapattinam have formed an All-Women Milk Cooperative Society in pursuit of sustainable livelihood. Their next step has been to approach a primary agricultural cooperative credit society in the village, which sanctioned Rs. 43,500 to each registered member. “I have noticed that many do not provide help or credit to these tribes, but I am convinced about their honesty,” says society chairman Thanga Kathiravan. Each member has to repay the amount in instalments of Rs. 1,500 for 36 months. “I could notice that the women take good care of the cows and maintain the shed well,” he added. After six months, when the animals stop lactating, they will be provided with more cows. “This way, we will ensure that they continue to make a living,” Mr. Kathiravan said. K. Vanitha, vice-president of the newly formed society, says their lives have already been transformed and she is hopeful for the future. “We hope to earn enough to provide for our families. We only need three square meals a day,” she said. Vaanavil also helps in purchase of milk cans and equipment to weigh and measure the quality of milk. “We were taught how to milk the cows in a neat and tidy manner, what to feed them to increase milk production and ways of providing care,” Ms. Vanitha said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tribal-women-in-pursuit-of-sustainable-livelihood/article32434172.ece
25 August 2020||August 25 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Production hit despite e-pass relaxation||Though the State government has relaxed e-pass rules for inter-district travel, absence of public transport continues to obstruct industrial production since most of the workers depend on local buses and passenger trains to reach the manufacturing units. At present, e-pass is being sanctioned for all applicants submitting their Aadhaar card/ration card details and phone numbers. To a considerable extent, the relaxation has helped movement of workers coming by two-wheelers within Tiruchi, Thanjavur and Pudukottai districts. Earlier, e-passes were issued only for purposes of marriage, health emergency, official reasons, and bereavement. A provision has been made for employers of private companies to secure e-passes for workers from the district collectors. The companies have also been allowed to bring back workers from northern States after subjecting them to medical screening on entering Tamil Nadu. But the government has made no time-bound commitment on resuming public transport. The State government, according to transport department sources, will resume services only after determining a drop in the infection rate. “Public transport must be operated from vantage locations to industrial estates at least in the morning and evening,” says R. Ilango, President, Tiruchi District Tiny and Small Scale Industries' Association. Seeking complete abolition of the e-pass system, Mr. Elango points out that a limited transport is essential, especially for women, to travel and reach their work places. The government must also arrange for transport of migrant labourers and bear the cost of testing. If the workers test negative, they should be sent to their workplace straight away. In case they test positive, the government has to provide them accommodation and healthcare until they test negative. Also, hotels must be opened in districts with industrial towns to enable employers to reach out to clients and take fresh orders, he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/production-hit-despite-e-pass-relaxation/article32434175.ece
25 August 2020||August 25 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Class XI admissions begin in government and private schools||Admissions to Class XI began in government and private schools in Coimbatore district on Monday, a week after admissions to Classes I, VI and IX commenced. Chief Educational Officer (CEO), Coimbatore, P. Usha said issuance of application forms for Class XI admissions began in 108 government higher secondary schools and 46 aided higher secondary schools in the district. She said the schools were told to follow COVID-19 precautionary measures such as providing hand sanitisers, allowing students and parents in batches, and allocating separate rooms for different streams to avoid overcrowding. Following the admission process, textbooks were also given to the students. “The Class XI admissions will be completed in the next three days,” Ms. Usha said. The CEO said that all private schools in the Coimbatore district were instructed to allocate 25% seats under the Right to Education (RTE) Act quota for students from weaker sections. Online admissions Online admissions to LKG and Class I under the RTE quota will begin on Thursday where parents can apply through the websitehttp://rte.tnschools.gov.in/from 10 a.m. on August 27. Salem As many as 325 schools, including 155 government schools, in Salem district began Class XI admissions on Monday Salem CEO T. Ganesh Moorthy said, “All schools have been advised to follow COVID-19 safety measures. Teachers were advised to admit students in their preferred streams and the schools were advised to follow reservation norms.” Students would be given books and other education materials during admission, Mr. Ganesh Moorthy said. Namakkal CEO P. Ayyanan said admissions began in 100 government schools and over 100 private schools in the district. Erode Arrangements were made at all schools in Erode district to provide hand sanitisers to students and parents at the entrance and teachers were told to ensure that everyone wore masks on the premises.  Teachers said the admission process was expected to continue for the next two to three days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/class-xi-admissions-begin-in-government-and-private-schools/article32433885.ece
25 August 2020||August 25 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||The Hindu Education Plus webinar tomorrow||The next in the series of free webinars of The Hindu Education Plus on ‘Current and emerging career opportunities,’ will focus on architecture. The webinar, presented by SRM Institute of Science and Technology, Chennai, will be held from 3 p.m. to 4.30 p.m. on August 26. A. Srivathsan, Executive Director, Centre for Research on Architecture and Urbanism, CEPT University, Ahmedabad; Habeeb Khan, President, Council of Architecture, New Delhi; and P. Satheesh Kumar, Dean, School of Architecture and Interior Design, SRM IST, Chennai, will be key speakers. The session will be moderated by Radhika Santhanam, Assistant Editor, The Hindu . The session is open to students of classes IX, X, XI and XII. To register, visit http://bit.ly/SRMTHEP2 or scan the QR code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/the-hindu-education-plus-webinar-tomorrow/article32433801.ece
25 August 2020||August 25 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Railway workshop dispatches 400th overhauled loco||The Golden Rock Railway Workshop here crossed yet another milestone when it dispatched the 400th Public Sector Undertaking (PSU) diesel locomotive on Saturday, after completely overhauling it on its sprawling premises during the current lockdown period. The overhauled PSU broad gauge loco belonging to the Steel Authority of India (SAIL), Bhilai Plant, was flagged off at the workshop premises on Saturday by a team of senior supervisors of the Diesel Wing, by maintaining COVID-19 protocol, in the presence of Chief Workshop Manager Shyamadhar Ram and other officers. The workshop, which was nominated by the railways to carry out periodic overhaul of all types of diesel locomotive started carrying out overhauling of diesel locomotives belonging to PSUs from 1995 onwards. The first PSU loco to be overhauled and rehabilitated was owned by TISCO, Jamshedpur. Due to the excellent quality of the workmanship in respect of periodic overhauling, various PSUs such as NTPC, SAIL, National Aluminium Company and some State PSUs such as Uttar Pradesh State Electricity Board began to send their locomotives to the workshop for periodic overhauling over the years. Workshop authorities said about 15 to 20 PSU locos were being received on an average at the workshop every year for periodic overhauling. During the last 25 years, the workshop earned Rs. 552.05 crore as non-fare revenue earnings by carrying out periodic overhauling of PSU locos alone. The 100th PSU loco was turned out in 2002; 200th in 2008 and 300th in 2015. The workshop also carries out various cabin crew-friendly modifications in the locomotive as per customer requirements. The workshop provides complete support for post overhauling defects in the loco. The locos were being given a fresh coat of polyurethane painting to improve their aesthetic look and durability. In the 2019-20 financial year, the workshop had carried out periodic overhauling of 24 PSU locos which was the maximum number turned out in a year. It is expected to carry out periodic and intermediate overhauling of 30 PSU locos in the current fiscal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/railway-workshop-dispatches-400th-overhauled-loco/article32434174.ece
25 August 2020||August 25 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Surge in people under travel quarantine||The quarantined individuals monitored by HQIMS of the civic body include COVID-19 positive persons, contacts, persons who are waiting for COVID-19 test results and those who reached the city from other parts of the world. The number of persons on quarantine is the lowest in Manali zone, with just 6,978 persons on quarantine. The number of persons on quarantine in Tondiarpet is 9,277; Madhavaram 16,015; Tondiarpet 25,470; Royapuram 32,210; Thiru. Vi. Ka. Nagar 26,430; Ambattur 40,215; Teynampet 35,460; Kodambakkam 43,760; Valasaravakkam 35,684; Alandur 19,897; Adyar 37,761; Perungudi 18,306; and Sholinganallur 19,482. The city has monitored 2.52 lakh persons on quarantine after receiving them at airports and at checkposts in the past few weeks. Anna Nagar has received the largest number of travellers so far. As many as 31,712 travellers have reached Anna Nagar zone. Manali (2,886) has received the lowest number of travellers. However, ward-level sanitary inspectors said many guest workers had started reaching the city without e-pass, and thus they were not in the monitoring system. Naturally, such persons cannot be quarantined because they are reportedly entering the city without proper notice to the civic body.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/surge-in-people-under-travel-quarantine/article32434189.ece
25 August 2020||August 25 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Scooter for Rs. 1,500||T.T. Krishnamachari, Union Minister without portfolio yesterday reiterated his view that it should be possible for a manufacturer to produce a scooter for Rs. 1,500 as it happened to be a popular type of conveyance in the country. In an informal chat with newsmen at the airport before he left for Delhi, Mr. Krishnamachari said the cost of producing ancillary equipment within the country for a motorcar came to Rs. 5,400 only, and that it should be possible for the scooter manufacturers to produce the scooter at Rs. 1,500. The Union Minister was seen off by a large gathering of friends.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/scooter-for-rs-1500/article32433832.ece
25 August 2020||August 25 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Four of family found dead||Four persons of a family — two women, a girl and an infant — were found dead at their house in Valavanpuram near Pattukottai on Sunday. On Sunday afternoon, the owner of the house in which the deceased were tenants called police after there were no signs of the quartet. Further, their two pet dogs too were not to be seen on the premises. A Pattukotai police team rushed to the house and broke open the front door. A four-year-old girl and an eight-month-old baby lay dead on the floor along with the two dogs. The bodies of two women aged 50 and 24 were found inside. Initial inquiry showed that the family moved from Mannargudi to Pattukottai town in January. The younger woman gave birth to her second child in Pattukottai. They moved to Valavanpuram where they ended their life, police said. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available at State’s health helpline 104 or Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-of-family-found-dead/article32434177.ece
25 August 2020||August 25 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown in Thanjavur||Power supply will remain suspended from 9 a.m. to 5-30 p.m. on Tuesday at Thanjavur 110/11 K.V. Manimandapam Sub-station in the following areas: Arulananda Nagar, Yagappa Nagar, Arulananda Ammal Nagar, Pudukottai Salai, V.O.C. Nagar, Marys Corner, Nanjikottai Road, Anna Nagar, Shanthi Nagar, Pookara Street, Ghorikulam, Nirmala Nagar, Old House Board Unit, Periyar Nagar, Indira Nagar, Ezhil Nagar, Natarajapuram South, T.P.S.Nagar, mangalapuram, Kannan Nagar, Balaji Nagar, J.J.Nagar, Pon Nagar, Pandiyan Nagar, Sundaram Nagar, LIC Colony Extension and surrounding areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown-in-thanjavur/article32434178.ece
25 August 2020||August 25 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Surge in people under travel quarantine||The quarantined individuals monitored by HQIMS of the civic body include COVID-19 positive persons, contacts, persons who are waiting for COVID-19 test results and those who reached the city from other parts of the world. The number of persons on quarantine is the lowest in Manali zone, with just 6,978 persons on quarantine. The number of persons on quarantine in Tondiarpet is 9,277; Madhavaram 16,015; Tondiarpet 25,470; Royapuram 32,210; Thiru. Vi. Ka. Nagar 26,430; Ambattur 40,215; Teynampet 35,460; Kodambakkam 43,760; Valasaravakkam 35,684; Alandur 19,897; Adyar 37,761; Perungudi 18,306; and Sholinganallur 19,482. The city has monitored 2.52 lakh persons on quarantine after receiving them at airports and at checkposts in the past few weeks. Anna Nagar has received the largest number of travellers so far. As many as 31,712 travellers have reached Anna Nagar zone. Manali (2,886) has received the lowest number of travellers. However, ward-level sanitary inspectors said many guest workers had started reaching the city without e-pass, and thus they were not in the monitoring system. Naturally, such persons cannot be quarantined because they are reportedly entering the city without proper notice to the civic body.    Anna Nagar zone has received the largest number of 31,712 travellers so far||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chennai-sees-surge-in-people-put-under-travel-quarantine/article32433847.ece
25 August 2020||August 25 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Till August 24||No. of cases on Monday: 387 Persons tested +ve so far: 12,141 Active cases: 3,143 Persons recovered: 8,754 Deaths: 244   No. of cases on Monday: 76 Persons tested +ve so far: 2,099 Active cases: 672 Persons recovered: 1,374 Deaths: 53||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/till-august-24/article32433889.ece
25 August 2020||August 25 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||60 years of taking German to the masses||In the six decades of its existence, the Goethe-Institut / Max Mueller Bhavan in Chennai has made learning German a fun thing to do. Lakhs of students have passed through its portals. The Institute, which celebrated its 60th anniversary in Chennai on August 20, is currently located in its fifth home in the city at Rutland Gate in Nungambakkam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/60-years-of-taking-german-to-the-masses/article32433823.ece
25 August 2020||August 25 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||When CM laid foundation for widening iconic bridge||In 1968, the Marmalong Bridge across Adyar river in Saidapet was 237 years old! In August that year, then CM Kamaraj laid the foundation for widening the bridge at a cost of Rs. 35 lakh. At that point in time, the bridge carried 923 vehicles between 8 a.m. and 9 a.m., and 1,029 between 5 p.m. and 6 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/when-cm-laid-foundation-for-widening-iconic-bridge/article32433827.ece
25 August 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Farmers have lost crops on over 43,000 hectares in Belagavi alone||While a complete survey of crop loss due to floods this year is yet to be made, farmers in Belagavi district alone are likely to lose crops in over 43,000 hectares of land. This estimate was revealed by a survey, based on a statistical model. This year’s loss is just 20% of the damage that was suffered in the floods of 2019. The debilitating floods in July, August and September of last year damaged crops on 2.2 lakh hectares. The damaged crops include sugarcane on 17,877 hectares, green gram on 8,500 hectares, maize on 6,043 hectares, paddy on 3,014 hectares, soya on 1,710 hectares, sunflower on 490 hectares, and other crops like niger and minor millet on 177 hectares. Joint Director of Agriculture Shivanagouda Patil said a joint survey by officers of Revenue, Agriculture, Horticulture, and Sericulture departments will begin as soon as the waters subside. Modern technology tools like GPS and GIS will be used, he said. According to officers, the initial estimates are done by matching area under cultivation with the cultivable land in villages affected by floods. “This is a table-top assessment. It is done to help us prepare for the actual, on the ground survey. It also helps the State government to take a fair idea of the quantum of the calamity,” a senior officer said. Due to early rains in May and June and return of farm labourers to villages from cities during and after lockdown, farmers surpassed cultivation targets. A total 6.8 lakh hectares were cultivated as against the target of six lakh hectares. Rainfall in the district completed its annual quota in the first eight months. The district received 1,700 mm of rainfall till August 20, which is slightly more than the aggregated annual rainfall of 1,640 mm, officers said. Added to the problem was the release of waters from 11 reservoirs in Maharashtra into the Krishna and its six tributaries in Belagavi district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farmers-have-lost-crops-on-over-43000-hectares-in-belagavi-alone/article32433777.ece
25 August 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Celebrating birthday of blessed children||The birthday of Sri Basavalinga Pattaddevaru, senior seer of the Bhalki Hiremath, is a unique event in Bidar district. The Hiremath Sansthan Vidya Peetha Trust that he heads has been celebrating it as a common birthday of orphaned children rescued by the Hiremath. The practice began 16 years ago when the seer heard of an abandoned baby in Ujani village near Aurad in Bidar district. The seer went to court seeking permission to adopt the child. Four years later, the Hiremath got registered as a recognised adoption institution under the Central adoption resource agency. The Hiremath has rescued and raised 71 abandoned children and given them in adoption till now. The Hiremath also has 21 children under its care at present. They are waiting to be adopted. Nine children with special needs are being cared for. Some have been sent to private educational institutions, some to schools for special children, one to the Adi Chunchangiri School for the Blind and others to the National Residential School for Deaf and Dumb in Bengaluru. The seer announced in 2004 that his birthday on August 25 be celebrated as the day of blessed children, every year. The residents of Bhalki town and surrounding villages come to the Hiremath to celebrate the festival. They give gifts and distribute sweets to children. The Hiremath also brings out a special issue of its magazine, Shanti Kirana, to mark the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/celebrating-birthday-of-blessed-children/article32433957.ece
25 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||No vehicles in Cubbon Park as Horticulture Dept. makes a U-turn||At 8.30 a.m. on Monday, citizens donning masks stood in front of the locked gates of Cubbon Park holding up posters that read “No Traffic in Cubbon Park” and “No Traffic Please”. The protesters stood there till around 10.30 a.m. and dispersed only after it was clear that the gates of Cubbon Park would not be opened to vehicular movement just yet. They, however, symbolically tied a silk cloth around the lock on the gate. Vehicular movement inside the park was to be allowed from Monday after the State government, on recommendation of the Bengaluru Traffic Police, had directed the Department of Horticulture to do so. Following the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic and imposition of lockdown, the gates of Cubbon Park have remained closed since March 24. While Rajender Kataria, Secretary of Departments of Agriculture, Horticulture and Sericulture, told The Hindu that a circular allowing vehicular movement had been issued on Friday last, Joint Commissioner of Horticulture (Parks and Gardens) M. Jagadish claimed that his officer had not received any direction or order from the government on allowing vehicular movement inside Cubbon Park. Mr. Kataria said that the Horticulture Minister Narayana Gowda had also recommended complete ban on parking and vehicular movement within the park. “The department will take a call on allowing vehicular movement based on the government’s decision to the proposal,” he said. Citizens’ groups have for long been seeking a complete ban on vehicular movement inside the park. Priya Chetty Rajagopal from Heritage Beku said around 30 people had gathered outside the locked gates on Monday morning. “We followed the rules and maintained social distance. We expressed our opposition quietly, but firmly and hope that the government acknowledges our genuine concern for protecting the city’s lung space,” she said. She said she had written to Chief Secretary T.M. Vijay Bhaskar, Mr. Kataria, Mr. Jagadish and even Mayor M. Goutham Kumar and to the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Commissioner. “We have got 15 experts who have all favoured a ban on vehicular movement,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-vehicles-in-cubbon-park-as-horticulture-dept-makes-a-u-turn/article32433761.ece
25 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Some continue to test positive post home-isolation period||Asymptomatic patients who test positive for COVID-19 are considered “discharged” 10 days after their first sample is drawn for testing. According to the latest guidelines issued by the Department of Health and Family Welfare, patients do not have to get COVID-19 test to see if they test negative. However, a few patients, who are under home isolation and are “voluntarily” getting themselves tested before they end isolation and mingle with family, have found that they are still positive, even 20 to 25 days after they first tested positive. While this has increased their anxiety with many of their doctors advising them to continue isolation till they test negative, health experts say there is no need to remain in isolation if they have completed the quarantine period. An employee of a private company, who tested positive in south Bengaluru earlier this month, said: “I live with my family. Twenty days after I tested positive, I voluntarily went for another COVID-19 test just to be sure. I was shocked to find out that I was still positive. Now, doctors are advising me to remain isolated for another 10 days.” According to the latest COVID-19 discharge policy, those under home isolation can be discharged 10 days after the onset of symptoms and three days of no fever or date of sampling for asymptomatic patients. After this, they are asked to isolate for another seven days and can thereafter, resume with their activities. C. Nagaraj, director of Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases, said they have come across patients who test positive even 28 days after they the first test. “We see this in around 5% to 6% cases. The patients are asymptomatic and clinically fit, but the reports state they are positive. There is absolutely no reason to worry, and patients do not even have to undergo a test before they are discharged,” he said. ‘Viral remnants’ M.K. Sudarshan, chairman of the State government’s COVID-19 technical advisory committee, said this was found among a small percentage of people who tested positive for COVID-19. He, however, said it was not uncommon. “We have found that many people with mild and moderate symptoms test positive even if they are checked a month after the first test. This is because the viral remnants still present in their body produce a false positive result,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/some-continue-to-test-positive-post-home-isolation-period/article32433771.ece
25 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||ASI told to take up fort restoration||The Karnataka High Court on Monday directed the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) to immediately take up civil and other work to protect and maintain an ancient fort at Madikeri in Kodagu district as per the detailed project report approved by the State government. “It’s a great deal of importance that the works should be carried out efficiently and expeditiously as it is the duty of ASI to ensure that the protected monument is restored and maintained,” the court said. A Division Benchñ issued the directions while hearing a PIL petition filed by J.S Virupakshaiah, resident of Alur Siddapura in Somawarpet taluk of Kodagu district. While noticing that the State government had transferred Rs. 10.76 crore to ASI for the work, the Bench said ASI should complete the works efficiently and expeditiously. The Bench, which is monitoring the restoration and maintenance of the fort, said the State government must take interest in completion of the works by ASI while directing the Deputy Commissioner of Kodagu to nominate a responsible officer, not below the rank of an Assistant Commissioner, to interact with ASI officials and regularly visit the fort. The Bench directed ASI to complete work within one month, and submit a status report by October 14.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/asi-told-to-take-up-fort-restoration/article32433767.ece
25 August 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Three teachers from State to receive national award||Three teachers from Karnataka have been selected to receive the prestigious President’s National Awards for Teachers 2020. In all, 47 teachers from schools across the country will receive the award instituted by the Union Ministry of Education. From Karnataka, Chemmalar Shanmugam, headmistress, Kendriya Vidyalaya No. 2, AFS (East), Jalahalli, Bengaluru; Yakub S., teacher, Government High School Nada, Nada, Belthangady, Dakshina Kannada, and Surekha Jagannath, teacher, Government High School, Bandarwad, Afzalpur, Kalaburagi, are the recipients. The award, instituted in 1958, is presented to recognise the unique contribution of teachers. The award would celebrate commitment and efforts of teachers in improving quality of school education and also enriching the lives of their students. Every year, the award is presented on September 5 that marks the birth anniversary of former president Dr. S. Radhakrishnan. Selection process This year, the Ministry’s Department of School Education and Literacy constituted a national level independent jury to select the recipients. The jury reviewed a list of 153 teachers as shortlisted by committees set up by States and Union Territories and also organisational selection committees through a videoconference. The jury considered the applications and presentations made by all shortlisted teachers and after detailed deliberations, recommended names of 47 teachers. Ms. Chemmalar is the only teacher from Kendriya Vidyalaya Sanghatan to be selected for the award.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-teachers-from-state-to-receive-national-award/article32433763.ece
25 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Old Pete traders rue loss of business||It has been nearly two weeks since the wholesale market hub in the Old Pete, that was shut down along with K.R. Market, has fully reopened without any restrictions. However, the traders rue the lack of business, especially the washout of the festival and marriage season, when they used to make the most business. “The entire festival and marriage season is washed out this year. We were mostly shut down during the Varamahalakshmi festival. Though we were open for the Ganesha festival, business was as low as 20%. There are no marriages as well. While many have postponed marriages, some who are going ahead are not giving us good business as there are restrictions on how many people can congregate for the ceremony,” said Dungar Mal Chopra, president, Karnataka Hosiery and Garment Association. Another merchant and trade activist Sajjan Raj Mehta said though the Union government has said we will have to learn to live with the corona virus, the unlocking was not complete. “The business will resume only after normalcy returns. The government needs to restart metro and bus services to its full capacity,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/old-pete-traders-rue-loss-of-business/article32433756.ece
25 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BSY to conduct survey of flood-hit areas today||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa will conduct an aerial survey of flood-hit areas of the State on Tuesday. Sources said that Mr. Yediyurappa will assess the damage to crops and properties in Belagavi, Vijayapura, Gadag, Bagalkot, and Raichur districts. He will go to Belagavi and hold a meeting with Ministers and officials to obtain information about the extent of damage to crops, houses, and other properties. Later, he will survey Belagavi and Vijayapura districts from a helicopter, sources said. H will then visit the Almatti dam in Bagalkot and return to Bengaluru. Several northern districts received heavy rain in the first and second weeks of August. The Chief Minister, who had tested positive for COVID-19 and was admitted to hospital during that time, had directed his Cabinet colleagues to visit flood-affected areas to undertake relief measures. The management of flood relief has become a political slugfest between the ruling BJP and the Opposition Congress. The Centre had released Rs. 395.5 crore to the State for relief measures against its demand for a special assistance of Rs. 4,000 crore for taking up relief and rehabilitation measures. Some of the northern districts, particularly Belagavi, repeatedly faced flood situation due to heavy rain. Rain has receded in some of the areas in Belagavi district only in the last few days. On Monday, Mr. Yediyurappa held a meeting with senior officials of various departments on management of COVID-19 in the State. Following an increase in the number of cases recently, Mr. Yediyurappa has reportedly directed the officials to provide results of testing as early as possible to control the spread of the disease.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bsy-to-conduct-survey-of-flood-hit-areas-today/article32433765.ece
25 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Citizens can now help govt. in contact tracing||With the State government struggling with tracing primary and secondary contacts of positive patients, the State COVID-19 war room has urged citizens to download an app and participate in preventing the spread. Munish Moudgil, in-charge of the war room, said that citizens can now participate in the contact-tracing process and alert the government if they are contacts or if they know people who are contacts. The app – Contact Tracing - is available on Google Playstore. Patients will have to enter the mobile number or the Specimen Referral Form (SRF) ID of the positive patient. In case one does not have both these details, citizens can chose to enter these options manually. “Our government teams will verify the details. We want citizens to provide data to the best of their knowledge and help us by providing genuine and correct information,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/citizens-can-now-help-govt-in-contact-tracing/article32433766.ece
25 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Police sub-inspector held for abduction, robbery||The city market police on Monday arrested two persons, including a police sub-inspector (PSI), for allegedly robbing Rs. 26.5 lakh from the employee of a private firm last week. The victim, Shivakumar, had collected the cash at the behest of his employer and was walking towards Chikpet metro station when he was accosted by three men posing as police. Officer in uniform He was forced into a car on the pretext of an inquiry. While Shivakumar was being taken in the car, a police officer in uniform was escorting the car. After reaching an isolated place, the accused threatened Shivakumar and snatched the bag from him before letting him go. Shivakumar called his employer and narrated his ordeal before approaching the police. Journalist arrested Based on the complaint, the city market police tracked down the accused based on call record details and CCTV footage of the car. They arrested Jnana Prakash, 44, who claims to be a journalist with a local tabloid and member of a human rights organisation. Based on information given by him, the police arrested Police Sub-inspector Jeevan Kumar who took part in the robbery. Prakash told the police that he obtained information about Shivakumar carrying a huge amount of cash from a man named Kishore. Prakash shared the details with the PSI. The duo allegedly hatched a plan to steal the cash.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-sub-inspector-held-for-abduction-robbery/article32433751.ece
25 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Siddaramaiah comes out in support of Sonia||Former Chief Minister and Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah has urged Congress president Sonia Gandhi to continue in the post or convince her son and former party chief Rahul Gandhi to head the top post. Mr. Siddaramaiah tweeted “I am convinced that Gandhi family can lead the party to success.” In a letter to Ms. Gandhi on Monday, he said: “I humbly request you to continue as president of AICC, and if you feel that your health may not permit for full-fledged dedication, I urge you to convince Shri Rahul Gandhi to take up the position”. ‘Rejuvenate the party’ “I am confident that Shri@RahulGandhi, under the guidance of Smt. Sonia Gandhi & other senior leaders, will successfully lead the Indian National Congress party. Even our party workers feel the same,” Mr. Siddaramaiah tweeted. “We strongly feelShri@RahulGandhi should take charge as AICC president in the interest of our country. His leadership will rejuvenate Congress, energise party workers & reassure the people of our country,” he tweeted. Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar too favoured the continuation of Ms. Gandhi as president of the party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/siddaramaiah-comes-out-in-support-of-sonia/article32433774.ece
25 August 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Revision of voters’ list||On the directions of the District Election Officer, Bengaluru, the voters’ list revision is being taken up. A timeline has been fixed for the revision of the voters’ list. The final cut-off date is January 1. According to a press release from the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), citizens may use this opportunity to get their names added in the list, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/revision-of-voters-list/article32433759.ece
25 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||RTOs told to intensify drive against violators to meet ‘targets’||Traffic rule violators are going to be watched with a hawk’s eye in the coming days. The State government has asked Regional Transport Offices (RTOs) to take up enforcement drives and initiate action against motorists violating road safety rules. In a letter addressed to the RTOs and other officials concerned, Transport Commissioner N. Shivakumar said that in a review meeting held recently, the Chief Secretary expressed disappointment over poor enforcement activities. The letter also states that enforcement officials did not meet the targets fixed recently and they will be held responsible for any lapse. “Enforcement activities achieved a target of only 40.71%. In all the offices, enforcement activities shall be prioritised. Officials in charge of the respective offices will be made responsible for failing to meet the targets,” states the letter dated August 20. Mr. Shivakumar told The Hindu , “The letter was sent as the enforcement activities were not happening at the expected level. In the coming days, it has to be taken seriously. Every week, activities will be reviewed.” He said motorists will be booked for violations such as using mobile phones while driving or not wearing a helmet. During review meetings, instructions have been given at the government level to the police department also to intensify drives against traffic offenders. “Due to COVID-19, the number of vehicles plying on the roads is comparatively lower. This has resulted in speeding and other offences. In our division alone, through the contactless mode, up to 6,000 cases are registered every day. Traffic violation challans are directly sent to the home of vehicle owners,” said Sajeeth V.J., DCP Traffic (North).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rtos-told-to-intensify-drive-against-violators-to-meet-targets/article32433753.ece
25 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||No 14-day home quarantine for inter-State travellers||Inter-State travellers to Karnataka now do not have to undergo a 14-day home quarantine that was earlier mandatory in view of the COVID 19 pandemic. There will also be no medical check-up at the State border, bus stations, railway stations and airports, as guidelines for all types of inter-State passengers have been relaxed by the State government. In a circular on Monday, Additional Chief Secretary Jawaid Akhtar has said that travellers from other States will no longer have to register on the Seva Sindhu portal, be stamped on their hands, be divided into different categories of passengers, and screened at the receiving centres in the district. There is also no need for them to isolate or undergo testing, the circular stated. In addition, there will be no home quarantine poster on their door and the resident welfare associations or the apartment owners’ association do not have to enforce a home quarantine. The new guidelines came into force with immediate effect on Monday. The State government has “advised” asymptomatic passengers to self-monitor their health for 14 days, from the date of arrival, for any symptoms, such as cough, fever, difficulty in breathing or throat pain, and call the Apthamitra helpline [14410] if they need medical consultation. Such passengers can, however, report to work or perform any other activities. If the patients are symptomatic on arrival, they should self isolate and seek medical consultation on the Apthamitra helpline. “They shall observe standard COVID-19 precautions like compulsory wearing of masks, physical distancing of 2 metres [or 6 feet], frequent washing of hands with soap and water or sanitiser, following cough etiquette, etc. while in public areas and workplaces,” the circular stated. Mr. Akhtar has said that the District Health Authority or the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike  (BBMP) will plan campaigns for incoming travellers about the importance of self-reporting, self-isolation and undergoing a COVID-19 test for symptomatic persons. But the move has not gone down well with health experts and several citizens, as the number of cases in the State are on the rise. ‘Greater balance’ Vishal Rao U.S., Associate Dean at HCG Hospitals, said, “As a healthcare provider, I feel that there is a need to have a greater balance between reviving the economy and addressing the healthcare concerns. At a time when COVID-19 cases in the State are increasing and the healthcare systems are burdened, this may pose new challenges”. However, experts on the COVID-19 Task Force maintained that the decision on relaxations was taken after the Home Secretary on Saturday wrote to all Chief Secretaries that no restrictions should be imposed on the intra- and inter-State movement of people and goods.   Mr. Akhtar has said that the District Health Authority or the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike  (BBMP) will plan campaigns for incoming travellers about the importance of self-reporting, self-isolation and undergoing a COVID-19 test for symptomatic persons. But the move has not gone down well with health experts and several citizens, as the number of cases in the State are on the rise. Vishal Rao U.S., Associate Dean at HCG Hospitals, said, “As a healthcare provider, I feel that there is a need to have a greater balance between reviving the economy and addressing the healthcare concerns. At a time when COVID-19 cases in the State are increasing and the healthcare systems are burdened, this may pose new challenges”. However, experts on the COVID-19 Task Force maintained that the decision on relaxations was taken after the Home Secretary on Saturday wrote to all Chief Secretaries that no restrictions should be imposed on the intra- and inter-State movement of people and goods.  The District Health Authority or BBMP will plan campaigns for travellers about the importance of self-reporting, self-isolation. Jawaid Akhtar Additional Chief Secretary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-14-day-home-quarantine-for-inter-state-travellers-now/article32433742.ece
25 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CM praises Jarkiholi’s work||Minister for Major and Medium Irrigation Ramesh Jarkiholi came in for praise from Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa recently for his handling of the flood situation in North Karnataka. A note from the Minister’s office said Mr. Yediyurappa praised him during the release of Jalayagna, a booklet on the achievements of the department in the last year. The CM said this year no loss of life or damage to property as a consequence of the floods had been reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-praises-jarkiholis-work/article32433778.ece
25 August 2020||bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Complaints of unkept promise||Farmers’ leaders complained that the State government has not properly compensated those who lost crops last year. “Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa promised us that the State government would add to the compensation released as under NDRF and calamity relief norms. But he did not keep his word. We have got only the relief amount fixed as per the NDRF and calamity norms,” said Jayashree Gurannanavar, a Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha leader. According to her, the amount is small and does not help farmers recover their losses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/complaints-of-unkept-promise/article32433776.ece
25 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Speaker inspects arrangements||Legislative Assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri on Monday inspected the seating arrangements made for members inside the Assembly hall in the State secretariat. In the wake of COVID-19 and commencement of the legislature session from September 21, Mr. Kageri instructed the secretariat staff to make proper arrangements to prevent any inconvenience to members of the ruling and Opposition parties. Fibreglass sheets Sources said that fibreglass sheets would be installed between seats. Sources said separate guidelines would be issued for members, mediapersons and other staff for safeguarding their health during the session.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/speaker-inspects-arrangements/article32433768.ece
25 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State sees 5,851 new cases, 130 deaths||A total of 5,851 new positive COVID-19 cases were reported in Karnataka on Monday. The total number of positive cases in the State now stands at 2.83 lakh. As many as 130 deaths were reported, taking the total toll due to COVID-19 to 4,810. In addition to this, 19 patients who had tested positive died due to non-COVID reasons. According to the Department of Health and Family Welfare’s media bulletin, as many as 8,061 patients were discharged, taking the total number of patients discharged to 1.97 lakh. Of the total 81,211 active cases in the State, as many as 768 patients are admitted in ICUs across different hospitals. Of the 5,851 new cases in the State, as many as 1,918 positive cases were reported in Bengaluru Urban. The State capital also saw 2,034 patients discharged. On Monday, 39,817 tests were conducted – 11,586 were rapid antigen tests, and the remaining RTPCR and other tests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-sees-5851-new-cases-130-deaths/article32433775.ece
25 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||No leadership change in State, says Kateel||BJP State president Nalin Kumar Kateel, who completed a year in office on Monday, reaffirmed that B.S. Yediyurappa will continue as Chief Minister for the next three years and there was no thinking of leadership change in the party. He said the 2023 Assembly elections will be led by a collective leadership of both government [B.S. Yediyurappa] and the party [himself]. He was speaking to mediapersons at the BJP head office on Monday. This statement assumes significance in the wake of National General Secretary (organisation) B.L. Santosh’s visit to the city during which he held several parleys with the State unit of the party for three days. When quizzed about the impending Cabinet expansion and reshuffle, he refused to be dragged into it and said expansion was the domain of the Chief Minister and it was his prerogative. “He will take a call on when to carry out the exercise and its modalities,” he said. Denying any dissidence within the party against the incumbent Ministers, he said all Ministers have performed exceedingly well, especially given that they are working amidst crises — drought, floods of 2019, the pandemic, and again floods this year. Meanwhile, sources close to the Chief Minister said the Cabinet expansion and reshuffle had been put off till the Assembly session is over. “The exercise, when it is carried out, will leave some MLAs disappointed and hence, cannot be risked before an Assembly session,” a strategist close to the Chief Minister M said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-leadership-change-in-state-says-kateel/article32433772.ece
25 August 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Students stage protest against KSLU decision on examination||Taking exception to the decision of the Karnataka State Law University (KSLU) about conducting examination for intermediate and repeaters from October 5, scores of students under the aegis of National Students Union of India (NSUI) staged a protest in Hubballi on Monday. Staging the dharna on KSLU premises at Navanagar in Hubballi, the students and NSUI office-bearers urged the vice-chancellor of the law university to promote the students of KSLU without examination as per an earlier Government Order on promoting students of intermediate semesters. While Congress leaders Nagaraj Gouri, Deepa Gouri, Swati Malagi and others led the agitation, Vatal Nagaraj of Kannada Chaluvali Vatal Paksha, who was in Hubballi on Monday, also joined the agitation to express solidarity with the students. Speaking at the agitation, Mr. Nagaraj condemned the decision and said that he would stand by the students till their demand is fulfilled. Congress district unit general secretary Rajat Ullagaddimath said that the law university had failed to take the opinion of students before taking the decision. It had made the decision based on data provided by law colleges. He said that most of the students were from rural areas who did not have proper internet bandwidth and access. He said that the university’s decision to conduct the examination was in violation of the decision taken by the State government on promoting all students of intermediate semesters pursuing various degree courses. The protestors later submitted a memorandum urging the vice-chancellor to reconsider the decision on holding examination for intermediate students. In the memorandum, they have mentioned that students of the university came from across the State and also from neighbouring States and they would be incovenienced as inter-State public transport still remains mostly suspended. Most of the students who had returned home in a hurry did not have study material to prepare for the examination and private hostels and paying guest facilities were not available yet. Such being the case, asking intermediate students to appear for the examination would be nothing but injustice, they have said in the memorandum. Meanwhile, through a press release, Vice-Chancellor P. Eshwara Bhat has clarified that KSLU came under the Bar Council of India which had asked the university to conduct the examination for intermediate semesters too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/students-stage-protest-against-kslu-decision-on-examination/article32433961.ece
25 August 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Neersagar to be developed into a tourist place soon||Minister for Large and Medium Scale Industry and Dharwad district in-charge Jagadish Shettar has said that plans were afoot to transform Neersagar Reservoir, which supplies drinking water to Hubballi, into a tourist place in the coming days. Offering “bagina” to Neersagar Reservoir at Dummawad village in Kalghatgi taluk of Dharwad district on Monday, Mr. Shettar said that plans had also been drawn up to supply drinking water to 12 villages around the reservoir. The Neersagar Reservoir built in 1955 in an area of 1,087 acres has a total usable capacity of 0.924 tmc ft of water. It is overflowing now due to incessant rainfall. At present, the reservoir has 1,021 mcft (million cubic feet) of water and net utilisation is 647 mcft. The reservoir supplies water to Tarihal, Gokul village, Hosur, Anand Nagar, Heggeri, Siddaroodh Mutt, areas around Karwar Road, Gudihal, Ayodhya Nagar, S.M. Krishna Nagar, Noorani Plot and other areas in Hubballi. The water from the reservoir is taken to the pumphouse and then, nearly 40 MLD (million gallons per day) pumped to the purification unit at Kanavi Honnapur. Mr. Shettar spoke to the officials on the situation of water supply in the twin cities and asked them to draw up a comprehensive development plan. He was accompanied by Members of Legislative Assembly Arvind Bellad, Shankar Patil Munenakoppa, Prasad Abbayya and Deputy Commissioner Nitesh Patil and others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/neersagar-to-be-developed-into-a-tourist-place-soon/article32433963.ece
25 August 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Cattle killed as car rams bullock cart||Two head of cattle were killed on the spot after a car rammed a bullock cart near Kodli village in Kalgi taluk of Kalaburagi district at noon on Monday. The accident occurred when the owner of the cattle Thammanna Pujari was heading towards his agricultural field on the bullock cart. The car was on its way to Sulepeth village from Kalaburagi. Three persons in the car suffered injuries. Ratkal Police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cattle-killed-as-car-rams-bullock-cart/article32433959.ece
25 August 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||CID will probe into ‘unnatural death’ of woman: Bommai||Minister for Home and Udupi district in-charge Basavaraj Bommai said on Monday that the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) will probe into the “unnatural death” of a 26-year-old woman Raksha under mysterious circumstances in Udupi on August 21. At the same time, Mr. Bommai also asked Udupi Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha to constitute a district medical board to look into whether there was any medical negligence by doctors at a private hospital where the woman had been taken first for treatment. The board should be constituted as per Supreme Court guidelines, Mr. Bommai said. The Minister gave the directions at a video conference he held with Udupi MLA K. Raghupati Bhat, Superintendent of Police N. Vishnuvardhan and Additional Deputy Commissioner B. Sadashiva Prabhu. Quoting the family members of the deceased woman as saying, Mr. Bhat told Mr. Bommai that she was first taken to the private hospital at about 6 a.m. following illness. The doctors there had given her an injection stating that she would be alright after three hours. Later, she was taken home where she is said to have breathed her last. Immediately, she was taken to another private hospital which declared her as brought dead. There was a public outcry following her death. Hence, there was a need for a CID probe. Mr. Bommai said that the CID probe will cover those aspects related to allegations made by the parents of the woman, circumstances under which she was taken from her husband’s house to hospital and back home and why she was taken to another hospital (the second one) and the like. The district medical board will look into those aspects related to medical negligence, if any.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cid-will-probe-into-unnatural-death-of-woman-bommai/article32433966.ece
25 August 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Boat capsizes mid-sea||A deep sea fishing boat that left Malpe Fishing Harbour early in the morning on Monday capsized in the Arabian Sea some time later. However, seven fishermen onboard the boat swam to safety. According to reports reaching here, the boat owned by Girish Suvarna of Udyavara near Udupi left the harbour at around 3.30 a.m. Seven workers, all natives of Tamil Naidu, were onboard the boat. After sailing for about 3 nautical miles, the boat reportedly hit a rock and capsized. The fishermen, however, swam to safety. They were rescued by fishermen in other fishing boats. The boat owner is said to have suffered a loss of over Rs. 80 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/boat-capsizes-mid-sea/article32433965.ece
25 August 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Shirva priest death probe goes to CID||The State government has handed over the investigation into the death of Mahesh D’Souza, the Assistant Parish Priest of Our Lady of Health Church, Shirva, in Udupi district, to the Criminal Investigation Department (CID). The Home Department recently passed the order handing over the probe to the CID following persistent demand from hundreds of parishioners. D’Souza was found dead in the office of Don Bosco School, of which he was the principal, around 9 p.m. on October 11, 2019. Udupi Additional Superintendent of Police Kumarachandra confirmed having received the order. He said the probe was yet to be handed over as officials from the CID were yet to arrive. D’Souza, 36, was appointed at the church in 2016 and also made principal. From Moodubelle in Udupi district, he was ordained in 2013. While the Udupi police said there was no foul play in the death of the priest, parishioners claimed that D’Souza was forced to take the extreme step by some vested interests. They held several protests demanding a CBI probe into the death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shirva-priest-death-probe-goes-to-cid/article32433781.ece
25 August 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Koyyur chosen for award||Yakub Koyyur, a high school teacher from Dakshina Kannada who is the first to set up a laboratory for mathematics in any government school in the State, has been selected for this year’s national award for teachers. He is among 47 teachers selected in the country for the award by the Union Ministry of Education. Earlier, the State government had presented him with the Best Teacher Award for 2018-19. Mr. Koyyur, who teaches mathematics at a government high school in Nada village, Belthangady taluk, in the district, is among three teachers from the State who have been selected for the award.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/koyyur-chosen-for-award/article32433968.ece
25 August 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Wenlock to get new equipment||Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra has said that the district administration has taken steps to install an Apheresis machine and other testing equipment at the Government Wenlock Hosptial’s Regional Blood Transfusion Centre here. “We have submitted a proposal to the government. We are hopeful of starting plasma therapy in a month after getting necessary clearance,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/wenlock-to-get-new-equipment/article32433955.ece
25 August 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Govt. doctors, staff resume work||In a major relief, the government doctors and other healthcare staff resumed COVID-19 testing across Mysuru district on Monday after a four-day breakdown in the wake of their strike over the death of Nanjangud in-charge Taluk Health Officer (THO) S.R. Nagendra. The resumption of COVID-19 duties by doctors and supporting staff who reported to work came as a breather as Mysuru is one of the high-risk districts with a high rate of infection and deaths. There was no update on the COVID-19 cases, discharges and deaths since Thursday following the doctors’ strike, which was called off on Sunday after the government’s assurances. A senior Health Department official said: “The tests have restarted since Monday morning and doctors, healthcare personnel and lab technicians have resumed their respective duties.” The strike had brought testing by the Department of Health and Family Welfare (DoHFW) to a grinding halt. Though the tests (RT-PCR) under the Department of Medical Education went on as usual, the results had to be compiled and sent to the State authorities by the DoHFW staff who struck work halting the coordination. The strike had been conditionally withdrawn by the Karnataka Government Medical Officers’ Association (KGMOA) and doctors on duty wore black armbands as a mark of protest till the inquiry report into the death was submitted. While welcoming the transfer of Mysuru ZP CEO Prashanth Kumar Mishra, doctors had urged the government to fill up the vacant posts in the DoHFW as the shortage of staff was taking a toll on them and appoint medical officers, who had been fighting the pandemic since over five months, as COVID-19 nodal officers. Tests take off The Rapid Antigen Tests, which had been severely hit, resumed at two places in Mysuru city and also in some towns as the health personnel resumed collection of swab samples from the public. Over 300 swab samples were collected at the Town Hall here for the test. The rush for giving swab samples was more after a four-day disruption. COVID-19 testing also began at a school in N.R. Mohalla. PDOs protest  Meanwhile, the Panchayat Development Officers (PDOs) of Mysuru district staged a demonstration in Mysuru on Monday demanding the withdrawal of ZP CEO’s transfer. They urged the government to put the transfer on hold until the probe report was submitted. The PDOs also urged for a fair probe into the health official’s death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-doctors-staff-resume-work/article32433758.ece
25 August 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Track doubling work to progress on priority mode||Track doubling work along different stretches of the Bengaluru-Hubballi section is set for completion by March 2021 and will ease the traffic bottleneck considerably to pave the way for reduction in the running time of trains. This includes the completion of pending 31 km of doubling work on the Arsikere-Tumakuru section, 10 km stretch on Tolahunse and Harihar section, and 31 km between Harihar and Devaragudda. The Arsikere-Tumakuru section has a route length of 96 km and has been taken up at a cost of nearly Rs. 547 crore, of which work on 65 km has been completed and the track, commissioned for traffic. The doubling of the remaining 31 km is to be completed by March, say Railways officials. Pandemic impact The work being labour intensive, has been affected by the pandemic, according to the officials who said that post-monsoon, the project will be on a priority mode and the actual physical progress is likely to commence from September. Located on the main Bengaluru-Hubballi line – an important trunk route of the State – the doubling of the entire Arsikere-Tumakuru section will pave the way for a reduction in running time and will result in greater punctuality of trains operating on the section. At present, it is common for long-distance trains to get delayed waiting for signals at rail crossings. As the single line is already saturated, there is a limitation on the introduction of new trains and hence the imperatives of doubling the section. The issue pertaining to important track doubling works in the State came up during a recent virtual conference held by the Mysuru division of South Western Railways in which officials said that the target date of commissioning (TDC) of the Ariskere-Tumakuru section is March 2021. The Tumakuru-Ariskere stretch is spread over both Mysuru and Bengaluru railway divisions and the project and deadline also include completion of the yard re-modelling at Ammasandra. Officials said transportation of rails, sleepers and other materials were under way to expedite the works at Ammasandra and an important manned gate will also be eliminated as part of the project.  Another stretch Senior officials in the South Western Railway said another stretch of 190 km between Chikjajur and Hubballi was also crucial to reduce the running time from Bengaluru to Hubballi and the TDC for commissioning it is November 2021. “There are multiple benefits of the current project and not only will the running time be reduced but the line capacity to handle more traffic will increase. This will enable introduction of additional trains and improve connectivity to central and north Karnataka regions,” said a senior railway engineer associated with the project. Apart from reduction of running time, the completion of the project will give a thrust to freight traffic and turnover, the officials added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/track-doubling-work-to-progress-on-priority-mode/article32433782.ece
25 August 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||MLA questions spending Rs. 13 lakh on ‘bagina’||Ravindra Srikantaiah, Srirangapatna MLA, has questioned the Mandya district administration’s wisdom of spending Rs. 13 lakh on the ‘bagina’ programme at KRS reservoir attended by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa last Friday. “What was the need for spending such an amount for making arrangements for ‘bagina’ at a time when people are suffering due to the pandemic and the consequences arising out of it?”, questioned Mr. Srikantaiah, an MLA belonging to the JD(S). He also expressed surprise over the district administration incurring such a huge amount for putting up festoons of mango leaves and other cultural decorations. Though KRS reservoir falls in Srirangapanta Assembly constituency, Mr. Srikantaiah said Deputy Commissioner M.V. Venkatesh did not bother to consult him on the arrangements for the occasion. “The local zilla panchayat members and taluk panchayat members had not been invited for the event while BJP workers had been given entry passes to KRS liberally,” he said. Also, reporters from Mandya were disallowed entry into the venue for the programme and were kept waiting at the entrance for a long time. By the time they were let in, the programme had concluded,” he said. Meanwhile, farmers organisations including Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha, Hasiru Sene and some Dalit organisations had also criticised the government’s decision to offer ‘bagina’ at KRS and Kabini reservoirs at a time when people of the State were reeling under the impact of COVID-19, floods, and crop loss. When the programme was announced, KRRS leader Badagalapura Nagendra had said that there is little meaning in offering ‘bagina’ when people were suffering.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mla-questions-spending-rs-13-lakh-on-bagina/article32433764.ece
25 August 2020||August 25 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Unable to pay EMI or taxes, taxi owners selling vehicles||Manjunath, a resident of Laggere, bought a car two years ago and tied up with an aggregator. All was well until the COVID-19 outbreak. “I pay an EMI close to Rs. 15,000. Since April, there have been no earnings. In addition, fuel prices have increased and maintenance of the vehicle is not easy. To lessen the financial burden, I have no option but to sell the vehicle. For six years, I depended on the taxi business to look after my family, but now I have to look for some other profession,” he said. Unable to bear the financial distress induced by the pandemic, many taxi owners in the city are selling their vehicles. They say after the outbreak of COVID-19, their earnings have dropped drastically, and the majority of the taxis, including those catering to tourists and corporate bodies, remained off the road for months. Taxi owners allege that both the State and Central governments have not come to their aid. Major demands, such as waiver of road tax by the State Transport Department, waiving of interest on EMI and extending loan moratorium, remain unfulfilled. Radhakrishna Holla, president, Karnataka State Travel Operators Association, said, “Despite knowing the suffering of taxi owners and drivers, authorities concerned are not coming to our aid. We are not in a position to take out the vehicles without any bookings. How can the owners pay the EMI and taxes without any income? Fleet operators too are selling their vehicles to lessen the financial burden.” Owners say people in neighbouring States, such as Andhra Pradesh, are buying the cars. After buying, some use them for their personal needs after paying tax in their respective States. “Though the nationwide lockdown was imposed in the last week of March, the transport sector felt the heat of the pandemic much before that. Movement of international passengers, especially in the corporate sector, and tourists had come down in January. We see no hope in revival of business in the near future. Those who were operating taxis for the corporate sector are also suffering huge losses as companies have asked their employees to work from home,” said Mr. Holla. Somashekar K., president of Namma Chalakara Trade Union, said, “For a taxi that has more seating capacity, one needs to pay Rs. 5,000 as tax per quarter. There are other expenses too. For how long can one park a vehicle? It is nothing but a dead investment. Many owners also fear depreciation in value of the vehicle if it remains idle for months. The State government miserably failed in attending to the grievances of owners and drivers. The promises to pay compensation to drivers are futile as thousands of applicants have not received the amount even after several months.” Mr. Somshekar said that owners are using online modes, including social media, to sell their vehicles. “The number of people posting messages on model, year of purchase and price to sell vehicles has increased in the last couple of weeks,” he added. Compensation Transport Commissioner N. Shivakumar told The Hindu that a proposal has been sent to the State government to defer payment of road tax till September. On drivers not receiving compensation, he said, “Among the applicants, 1.2 lakh have already received the amount. For 80,000 applicants, we have sent the bills to the treasury to make the deposit. Around 25,000 applicants have not linked their Aadhaar number with the bank account. We have sent out an SMS to their mobile number to link the bank account for receiving the compensation.” The department had received 2.45 applications seeking compensation. The State government had estimated that more than seven lakh drivers would seek compensation, but due to tough riders, many drivers could not apply.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/unable-to-pay-emi-or-taxes-taxi-owners-selling-vehicles/article32433755.ece
25 August 2020||August 25 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||K.R. Market to open on September 1||K.R. Market and the adjoining Kalasipalyam market will reopen for business on September 1. The announcement on Monday by the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) came on a day which saw a delegation of farmers and traders taking out a protest march demanding their reopening. Civic Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad assured the delegation that the markets will reopen in September. The markets have mostly been closed since March 24 when the lockdown was imposed in the State due to COVID-19. Though the markets opened for nearly two weeks in June, they were shut down after several COVID-19 cases were reported. “We will take all precautionary measures and reopen the markets. I have asked officials to carry out a sanitisation exercise in the next two days. We will also mark spots for customers to stand in queues following social distancing. We will deploy marshals to enforce social distancing and other safety measures, like wearing masks and using sanitisers,” Mr. Prasad told The Hindu . Kodihalli Chandrashekhar, president, Karnataka Rajya Raita Sangha, who led the protest on Monday, said the closure of K.R. Market and Kalasipalyam market had adversely impacted farmers from around the city growing vegetables and fruits. “They are not getting a competitive price for their produce. The government has shifted the market to Huskur Gate, beyond Electronics City, to where most farmers are not going, due to the additional transport cost involved. In the absence of an organised market, farmers are unable to get good prices," he said. The traders at these markets are also an aggrieved lot. R.V. Gopi, president, Kalasipalyam Vegetables and Fruits Wholesale Traders Association, said though the State government provided an alternative venue at Huskur Gate, there is no infrastructure at the site. “The site is an open field, which has become muddy. It is not possible to do business after a rain. Moreover, the shifting of the market did not protect us from COVID-19. Seven of those working in the market, including traders died of COVID-19. While all businesses are being opened up, we are also asking for the market to be opened up with all precautions,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kr-market-to-open-on-september-1/article32433750.ece
25 August 2020||August 25 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Nine held for performing wheelies on ring road||In a special drive, K.R. Puram traffic police arrested nine persons for allegedly performing wheelies on the ring road and endangering the lives of other motorists on Sunday. A team led by Inspector M.A. Mohammed caught the accused who were doing stunts on the road. One of the accused, Sunil, claimed to be the secretary of actor Yash’s fans’ association in Hosakote. He had modified his bike to look like the bike used in the movie KGF . He told the police that he was planning to gift the bike to his favourite actor. The bikes have been seized. The accused have been booked under various sections of the Motor Vehicle Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nine-held-for-performing-wheelies-on-ring-road/article32433752.ece
25 August 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||60 positive cases, 153 recoveries in Alappuzha||The district reported 60 COVID-19 cases and 150 recoveries on Monday. Of the fresh cases, 54 people contracted the disease through local transmission. Four who came from other States, one health worker, and a Krishnapuram native was also diagnosed with the disease. The Krishnapuram native’s source of infection is untraceable. Among the 54 contact cases, 27 were reported from Punnapra south. Rest of the contact cases include three each from Cheruthana and Karuvatta, two cases each from Nedumudi, Haripad, Cheriyanad and Pallippuram and one case each from Kadakarappally, Alappuzha, Ambalappuzha, Thrikkunnappuzha, Kayamkulam, Mannancherry, Muhamma, Edathua, Thottappally, Muthukulam, Thiruvanvandoor, Veeyapuram and Kuppapuram. A 230-bed COVID-19 first-line treatment centre (FLTC) has been made ready in Punnapra north grama panchayat. The facility set up at the Girls Hostel of the College of Engineering and Management was inaugurated by panchayat president Suvarna Prathapan. District Collector A. Alexander issued an order allowing fishermen to go to sea for fishing from the Valiyazheekkal fish landing centre. Fishing is allowed between 6 a.m. and 12 p.m. Sale of fish is permitted between 6 a.m. and 2 p.m. Containment zones Parts of ward 18 in Mararikulam north grama panchayat in Alappuzha were declared as containment zones. The number of active COVID-19 cases stands at 1,924.  The number of active COVID-19 cases in the district stands at 1,924||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/60-positive-cases-153-recoveries-in-alappuzha/article32434161.ece
25 August 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Move to demolish school draws flak||The 130-year-old Nileshwaram GLP School building will soon become part of history after it is bulldozed and replaced with a new structure. While the development of the school and the need for creation of new facilities for students have been cited as the reason for the demolition, organisations such as Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH), which is spearheading heritage awareness and conservation in India, have strongly come out against the government’s move. The school, constructed by the Basel Evangelical Mission in 1888-89, has been given permission to demolish the building and to construct a two-floor structure with 14 classrooms, lab, library, and other facilities. For this, Rs. 2.85 crore was sanctioned two years ago following the intervention of A. Rajagopalan, MLA. However, V. Jayaraj, convenor, INTACH, said that the State government had the responsibility to safeguard such an old structure under it. The conservation of the building was of immense importance and its legacy should be passed on to the next generation. This was possible only if the structure was maintained intact. Instead of preserving history, there was an effort to destroy it in the name of development, he said. Explaining its importance, Mr. Jayaraj said that it was the first school in Nileswaram. It had admitted children from the royal family as well as those from Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. At a time when caste discrimination was widely prevalent, the school had the distinction of educating children of all castes. The children of workers, who were employed at the tile factory, were the majority of students in the school. Dr. N. Ganesh Pai, who was closely associated with Mahatma Gandhi, actor Kavya Madhavan, and many other prominent persons had studied here, Mr. Jayaraj said. M. Balakrishnan Nair, who has written the history of the school and retired from here as a teacher, said that the school should not be demolished. It had historical importance and stood as a monument of change that it brought to society. When education was imparted to only the elite and upper castes and even the British rulers did little for the uplift of people from a the poor, lower and backward classes, the school started by the missionaries became a gateway for change in society, he said. It should be protected at all costs and a separate place should be identified to start a school with a modern facility. K.P. Jayarajan, Chairman, Neeleswaram Municipality said the local body had identified and offered 50 cents of land with the intention to protect the building. However, the decision to demolish the building and construct a new one had been taken by the Parent-Teacher Association, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/move-to-demolish-school-draws-flak/article32434038.ece
25 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Champakkara wholesale market reopens amid curbs||The Champakkara wholesale fish market and the Aluva retail market for vegetables and fish reopened on Monday with instructions in place from the Kochi Corporation and the Aluva municipal authorities to adhere to physical distancing norms and the COVID-19 protocol. Corporation councillor and Champakkara Market Samrakshana Samithi head V.P. Chandran said the maket reopened at about 2 a.m. on Monday with strict vigil. He said the police and health authorities were present to monitor the situation and issue instructions. People are being allowed into the market with tokens issued by the security personnel posted at the entry. There is one entry and one exit point. “We will take stock of the situation as the market days open and close,” he said. Nazeer Babu, a merchant, said the Aluva market reopened for retail sale of vegetables on Monday without any hassles. The retail market was closed last week after the authorities feared that the spread of COVID-19 would be severe if sales continued without any restrictions. The wholesale market was open between 6 a.m. and 10 a.m. while the retail shops opened between 10 a.m. and 5 p.m., he said. Both the Champakkara fish market as well as the Aluva market for fish and vegetables are two of the busiest in Kerala and cater to most of the rural areas surrounding the city of Kochi. While Champakkara is a source of fish supplies to the eastern areas of Kochi, including some towns in Idukki district, the Aluva market supplies to areas bordering Thrissur. The Champakkara market was closed on June 4 following a decision by the Kochi Corporation. More than a dozen people were arrested for not wearing masks in the market as authorities decided to close down operations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/champakkara-wholesale-market-reopens-amid-curbs/article32434061.ece
25 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Opening of flyovers only in October||The six-lane flyovers at Vyttila and Kundannoor are unlikely to meet the revised deadline of September 30, since applying mastic asphalt over their surface needs at least a fortnight’s dry spell, sources associated with their construction said. PWD Secretary Dinesh Arora said that officials and contractors were issued the revised deadline of September 30 over a month ago in order to throw open the two structures at the earliest. As per the initial schedule of the PWD (NH wing), the Vyttila flyover was to be opened to traffic in May 2019 and the Kundannoor flyover in March 2020. While a slew of factors, including delay in obtaining funds and the COVID-19 lockdown delayed construction of the Vyttila structure, redesign of the Aroor side approach road, the lockdown and non-availability of adequate number of workers affected the progress of the Kundannoor flyover, sources said. The approaches to the two flyovers will be paved using bituminous macadam bituminous concrete (BMBC), while mastic asphalt will be applied over the concrete surface. Unlike BMBC, applying mastic asphalt is very labour-intensive. Moreover, any rain will wash away the entire work done. Furthermore, bitumen has to be heated at 200 degree centigrade and the material will burst if there is rainfall, endangering the safety of workers. The PWD decided to do mastic asphalt coating over the concrete to ensure longevity of the tarred surface, officials said. Tarring In Vyttila, work on the Aroor side is more or less over. “We hope to complete filling the approach portion on the Palarivattom side this week. Tarring will follow. The flyover will, in all probability, be ready in October, if rain does not play spoilsport. As for service roads, tile paving on the service road on the Thripunithura side is over, while dense bituminous macadam (DBM) work is under way on the western side,” they said. In Kundannoor, tarring of the approach portions will be ready this week, while painting of a pair of spans and crash barrier will follow suit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/opening-of-flyovers-only-in-october/article32434058.ece
25 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||New method devised to classify containment zones||COVID-19 containment zones in the district will be decided based on the number of new patients outside the list of primary contacts of the first patient in the zone. A review meeting presided over by District Collector S. Suhas decided that a week into a place being classified as a containment zone, there would be a review and if there emerged a new patient outside the primary contact list of patients from the area, it would continue to be a hotspot. The area would be taken out of the list otherwise, said a communication. A total of 165 persons were confirmed to have contracted COVID-19 in the district on Monday, 160 of them acquiring the infection through local transmission, while 143 patients recovered. The district till Monday had 15,954 persons under surveillance and 171 of them were in COVID-19 care centres. New admissions to the treatment centres and hospitals were 257 on Monday, while 180 people were discharged. The district had 1,887 confirmed patients undergoing treatment. As many as 1,249 samples were collected for testing from the district on Monday. Training in infection control and use of personal protective equipment was given to lab technicians, staff nurses, and cleaning staff designated to PVS Hospital, which was converted into a COVID-19 hospital over the past few months. List of contacts COVID-19 positive cases without known source of infection would now have a list of their primary contacts prepared by the medical officer with the support of Station House Officer of the area. The list would then be submitted to the district authority. A 14-day quarantine would be mandatory for everyone on the primary contact list besides their family members. Posters would be pasted in front of houses of people in quarantine with their permission, the review meeting decided.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-method-devised-to-classify-containment-zones/article32434063.ece
25 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Corpn. flayed over failure in services||Quoting the findings of the Kerala Local Fund Audit on the functioning of the Kochi Corporation and some of the services offered by it, the Opposition councillors criticised the civic administration for failing to deliver even the essential services to the city residents. The auditors had pointed out that there had been an inordinate delay in providing information to applicants under the Right to Information Act despite the local body having around 35 officials to handle the applications, said LDF leaders K. J. Antony and V. P. Chandran. As the local body failed to provide the required replies in a time-bound manner, the applicants were forced to file appeals. As many as 264 appeals were filed in 1,405 applicants during the audit period. There had not been any effective system for deciding on the applications, they said. Though the local body was bound to offer services to the general public in a time-bound manner as mandated by laws and the Kerala Right to Services Act, the city residents had to wait for days together even for obtaining certificates and services, they alleged. The auditors had pointed out that the local body had not taken any steps for the implementation of the Kerala Right to Services Act, they alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corpn-flayed-over-failure-in-services/article32434064.ece
25 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Recipes to tackle tough times||Whoever said tough times never last but tough people do, will be proud of the label ‘Golden’ on the packet of biriyani they bought for lunch on a rainy day during the COVID-19 pandemic in the historic town of North Paravur near Kochi. “Golden Biriyani is our way of saying every artiste will live. A life of dignity is their right,” says Mani Mayampilly, award-winning stage artiste with 30 years experience behind him. The stage is his life. But the pandemic changed all that. But he is ready to adapt. His skills are obvious. He merges easily into the near-silent streets, as people in masks say hello and place orders for the biryani he sells from a wayside kiosk along with his friends Subbayan Paravur and Abheesh Anthony. The three friends are popular artistes in their own right. But the pandemic threw them, like thousands of others like them, into the streets, as theatres closed and cinema halls fell silent. Mani recalls that he was nearly driven out of his rented home by the landlord after five months of unemployment. But he has kept himself afloat with the support of helpful people like Jose Padayatti, Golden Palace Saji and his wife Stella, who provided the three friends with the initial capital to launch their biriyani outlet. “The response to our business has been good. We get a little extra mileage because a lot of people know us already as artistes,” Mani says. K.A. Sidheeque sells raw, husked coconuts in Perumbavoor. He is an artiste with the All India Radio (AIR) and performed for the AIR station in Thrissur and FM station in Kakkanad, Kochi. While traditional Mappila songs have been his forte, he is not ready to hide his success in the new arena. “It is not too bad. Neither is it too good,” he says. He says during his best days as an AIR artiste, he used to double up as a seller of books to meet expenses. But nothing can suppress his industry. Sidheeque says the little orchestra he formed had presented Mappila songs at Muslim marriages before the COVID-19 crisis. The orchestra had been idle during the lockdown, but he has, in the meantime, got active on a YouTube channel with. For Ginju Vivek, formerly a make-up artist in the film industry, the pandemic has been a time that tested her ability to adapt. With normal work drying up, she put to test her talents as a chef and came up with a biryani recipe that has turned out to be popular in Kochi. She gets most of her orders via Internet, and ‘Ginjus Adukkala’ is growing in stature with good response all around.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/recipes-to-tackle-tough-times/article32434055.ece
25 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Govt. appeals in HC on building permit NOCs||The State government on Monday filed an appeal before a Division Bench of the High Court against a single judge’s directive to extend to the whole State the requirement of obtaining no-objection certificates (NOC) from the Revenue Department by owners of assigned land before approving building permits in the Munnar. The government pointed out that taking note of the environmental issues in Munnar , the High Court had issued the directive on the no-objection certificate. Later, the Idukki district administration made certificate from village officers that shows the purposes of assignment as a condition for building permits. The single judge ordered that it be extended to the entire State. The government said blanket restrictions on assigned land would be bad. Besides, High Court could not issue directive to enact or amend legislation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-appeals-in-hc-on-building-permit-nocs/article32434087.ece
25 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Plate-cutting ceremony of Water Metro ferry held||The plate-cutting ceremony of Kochi Water Metro’s first hybrid electric ferry that will have the capacity to seat 100 passengers was held at the Cochin Shipyard on Monday. It will be the first of the 23 ferries for which Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) had placed orders for, under the Rs. 747-crore Water Metro project. The second lot of 55 ferries will be rolled out in the second phase. All the 78 vessels will operate in the Greater Kochi area, linking 38 terminals. The first to be readied will be the Vyttila-Kakkanad route, where construction of terminals is under way. The plate-cutting for the aluminium hull of the ferry was attended by CSL Chairman and Managing Director Madhu S. Nair and KMRL Managing Director Alkesh Kumar Sharma.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plate-cutting-ceremony-of-water-metro-ferry-held/article32434056.ece
25 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Three charged with rape of minor||Three youths hailing from Uttar Pradesh were arrested on Monday on the charge of threatening and sexually abusing a 14-year-old girl repeatedly since March. The accused are Shahid, 24, of Hanupura; Farhad Khan, 29, and Hannef, 28, both from Rampur. They were remanded in judicial custody. The police have launched a hunt to trace three of their accomplices who had returned to their home States. The Eloor police said charges of gang rape, rape and provisions of the POSCO Act were invoked against the three. Five of the gang sexually assaulted the girl at a house at Manjummel many times since March and later at Edappally and Kunnumpuram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-charged-with-rape-of-minor/article32434059.ece
25 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Periye killings: parents seek shift to new Bench||Following the delay in pronouncing a judgment reserved by a Division Bench of the High Court on an appeal by the State government in the Periye twin murder case, the parents of the murdered Youth Congress leaders on Monday filed a petition seeking to transfer the appeal to another Bench for fresh hearing. The government appeal was filed against a single judge’s order directing a CBI probe into the killing of Kripesh and Sarath Lal in Periye, Kasaragod on February 17, 2019. It has been nine months and eight days since a Division Bench of Chief Justice S. Manikumar and Justice C.T. Ravikumar had reserved its verdict after conclusion of the arguments on the appeal of the government, the parents said in their petition. The single judge while ordering a CBI probe had observed that the investigating officer filed the charge-sheet blindly, without conducting a proper probe. The Division Bench on Monday evening scheduled the pronouncement of the verdict on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/periye-killings-parents-seek-shift-to-new-bench/article32434086.ece
25 August 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||New 112 cases in Kollam, 53 people recover||The district reported 112 new cases of COVID-19 and 53 recoveries on Monday. While 94 patients contracted the virus through contact, seven persons are from abroad, and 11 others had travelled from various States. The Health Department also confirmed that the death of a 74-year-old Pathanapuram resident and 50-year-old Kuttichira resident are due to COVID-19. They had died on August 19 and 22 respectively. Kollam district currently has 9,195 persons under observation. The total number of samples collected from the district is 41,199. While 312 persons completed home quarantine on Monday, the Health Department has traced 12,816 primary and 4,136 secondary contacts of the fresh cases. Active cases At present, the district has 957 active cases and seven COVID-19 first-line treatment centres (FLTCs) are functioning in Kollam.  Health Department has traced 12,816 primary and 4,136 secondary contacts of the fresh cases||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-112-cases-in-kollam-53-people-recover/article32434166.ece
25 August 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||KMML to extend organic farming to 50 more acres||Kerala Minerals and Metals Ltd. (KMML) will extend organic farming to 50 more acres of land as part of efforts to achieve self-sufficiency in food production. Thalir, a project launched in connection with Subhiksha Keralam, the State’s comprehensive food security programme, will have a range of crops, along with a Miyawaki fruit garden. The KMML had started integrated paddy farming on 7.5 acres of fallow land earlier. ‘Onam’ to be cultivated While string beans, okra, tomato, chilli, eggplant, spinach and ivy gourd are among the vegetables that will be cultivated, Onam, a seed variety developed by the Onattukara Regional Agricultural Research Station, will be used for paddy farming. The Miyawaki forest has been conceived as a project to lower carbon emissions and reduce pollution. The KMML has opted for a Miyawaki forest full of fruit-bearing trees, and according to officials it serves the purpose along with ensuring an income. Pest control Only organic methods are used in the farms and agro-ecological engineering has been adopted as a method for pest control. Hybrid marigold plants have been used as a trap crop around the paddy farm to protect them from pests. Aquaculture is also part of Thalir and at present the KMML has opted for some widely farmed varieties, including nutter and Genetically Improved Farmed Tilapia (GIFT).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kmml-to-extend-organic-farming-to-50-more-acres/article32434159.ece
25 August 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||A teamwork that stopped a deluge||Earlier this month, when the district received unprecedented rains, the Meenachil witnessed yet another flood with its water level peaking at 14.53 meters. From the Wagamon valleys to Kumarakom, water ran over the human settlements and farmlands, triggering a race against time to rescue lives and property. As per estimates, the region had received a rainfall that was more than 24% higher than the average rainfall for the past three years. But just three days later, it was a scene much different from the previous monsoons that welcomed the authorities. The floodwater that used to inundate the low-lying areas for weeks on end had mostly retreated and people quickly returned to their homes. This was possible largely due to the Meenchilar-Meenantharayaar-Kodooraar River Linking Programme, a government-people initiative that came into being exactly three years ago this month. Through an aggregation of interminable activities, they have gradually restored the huge web of water bodies that run across Kottayam to make it a flood-less zone. “We have revived 283 small and major streams having a total length of 1,500 kilometers, which expedited draining of the excess water to the Vembanad within 36 to 72 hours. Though water level in Meenachil crossed the previous peak recorded during the mega floods in 2018, the level of water in Kumarakom, which is the low-lying end, stood less than 2.75 ft compared to the same year,” explained K. Anilkumar, coordinator, river re-linking programme. Fewer people affected While the floods in 2018 had forced out hundreds of people from their homes in Kumarakom, much smaller number of families had to be shifted to the relief camp this time, he added. As the collective set to celebrate its third anniversary on August 28, plans are now afoot to expand paddy cultivation to 7,000 acres from the present 4,550 acres through restoration of fallow lands. Further, the scope of flood-less Kottayam will be expanded to include the first order streams. Having restored a major part of the water network in the downstream of the Meenachil, the initiative has also set its eyes on rediscovering the Pazhukanila backwaters where the Kodoor and Meenachil rivers converge with the Vembanad lake.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-teamwork-that-stopped-a-deluge/article32434163.ece
25 August 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||89 fresh cases in Kottayam||As many as 89 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kottayam on Monday. Of the fresh cases, 86 persons contracted the virus through local transmission while the remaining cases came from outside the State. Kottayam municipality continued to lead the tally with 16 cases, followed by Vaikom municipality with 11 cases. Kangazha panchayat reported seven cases while Vijayapuram witnessed six fresh cases. Meanwhile, 63 persons recovered from the disease during the day. The number of active cases in Kottayam currently stands at 1,051.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/89-fresh-cases-in-kottayam/article32434164.ece
25 August 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Mani faction to file complaint with Speaker||The war over the authority to issue whips in the Kerala Congress (M) has escalated further with the KC(M) faction led by Jose K. Mani set to lodge a complaint against the party legislators who violated the whip to abstain from the Rajya Sabha election and the no-confidence motion. In a statement, Mr. Mani said a complaint would be lodged with the Speaker against P.J. Joseph and Mons Joseph for non-compliance with the party whip. P.F. Thomas, who owed allegiance to the Joseph faction, had not attended the Assembly session on Monday. ‘Bid to mislead public’ Mr. Mani also flayed the remarks made in the Assembly “by those who had acted against the party founded by K.M. Mani” in violation of the democratic norms. “Their attempt is to mislead the public and divert the protests over the expulsion of the KC(M) from the UDF ,” he said. The Mani faction, through Roshy Augustine, MLA, had issued a three-line whip, directing the KC(M) legislators to stay away from the the no-confidence motion. The Joseph faction too had issued a whip to all five KC(M) legislators to vote for the UDF candidate and in favour of the no-confidence motion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mani-faction-to-file-complaint-with-speaker/article32434069.ece
25 August 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Coastal areas continue to bear brunt||As many as 130 persons recovered from COVID-19 in Kozhikode on Monday, while 81 fresh cases were reported, 61 of them through local transmission, in the district. A release said 32 persons from the Kozhikode Corporation and seven from Payyoli were infected through local transmission. The source of infection in eight others is not known. There are three health workers among the infected. The number of active cases in the district is 1,410. Meanwhile, the Health Department said the highest number of cases so far in the district had been reported from the coastal areas such as Chorod and Vellayil. As many as 173 were infected in Chorod, 135 in Vellayil, and 71 in Mukhadar. Vellayil had been declared a critical containment zone, and testing and surveillance were ramped up in Chorod. Of the 11 clusters of infection, eight are large ones with a high number of cases. However, the number of patients has come down in some large clusters. A total of 22 clusters have so far been identified. Vellayil, Mukhadar, Vadakara, Thiruvalloor, Chekkiad, Nadapuram, Chorod, and Olavanna are large clusters, and Chaliyam, Kuttichira, and Valiyangadi are limited clusters. Two of the four clusters in Kozhikode city are large ones. Ninety persons are undergoing treatment in the Vellayil cluster, and 21in Mukhadar. Only six are under treatment in the Kuttichira ward and 20 in Valiyangadi. All the infected have recovered in Chaliyam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/coastal-areas-continue-to-bear-brunt/article32434041.ece
25 August 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||A successful director bids adieu||A.B. Raj, who died in Chennai at the age of 95 on Sunday night, was a successful director of Malayalam cinema of the 1960s and 70s. With films like Danger Biscuit , Marunattil Oru Malayali, Kannur Deluxe, Nruthashala, Lottery Ticket, Honeymoon, Prasadam, Football Champion  and Kanalkattakal, he established himself as a bankable filmmaker. “In my long career in cinema, I have not come across any other director like Raj when it came to financial viability of a film,” veteran lyricist Sreekumaran Thampi, who penned several hit songs for the director, told The Hindu.  “After reading the script, he would tell the producer the budget of the film and he never exceeded that,” Thampi said. Speedy completion He was also known for the speed with which he completed a film. “That was because he was so well trained in different aspects of a film; he had learned it all from the legendary T.R. Sundaram,” Thampi recalled. “He was technically very good.” Raj who was born in Alappuzha began his career in Sri Lanka. He had made several films during the decade he spent in the island nation. That stint was memorable for him for another reason — he worked as an assistant director of a unit of Bridge on the River Kwai , the epic war film directed by British master David Lean. He attained bigger successes after moving to Chennai. Though he had made a couple of Tamil films, it was in Malayalam that he worked mainly. Some of the finest songs of Malayalam movies were recorded for his films and these ensure that the visuals he directed would always be watched. Remarkable songs Songs like Ponveyil manikkacha... (Nruthashala), Uthara swayamvaram... (Danger Biscuit), Ethra chirichalum... (Kannur Deluxe), Pulayanar Maniyamma (Prasadam), Manohari nin... (Lottery Ticket), Manassilunaroo... (Marunattil Oru Malayali), Chandanathil Kadanjeduthoru... (Shasthram Jayichu Manushyan Thottu) and Mallikappoovin... (Honeymoon) continue to delight music lovers. Some of those songs, like Ponveyil manikkacha.. ., were shot rather well. “He shot the entire song within a couple of hours,” said Thampi. “We got along very well, and it was only because he insisted that I write that song; otherwise P. Bhaskaran would have been the lyricist of the entire film.” Raj’s daughter Saranya is a National Award-winning actor who has made a mark in Tamil and Malayalam cinema.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-successful-director-bids-adieu/article32434066.ece
25 August 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Marine ambulance soon||The marine ambulance service, earlier planned by the Fisheries Department to streamline its rescue service capabilities, will become a reality in Kozhikode district in two months. The registration of the custom-made boat, which is now kept at the Cochin Shipyard, has already been completed, and the required number of para-medical staff for supporting its services will be recruited in a fortnight.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/marine-ambulance-soon/article32434085.ece
25 August 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Parents up in arms over twin grace marks||A group of parents has approached the Higher Education Minister against what they termed as the “unfair practice” of granting grace marks twice during admission to undergraduate courses in colleges in the State. They said the practice of adding grace marks for excellence in extracurricular activities along with marks scored in the written exams was in violation of a Kerala High Court order last year. In a complaint sent to the authorities, a parent from Kozhikode said that arts and science colleges in the State, including those in the self-financing sector, were giving a weightage of 10 marks to winners in the State arts festival and 15 marks for participating in the activities of the National Service Scheme and the National Cadet Corps while calculating index marks during admission to undergraduate courses. However, grace marks have already been added earlier to the total marks given in the higher secondary final exams. This leads to some students getting more advantage during the admission process. The order was issued by Justice P.V. Asha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/parents-up-in-arms-over-twin-grace-marks/article32434042.ece
25 August 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||NSS to deliver Onam kits to needy families||National Service Scheme (NSS) volunteers in Kozhikode district will lend a helping hand to poor families this Onam by distributing over 3,000 special Onam kits. Nearly Rs. 12 lakh collected from like-minded people will be used for the cause. Efforts are on to select the most deserving families from various villages and colonies for distributing kits. Higher secondary school students from 139 NSS units will support the purchase of essential items, packaging, and door delivery. NSS district coordinator S. Sreechith said the kits, each worth Rs. 400, would have all essential grocery items and vegetables. “We have named the project ‘Oppam’, as it largely caters to the underprivileged sections,” he added. He pointed out that the project was launched on the suggestion of NSS volunteers themselves for caring families that were facing financial crisis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nss-to-deliver-onam-kits-to-needy-families/article32434043.ece
25 August 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||‘Nagarasree’ to market Kudumbashree products||The Kozhikode Corporation Kudumbashree has restarted its “Nagarasree” project to revive the market for the products of Kudumbashree units across the district that have been facing a financial crisis due to the pandemic situation. Under the project, various neighbourhood groups of Kudumbashree borrow products from the Kudumbashree District Mission’s Home Shop and sell them among themselves. “This is an attempt to find self sustainability. The groups that borrow products can also sell their own products to other groups. In the long run, it benefits all,” said T.K. Prakashan, Project Coordinator of Kudumbashree in the Kozhikode Corporation. The groups can purchase a unit of groceries and essential products worth Rs. 6,200 from the Home Shop and pay back only Rs. 5,000. The rest is their profit. “These products maintain good standard and hence, are in great demand too”, Mr. Prakashan said. There are around 42,000 Kudumbashree members in the city. Selling the products among themselves was the best way to survive in the present condition, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nagarasree-to-market-kudumbashree-products/article32434047.ece
25 August 2020||Malappuram,KERALA||Malappuram sees 169 cases||Malappuram district saw 169 fresh COVID-19 cases on Monday, and 158 of them were found to have been infected through local transmission. The source of infection in 12 cases could not be identified. They include four health workers. While four cases came from other States, seven came from abroad. There were 116 recoveries in Malappuram on Monday. The number of infected persons currently under treatment shot up to 2,947 in the district. Over 43,000 people continue to be in quarantine. In Palakkad Ninety-nine persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Palakkad district on Monday. They included one person each from Malappuram and Thrissur. District medical officials said 60 of them contracted the infection through local transmission, 13 came from other States and 14 from abroad. The source of infection in 12 cases could not be traced. The officials said 120 persons recovered from the disease in the district on Monday. There are 621 cases currently under treatment. Nearly 13,000 remain in quarantine. In Kannur In Kannur, 76 persons tested positive for the virus on Monday, and 65 of them contracted the disease through contact, while 11 came from other States. This brings the total number of cases in the district to 2,794. As many as 1,882 recovered. As many as 10,059 people are under observation. In Kasaragod In Kasaragod, 118 persons tested positive for the virus. With this, the total number of COVID-19 patients in the district stands at 4,094. The number of patients who recovered stands at 2,980. In Thrissur As many as 46 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Thrissur district on Monday. While there are 940 active cases in the district, 62 recovered from the disease on Monday. Meanwhile, 43 persons from Thrissur are undergoing treatment in various districts. So far, 3,223 cases have been reported from the district. Of the positive cases reported on Monday, 42 contracted the virus through contact. The source of infection in four persons is not known. In all, 9,202 people are under observation. Thrissur Corporation Division 45; Chelakkara grama panchayat wards 2 and 5, and Erumappetty grama panchayat Ward No. 9 were declared as containment zones. In Wayanad As many as 20 persons tested positive for the virus in Wayanad district on Monday. Of the new cases, 18 contracted the virus through local transmission. While one person came from abroad, the other returned from Karnataka. There were 25 recoveries in the district on the day. As many as 250 persons are under treatment in the district.  (With inputs from Palakkad, Kannur, Kasaragod, Thrissur and Wayanad bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/malappuram-sees-169-cases/article32434046.ece
25 August 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Kalpathy walkway turns into dumping yard||The walkway along the Kalpathy river behind Kalpathy and Chathapuram agraharams has turned into a gathering place for boozards. A visitor will be turned away either by the stench of the waste dumped or by the sight of tipplers. Many parts of the walkway constructed by the District Tourism Promotion Council (DTPC) in 2003 have been badly damaged. No signs of maintenance were visible anywhere except at a comfort station. Large portions of the Kalpathy river along the walkway have become a dumping yard of waste, especially from that of an elephant maintained in a nearby compound and from a catering company functioning at Old Kalpathy. Dozens of black pigs are seen rolling in the dirty river almost throughout the day. All the five bathing ghats at Chathapuram, Kalpathy, Govindarajapuram, Vaidyanathapuram, and Old Kalpathy too have become a dumping yard of discarded idols and photos of deities in glass frames. Municipal Vice Chairman C. Krisnakumar said that the municipality had no role in the maintenance of the walkway and the river. Vipin P.S., Councillor from Kalpathy, said that the presence of tipplers was on the increase in the area as none was taking care of it. People living in the agraharams of Kalpathy and Chathapuram said the walkway had become a threat to peaceful living. “Since there is no control, it has turned into a place for anti-social elements,” said Karimpuzha Raman, president of the Kerala Brahmana Sabha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kalpathy-walkway-turns-into-dumping-yard/article32434053.ece
25 August 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Gloomy prognosis for wounded elephant||The internal injury suffered by a wild elephant at Sholayur in Attappady continued to be critical even as the tuskless male bull razed yet another hut on Sunday night. The elephant has suffered serious wounds in its mouth reaching deep into the throat apparently after biting on an explosive. It has not eaten or drunk since it suffered the wound over a week ago. Even as a large team of forest officials kept watch over the wounded elephant over the last week, it destroyed a portion of the house of Ponnu Sami and Kali at Chavadiyur on Sunday night. Forest officials drove away the elephant nicknamed ‘bulldozer’ back into the forest. “It can’t run; it can’t eat; and it’s getting weaker day by day. But it continues its habit of raiding huts in search of food. It’s a rare type of bull,” said K.T. Udayan, Agali Forest Range Officer. Although the forest officials gave easily chewable bananas and other fruit, the elephant could not eat them. After Sunday night’s raid, the animal remained in Bommmamudi forest in Agali range of Mannarkkad forest division. Forest Veterinary Officer Arun Zacharia said its tongue was torn and the “snorkel valve” badly damaged. “The deep wound inside is acute and it cannot be stitched. A surgical intervention is nearly impossible. And there’s a high chance of food regurgitated from the stomach going inside the lungs, and thus developing pneumonia,” said Dr. Zacharia. Optimism lacked in the words of Dr. Zacharia. “The prognosis is really grave,” he told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gloomy-prognosis-for-wounded-elephant/article32434051.ece
25 August 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Pathanamthitta caseload up by five||Five people from the district tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Monday. The new cases also included two health care workers, one each from Parumala and Koyipram. Pathanamthitta currently has 603 active cases. Under observation About 10,147 persons under observation in various parts of the district. Meanwhile, the number of COVID-19 fatalities continued to surge in the district with a 67-year-old woman succumbing to the virus infection here on Monday. The woman, a native of Koorambala near Panthalam, had been undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Panthalam. She was tested positive during a test as part of the treatment. With the death of the woman, the total number of COVID-19-related deaths in the district rose to 12.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pathanamthitta-caseload-up-by-five/article32434165.ece
25 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Respite for capital as positive cases fall to 182||The capital had some respite on Monday as the COVID-19 cases recorded a considerable fall compared to the previous two days, with 182 people testing positive. The reduction in cases could be attributed to the less number of samples tested. Results of 748 samples only were received on Monday. Two deaths were also recorded - those of a 67-year old Pazhayakada native and a 70-year-old Parassala native- taking the total death toll in the district to 62. Seventeen health workers tested positive for the disease on Monday. A total of 170 people recovered from the illness on Monday in the district. As many as 157 people contracted the virus through local transmission, making up 86% of the total cases. The source of infection in 32 of these cases were unknown. Seventeen of those who tested positive were under observation at their homes, while six of them had returned from other States. As many as 887 people were newly put under observation, while 1,624 completed the observation period without any symptoms. A total of 287 people were admitted into various hospitals, while 370 were discharged. On Monday, 336 samples were sent for tests. After a slew of cases in the Poojappura Central Jail, COVID-19 spread has been detected in another jail in the district. Nine cases were reported among the inmates of the Karmana Special Sub jail on Monday. In addition to cases from the coastal region, cases were also reported from within the city, in places like Karamana (4 cases), Kaimanam (3), Kaithamukku (3) and Kowdiar (3). Cases were also reported from more areas from the coastal region, including Mulloor, Kanjiramkulam, Pulluvila and Poovar. Cases have also been reported from isolated pockets in the rural regions of the district. That a few of these do not have a clear source of infection could be a cause of concern for the health officials. Charged The city police charged cases under the Epidemic Diseases Ordinance against 25 people for various violations. Action was also taken against 152 people for not wearing masks and 18 others for not following social distancing norms. A total fine amount of Rs. 39,400 was collected from them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/respite-for-capital-as-positive-cases-fall-to-182/article32434111.ece
25 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Cong. targets CM in no-trust motion||V.D. Satheesan of the Congress on Monday tabled the motion of no-confidence against the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government with the stated purpose of presenting a “chargesheet” against the administration in the “court of the people” in an unusual election year overshadowed by the COVID-19 pandemic. He attempted to create political theatre in a bid to portray Mr. Vijayan as the fountainhead of the ills of Left Democratic Front (LDF) rule. In a take on Mark Antony’s speech in the play Julius Caesar by William Shakespeare, Mr. Satheesan repeatedly stated the “CM is an honourable man” even as he levelled a succession of corruption charges against the Pinarayi Vijayan government. “The CM is the captain of our ship. He is the helmsman of the State. But, he has given gold smugglers, anti-nationals, and corrupt bureaucrats a free rein off the Bridge,” Mr. Satheesan said. Many corrupt deals Mr. Vijayan had yielded the control of the State to unscrupulous profiteers. From the Sprinklr medical data theft scam to the tainted UAE Red Crescent- LIFE Mission deal, the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) played a direct role in every corrupt deal authored by the government. The CMO had deliberately lost the bid for the airport here to the Adani group. Private consultancies have usurped governance. Highly-paid backdoor appointees supplanted experienced administrators. Mr. Vijayan has rendered the Cabinet impotent. He had repeatedly tried to browbeat the independent media into submission. “Is this a Cabinet headed by Joseph Stalin. Ministers dare not speak their mind. They have become a group of voiceless nodding heads who cower in terror of the CM,” he said. Hard times have fallen upon the government. At least three Central agencies were investigating the CMO in connection with the gold smuggling case and the LIFE Mission scam. Mr. Vijayan had put the administration at the mercy of the Central government. “A dreadful night has fallen upon the State,” Mr. Satheesan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cong-targets-cm-in-no-trust-motion/article32434071.ece
25 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||1,242 new cases in State||The cumulative COVID-19 case burden of Kerala went up to 59,504, with the State reporting 1,242 new cases on Monday. The number of recoveries reported was 1,238. With the total number of recoveries reported in the State till date reaching 38,883, the number of active cases now is 20,323. Cumulative toll The Health Department confirming 11 more deaths as due to the viral infection on Monday, the cumulative toll in the State has risen to 234. Three of these deaths were reported in Kasaragod, two each in Kollam and Thiruvananthapuram, and the rest from Ernakulam, Malappuram, and Kottayam Nearly 90% of the cases reported on Monday — 1,115 of the 1,242 — are locally acquired, including that of 34 healthcare workers. The source of infection is yet to be identified in 95 cases.  Number of tests On Monday, Thiruvananthapuram reported 182 cases, including that of 17 healthcare workers. Malappuram reported 169 cases, Alappuzha 60, Ernakulam 165, Kannur 76, Kollam 112, Kozhikode 81, Thrissur 46, Kottayam 82, Pathanamthitta 6, Kasaragod 118, Palakkad 99, Idukki 19, and Wayanad 10. The number of tests conducted in the past 24 hours is 26,186. The number of hotspots in the State now is 624.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1242-new-cases-in-state/article32434084.ece
25 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Oppn. seeks removal of Speaker||The Opposition targeted Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan in the Assembly on Monday, demanding his removal over his alleged links with Swapna Suresh, an accused in gold-smuggling case. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala also accused the Speaker of denying Manjeri MLA M. Ummer his right to table a motion to remove him from office. Soon after Congress legislator V.D. Satheesan tabled his no-confidence motion against the government, Mr. Chennithala demanded that the motion against the Speaker be included on the list of business. Levelling allegations against the Speaker, he accused him of having close relations with the accused and colluding with nefarious elements to work against the nation’s interests. ‘Vacate office’ “You have failed to uphold the dignity of your chair. You must either vacate office or step aside at least until the end of the proceedings,” he demanded. Mr. Chennithala also questioned the propriety behind “curtailing the passage” of the motion citing insufficient notice period. “Following the decision adopted by the Cabinet to convene the House, the notification for the same was issued only on August 14. The rules of procedure and conduct of business that mandated 15 days’ notice for summoning a session was seemingly overlooked in this case. However, the same stance was not applied for the motion to remove the Speaker,” he said. The resolution to remove the Speaker can be taken up only after 14 days from the date of receipt of notice of the resolution, according to the prescribed rules. Explaining the circumstances behind convening the House, Law Minister A.K. Balan said the decision was taken following a discussion Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had with Mr. Chennithala on August 12. Refusing to delve into the allegations levelled at him, Mr. Sreeramakrishnan said he would strive to preserve the right of each legislator. “However, I am duty bound to function within the ambit of the Constitution,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/oppn-seeks-removal-of-speaker/article32434072.ece
25 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||BJP demonstrates outside Assembly||As the House witnessed heated exchanges on several issues on Monday, the exteriors of the Legislative Assembly did not pass off uneventfully. BJP State president K. Surendran and several senior party leaders were arrested by the police after they gathered in front of the main entrance to demand the resignation of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and accusing him of being involved in the gold smuggling case. Accusing Mr. Vijayan of misusing his office for ‘anti-national’ activities, Mr. Surendran said that the BJP will continue to agitate until his resignation. Senior leader O. Rajagopal, MLA, inaugurated the demonstration. Floral carpet Earlier, the police posse outside the Assembly compounds were taken by surprise when a man rushed to near the main gates and began to lay a floral carpet with flowers soaked in cow dung. The Museum police soon overpowered the agitator, identified as Shaji Das of Kattakada, and took him into custody. Claiming his demonstration was to highlight the angst of the flower trading community, the agitator accused the Chief Minister of dampening their business prospects during the Onam season by allegedly dissuading the public against buying flowers, especially those brought from Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bjp-demonstrates-outside-assembly/article32434110.ece
25 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||No role in bidding, selection of law firm: KSIDC ex-MD||Senior IAS officer and former Managing Director of Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation (KSIDC) Sanjay Kaul has said that he had “absolutely no role in the processes related to the State’s bidding for Thiruvananthapuram International Airport and in roping in legal consultants M/s Amarchand Mangaldas. ” He said that during the brief period that he had held the additional charge as MD, KSIDC, the government had asked the KSIDC to facilitate formation of a company, Trivandrum International Airport Ltd., to take part in the bidding for the Thiruvananthapuram International Airport. Sharmila Mary Joseph was appointed MD KSIDC on “my selection by the Government of India to undergo a mandatory training course in New York, USA. I relinquished charge on January 1, 2019 to join the training course in Syracuse University, New York, USA, from January 2019 to May/June 2019.” M/s Amarchand Mangaldas had been appointed as legal consultants vide a government order on January 4, 2019 issued by the Transport Department to support the Government of Kerala in the bid, at a time when he was already been relieved to join a training programme abroad, he said. Mr. Kaul said the financial bid was uploaded by the Principal Secretary (Transport) on February 14, 2019. Again, both these activities took place after he was relieved from the KSIDC. He was not holding charge as MD, KSIDC, at the time when the financial bids were decided and uploaded as part of tender documents in February 2019. ‘Unfortunate’ “It is unfortunate that I was referred to, even by name, while raising these allegations without checking on the facts. The allegations by the Leader of the Opposition and members of the Opposition party have tarnished my image and caused undue anxiety and stress,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-role-in-bidding-selection-of-law-firm-ksidc-ex-md/article32434080.ece
25 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Vizhinjam sees more ship crew changes||More vessels and shipping agents are opting for outer anchorage crew change off Vizhinjam port. On Tuesday, outer crew change for two vessels took place three nautical miles off the port. Sri Vishnu, a 79,000-tonnage vessel, sailing under the Indian flag from Iraq to the Paradip port in Odisha used the facility for eight seafarers to sign off and eight to sign on. The seafarers who signed off included Grancy Mathew, an electrical engineer. Woman seafarer This is the first time that a woman seafarer has signed off the Vizhinjam port. The crew change that began at 8 a.m. was completed by 2.30 p.m. Fairchem Endurance, a chemical tanker currently sailing with a Panama flag to the port of As Suways, Suez, used the outer anchorage for crew change facility for 13 seafarers to sign off and 12 to sign on. ‘Much potential’ Capital Holdings, a city-based shipping agent, a new entrant to the field, was behind the crew change of Sri Vishnu. “Vizhinjam has shown its potential to emerge as a crew changing point despite the lack of infrastructure. Once the international deepwater seaport of AVPPL comes up, Vizhinjam can be retained as a crew changing port,” N. Ram Kumar of Capital Holdings said. Ever Globe, a 2.19-lakh tonnage container ship, sailing under the flag of Panama from Egypt to Colombo, was the first to use this facility on July 15, with 14 seafarers signing off and 15 signing on. Lack of tugs Lack of tugs and infra facilities in the harbour are hurdles to emerging as a permanent crew change destination such as Mumbai, Kochi, and Goa ports.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vizhinjam-sees-more-ship-crew-changes/article32434108.ece
25 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Defer local body polls, says IMA||The Indian Medical Association (IMA) has written to the government that with COVID-19 transmission becoming intense, the State needs to exercise extreme caution to ensure that the test-isolate-treat protocol is followed strictly and that more epidemiological surveys are carried out in the population to assess the spread of the virus. It has also warned the government that it might be better to postpone the local body elections because campaigning and increased social interactions at a time when the epidemic in the State is scaling the peak could have serious consequences. It has also cautioned the government that unless the authorities can fully ensure that adequate room quarantine facilities and facilities for the emergency transport of a patient is available, it might be better to house asymptomatic and mild COVID-19 patients at COVID first line treatment centres itself. Such patients who are allowed home isolation would have to be monitored properly to ensure that their condition does not deteriorate suddenly, IMA warned. Shortage looms It also reminded the government that the doctors who come forward to work in CFLTCs should be paid their salaries and risk allowance on time so that more doctors are willing to serve the government. This is important because as the number of patients go up, shortage in human resources could be a problem the government would be up against soon. It pointed out that the staff at those private hospitals which the government took over as COVID hospitals, have not received their salaries for the past five months. The government action on rendering these employees jobless is condemnable, IMA said. Data sharing The IMA also reminded the government that while the number of COVID-19 patients in the State had crossed 50,000, the data and clinical information on just 500 patients had been shared with the doctor fraternity. Patient information must be shared with doctors in the private sector. It also termed ‘dangerous’ the government’s policy of promoting ‘unscientific claims’ on boosting immunity.  Doctors in CFLTCs should be paid their salaries and risk allowance on time||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/defer-local-body-polls-says-ima/article32434081.ece
25 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Payasam fest begins||KTDC’s Payasam fest was inaugurated by M. Vijaya Kumar, Chairman of KTDC, here on Monday. Expert payasam chefs of Kerala Tourism Development Corporation have come out with delicious payasams without compromising traditional taste, quality and aroma in its various properties across the State. Being organised in connection with Onam, the payasam festival will end on the Thiruvonam day, August 31. Apart from Hotel Chaithram, payasam counters have been opened at Mascot Hotel- Trivandrum, Aahar Restaurant- Kayamkulam, Ripple land- Alappuzha and Tamarind Easy Hotel, Thrissur from 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. The main varieties will be Ada payasam, Pal payasam, Kadala payasam, Palada, Navarasa payasam, Carrot payasam. The price is Rs. 299 for one litre and Rs. 160 for half litre including tax. Combo offer is also available and is priced at Rs. 399. Payasams are also being offered through food delivery apps like Swiggy, Zomato, the KTDC said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/payasam-fest-begins/article32434119.ece
25 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||House passes Finance, Appropriation Bills||The Kerala Assembly on Monday passed the finance bills — the Kerala Finance Bill, 2020, and the Finance (No. 2) Bill, 2020 — and the Kerala Appropriation Bill, 2020, the passage of which were delayed owing to the pandemic. The bills were passed after incorporating certain modifications proposed by the legislators. The Finance Bill proposed a rebate to the one-time building tax levied by the Revenue Department for residential buildings in grama panchayats. The move comes against the backdrop of hikes implemented in the State Budget. Previously, tax rates were categorised into two with grama panchayats and municipalities slotted together and municipal Corporations separate. This had led to a drastic hike in building tax in grama panchayats. In an amendment proposed by Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac, the tax rates will be reverted to the original categories. While the plinth area tax rates of residential and other buildings in municipalities and Corporations will remain the same, those in grama panchayats has fallen considerably. Obit references The Assembly paid tributes to prominent leaders who died recently. They included Rajya Sabha MP and former Union Minister M.P. Veerendra Kumar and former MLAs P.K. Kumaran, P. Narayanan and V.K. Babu. COVID-19 tests The Assembly session was held in strict adherence to COVID-19 protocols with all legislators and Assembly staff subjected to antigen tests. While all of the legislators who were tested in the Legislators’ Hostel tested negative, Perumbavoor MLA Eldhose Kunnappilly’s personal assistant was diagnosed with the disease. Two others — a sweeper at the Legislators’ Hostel and an Assembly worker’s wife — also tested positive when 199 people were tested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/house-passes-finance-appropriation-bills/article32434073.ece
25 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Online film fete clicks with viewers||Over 8,000 viewers from across the world have watched the Docuscape Online Film Festival being organised by the Kerala State Chalachitra Academy. The festival has been on for the past four days. Academy secretary C. Ajoy said the 10 documentaries and short films screened over these days were watched by 8,069 viewers as per the reports of the video streaming platform. Most of the viewers have watched through their mobile phone. The viewers came from Europe, Middle East, US, UK, Australia and South East Asia. The festival, which will go on till August 28, is showcasing award-winning documentaries and short films screened at the previous editions of the International Documentary and Short Film Festival (IDSFFK), organised by the academy. Registration A total of 29 works, including 14 documentaries, five short films, four campus films, and six animation films, are being screened as part of the festival. Those interested can login/sign up using the registration link in the websitewww.idsffk.in/https://registration.iffk.into watch the films. Registration is free. Each day will have a set of documentaries and short films of around two hours, which will run for a period of 24 hours starting from 4 p.m. Registered delegates may choose to watch the films of their choice any time within 24 hours. There will be live interaction with the directors at 4 p.m. on the following day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/online-film-festival-clicks-with-viewers/article32434088.ece
25 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Ganesha idols to be immersed today||Ganesha idols will be immersed at Shangumughom on Tuesday marking the conclusion of this year's Ganeshotsav. The rituals will be performed in compliance with COVID-19 norms, the Ganeshotsav Trust said on Monday. Given the COVID-19 scenario, a decision had been taken to avoid the annual procession and other celebrations. Ganesha idols standing 15-20 feet in height also have been avoided this year. In the rural areas, the celebrations were cut down to three days. The idols will be taken from Pazhavangadi for immersion at 1 p.m. Special poojas will be held at Shangumugham prior to the ceremony, the trust officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ganesha-idols-to-be-immersed-today/article32434113.ece
25 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Scrap decision to lease out airport: Assembly||The Assembly on Monday passed a unanimous resolution demanding the Centre to scrap its decision to lease out the Thiruvananthapuram International Airport to Adani Enterprises Ltd. Airport operations should, instead, be handed over to a special purpose vehicle (SPV) of the State government, the resolution presented in the House by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said. The Opposition United Democratic Front (UDF) said it was supporting the resolution in the best interests of the people of Kerala, but accused the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government of engaging in a “criminal conspiracy” and betraying the people by selecting a legal consultant close to the Adani Group for participating in the bid. BJP charge The BJP alleged that its lone MLA, O. Rajagopal, was not given an opportunity to speak. There is no justification for the August 19 decision of the Centre to lease out the airport to Adani Enterprises Ltd. (AEL), the Chief Minister said. The Centre pushed ahead with its decision ignoring a State government offer to match the quote of AEL. Prime Minister Narendra Modi was apprised of the State’s objections in a letter on August 19, Mr. Vijayan said. The Centre should reconsider its decision in the best interests of the people of Kerala and in the light of the objections raised by the State and various political parties, Mr. Vijayan said. UDF alleges conspiracy Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala said that the UDF accepted the “spirit of the resolution” and was supporting it in the best interests of the people. He charged the State government with openly opposing AEL, while covertly assisting it. In selecting a legal consultant close to the Adani Group, the government had betrayed the people. This amounted to criminal conspiracy and conflict of interest, he said. “It is a fact that a conspiracy took place to help Adani,” Mr. Chennithala said. Responding to Mr. Chennithala’s charges, the Chief Minister said that the legal consultant scarcely had any say in deciding the sum quoted by the State. Its role was confined to vetting of the legal aspects alone, he said, terming Mr. Chennithala’s remarks “unfortunate.” Subsequently, Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan announced that the resolution was being passed unanimously.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/scrap-decision-to-lease-out-airport-assembly/article32434078.ece
25 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Reopen English Indian Clays: MP||N. K. Premachandran, MP, on Monday urged the government to initiate urgent measures to reopen English Indian Clays Ltd (EICL). Inaugurating the second phase of agitation organised by EICL Factory Employees’ Union, Mr. Premachandran said the management’s decision to lockdown the company amounted to violation of laws governing industrial disputes and labour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/reopen-english-indian-clays-mp/article32434114.ece
25 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Navapoojitham observed at Santhigiri||The Santhigiri Ashram celebrated Navapoojitham on Sunday to mark the birthday of its founder Guru Navajyothi Srikarunakara Guru. The 94th Navapoojitham was observed with only prayers and ceremonies. Swami Gururatnam Jnanathapaswi, general secretary of the ashram, said the Guru had shown the path of enlightenment to lead mankind to the age of truth and that the journey of Dharma through this divine path continued through the COVID crisis. Navapoojitham Sammelanam was inaugurated by ashram president Swami Chaithanya Jnanathapaswi. Special prayers and other ceremonies were held at the monastery under the guidance of the monks, in compliance with the COVID protocol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/navapoojitham-observed-at-santhigiri/article32434116.ece
25 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||IGNOU course in meat technology||Applications have been invited for the one-year diploma course in meat technology and six-month certificate course in poultry farming conducted by the Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU) in association with the Kerala State Poultry Development Corporation. To apply, visit onlineadmission.ignou.ac.in/admission/. The last date is August 31. For details, dial 9400608493, 9446479989 or 9495000914.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ignou-course-in-meat-technology/article32434079.ece
25 August 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Sakthan vegetable market reopened with conditions||The Sakthan vegetable market, which was closed after a few headload workers tested positive for SARS-CoV-2, was reopened on Monday with conditions. A meeting of traders associations convened by Minister for Local Self-Governments A.C. Moideen and Government Chief Whip K. Rajan, had earlier formulated instructions and regulations for running the market. “A list of 950 traders and workers, who were tested negative for the virus, has already been prepared. They have been given identity cards. Shops have been given numbers. Shops with odd numbers will open on Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday, and those with even numbers will open on the remaining days. Sunday will be a holiday for the market,” said District Collector S. Shanavas. There will be only one entrance to the market. The identity cards of workers at shops with odd and even numbers will have different colours. The 250-odd headload workers in the market will work in two shifts. A police team led by Assistant Commissioner of Police V.K. Raju has been deployed for monitoring safety measures. There will be strict restrictions for retail traders. Only 100 people will be allowed in the market at a time. Not more than three persons will be allowed in a shop. Token system will be implemented to disinfect vehicles bringing vegetables to the market. Only the vegetable market will be opened in the first phase. The others will be opened after reviewing the situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sakthan-vegetable-market-reopened-with-conditions/article32434045.ece
25 August 2020||August 25 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||In abundance||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-abundance/article32434167.ece
25 August 2020||August 25 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||In abundance||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-abundance/article32434090.ece
25 August 2020||August 25 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||On guard||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/on-guard/article32434049.ece
25 August 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Palle Raghunath Reddy tests positive for virus||Former Minister and TDP leader Palle Raghunath Reddy was tested positive for coronavirus on Monday. In a video message released to the media here, Mr. Raghunath Reddy urged all those people who came in contact with him in the last seven days to undergo COVID-19 tested and take all precautionary measures. The TDP leader also advised all the employees in the colleges he runs and the general public to follow all the COVID-19 protocols without fail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/palle-raghunath-reddy-tests-positive-for-virus/article32434199.ece
25 August 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Girl drowns during idol immersion, 3 saved||Four children aged between 12 and 18 years got trapped in slush in a deep pit in a natural stream in RDT Colony in Tadipatri town on Monday. Three of them were saved. A 12-year-old girl, Sireesha, who along with another Meghana, had gone first to immerse a Ganesh idol on Monday afternoon, could not be saved and her body was retrieved after two hours. Tadipatri Rural circle inspector Devendra Kumar said after the girls went inside, three boys - Areef, Subhani and Mehboob Basha - also entered the water on hearing their cries for help. Four of them got trapped in the slush. Waseem immediately jumped into the water and saved Meghana, Areef and Mehboob Basha. Another youth Shaik Alam also went in and searched for Sireesha and brought out her body two hours later. Both of them were felicitated and rewarded by Deputy Superintendent of Police A. Srinivasulu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/girl-drowns-during-idol-immersion-3-saved/article32434210.ece
25 August 2020||B. Madhu Gopal,ANDHRA PRADESH||Port Connectivity Road extension works come to a standstill||The work on extension of the Port Connectivity Road (PCR) from Sheelanagar Junction to the Anakapalle – Anandapur National Highway (NH-16) bypass road, has hit a roadblock due to the delay in handing over of land by the State government. The proposed 12.7 km PCR extension connects to the new 6-lane NH-16 bypass road, under construction. The existing PCR meets the present National Highway bypass road at Sheelanagar. The PCR is meant to provide seamless connectivity to the heavy vehicles and containers from the National Highway to Visakhapatnam Port. The goods imported by the port are carried to the hinterland by road through the NH network and those meant for export are carried from various landlocked states to the port for exports. The PCR offers a dedicated freight corridor, eliminating the need for heavy vehicles, carrying goods to the port, to criss-cross the city roads. “A tender was called for work on the extension of the PCR in 2019. The contractor created problems and the State government had also not handed over the land to us. Therefore, the Rs. 172-crore contract was closed mutually,” Siva Sankar, Project Director of the National Highways Authority of India, told The Hindu , when the issue was brought to his notice. “The Centre had initially given Rs. 100 crore to the State government towards land acquisition. They had disbursed the amount to the displaced persons. Subsequently, the Centre gave Rs. 72 crore to complete the land acquisition process. The State government has to complete the process and hand over the land to us (NHAI),” he said. NH project hit “We have decided to call for fresh tenders only after the land is handed over to us. Once the work on extension of PCR is commenced, it could be completed in two-and-a-half years,” Mr. Siva Sankar said.  Meanwhile, the six-lane National Highway project from Anakapalle to Anandapuram, scheduled for completion by July 2021, is likely to get delayed due to land acquisition issues at a few stretches. The progress of the work has already been affected by the two-month lockdown, due to COVID-19. The Rs. 2,000-crore project is meant to decongest the traffic on the National Highway (NH-16) stretch, which now passes through the city between Anakapalle and Anandapuram. “Joint Collector Venugopal Reddy is evincing keen interest in the project and has been inspecting the work regularly during the past few days. We hope that the pending land acquisition issues will be settled soon. If the land is handed over to us without any further delay, we expect to complete this project by October 2021,” Mr. Siva Sankar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/port-connectivity-road-extension-works-come-to-a-standstill/article32434222.ece
25 August 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials concerned about rise of cases in rural areas of Chittoor||In the light of the positive cases crossing the 32,000 mark on Monday, the district officials took stock of the situation at the COVID hospitals at Chittoor, Tirupati, Kuppam and Madanapalle. The incidence of coronavirus cases is more in the eastern mandals in comparison to the western side of the district. The virus spread that remained confined to the urban pockets till April slowly made inroads in the rural side, affecting close to 1,500 villages. The task force officials said that by the end of the month, five hundred more villages were likely to be hit. COVID-19 Task Force special officer P. Ravi Raju said that in view of rising number of cases in the rural areas, particularly on the border areas with Tamil Nadu, the field staff was sought to intensify the door-to-door survey and persuade the symptomatic persons to immediately get tested and seek the help of the gram volunteers. He said that apart from the designated and referral hospitals, the tests are regularly under way at several primary health centres, in addition to the mobile vehicles. Surveillance at border The police personnel at Satyavedu, Puttur and Nagari circles have intensified surveillance along the Tamil Nadu border, while placing restrictions on the sale of liquor in certain border villages to prevent the spread. Tirupati Urban Development Authority chairman and Government Whip Chevireddi Bhaskar Reddy on Monday morning inspected the wards at the Padamavathi COVID Hospital at Tirupati. Interacting with the in-patients, medical and paramedical staff, Mr. Reddy said that any concern, such as dearth of beds or regarding the supply of medicines and medical equipments, should be immediately brought to his notice. He also inquired about the quality of food being supplied to the patients and expressed happiness at the phenomenal rise in the number of patients getting discharged every day. Coronavirus cases in the district till the months of July and August were confined to Tirupati Municipal Corporation limits, Srikalahasti and Tirupati rural mandals, Chittoor Municipal Corporation, municipalities of Puttur, Nagari, Palamaner and Punganur. The Madanapalle municipality, which did not have case till May mid, is now witnessing a spiralling increase in the number of cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/officials-concerned-about-rise-of-cases-in-rural-areas-of-chittoor/article32433706.ece
25 August 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pilgrim rush picks up at Srikalahasti||After a lull of four months, the temple of Lord Sri Vayulingeswara Swamy at Srikalahasti on Monday witnessed moderate pilgrim congregation, giving impetus to the slackened Rahu Ketu Sarpa Dosha Nivarana Puja, Rudrabhishekam and Kalyanotsavam rituals. Being Monday, the twin temples of Lord Shiva and his consort Goddess Gnana Prasoonabha saw good turnout of devotees, both locals and from other places. In view of the sudden rush of devotees, the temple authorities stepped up inspections at the queue lines and inside the temple prakaram. The officials heaved a sigh of relief with almost all the devotees adhering to the COVID-19 guidelines, particularly wearing face-mask. With respite from COVID-19 strictures likely from September 1, the temple officials are contemplating intensifying monitoring of the pilgrim influx and enforce the guidelines in queue lines, Rahu Ketu Sarpa Dosha Nivarana Puja mandapam and Annadanam canteen. Warning Meanwhile, the Executive Officer of Varasiddi Vinayaka Swamy Temple at Kanipakam near Chittoor on Monday warned against the posting of fake videos on social media platforms, and claiming them to be the original footage of the Kanipakam temple. In a press release, the official, Mr Venkatesh, said that it came to the notice of the temple administration that some persons had posted the footage of the sanctum santorum of other temples in social media, but claiming them as those belonging to the Kanipakam temple. He said legal action would be taken against such mischievous activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pilgrim-rush-picks-up-at-srikalahasti/article32433974.ece
25 August 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chinarajappa opposes reopening of schools||Peddapuram Telugu Desam Party MLA and former Home Minister Nimmakayala Chinarajappa on Monday urged the government to withdraw the plan to reopen educational institutions, including schools, from September 5 in the wake of rise in cases of COVID-19 across the State. Interacting with newsmen at Peddapuram, Mr. Chinarajappa said: “The average number cases reported per day has shot up close 10,000 in the State. Hence it is not advisable to reopen the educational institutions at this juncture. The government should realise the existing medical infrastructure would not be sufficient to tackle COVID if it continues to spread.” ‘Bail out flood-hit’ The MLA demanded that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy address pressing issues such as this and the woes of those affected by the flood in the Godavari and Krishna rivers. “A large number of people, including those in the Agency, are crying for help. They should be offered every support until the situation returns to normal,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chinarajappa-opposes-reopening-of-schools/article32434201.ece
25 August 2020||KONDRUKOTA (WEST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials see a grim picture in flood-ravaged hamlets||“Five days ago, we trekked the hill to protect ourselves from floods. With the material supplied by the government we have pitched a tent and have been cooking food. There has been no other relief till now,” Punem Veerayamma told the officials who visited the villages on Monday. The family of the woman along with some other families has been taking shelter on a hill. A team comprising Eluru MP Kotagiri Sridhar, Polavaram MLA Tellam Balaraju, Unguturu MLA Uppalla Vasu Babu, K.R. Puram ITDA Project Officer R.V. Suryanarayana and Polavaram DSP M. Venkateswara Rao trekked the hill and enquired about the well-being of the victims. Speaking to this correspondent over the phone , the ITDA Project Officer said the government shifted some victims to rehabilitation centres while some other families were still staying on the hills. “ITDA supplied kerosene, candles, groceries, vegetables and other essentials. We arranged generators at some places. The Grama Volunteers, medical teams and police have been visiting the victims on the hills for necessary help ,” he said. “We visited the habitations in Madhavapuram, Kothur and Kondrukota . The fury of the Godavari is severe in some hamlets,” said Mr. Balaraju. ‘We have lost everything’ The Koya and Kondareddy tribes and some other communities inhabiting the areas ravaged by the flood suffered a huge loss. The government would help the victims in all aspects, said the MP. The officials said they were told by a victim in Madhavapuram, Moslem Rajeswari, that the flood water had reached the roof level of their huts and all their household material, including utensils, furniture, clothes and fishing nets were washed away . In some hamlets in Kothur mandal the roads were still under water and houses filled with slush. “We cautioned the residents not to enter their houses without cleaning them properly as snakes could be hiding inside,” Mr. Suryanarayana said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/officials-see-a-grim-picture-in-flood-ravaged-hamlets/article32434208.ece
25 August 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Virus claims 20 more lives in Nellore, Prakasam||South coastal Andhra region continued to reel under the impact of coronavirus which claimed 20 more lives in Nellore and Prakasam districts in the last 24 hours. Ten patients each succumbed to the disease in the two districts, taking the toll in Prakasam district to 233 and 227 in SPSR Nellore district, according to a health bulletin released by the State Government on Monday night. Meanwhile, 1,554 persons, including 589 in Prakasam district and 965 in Nellore contracted the disease during the period. With this, the cumulative number of positive cases in the two districts went up to 40,712. While Nellore district had 23,542 positive cases, Prakasam district accounted for 17,170 confirmed cases. As many as 858 patients-- 621 in Nellore district and 237 in Prakasam district-- recovered during the period and discharged from COVID-19 hospitals which were overloaded with patients. The number of active cases stood at 5,260 in Nellore district and 6,948 in Prakasam district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/virus-claims-20-more-lives-in-nellore-prakasam/article32433707.ece
25 August 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||SI suspended for dereliction of duty||Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal on Monday placed under suspension Vetapalem Sub-Inspector Ajay Babu for registering a murder case as an ‘alleged murder case’. The disciplinary action against the SI came close on the heels of suspension of Ongole Taluka Circle Inspector K.Laxman after inquiry of his alleged involvement in a civil dispute. The SP made it clear that zero tolerance would be shown towards police personnel who got embroiled in corruption and irregularities, adding that strict surveillance was being maintained on writers and police constables to find out any involvement of them in private settlements in police stations. The SP urged the public and the media to bring to the notice of police control room through WhatsApp mobile number 9121102266 any corrupt practice that they come to know of, and he promised to take stern action after a thorough inquiry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/si-suspended-for-dereliction-of-duty/article32434212.ece
25 August 2020||POLAVARAM (WEST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Godavari recedes, over 100 villages still cut off||More than 100 villages were under a sheet of water for the sixth day on Monday, and thousands of affected persons were taking shelter in rehabilitation shelters. Flood level in the Godavari was recorded at 38.80 feet at Bhadrachalam at 8 p.m. prompting the Central Water Commission (CWC) officials to withdraw the first warning level. Water level at Kunavaram, Koida, Coffer dam, Polavaram, Old Railway bridge at Rajamahendravaram and Sir Arthur Cotton (SAC) bridge at Dowleswaram was receding. However, officials said it might take up to 24 hours for the flood to reced in the villages. In many habitations, irrigation officials were pumping out the stagnated water by arranging motors. “The Godavari has crossed the danger level twice this year, in just a week. If there are no rains in the catchment areas, flood will come down further, bringing relief to people in the low-lying areas,” said a villager M. Rajababu of Polavaram.  Collectors’ directive The Collectors of West and East Godavari districts instructed the officials to inspect river and canal bunds and strengthen them as many canals were overflowing for the last week days. “We will start clearing the water and the once the flood water recedes from the habitations. The Medical and Health, AP Transco and other officials will be pressed into service from Tuesday,” said Polavaram Sub-Collector R.V. Suryanarayana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/godavari-recedes-over-100-villages-still-cut-off/article32434206.ece
25 August 2020||Special Correspondent Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fire breaks out at COVID Care Centre||Close on the heels of fire accident in a COVID Care Centre in Vijayawada, a fire broke out in Chaitnya College Valmiki hostel COVID Care Centre at Kommadi here on Monday. Fire erupted in the computer room of the second floor of the building at around 6.30 p.m. There are 56 patients in the fourth and fifth floors of the building. Immediately all of them were shifted to nearby another block by the police and staff. Station fire officer of Chittivalasa Sk Madeena said that a fire tender was rushed to the spot and fire was put out. He said the computer room was not in use since the lockdown. However, fire broke out on Monday evening due to a short-circuit. He said there was no problem in shifting people from the top two floors as there were three separate exit routes. All 30 computers got damaged in the fire. He said there was all necessary fire safety equipment in the building.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fire-at-covid-care-centre/article32434025.ece
25 August 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Third round of Sundara Kanda on August 27||The third round of Akhanda Sundara Kanda Parayanam will be organised on August 27. About 200 scholars from Sri Venkateswara Vedic University, Rashtriya Sanskrit Vidhya Peetham and Dharmagiri Veda Vignana Peetham will take part in the programme and recite 182 slokas (hymes) from the eighth to eleventh volumes of Sundara Kanda at Nadaneeraja mandapam situated in front of the main temple complex between 7 a.m. and 8 a.m. The TTD embarked on the spiritual programme on June 11, the day the hill temple was reopened for the public, and the first phase of the parayanam was organised on July 7 followed by a similar feat on August 6. The main intention of reciting Sundara Kanda, comprising 2,821 slokas, is to drive away the evil effects and free the world from the COVID-19 pandemic. The viewership of the programme which has been aired on SV Bhakti Channel has crossed several millions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/third-round-of-sundara-kanda-on-august-27/article32434218.ece
25 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State reports 86 deaths, 8,601 positive cases in 24 hours||The State has reported 86 deaths of coronavirus patients and 8,601 new infections in the last 24 hours ending Monday morning, taking the toll to 3,368 and the tally to 3,61,712. However, the recovery rate further increased to 74.32% with a total of 2,68,828 recoveries including the 8,741 new ones during the period. At present, there are 89,516 active cases in the State, while the death rate stands at 0.93%. Sample testing Till date, 32.92 lakh samples have been tested including the 54,563 tests conducted in the last 24 hours and the overall positivity rate of tests increased to 10.99%. Meanwhile, the tally of infections in East Godavari district crossed the 50,000-mark and reached 50,686, which is 14% of the State’s tally. The infection count in three other districts— Visakhapatnam, West Godavari and Chittoor— crossed the 30,000-mark on Monday. So far, six districts have reported more than 30,000 cases and Kurnool is close to reach 40,000 cases. Krishna is the only district with less than 15,000 cases.  Virus spread Nellore and Prakasam reported 10 deaths each in the past day while East Godavari reported the highest number of new infections. The new cases and deaths in districts are as follows: East Godavari (1441 cases, 9 deaths), Nellore (965, 10), Anantapur (933,6), Visakhapatnam (911,7), Kadapa (639,8), Prakasam (589,10), Vizianagaram (572,4), Chittoor (495,8), Srikakulam (485,7), Kurnool (484,2), Guntur (467,9), West Godavari (466,1) and Krishna (154,5). The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (50,686), Kurnool (39,319), Anantapur (35,726), Guntur (30,859), Visakhapatnam (30,715), West Godavari (30,326), Chittoor (30,325), Nellore (23,326), Kadapa (21,162), Srikakulam (18,934), Prakasam (17,170), Vizianagaram (16,240), Krishna (14,029). Krishna district has only 14% cases active while Vizianagaram has 44% active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-reports-86-deaths-8601-positive-cases-in-24-hours/article32434195.ece
25 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Krishna still in spate||The Krishna River continued to be in spate as on Monday with more families in low-lying areas such as Krishnalanka getting affected by the flooding. As of 8 pm on Monday, the barrage was discharging 1.70 lakh cusecs of surplus water while 11,354 cusecs was being released into canals. The inflow was 1.81 lakh cusecs. In Taraka Rama Nagar, Rana Devi Nagar, Bhupesh Gupta Nagar and others in the Krishnalanka area beyond the second flood bank were still inundated. Hundreds of families have been shifted to flood relief centres set up by the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation in local schools. A majority of them were moved to the IGMC Stadium premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/krishna-still-in-spate/article32434024.ece
25 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Afforestation Act issue: HC asks govt. to file counter||A two-judge Bench of the High Court led by Chief Justice J.K. Maheswari and comprising Justice K. Lalitha Kumari on Monday gave a month’s time to the government to submit a counter-affidavit in response to a writ filed on alleged non-implementation of the Compensatory Afforestation Fund Management and Planning Authority Act (CAMPA) and misuse /diversion of the fund collected from user agencies. The petitioner, Thota Suresh Babu from Guntur, claimed that the government failed in implementing the CAMPA, under which it received nearly Rs. 1,735 crore in 2019. His advocate N. Srinivasa Rao stated in the petition that the Central and the State governments were duty-bound to protect and manage the forests and wildlife and regenerate natural forests, but both were negligent in this regard. The government is supposed to ensure that not less than 33% of the geographical area is covered by forests . The petitioner prayed that the government’s action of non-implementation of CAMPA be declared violative of the Forest Conservation Act, the Protection of Wild Life Act, the Environment Protection Act and Article 19 of the Constitution, and to direct the respondents to implement the said Act and properly utilise the funds .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/afforestation-act-issue-hc-asks-govt-to-file-counter/article32434203.ece
25 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dialysis centre coming up at Tiruvuru||Krishna Collector A. Md. Imtiaz said that the government would set up a dialysis centre at a cost of Rs. 3 crore for the benefit of the people in the tribal areas, at Tiruvuru. Mr. Imtiaz along with Tiruvuru MLA K. Rakshana Nidhi conducted a review meeting with the officials of the Health and Tribal Welfare Departments here on Monday. Mr. Imtiaz said 380 persons suffering from kidney-related ailments had been identified and 22 of them were being provided dialysis treatment through private hospitals. A dialysis centre would be set up on the premises of the Tiruvuru area hospital. Mr. Imtiaz told the officials to make arrangements for the infrastructure and recruit manpower on a contract basis. Regarding claims of forest rights, he said 350 appeals from forest dwellers were received and for 81 of them, 102 acres of land been readied. On October 2 documents would be handed over to the dwellers, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dialysis-centre-coming-up-at-tiruvuru/article32434209.ece
25 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Congress, TDP have no future in A.P., says GVL||BJP MP G.V.L. Narasimha Rao said the Congress and the TDP have a bleak future in Andhra Pradesh (A.P.) as the young generation in both parties has lost confidence in the existing leadership. This is what happens to parties ruled by families as, while the seniors have their reason to raise a collective voice of dissent after decades of loyal service, the emerging cream of leaders don’t see much hope of the parties’ making impact outside their traditional strongholds. The YSR Congress which is also a family-based party would go through similar turbulence in the future, he asserted. Addressing a press conference in New Delhi on Monday, Mr. Narasimha Rao said people were vexed with dynastic politics. The BJP could break the Congress citadel at the national level with development as it's agenda. Sonia Gandhi has not been active for quite some time but her party was able to capture power in some States by virtue of it being a national party. In A.P., TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu confined himself to ‘virtual politics’ even as his son Lokesh struggled to find his feet. In contrast to all regional parties which are family-run entities, the BJP has come of age and was poised to leave a lasting impression on the political landscape.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/congress-tdp-have-no-future-in-ap-says-gvl/article32434214.ece
25 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. offers R&R package to villagers||District Collector A. Md. Imtiaz offered Rs. 9 lakh each to the 423 families residing in Buddhavaram village under the rehabilitation and resettlement package for the land acquisition for the extension of Vijayawada International Airport at Gannavaram. First instalment At a meeting with the officials concerned and Gannavaram MLA V. Vamsi Mohan and villagers on Monday, Mr. Imtiaz said that there are 423 families living in 251 properties in the village and the government would offer Rs. 7 lakh for each family towards the construction of a new house in the land provided by the government. He said Rs. 4 lakh would be given as first instalment and families can relocate within three months of handing over their property to the government. Joint Collector K. Madhavi Latha said that every family would be given Rs. 2 lakh towards temporary shelter and shifting charges. Mr. Vamsi Mohan asked officials to display names of all the families at the Village Secretariat. He also asked them to provide all basic amenities at the land provided by the government to build new houses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-offers-rr-package-to-villagers/article32433702.ece
25 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nod for two additional power units at Sileru||The government on Monday accorded administrative sanction through G.O. 21 for the establishment of two additional units of 115 MW capacity each at the lower Sileru power house at Mothugudem of East Godavari district at an estimated cost of Rs. 510 crore. The AP-Genco MD has been mandated to take action for setting up the plants which will be taking the total units at lower Sileru to six of 115 MW capacity each. The four existing units were commissioned in 1976-78. A senior officer in the AP Power Coordination Committee told The Hindu that additional generation was needed as the need has been growing at the rate of 6% to 8 % and the lower Sileru power house has the potential for more units. Cost effective Since the new units entailed no major infrastructure creation, the average cost of construction is lesser than compared to greenfield projects. The fall in demand due to the COVID-19 lockdown is a temporary phenomenon. Once the crisis blows over, the demand will be on a steady upward curve, he observed. The new units at lower Sileru, an office -bearer of APSEB Engineers' Association, said have been long pending.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nod-for-two-additional-power-units-at-sileru/article32434196.ece
25 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Durga flyover opening on Sept. 4||Vijayawada MP Kesineni Srinivas (Nani) on Monday said that the Kanaka Durga flyover would be inaugurated virtually by Union Minister Nitin Gadkari on Sept 4. Mr. Nani and others inspected the ongoing construction works. The completion of the flyover would fulfill the long cherished dream of denizens. Many parties said that the flyover was not possible here but the TDP soon after coming to power took up the construction of the flyover.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/durga-flyover-opening-on-sept-4/article32434213.ece
25 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rythu bazaars allowed all day in Masula||In a release, Bandar Revenue Divisional Officer Sk. Khajavali has said that Rythu Bazaars, markets in District Court Centre and fish markets in the division can be opened for business throughout the day from Tuesday without any time restrictions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rythu-bazaars-allowed-all-day-in-masula/article32433703.ece
25 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rare fish sighted by AU scientists||A rare fish called Mahseer (scientific name Tor) was sighted and fished out from the upper part of Sileru river, by a team of researchers from the Department of Zoology, Andhra University, on Monday. This fish is listed under the endangered category by IUCN (International Union for Conservation of Nature). Mahseer, as commonly called, is normally found in the Himalayan region in the rivers running through the cooler climes of Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Nepal and Bhutan. But it is rare to find it in this part of the country, said Professor D.E. Babu, whose team spotted the fish. According to Prof. Babu, the specie of fish, which is called the Golden Mahseer is found in the Himalayan region, where the temperature around year does not exceed 20° Celsius. “Finding this variety in this region is a rarity and calls for a much detailed study,” he said. Earlier, it was sighted and picked up in 2018 from this region, but the fresh finding indicates that they are breeding and are native to this region.  Useful for troops “In the Godavari river there are about 135 recorded fish species and the Grey Mahseer is one of them, but the golden one is rarely found,” he said. It can grow up to 20 kg and the one found weighs around 7 kg and is over 47 cm long. “Animals, including fishes are sensitive to temperature and it is a limiting factor. This Golden Mahseer can withstand extreme temperature up to zero degree Celsius, as it has the unique anti-freezing protein,” he said. Since the Golden Mahseer is found in Sileru and the grey ones are found in the Godavari, the government should explore the possibility of conserving and rearing it for its commercial and medicinal values. “We can extract and use the anti-freezing protein for developing alternative therapy for our troops posted in Siachen and at other hostile places. This protein does not allow the formation of ice cones in the blood, which normally happens in sub-zero temperatures,” he said. The upper part of the Polavaram dam, where the depth is good and the area is vast, provides a natural environment for conserving and breeding this fish, said Prof. Babu. Brooders can be arranged through special techniques and the upper Polavaram suits for natural breeding, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rare-fish-sighted-by-au-scientists/article32434216.ece
25 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||911 new cases take tally to 31,127 in the district||The number of COVID-19 positive cases surged ahead with the district recording 911 fresh cases on Monday, taking the total count since its outbreak in March to 31,127. The district has been recording over 900 cases on an average in the two weeks and as per health officials, the spike is due to increase in the testing. “On an average, we are testing over 5,000 people on a daily basis,” said Principal of Andhra Medical College and district COVID Special Officer P.V. Sudhakar. The district also recorded seven deaths, taking the total count to 220. 772 discharged With the new positive cases, the number of active cases, as on Monday stands at 5,174. But on the brighter side, discharges have gone up to 25,733, with 772 new discharges on Monday. The total number of clusters in the district is 909, including 171 denotified clusters. The others include 54 very active, 109 active and 575 dormant clusters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/911-new-cases-take-tally-to-31127-in-the-district/article32434228.ece
25 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Trials at AMC designed to eliminate bias||The King George Hospital (KGH) and Andhra Medical College (AMC) have got the approvals for testing a drug and a vaccine for coronavirus. “Trials will be conducted for 2-Deoxy-D-Glucose, a drug developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), as an adjunctive therapy for moderate to severe COVID-19 cases,” says AMC principal and KGH superintendent P.V. Sudhakar. How the drug works Giving more details, he says this drug developed for cancer treatment acts as a glucose inhibitor. “The drug gets transported into the cells like glucose. However, it hampers the growth of cancerous cells which have higher glucose uptake. The same therapy will be tried on COVID patients as the virus replicates at the cellular level. This drug will act as adjunct therapy to other drugs such as remdesivir,” explains Dr. Sudhakar. The drug which comes in granular forms will be powdered and given to patients after mixing it with water. “We will test the virus load after the drug is administered to patients in appropriate doses. The side effect of the drug among other parameters such as vomiting, nausea and blood pressure will be monitored,” says Dr. Sudhakar. Antibody development Further, the AMC and the KGH will also conduct the trials for the vaccine COVISHIELD developed by Oxford University with the Serum India Limited and Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) as Indian partners. It will be tested is in the third stage of trials. The vaccine will be administered to a group of volunteers and the level of development of antibodies in the volunteers who are COVID-19 negative. “Once administered, we will see whether the vaccine has stimulating properties to increase the antibodies for the virus,” says Dr. Sudhakar. Modalities He further says that the drug and vaccine samples will come in blinded format, which means for every vial of drug or vaccine, there will be a vial containing no medicine or chemical. The investigators will not know which one contains the drug or vaccine. “They will be numbered and will be tagged with the volunteers’ number. The results will be submitted and similar results will also come from at least nine testing centres. Only the central administrator will have the code. This procedure has been designed to prevent bias,” he says. The trials for the 2-Deoxy-D-Glucose will start shortly, while the same for the vaccine will take a few more days as the protocols is yet to be discussed, adds Dr. Sudhakar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/trials-at-amc-designed-to-eliminate-bias/article32434205.ece
25 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Naidu trying to fan caste, regional differences in State’||Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao has alleged that Telugu Desam Party (TDP) president N. Chandrababu Naidu was trying to divide people by fanning caste, religious and regional differences among them to ‘achieve his selfish goals’. “At a time when the YSRCP government is trying to ensure development of the three regions in the State, Mr. Naidu is only worried about his vested interests in Amaravati,” Mr. Srinivasa Rao told the media here on Monday. Guest house row He said the government issued a G.O. on July 2 for construction of State guest houses in Visakhapatnam and three other cities, alleging that a propaganda was launched claiming that the foundation stone for the proposed executive capital was being secretly laid in Visakhapatnam. Refuting the allegations that a guest house would be constructed at the Buddhist heritage site at Thotlakonda, the Minister said, “The proposed site is outside the purview of the protected monument. Attempts are being made to incite Dalits by the claims that the Buddhist heritage site is under threat.” He further said that the former Chief Minister had failed to construct a single government guest house anywhere in the State and a lot of public money was wasted on hotel bills during the TDP’s tenure. Mr. Srinivasa Rao alleged that Mr. Naidu had spent Rs. 2,000 crore, given by the Centre, on the construction of temporary buildings at Amaravati. Condemning the statement of Narsapuram MP K. Raghu Ramakrishna Raju that a guest house was being built on the premises of the Buddhist site, the Minister said the government is committed to protecting the historical sites and monuments. “The MP is reading out the script prepared by Mr. Naidu,” he alleged.  Dig at Pawan He also took a dig at Jana Sena Party (JSP) president Pawan Kalyan and the Left parties, saying that they were treating Visakhapatnam and north Andhra only as vote banks and opposing every move aimed at the development of the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-trying-to-fan-caste-regional-differences-in-state/article32434198.ece
25 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||AU Senate approves launching of new courses||The Andhra University Academic Senate at its meeting here on Monday approved the starting of Textile Designing, Fashion Designing Vocational and Production Designing Vocational Diploma Courses from 2021. A decision was also taken to launch BBA-MBA course from 2020-21 with international standards. The other decisions approved include: entering into an MoU with BSNL to provide internship, project work and certificate courses to provide skills to engineering students. Ten new courses would be started by the AU Centre for Defence Studies. Changes have been made in the engineering syllabus in tune with the suggestion of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to provide employment-oriented training to students. It approved the launch of five-year-BA Oriental Language Course at MR Cultural College. Presiding over the meeting, Vice-Chancellor P.V.G.D. Prasad Reddy said that the university has adopted online system in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. Soon regular classes and examinations would begin. Rector K. Samata proposed the 93rd annual budget of the university. Science College Principal K. Srinivasa Rao placed it before the Senate. Registrar V. Krishna Mohan and former VC K.V. Ramana were present. Chairman of AP State Council of Higher Education Hemachandra Reddy and former V-Cs G.S.N. Raju and Beela Satyanarayana participated through video conference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/au-senate-approves-launching-of-new-courses/article32434220.ece
25 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man ‘shot dead’ by brother in Agency||A man was allegedly shot dead by his brother with a countrymade gun, reportedly due to family disputes, at Kunthurla village of Pedabayalu mandal in the Agency area of the district on Sunday evening. According to the police, G. Rambabu (38) shot his elder brother Krishna Rao (40) due to family disputes. The body was shifted to the Paderu District Hospital for post-mortem with the help of family members. He said that the police team had gone to the village to inquire about the incident. The place where the incident took place is a Maoist-affected area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-shot-dead-by-brother-in-agency/article32434225.ece
25 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Suicide bid’ by woman, 2 daughters in Vizag||A 35-year-old woman reportedly attempted suicide in a pact with her two daughters after her husband died of COVID-19, on Sunday evening. However, both daughters, aged around 19 and 13, are said to be out of danger, while the mother, Sivalakshmi, is undergoing treatment at the King George Hospital. According to MR Peta Police Station SHO Somasekhar, the husband, P. Ramesh Kumar (45), who ran a small business at Prakashraopeta, died of COVID-19 on Sunday morning. After hearing the news, the three attempted to end their lives by drinking a sanitiser liquid and were admitted to the KGH. Those who are in distress can dial 100 for help.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/suicide-bid-by-woman-2-daughters-in-vizag/article32434217.ece
25 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tributes paid to ex-Mayor||Rich tributes were paid to former Mayor of Visakhapatnam city N.S.N. Reddy on his 29th death anniversary here on Sunday. The speakers recalled his contribution to the growth of the city in its formative years. N.S.N. Reddy had contested the Assembly elections from Visakhapatnam-2 constituency in 1978 on the Janata Party ticket and emerged victorious. Subsequently, he had contested the elections to the Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation, as the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidate, and became the Mayor in 1981.He used to repeatedly refer to the city as ‘Sundara (beautiful) Visakha.’ He procured funds from the State government and strove for improvement of civic infrastructure and beautification of the city. He earned the admiration of the citizens for widening of roads and improvement of drinking water facilities in the city. The Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) has installed his statue in recognition of his services to the city. The statue was garlanded on the occasion of his 29th death anniversary by his family members and the BJP leaders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tributes-paid-to-ex-mayor/article32434223.ece
25 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Driving licence slots increased to 120||The number of slots, for driving licence applicants, which was reduced to 60 due to COVID-19 protocol, has been increased to 120, according to Deputy Transport Commissioner G.C. Raja Ratnam. The DL slots at Visakhapatnam, Gajuwaka and Anakapalle have been increased following representations from motorists. Driving licence aspirants are asked to make a note of the increase in slots.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/driving-licence-slots-increased-to-120/article32434219.ece
25 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman found murdered at home||A woman in her mid thirties was allegedly killed by a man on Sunday night at her home in Padmanabham village. According to the police, Padma was allegedly strangulated to death by Naveen and he later tried to dispose of the body by saying that she died of heart attack. But when questioned, he confessed to the crime. Both Padma and Naveen were reportedly in live-in relationship since quite sometime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-found-murdered-at-home/article32434224.ece
25 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man arrested in property offence cases||The Gajuwaka police on Monday arrested 26-year-old Nadimpalli Vinodh Raju for his alleged involvement in around seven property offences under Gajuwaka police station limits in the city. The police nabbed the accused at Bhimavaram in West Godavari district. The police have recovered 60 gms gold jewellery, 5 kg silver ornaments, one camera, CPUs and computer monitors and one bike all worth around Rs. 2.9 lakh from him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-arrested-in-property-offence-cases/article32434229.ece
25 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Extend period of projects’ delivery, VCCI urges Jagan||Vizagapatam Chamber of Commerce and Industry has appealed to the Chief Minister to permit six months exempted/extended period of the delivery of projects under the ‘force majeure’ explanation clause under Section 6 of the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016. They also appealed for an extending the validity period by 12 months for all building and layout approvals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/extend-period-of-projects-delivery-vcci-urges-jagan/article32434230.ece
25 August 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Self-reliant’ tribals get a pat from Sonu Sood||The tribal residents of Kodama-Bari village in Saluru mandal of Vizianagaram district has much reasons to cheer. The residents have laid a road on a stretch of 4 km to their village by themselves, solving the perennial problem which they say had been ignored by the authorities. And what came as a surprise is that their efforts caught the attention of actor Sonu Sood who heaped praises on the initiative on his Twitter handle, with the promise that he would visit the village soon. “As many as 200 families living in Kodama are dependant on Bari in the neighbouring Odisha for all their needs. With no road to the village, the residents had been enduring untold hardships. Pregnant women were being shifted the hospital on dolis. Vexed with the wait for the authorities to lay a road, the residents decided to took it on themselves,” said People Awareness Forum president Kalisetti Appala Naidu. The villagers gathered around Rs. 20 lakh from their own contributions and loans for laying of the road. “The residents collected Rs. 2,000 from each family. They hired earth movers from Odisha to lay the 4-km road,” said Mr. Appala Naidu. The success story of self-reliance caught the attention of Mr. Sood from a Twitter post. ‘Inspring the nation’ Attaching a two-year-old picture of a pregnant women from the village being carried on a doli, the actor posted on Twitter, “This mode of transport: Not any more. Well done Heroes. We need more individuals like these to take responsibilities on their shoulders and inspire others. Let’s make this happen.” The actor further promised that he would pay a visit to the village soon. “I will soon come and visit you guys. you will inspire the nation,” Mr. Sood posted on the social media platform. Mr. Appala Naidu said Mr. Sood is already a real hero for the State. “Mr. Sood gifted a tractor to a poor farmers’ family in Chittoor district recently. His visit to the tribal village will certainly motivate the people,” added Mr. Appala Naidu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/self-reliant-tribals-get-a-pat/article32433748.ece
25 August 2020||August 25 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Faith matters||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/faith-matters/article32434233.ece
25 August 2020||B. PradeepNALGONDA,TELANGANA||Special court passes order stalling RGV’s film||The Special Court for SC/ST, Nalgonda, on Monday passed interim orders for immediate stalling of Murder , a film by Ram Gopal Verma “based on the saga of Amruthavarshini and her father T. Maruthi Rao”. Amruthavarshini, widow of Perumalla Pranay Kumar, victim of the honour killing at Miryalaguda in September 2018, had approached the court to stall the film. Her July 31 plea states that the film is her true story — based on her personal life, includes re-production of the actual scenes, and yet it was being made without her or the family members’ consent, which amounts to attack on the right to privacy. The Special Court allowed her petition, and involved three postponements till August 14, including hearing arguments of both the sides, and the orders were to be posted on August 19. On Monday, the Court passed interim orders and said the film should be stalled till the disposal of the main suit — that the film is Amruthavarshini’s true story, for which evidence submitted will be examined, trials run and arguments heard. Lawyer representing Amruthavarshini, D. Narasimha said the summary of the interim order was that the film, intruding into the personal lives and being made without consent, will not be allowed. Earlier last month, Perumalla Balaswamy, father of Pranay approached the court. The Court instructed Miryalaguda police on July 4 to book Mr. Verma and the film’s producer Natti Karuna under various provisions of the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Amendment Act, and others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/special-court-passes-order-stalling-rgvs-film/article32434018.ece
25 August 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Agency villagers in protest mode||As the floodwaters started receding slowly, the aggrieved local residents of the Godavari riverside villages of Charla mandal in Bhadrachalam Agency are gearing up to undertake an intensive agitation for construction of a high-level bridge across the Eethavagu stream near Charla town to mitigate their recurring commuting woes during the rainy season. The recent spell of heavy rains triggered flash floods in Eethavagu stream inundating the low-level bridge at Lingapuram, a tribal village located about two kms from the mandal headquarters town of Charla, virtually cutting off road link to around half-a-dozen tribal villages in the Agency mandal a few days ago. The swollen Taliperu, a tributary of the Godavari, wreaked havoc in the remote tribal habitations, including Mogallapalli, GP Palli and Kothapalli villages, inundating agricultural fields and the riverside hamlets in the border mandal last week. Taking up cudgels on behalf of the aggrieved flood-hit villagers of Lingapuram, the CPI (M) activists staged ‘jala deeksha’ at the low-level bridge across the Eethavagu on Sunday demanding urgent measures to mitigate the flooding woes of tribal people inhabiting the interior villages. People living in the remote villages such as Gompalli, C Kothuru and Mogallapalli experience commuting woes every monsoon, deplored Brahmachary, CPI(M) senior leader of Charla mandal. Repeated requests to the authorities to address the travails of local people during every rainy season fell on deaf ears, he charged. An intensive agitation will be launched soon by mobilising the aggrieved people in the tribal heartland of Bhadrachalam Agency for construction of high level bridges in the flood prone areas to find a lasting solution to the commuting problems, he said. Whenever Taliperu overflows, the road link to dozens of tribal habitations in Charla mandal gets snapped, noted Karam Naresh, CPI(M) Charla mandal committee secretary. The agencies concerned remained insensitive to plug the gaping loopholes in the road infrastructure and ensure hassle-free road connectivity to the far-flung riverside villages, he alleged. The mandal-level officials of the Panchayat Raj Department concerned did not respond to attempts by The Hindu to contact them for their comments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/agency-villagers-in-protest-mode/article32434012.ece
25 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||1,842 more test COVID-positive||Telangana recorded 1,842 COVID-19 cases on Sunday taking the total to 1,06,091. Two days prior to this, on Friday and Saturday, more than 2,300 cases were recorded as over 40,000 tests were conducted on each day. On Sunday, a total of 36,282 tests were conducted and 1,842 cases were detected indicating that the drop in the coronavirus-positive samples are related to number of tests performed. Six more COVID-19 patients died on Sunday. The toll reached 761. The new cases include 373 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation, 158 from Nizamabad, 134 from Karimnagar, 113 from Suryapet, 109 from Rangareddy. These are the highest number of cases in a day in Nizamabad, Karimnagar and Suryapet. Results of 895 more samples are awaited. Of the total 1,06,091 cases, 22,919 are active cases, 82,411 have recovered, and 761 have died. Till Sunday, 9,68,121 tests were performed in the State. The number of tests is likely to cross 10 lakh on Monday. In the 42 State government hospitals, 3,635 oxygen beds and 584 ICU beds were vacant on Sunday. Of the 42, 100% ICU beds were filled up in district hospitals in Kothagudem, Gadwal, and Sircilla, and Government General Hospital, Suryapet. At Gandhi Hospital, 435 out of the 500 ICU beds were occupied, which is 87% of the total bed strength.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/1842-more-test-covid-positive/article32433978.ece
25 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Birds flee from noisy revellers at Ameenpur lake||Less than four years after it was notified as a ‘Biodiversity Heritage Site’, the Ameenpur lake faces a renewed threat from revellers and encroachers. The end of COVID-19 lockdown has seen noisy party animals, groups of drunks, aspiring cricketers turn up on the lake banks to have a good time. The result has been a disaster for the lake with littering and has impacted the bird population in the lake. “It has been turned into an open bar”, “it is now a garbage bin”, “I could not spot any birds except cormorants”, are some of the comments by bird watchers over the past few days. “It was crowded as well. Not with photographers though but with the neighbourhood boys who were playing cricket. They were making a lot of noise which was keeping the birds away. I did see a lot of plastic on the corners and it was horrible,” says Mohammed Habib, an avid bird photographer after a recent visit to the lake. The biggest disappointment is for bird watchers and bird photographers who had turned the lake into a regular haunt as the sightings improved after the lake was taken under the wing by now retired IPS officer Tejdeep Kaur Menon. In 2016 the species spotted in and around the lake totalled 211, by 2019, the count went up to 261. The curbing of encroachments too helped as the water level rose in the lake increasing the spread. Now, things are changing rapidly as littering and partying has gone up. “If you approach the lake from the Aurobindo road. After reaching the lake take a look at it on the place where there are pipes from where the lake water goes to the other side of the road. It is full of plastic. Besides that, lots of alcohol bottles and used masks are scattered everywhere,” says Mr. Habib. “People are coming in SUVs. They play loud music on their systems and start passing glasses around. We have removed even glass shards from the lake bed before 2015. It is sad that it is being destroyed in a callous way,” says Rajeev Khandelwal, who has documented the faunal diversity of the lake over the past few years. The crowding in the lake is not limited to weekends or a few hours in the morning or evening but is happening through the day. “We went on a week day at 4.30 p.m. Instead of birds I saw cars and people. Loud music and noisy people,” says Sanjay who reached the lake to photograph clouds. “If the lake has to be protected, cars should not be allowed near it. People should be made to walk to retain its beauty,” suggests Mr. Sanjay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/birds-flee-from-noisy-revellers-at-ameenpur-lake/article32433995.ece
25 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Power staff JAC demands Rs. 5 cr. ex-gratia to each victim families||The Telangana Electricity Employees’ Joint Action Committee (TEEJAC) has requested the State Government to enhance the compensation announced to the families of those who lost lives in the fire accident at Srisailam Left Bank Hydro Electric Station to Rs. 5 crore each. In a representation submitted to Chairman and Managing Director of TS-Genco D. Prabhakar Rao here on Monday, a delegation of the JAC sought increase in the ex-gratia considerably to the families of Genco engineers and employees as they have sacrificed their lives to safely shutdown the units and control the fire to minimise the damage to equipment and machinery. “Their sacrifice should be recognised in true spirit as they have saved crores of rupees to TS-Genco at the cost of their lives. They were young and having a lot of service left. Their family members, who were dependent on them, are in deep shock and are worried over the future of their children. Though we could not save the lives of those brave hearts, we can support their family members to secure their lives,” JAC leaders P. Rathnakar Rao, N. Padma Reddy, Vazir, P. Sadanandam, Medi Ramesh, Bhanuprakash and others said in their plea to the CMD. They stated that ex-gratia of Rs. 5 crore each and suitable job to one dependent in every victim’s family as per qualification would be appropriate gesture. “The tragic incident is very rare and should be treated as special case in showing our support in all possible ways”, they said. Meanwhile, the Telangana Electricity Employees and Engineers Association has paid tributes to those who sacrificed their lives to save Srisailam LBHES by observing silence and lighting candles. President of the association N. Sivaji said it was unfortunate that the accident had claimed the lives of nine young engineers and demanded that each victim family be paid a compensation of Rs. 2 crore each. They represented the matter to the CMD and Minister for Energy G. Jagadish Reddy. The association has also asked the State government and the managements of power utilities to declare August 21 as the Electricity Employees Martyrs Day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/power-staff-jac-demands-rs-5-cr-ex-gratia-to-each-victim-families/article32434002.ece
25 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Open letter to Chief Minister over Srisailam mishap||A group of environmentalists, social activists, power experts, and scientists from varied sectors has, on Monday, addressed an open letter to the Chief Minister K. Chandrashekhar Rao, raising serious concerns about the safety aspects of the Srisailam Left Bank Hydro Electric Project, location of the grave fire mishap recently that killed nine TSGenco employees. The deaths were unnecessary and a result of complete lack of safety culture in the corporation, the letter said. It also questioned the government’s decision to hand over the investigation to the police, instead of the experts in the fields concerned. Design faulted Listing the probable reasons for the mishap, the letter signed by power policy expert E.A.S. Sarma, and Ramon Magsaysay awardee Sandeep Pandey among others, found fault with the design of the hydro power station building. There was no evidence of the station being built to international standards, in absence of any national standards, and no safety upgradation was done to meet the current safety standards, even after two flooding incidents respectively in 1998 and 2009, and one fire accident last year at the right bank station. There is no mention of any fire alarm alert to employees, nor about smoke/heat/flame detectors. It appeared that no fire hazard risk assessment had been carried out for the station, the letter noted, and questioned if the station has a fire safety permission and renewed it regularly. ‘No fire alert’ No emergency action plan exists, and employees were unprepared, apparently due to lack of training. There was no fire suppression system, and portable extinguishers were used to fight panel fire. “Fire can double in size every 30 seconds, and fire extinguishers are inadequate after initial stages..... If the employees were trained in fire safety, and had at least a rudimentary understanding of fire science, they would have attempted to exit the building immediately after failing to contain fire with extinguishers,” the letter said. There were no adequate means of egress either. Standard limits of distance to a fire escape from anywhere in the plant are seemingly not adhered to. In the light of several other lapses listed, the letter demanded that investigation into the accident should involve an independent body of experts in fire protection engineering, fire safety, fire hazard assessment, power generation and related disciplines, without conflict of interest. Call for safety audit “Nowhere in the world are such industrial accidents investigated by police officers and career bureaucrats. Purpose of any investigation is not to blame individuals but to identify human and systemic causes for such incidents to take corrective action...,” the letter said, requesting for safety audit for all the hydro power stations in the State. Organisations such as Scientists for People, Human Rights Forum, Jana Vignana Vedika, Telangana Vidyavantula Vedika, National Alliance of Peoples Movements, and others too were signatories to the letter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/open-letter-to-chief-minister-over-srisailam-mishap/article32434007.ece
25 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Fourth unit of Srisailam LBHES assumed to be lost||A team of senior executives of the Telangana State Power Generation Corporation (TS-Genco), who are examining the damage and loss left behind by the fire accident in the underground Srisailam Left Bank Hydro Electric Station near Eegalapenta in Nagarkurnool district, have come to a near conclusion that the fourth unit of the 6×150 megawatt hydel project is almost lost. Preliminary assessment by the team has assessed that the damage to the unit was huge. The team went inside the power station in spite of high heat on Monday to examine the damage. Engineers working hard “We are unable to assess the damage completely in one go due to the adverse conditions inside as the air-exhaust facility is yet to be restored. Engineers are working hard to restore power supply in the entire power station in phases first to enable proper assessment of the damage,” sources in the Genco told The Hindu on Monday. It was at the fourth unit that sparks in the panel board led to the fire accident that cost nine lives, including five engineers and two other employees of Genco and two employees of a private firm, besides leaving huge financial and generation loss in the August 20 night mishap. “Against 398.1 million units of energy generation during August last year, the hydel station has generated 399.27 million units of energy with lowest generation cost this August, till the mishap occurred at around 10.35 p.m. on August 20,” the official said. Since flood is continuing into Srisailam and more flood days are forecast this season, the Genco had plans to better the last year’s record of generating 1,993 MU energy in SLBHES this year till the fire accident dashed the hopes. “We still have plans to resume generation in the first two units of the project as soon as possible, although we are still in the stage of damage assessment,” a senior official stated. It is being assumed that loss there could be heavy damage in the remaining units too, where it has not been possible to reach and examine properly so far, the sources said. “We are unable to arrive at clear assessment about the exact damage due to heat and other adverse conditions such as seepage of water, which otherwise would have been pumped out automatically,” the official sources said.  We are unable to assess the damage completely in one go due to the adverse conditions inside as the air-exhaust facility is yet to be restored. Genco sources||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fourth-unit-of-srisailam-lbhes-assumed-to-be-lost/article32434004.ece
25 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Pandemic spells financial distress for private hospitals||The COVID-19 pandemic has increased the financial burden on private hospitals, the managements have said. Apart from medical consumables such as masks, they said that the cost of oxygen cylinders and salaries to employees have increased by 100% to 200%. Though the demand for oxygen cylinders has increased at the hospitals where COVID-19 patients are admitted, other hospitals which perform surgeries on non-COVID patients also need the cylinders. CEO of Continental Hospitals Rahul Medakkar said the demand for oxygen cylinders at their facility, which treats COVID patients, has increased by over 200% after the pandemic broke out. “Earlier, a cylinder used to cost Rs. 160. Now, they are available for Rs. 250-350. We buy it regardless of the cost so that there is no delay in treatment,” Dr Medakkar said. Vice-president of Telangana Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (THANA), V. Rakesh also agreed that cost of the product has increased. “The staff are wary of working in this pandemic. Some hospitals are ready to pay 100% to 200% more salary. So we also have to pay high salaries to our employees. A senior technician who used to be paid around Rs. 10,000 per month is now paid Rs. 30,000. Besides, we assure to take care if they get COVID-19,” Dr Kumar said. Human resources dearer Dr Medakkar said the cost of human resources has also gone up by 50% because of risk allowance or incentives being factored in. The THANA vice-president said that the cost of medical consumables has shot up too. He said a surgical mask which used to cost Rs. 1 is now being sold at Rs. 2.50. “To sum it up, a product which was earlier bought at Rs. 1 is now bought at Rs. 3. Smaller hospitals are not able to function as the number of patients too has come down,” he said. The Continental Hospitals CEO said unless a patient seeks special facilities like a suite, they charge according to ceiling prices for COVID-19 treatment as announced by the State government.  Earlier, an oxygen cylinder used to cost Rs. 160. Now, they are available for Rs. 250-350. We buy it regardless of the cost so that there is no delay in treatment. Rahul Medakkar, CEO of Continental Hospitals||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pandemic-spells-financial-distress-for-private-hospitals/article32433981.ece
25 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Doctors, medical staff demand ex-gratia, insurance||Various associations of healthcare professionals working in State-run hospitals have demanded Rs. 1 crore ex-gratia for their colleagues who died after contracting COVID-19, and insurance policy for those working under the current circumstances. The demand was raised after delay in extending help to family members of 35-year-old doctor G. Naresh Kumar who contracted the infectious disease and died on August 7. Nearly two weeks ago, members of Telangana Public Health Doctors Association (TPHDA) and other association had met Health Minister Eatala Rajender with a request to extend help to the doctor’s family. However, when no announcement came for over 10 days, the doctors and para-medical staff decided to reiterate their demands for ex-gratia and insurance coverage. Members of TPHDA, Healthcare Reforms Doctors Association, Telangana Government Doctors Association, Telangana Junior Doctors Association and associations of nurses held a meeting a few days ago where they resolved to organise a press conference at the State Health Campus in Koti on Monday. On Sunday night, the Health Minister announced that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has given his assent to give a gazetted job to the wife of Dr Naresh Kumar. A decision was taken to announce ex-gratia too. However, on Monday afternoon, representatives of the associations who convened at the press meet took turns to place the demand about insurance policy too. President of Healthcare Reforms Doctors Association, K. Mahesh Kumar requested that government orders be issued announcing ex-gratia and insurance policy to healthcare professionals. He added that financial incentives and assurances will reassure them while performing duties. Representatives of Telangana Junior Doctors Association said demanded accommodation facilities to minimise the risk of exposure to their respective family members. Indian Medical Association-Telangana branch members said that the insurance policy or the ex-gratia should be announced for healthcare professionals in both government and private sectors. Coordinator of Telangana Medical Joint Action Committee, B. Narahari alleged that officials who are supposed to address their issues are acting against the interest of healthcare professionals, so they were forced to put forth minor issues before the Health Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/doctors-medical-staff-demand-ex-gratia-insurance/article32433980.ece
25 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||E-pass soon for railway employees across the country||A major grievance of the railway employees has been about obtaining the pass for travel. They have had to travel to a particular office, file an application and wait hoping to get the approval letter. It was only then they could go to a booking counter for purchasing tickets. The process was totally manual and there was no way of booking ticket online through the IRCTC on the pass. Now, the Railway Board had eased the process by making the application and clearance online with Chairman Vinod Kumar Yadav launching the ‘E-pass module of Human Resource Management System (HRMS)’ developed by Centre for Railway Information System (CRIS) few days ago. While the system is be rolled out in all the divisions in a phased manner, the E-pass module will enable any railway employee to apply for the pass online from anywhere and generate it online, even through the help of a smart phone. Ticket booking too can be done online making use of the pass through the IRCTC site apart from booking from any other booking counter, informed senior railway officials. This facility is to emable the railway employee get the pass hassle-free as different levels of officials will be working through the module without any physical checking of applications. It is part of the overall HRMS digitisation project of the complete Human Resource (HR) process of Indian Railways. Data entry As many as 21 modules have been planned in HRMS with basic data entry of around 97% employees completed in the employee master and E-Service record modules launched last year, they said. Through the e-pass system, an employee and family details can be directly obtained from HRMS and the status of the pass application is conveyed through an SMS when it is approved. The break journey check is also done through the system and any pass official under an issuing authority can process it. The approval of an employee is taken for accessing the data in the portal. An unique pass application number or the QR code in the pass with inbuilt photo of the employee is generated to trace the pass.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/e-pass-soon-for-railway-employees-across-the-country/article32433986.ece
25 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS told to file counter affidavit||Telangana High Court on Monday instructed the State government to file a detailed counter affidavit in a PIL petition seeking enforcement of the provisions of Telagnana State (Agricultural produce and Livestock) Markets Act-1966 within two weeks. A bench of Justices A. Rajasheker Reddy and B. Vijaysen Reddy, hearing the PIL, said the government should ensure that companies supplying seed to farmers entered into an agreements with the latter as per the recent ordinance issued by the Central government. The petition was filed by Nadigadda Rytu Hakkula Porata Samtihi, an organisation from Jogulamba Gadwal district. The organisation said the Telagana State Markets Act mandated that ‘seed companies’ should ink a deal with the ryots incorporating details like the price at which they would purchase the produce of the farmers. However, the companies were not signing any such deals. Special Government Pleader A. Sanjeev Kumar told the bench that Telangana government was for such agreements. The bench directed the Assistant Solicitor General of India N. Rajeshwar Rao to secure instructions from the Central government on the matter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-told-to-file-counter-affidavit/article32434022.ece
25 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Testing ramped up in Nizamabad||The Nizamabad district administration has ramped up COVID-19 testing facilities, enabling it to conduct 2,500 tests on a daily basis. The tests are being conducted at all primary healthcare centres and urban primary health centres spread across the district at 50 tests per centre every day. Medical officers have evolved plans to cover vulnerable people through testing; ASHA workers and ANMs have been deployed to identify those showing symptoms of COVID-19. Fighting shy District Collector C. Narayana Reddy lamented that people with symptoms were not coming forward to get tested while those without any symptoms were opting for the tests. The administration had therefore decided to identify those with risk through the ANMs and ASHA workers. It had come to the notice of the administration that people who had tested positive at one centre were undergoing tests at other centres to verify the results. 17-day isolation A patient detected positive should remain in isolation for at least 17 days and there would be no need for further testing according to the ICMR guidelines. The testing process had been extended to the rural areas too and the administration was geared up to provide effective treatment to all those who tested positive for the virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/testing-ramped-up-in-nizamabad/article32433982.ece
25 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Genco officials console families of victims||Chairman and Managing Director of TS-Genco and TS-Transco D. Prabhakar Rao visited and consoled the families of Genco employees, who lost their lives while discharging duties in the fire accident that took place at Srisailam Left Bank Hydro Electric Station (LBHES), here on Monday. Mr. Rao along with a few other officials of Genco visited the families of Deputy Executive Engineer Srinivas Goud living in Champapet, Assistant Engineer Mohan Kumar at Jeedimetla and another AE Uzma Fatima at Azampura in the city. Mr. Rao assured the bereaved families that both the State government and the Genco would take care of them in all possible ways. Members of the bereaved families broke into tears as the CMD visited them and Mr. Rao himself could not control his emotions during the visit. “The Srisailam LBHES accident in most unfortunate incident and has left huge grief as the head of the organisation personally. I am unable to digest the fact that my colleagues are no more and my sympathies are with you all,” Mr. Rao told the bereaved families. Although compensating the loss suffered by the families was not entirely possible as bringing those who lost lives was not possible, their sacrifice in saving the power station to the extent possible was invaluable, Mr. Rao said adding that they lost their lives in their effort to save the power station. He likened their sacrifice with that of soldiers sacrifice in the country’s frontiers and it would remain in the annals of the power sector of Telangana forever. He stated that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao had announced financial assistance and eligible employment to one dependent in every victim family and the Genco would also extend all departmental benefits. Meanwhile, Chief Engineer of Nagarjunasagar HES Suryanarayana visited and consoled the family of another AE Sundar at Suryapet and Chief Engineer of Kothagudem Thermal Power Station Ravindra Kumar visited the families of AE Venkata Rao at Madhira, Plant Attendant Y. Rambabu at Karepally and Junior Plant attendant Kiran Kumar at Palvancha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/genco-officials-console-families-of-victims/article32434001.ece
25 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||BGUS and VHP stage protests||The Bhagyanagar Ganesh Utsava Samiti and Vishva Hindu Parishad on Monday staged peaceful protests across Telangana against the State government’s restrictions on Ganesh Navratri celebrations. VHP State president Bhagvanth Rao, who participated in the protest at Khairatabad Ganesh, accused the State government of not allowing people to celebrate Hindu festivals without restrictions. “Though the State government is claiming that there are no restrictions on celebrating festivals, then why did the police approach the organisers of the Ganesh samithis across the State and asked them not to install the idols this year? Who gave them the authority,” he questioned. He said that for the past 10 days, the police are going to each mandap organisers with local politicians asking them not to conduct the festival. “As per which government order are the police approaching and bring pressure on the organisers,” he asked. Dr. Rao said that the State government supported the festivals of other religions even during the COVID-19 lockdown, but why is it putting so many restrictions on the Ganesh festival. There are no containment zones in the State now and even the Centre has lifted all restrictions, he said. He stated that the VHP will lodge complaints against Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bgus-and-vhp-stage-protests/article32433991.ece
25 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Mobile collection of water bills under OTS||Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) has launched mobile collection vehicles to collect long-pending water cess from consumers as part of the recently announced one-time settlement (OTS) scheme. As per the scheme, the defaulting consumers may avail full waiver of interest amount by settling the dues once and for all. The vehicles flagged off by HMWS&SB Managing Director M. Dana Kishore on Monday will visit various localities with announcements about OTS scheme. Consumers willing to avail the benefit may do the payment at the vehicle, without having to make rounds of water board offices, a press statement informed. A receipt will be issued on the spot against the payment, it said. A total of 100 vehicles have been launched, one for each section. Deadline for the scheme is September 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mobile-collection-of-water-bills-under-ots/article32433997.ece
25 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||App to check ambient air quality||Minister for Environment and Forests A. Indrakaran Reddy has, on Monday, launched the TSAIR mobile app, which gives information about the real time ambient air quality index in a particular location. The app developed by Telangana State Pollution Control Board may be downloaded from Google Play by Android users and from App Store by the iOS users, a press release informed. The app facilitates uploading of photos and complaints too. The Minister held a review meeting with TSPCB officials and enquired about the management of biomedical waste in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. He asked officials to monitor the disposal of biomedical waste.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/app-to-check-ambient-air-quality/article32433996.ece
25 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Nagarjunasagar crest gates closed||The authorities of Nagarjunasagar project stopped the spillway discharge of flood by closing all the crest gates that were open around 9 p.m. on Monday as the inflows into the reservoir from the upstream Srisailam dam have come down considerably. Inflows into Nagarjunasagar were a little over 42,300 cusecs and the nearly 29,000 cusecs of water was being let into the river after power generation over 13,000 cusecs being released to three canal systems based on the project. In the upstream, the flood realised at Srisailam came down to over 1.33 lakh cusecs and the discharge of flood through the one spillway gage lifted for 10 feet height was over 27,600 cusecs at 9 pm. Another 31,300 cusecs was also being let into the river after power generation in the right bank hydel station of Andhra Pradesh. However, inflows into Jurala project, in the upstream of Srisailam, are expected to go up again from 1.21 lakh cusecs at 9 pm on Monday with the authorities of Narayanpur dam in Karnataka alerting the flood monitoring officials at Jurala that discharge of flood would go up to 1.5 lakh cusecs from less than 70,000 cusecs in the evening. At Jurala, 78,000 cusecs flood was being discharged from the 11 spillway gates and another 29,000 cusecs was being let into river after power generation. As of Monday morning, over 1,688 tmc ft of water has been discharged into the sea at Dowlaiswaram Barrage and about 97 tmc ft has been let into the sea from Prakasam Barrage, both situated in Andhra Pradesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nagarjunasagar-crest-gates-closed/article32434019.ece
25 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SCCL to rope in 21 retired doctors to treat workers||The Singareni Collieries Company Limited will hire the services of 21 retired company or government doctors on contract basis for deployment in its area hospitals to treat workers who have contracted COVID-19. This announcement was made by the chairman and managing director M. Sridhar at a video conference with directors based at the company’s headquarters in Kothagudem and senior officials of health department. He told them that the company had already made available to its area hospitals drugs, kits and personal protective equipment worth Rs. 8 crore. More material would be procured on need basis irrespective of expenditure. He asked the authorities of area hospitals to arrange 600 beds in addition to the present 643 beds to treat virus patients. Giving the present status of virus spread in the coal belt, the authorities of hospitals said 2,384 persons tested positive in the tests carried out on 10,583 persons. As many as 808 persons were discharged after treatment. There were 226 persons left in hospitals and another 1,208 at the quarantine centres run by the company. Eighty three critical patients were referred to corporate hospitals in Hyderabad. In his response, Mr. Sridhar asked doctors to step up testing and shift symptomatic cases to the special wards at the company's hospitals. Depending on intensity, the patients could be sent to corporate hospitals. He asked doctors to be more vigilant in the coming days. He also asked directors to send him reports on a daily basis after reviewing the situation. He would himself review the position area-wise every week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sccl-to-rope-in-21-retired-doctors-to-treat-workers/article32433984.ece
25 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Buddha Murali gets additional charge||State Information Commission under the RTI Act, Buddha Murali has been placed under full additional charge as Chief Information Commissioner. The development follows the existing Chief Information Commissioner Soma Raja Sadaram demitting office after expiry of his term in the post on Monday. Mr. Murali will hold the charge until further orders are issued. Meanwhile, Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar visited the office of the Chief Information Commissioner and perused the appeals received by each department. He assured that the government would initiate necessary steps to strengthen the RTI in the departments. Mr. Raja Sadaram briefed the Chief Secretary about the need to strengthen disposal of first appeals in the department concerned so that issues do not escalate to the commission. He said that 9,058 out of the 15,350 appeals received during his tenure had been disposed of.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/buddha-murali-gets-additional-charge/article32434008.ece
25 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||M.P. Chary memorial lecture held||The Centre of Indian Institute of Chemical Engineers of Hyderabad Regional (IIChe-HRC) recently organised the 13th M.P. Chary memorial lecture, which was delivered by Sanjeev Katti, Director General, ONGC Energy Centre. He spoke on ‘Green energy, clean energy - challenges and opportunities’. IIChE-HRC was the recipient of IIChE Best Regional Centre Award in 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mp-chary-memorial-lecture-held/article32433983.ece
25 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man doubts wife’s fidelity, kills her||A 20-year-old woman was allegedly killed by her husband in Dundigal here on Sunday evening. The victim, Kasi Bai, a native of Pune in Maharashtra, got married to one Madhav two years ago. Post COVID-19 lockdown, they migrated to Hyderabad in search of livelihood. Kasi Bai’s parents and brother Dattu also live with them. Police said that the couple had frequent altercations as Madhav suspected her fidelity. “On Sunday, when they were alone, Madhav slit her throat and left the body in the kitchen,” they said, adding that the suspect is currently at large. Around 8 p.m. when Kasi Bai’s parents returned home from work, they found her in a pool of blood and alerted police. A case was registered and the body was sent to Osmania General Hospital morgue for autopsy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-doubts-wifes-fidelity-kills-her/article32433992.ece
25 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Couple run over by private bus||A labourer couple working at under-construction flyover at Rajendra Nagar on the Hyderabad-Bengaluru national highway labour was crushed to death by a speeding private bus on Monday afternoon. They have been identified as Shekaraiah (50) and his wife Shantamma (45) from Mahabubnagar district, according to the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/couple-run-over-by-private-bus/article32433993.ece
25 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘National council for transgenders a step in the right direction’||Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy expressed his gratitude to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for constituting a National Council for Transgender Persons. The aim of the council includes advising the Central government on the formulation of policies, programmes, legislation and projects with respect to transgender persons; to monitor and evaluate the impact of policies and programmes designed for achieving equality and full participation of transgender persons; to review and coordinate the activities of all the departments of the government and other governmental and non-governmental organisations which are dealing with matters relating to transgender persons; to redress the grievances of transgender persons; and to perform such other functions as may be prescribed by the Central government. In a statement here, the Minister observed that the official number of transgender persons, as per the Census of 2011, is 4.88 lakh. However, these numbers could be much higher as many may not want to be identified as the third gender owing to the stigma associated with it. The Prime Minister’s focus on vulnerable groups such as transgender persons and the steadfast mission at ensuring social, political and economic inclusiveness through the set-up of this national council shows the focus he attaches in addressing such deep-rooted exclusions, said the Union Minister of State for Home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/national-council-for-transgenders-a-step-in-the-right-direction/article32434006.ece
25 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||For Briefly column||Senior TRS leader and Telangana Water Resources Development Corporation chairman V. Prakash has been appointed member of the adhoc committee of Munnuru Kapu associations working for the cause of the community. The appointment comes after various associations, including Munnuru Kapu Mahasabha, Munnuru Kapu Sangham and others decided to converge into a united front. The decision was taken at a meeting of representatives of the associations held in the presence of BC Welfare Minister Gangula Kamalakar here on Monday. P. Ravichandra and R. Kanakaiah are the other two members of the adhoc committee which announced online registration of the members with immediate effect.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/for-briefly-column/article32434005.ece
25 August 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Two vehicle lifters nabbed||The Khammam two-town police on Monday arrested two alleged vehicle lifters and recovered a stolen car and six motorbikes from their possession. The police identified the arrested duo as Ravi, 28, of Jannaram in Enkoor mandal, and K Naveen, 20, of Khanapuram in Khammam town. Acting on specific information, a police team apprehended the duo while they were heading towards Hyderabad in a car at Raparthinagar in the town on Monday morning. Police said the duo were involved in separate cases of vehicle thefts under the Khammam two-town, Thallada, Kallur, Chunchupalli and Khanapuram Haveli police station limits in the erstwhile composite Khammam district this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-vehicle-lifters-nabbed/article32434014.ece
25 August 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Come rains, road connectivity is casualty||Rains gave a feeling of elation for many across the State as all the tanks are full and defunct borewells which had gone dry for several months have started yielding groundwater. But, it was something different for the residents of Valu Naik Tanda, Umla Naik Tanda and Badavat Tanda. For them, rain means a temporary disconnection with the outside world, literally, till normalcy restores. These three tandas are located at about 15 km from the mandal headquarters. While Umla Naik Tanda has a population of about 500, it is about 300 at Badavat tanda and 280 at Valu Naik Tanda. With the total population of the three tandas coming to about 1,000, the life becomes miserable for them as the roads are damaged beyond any imagination. Driving any two-wheeler or four-wheeler challenges once driving skills. It can be called as skating instead of walking as one might be walking on a muddy surface and may skid any time. There are incidents when people got stuck in four-wheelers had to use the services of tractors to pull their vehicles out from the mud. Repeated appeals by the residents to the officials are falling on deaf ears for the past several years. “I am a resident of Dola Naik Tanda. The road was so damaged that even an autorickshaw could not enter our tanda. My relative Keera Bai (48) died of fever about six months ago before reaching the hospital as the road is not in proper condition. About two years ago a pregnant woman died due to the same problem,” said Babbarsing of the tanda. “The road that connects these three tandas are damaged beyond any imagination. We are unable to drive even two-wheelers, leave alone four-wheelers. Similarly, walking on this road is a Herculean task. In no way can an ambulance reach these tandas. During emergencies people have to be carried on shoulders. One might be lucky if one is able to get a vehicle like Toophan, which can be driven even on muddy surface,” Prakash Naik, a resident of Mukunda Naik Tanda of Nagalgidda told The Hindu . More than 40 tandas have been facing similar problems under Narayankhed constituency limits, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/come-rains-road-connectivity-is-casualty/article32434027.ece
25 August 2020||Siddipet,TELANGANA||No tank breaches due to Mission Kakatiya works: Harish||Minister T. Harish Rao said that every acre in Telangana came under irrigation with the supply of Kaleswaram water and this was made possible only by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. He was addressing a gathering after formally inaugurating 40,000 litre capacity over-head tank of Mission Bhagiratha at Jakkapur village after participating in several programmes in Narayanaraopet mandal here on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/no-tank-breaches-due-to-mission-kakatiya-works-harish/article32434015.ece
25 August 2020||YADADRI-BHUVANAGIRI,TELANGANA||Gang organising cock fights busted, 19 held||Bhongir’s special operations team, along with Bibinagar police, arrested a group of 19 members for allegedly participating in cock fights, and seized from them 40 cocks, including eight dead birds, among other material. Its key organisers – Madhusudan Reddy, Sridhar and Pandu – fled the scene, the police said. The joint team based on a tip-off raided Chinnapalugu Thanda of Bibinagar on Monday at around 2 p.m., when a cock fight was in progress, and nearly 50 persons (whether participants placing bets on the birds or audience), were involved in the blood sport. The 19 accused, who are mostly masonry workers, plumbers, cab drivers and others, came from various places in and around Hyderabad to make easy money, the police said. Apart from the 40 birds, police seized 60 knives, Rs. 1,51,210 cash, mobile phones and vehicles. All the accused were booked for violations under the State Gaming Act, Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act and other appropriate sections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/gang-organising-cock-fights-busted-19-held/article32434017.ece
25 August 2020||Mumbai,||Aaditya writes to PM for postponement of exams||Maharashtra Tourism and Environment Minister and Shiv Sena leader Aaditya Thackeray has urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to postpone physical and online examinations for all professional courses, including entrance exams, across the country. He has suggested that the Centre consider starting the academic year from January 2021, instead of June/July 2020, so that no student loses the academic year. “...Whenever in the world schools and colleges have reopened, a large number of COVID-19 cases have been found. In our country, most students live with their parents and grandparents, and the infections, if at all, can be fatal,” Mr. Thackeray said in his letter on Monday. “I request you to postpone all academic activity related to physical or online examinations for all professional courses. For non-professional courses, most of their academic assessment has been carried out and the final exam wouldn’t amount to more than 10% of the assessment. Hence, the students may be passed on a marking system devised by the universities,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/aaditya-writes-to-pm-for-postponement-of-exams/article32433950.ece
25 August 2020||Mumbai,||Congress minister asks dissenters to apologise||Maharashtra minister and senior Congress leader Sunil Kedar on Monday criticised dissenters within the party and warned them that party workers would not let them travel within the State unless they apologised to the Gandhi family. Naming three senior leaders from Maharashtra — Mukul Wasnik, former CM Prithviraj Chavan, and former MP Milind Deora — Mr. Kedar in a series of tweets said the letter they wrote to interim party president Sonia Gandhi was a shameful act. “I wholeheartedly support Hon. Sonia Gandhi ji as president. These leaders must apologise for their act immediately. Otherwise Congress workers will see how they move in state freely,” he tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/congress-minister-asks-dissenters-to-apologise/article32433943.ece
25 August 2020||Mumbai,||26/11 victim moves HC, seeks accommodation||A 26/11 terrorist attack victim, who identified Ajmal Kasab during the trial, moved the Bombay High Court on Monday seeking a direction to the Maharashtra government to provide her family with accommodation. Devika Rotawan, 21, also sought assistance for her education. She said she has tuberculosis, her father is bedridden and her brother, suffering from hernia and spinal problems, recently had a surgery. On November 26, 2008, Ms. Rotawan, who was nine years old, reached Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus with her father and brother at 9 p.m. to board a train to Pune. Ms. Rotawan’s petition said, “At 9.50 p.m., the family heard a loud explosion and they decided to leave the station. The terrorists were throwing hand grenades and firing indiscriminately at the public.” The petition said Kasab fired at Ms. Rotawan and she sustained a bullet injury on her right leg. She underwent six surgeries over one-and-a-half months and was bedridden for six months. The compensation amount was spent on her treatment. “On July 19, 2020, she made a representation to the Chief Secretary, requesting allotment of residential accommodation on compassionate grounds, but to no avail,” the petition said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/2611-victim-moves-hc-seeks-accommodation/article32433949.ece
25 August 2020||Navi Mumbai,||80 feared trapped as building collapses in Mahad||One person was killed and 80 people are feared trapped after a five-storey building, Tarique Garden, at Mahad in Raigad district collapsed at 6.45 p.m. on Monday. The building in Kajalpura area housed around 45 flats. At the time of going to press, 15 people had been rescued. Of them, seven were injured and admitted to hospital. Raigad Collector Nidhi Chaudhary said, “Three National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) teams are on their way from Pune. Fire brigade officers and local authorities are carrying out rescue operations. The building was constructed just 10 years ago, so the quality of construction could be behind the collapse.” A green corridor has been opened for the NDRF teams and personnel from police stations in Mahad, Srivardhan and Mangaon have reached the spot. Mahad MLA Bharat Gogawale said most residents are trapped under the debris. He said, “Some managed to escape as the building started shaking. They fled to safety on their own. We need more machinery and manpower for the rescue work. We are doing our best.” Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray is in touch with Ms. Chaudhary and Mr. Gogawale and has assured them of all possible help. An information officer from Raigad said, “It has been learnt that Yunus Shaikh and Patel were the contractors of the building. Around 25 workers, one gas cutter, one generator, two earthmovers, two dumpers, and three ambulances have been deployed. A team of doctors has reached the site from Mangaon.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/80-feared-trapped-as-building-collapses-in-mahad/article32433945.ece
25 August 2020||Navi Mumbai,||CSMT set for Rs. 1,642 cr. makeover||The Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) is all set to be revamped by the Indian Railway Stations Development Corporation (IRSDC) under a four-year project, which is estimated to cost Rs. 1,642 crore. “After the in-principle approval of the Public Private Partnership Appraisal Committee, request for qualification on the public private partnership model was invited on August 20,” S.K. Lohia, MD & CEO, IRSDC, said in a virtual meeting on Monday. He said M/s AREP from France executed the project plan after periodic discussions with stakeholders. He said, “The cost of redevelopment, including financing and contingency costs, is Rs. 1,642 crore. The redevelopment will be on a design, build, finance, operate and transfer basis.” Mr. Lohia said the redevelopment is not just about upgrading the UNESCO world heritage site’s façade, but also “restoring it to 1930 levels”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/csmt-set-for-rs-1642-cr-makeover/article32433946.ece
25 August 2020||Pune,||Divisions at regional level too: Cong. leaders||The split within the central Congress leadership mirrors the sharp division within the Maharashtra Congress and the Pune unit, party leaders said on Monday. Speaking to The Hindu , a Congress leader from Pune said the party had not done any introspection following its losses in the 2014 and the 2019 Lok Sabha and the Maharashtra Assembly polls. “Young faces in the party have been repeatedly sidelined by the top brass. The party is riven with sycophancy,” said the leader. Yet others expressed disaffection with the party organisation. “There has absolutely been no effort to reach out to the youth. The same old ineffectual faces, be it All India Congress Committee general secretary Mallikarjun Kharge or [current Maharashtra party chief] Balasaheb Thorat or senior Congressman Digvijay Singh are being given responsibilities which they have not been able to handle efficiently,” said another local leader. He said it was dispiriting that Mr. Kharge, despite being defeated during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, had been ‘promoted’ by being offered a Rajya Sabha berth. City-based analyst Rajendra Pandharpure said major sections of the youth had shifted towards the BJP. he said, “Despite the Congress’s rich legacy, it has failed to tap the resources and the potential of the young electorate. This is reflected today in form of an enfeebled National Students’ Union of India, which has lost its vibrancy. How can one expect youth to be attracted to the Congress if there are no incentives for their growth? The same Pradesh Congress Committee delegates have held sway in the Pune and Maharashtra Congress for the last two decades.” Refuting allegations However, senior Pune Congress leader Mohan Joshi refuted suggestions of the leadership or the party organisation being in a state of disarray. “One must bear in mind that at this stage, only Rahul Gandhi can be a strong alternative to [Prime Minister] Narendra Modi. I do not think anywhere in the alleged letter the 23 leaders have expressed displeasure with the style of the Gandhis’ leadership,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/divisions-at-regional-level-too-cong-leaders/article32433947.ece
25 August 2020||Pune,||At 14,219, Maharashtra records highest recoveries||Maharashtra on Monday reported its highest single-day COVID-19 recoveries, with 14,219 patients being discharged. The total number of recoveries has now reached 5,02,490. The State also reported a spike of 11,015 cases, taking its total case tally to 6,93,398, of which 1,68,126 are active. With 212 more fatalities, the State’s death toll has touched 22,465. The State’s recovery rate has risen to 72.47%, while its case fatality rate has reduced to 3.24%. Pune reported over 2,000 fresh cases to take its total case load to 1,52,511, while 24 deaths — the district’s lowest fatality surge in more than a month — pushed its total death toll to 3,765. As per the Pune district administration, the number of active cases has exceeded 31,300, with the district’s recovery rate standing at 76.04%. Mumbai reported 743 new cases to take its tally to 1,37,096, of which 18,267 are active. With 20 more fatalities — lowest in two months — the city’s death toll stands at 7,442. In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, Ulhasnagar reported 15 fresh cases and 16 deaths, taking its cumulative tally to 7,712 and toll to 277. Thane reported 247 new cases, pushing its total tally past the 43,500-mark, while 11 new deaths saw its toll rise to 1,393. Nagpur reported 656 new cases and 18 deaths, taking its case tally to 20,324, of which 8,769 are active, and death toll to 522. Kolhapur saw a spike of 669 cases, taking its tally to 18,200, of which 6,900 are active. With seven new deaths, the district’s toll has risen to 483. Satara district reported 446 fresh cases as its total case tally rose to 10,001, of which 3,678 are active. Ten new deaths were reported, talking its toll to 300. Sangli district reported 424 new cases, pushing its tally to 9,328, of which 3,573 are active. With 10 more fatalities, its toll has climbed to 304. Nashik reported 914 fresh cases as its case load reached 32,778, of which 10,486 are active. With seven deaths, its toll has risen to 756. “Of 36,63,488 laboratory samples, 6,82,383 (18.86%) have tested positive. Over 47,000 samples were tested in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/at-14219-maharashtra-records-highest-recoveries/article32433948.ece
25 August 2020||Hong Kong,||Hong Kong reports first virus reinfection||A Hong Kong man, who recovered from COVID-19, was infected again four-and-a-half months later in the first documented instance of human re-infection, researchers at the University of Hong Kong said on Monday. The findings indicate the disease, which has killed more than 8,00,000 people worldwide, may continue to spread among the global population despite herd immunity, they said. The 33-year-old male was cleared of COVID-19 in April, but tested positive again after returning from Spain via Britain on August 15. The patient had appeared to be previously healthy, researchers said in the paper, which was accepted by the international journal Clinical Infectious Diseases.  He was found to have contracted a different coronavirus strain from the one he had previously contracted and remained asymptomatic for the second infection. “The finding does not mean taking vaccines will be useless,” Dr. Kai-Wang To, one of the leading authors of the paper, told Reuters. “Immunity induced by vaccination can be different from those induced by natural infection,” To said. “Will need to wait for the results of the vaccine trials to see if how effective vaccines are.” World Health Organization (WHO) epidemiologist Maria Van Kerkhove said that there was no need to jump to any conclusions. Instances of people discharged from hospitals and testing positive again for COVID-19 infection have been reported in mainland China. However, in those cases it was not clear whether they had contracted the virus again after full recovery — as happened to the Hong Kong patient — or still had the virus in their body. The preliminary number of patients in China who tested positive again once being discharged from hospital was 5%-15%, Wang Guiqiang, an infectious disease specialist in China said during a press briefing in May. One explanation was that the virus still existed in the lungs of patients but was not detected in samples taken from upper parts of the respiratory tract, he said. Other possible causes were low sensitivity of tests and weak immunity that could lead to persistent positive results, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/hong-kong-reports-first-virus-reinfection/article32433629.ece
25 August 2020||August 25 2020 00:00 IST,||White House counsellor Kellyanne Conway to resign||Senior White House counsellor Kellyanne Conway has announced that she is stepping down from her position at the end of the month to focus on her family. Ms. Conway’s announcement came after a weekend tweet from her daughter Claudia Conway, that said her mother’s job had “ruined my life”. “I will be transitioning from the White House at the end of this month. George [Ms. Conway’s husband] is also making changes. We disagree about plenty but we are united on what matters most: the kids,” Ms. Conway said in a statement. “Our four children are teens and ‘tweens starting a new academic year, in middle school and high school, remotely from home for at least a few months. As millions of parents nationwide know, kids ‘doing school from home’ require a level of attention and vigilance that is as unusual as these times.” Ms. Conway said the past four years at the White House had allowed her “blessings beyond compare,” and that she was “deeply grateful” to U.S. President Donald Trump, First Lady Melania Trump and the Vice Presidential couple. “In time, I will announce future plans. For now, and for my beloved children, it will be less drama, more mama,” Ms. Conway wrote. Mr. Conway, a Republican lawyer and highly vocal critic of Mr. Trump, said he would be stepping back from Twitter as well as the Lincoln Project, a political action committee of Republicans seeking to defeat Mr. Trump at the ballot box. “So I’m withdrawing from Project Lincoln to devote more time to family matters. And I’ll be taking a Twitter hiatus. Needless to say, I continue to support the Lincoln Project and its mission. Passionately,” Mr. Conway tweeted minutes before Ms. Conway released her statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/white-house-counsellor-kellyanne-conway-to-resign/article32433624.ece
25 August 2020||BANGKOK,||Threatened by disinformation, a monk flees Cambodia||In just four days, the reputation of a Buddhist monk who had spent decades fighting for the human rights of Cambodians was destroyed. First, grainy videos appeared on a fake Facebook page, claiming that he had slept with three sisters and their mother. Then a government-controlled religious council defrocked the monk for having violated Buddhist precepts of celibacy. Fearing imminent arrest, the monk fled Cambodia, destined for a life in exile, like so many people who have stood up to Asia’s longest-governing leader. The monk, Luon Sovath, was the victim of a smear campaign this summer that relied on fake claims and hastily assembled social media accounts designed to discredit an outspoken critic of the country’s authoritarian policies. A New York Times investigation found evidence that government employees were involved in the creation and posting of the videos on Facebook. Under Prime Minister Hun Sen, the Cambodian government has repeatedly used falsified Facebook posts or manipulated audio to defame and imprison politicians, activists and other human rights defenders. Facebook has come under fire in the U.S. for disseminating hate speech and disinformation. It has been criticised for failing to detect Russian influence in the 2016 election. But its influence is even greater in places like Cambodia, where the social media platform is the only digital interface for millions of people. Since civil liberties are often constricted in such countries, Facebook can be a powerful tool for autocrats to bolster their grip on the state, even as it provides a rare space for free expression and activism. During his nearly 35-year rule, Hun Sen — a one-time soldier for the genocidal Khmer Rouge — has decimated Cambodia’s political opposition. He has cozied up to China, eschewing aid from the West that was conditioned on improving human rights. Many high-profile activists and opposition politicians have been assassinated, their cases rarely investigated properly. As scandals proliferate on its platform, Facebook has been criticised for being too slow in removing problematic accounts and pages, many fake. It took almost a month for Facebook to take down the page on which the videos smearing the monk first aired. “As a company, you would think they would want to be more vigilant and not allow their platform to be misused,” said Naly Pilorge, director of the Cambodian League for the Promotion and Defense of Human Rights. “Facebook’s reaction has been like little drops from a sink, so late and so little.” Better monitoring In a statement to The Times about Mr. Luon Sovath’s case, Facebook said that it had built up a team in Cambodia to better monitor the local situation. “We recognise the important role that Facebook plays in enabling expression in Cambodia,” the company said. “We want people to feel safe when they’re using our platform, which is why we take reports of impersonation and other violations of our community standards seriously.” Last month, Mr. Luon Sovath, who is now in Switzerland after receiving a humanitarian visa, was charged in absentia by prosecutors in Siem Reap province with raping one of the sisters, escalating the accusations in the videos. The sex charges against Mr. Luon Sovath, one of Cambodia’s most celebrated activist monks, went viral. Mr. Luon Sovath has denied the rape charges, and accusations that he had sexual relations with any of the women.NY Times||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/threatened-by-disinformation-a-monk-flees-cambodia/article32433631.ece
25 August 2020||Islamabad,||Taliban delegation in Pakistan for Afghanistan peace process||A high-level delegation from the Taliban’s political office in Doha arrived in Pakistan on Monday to discuss the way forward in the Afghan peace process with the Pakistani leadership. The Taliban delegation led by their political chief Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar is visiting Islamabad at the invitation of the country’s foreign office. Pakistan’s Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi told reporters that he would meet the Taliban delegation on Tuesday. He said that Pakistan was playing a facilitating role on the Afghan issue, which led to a peace agreement between the U.S. and the Taliban and now it’s up to Afghans to decide the way forward. The next logical step is intra-Afghan dialogue, which should be started at the earliest, he said, adding that China was also supporting the Afghan peace process. The majority of Afghans believe the only way forward is through reconciliation but the decision to reconcile has to be taken by Afghans themselves, Mr. Qureshi said. He said the people in Afghanistan desire peace and stability but there are some spoilers, who want to disturb peace in Afghanistan . The Afghan Taliban spokesperson also confirmed that a delegation led by Mullah Baradar is visiting Islamabad and other capitals to discuss the Afghan peace efforts. This is the second visit of Mullah Baradar to Pakistan in the last 10 months. He visited Islamabad in October last year when President Donald Trump abruptly called off the peace talks with the Taliban.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/taliban-delegation-in-pakistan-for-afghanistan-peace-process/article32433628.ece
25 August 2020||MANILA,||14 killed, 75 wounded in Philippines blast||Militants allied with the Islamic State group set off a powerful motorcycle explosive followed by a suicide bombing that together killed 14 people on Monday, many of them soldiers, in the worst extremist attack in the Philippines this year, military officials said. At least 75 soldiers, police and civilians were wounded in the midday bombings in Jolo town in southern Sulu province, regional military commander Lt. Gen. Corleto Vinluan said. The bombings were staged as the government grapples with the highest number of COVID-19 infections in Southeast Asia. Mr. Vinluan said most of the victims, including children, were killed and wounded in the first attack, when a bomb attached to a motorcycle exploded near two parked Army trucks in front of a grocery store and computer shop in Jolo. “It was a vehicle-borne improvised explosive device which exploded while our soldiers were on a marketing run,” Vinluan told reporters. A second blast, apparently from a female suicide attacker, occurred about an hour later and killed the bomber, a soldier, a police commando and wounded several others, a military report said. It said the suspected bomber walked out of a snack shop, approached soldiers who were securing a Roman Catholic cathedral and “suddenly blew herself up.” Snipers were deployed in the area to guard against more bombers as the victims were carried to an ambulance. Unexploded bomb A third unexploded bomb was reportedly found in a public market. Jolo was immediately placed in a security lockdown by troops and police. Presidential spokesman Harry Roque condemned the bombings “in the strongest possible terms.” Initial pictures seen by showed soldiers carrying a man from the scene of the explosion near an Army truck while another victim lay on the road. The wreckage of a motorcycle and body parts were seen on the road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/14-killed-75-wounded-in-philippines-blast/article32433617.ece
25 August 2020||Minsk,||Belarus detains 2 from Coordination Council||Belarusian riot police on Monday detained two members of the opposition's Coordination Council, which is calling for a peaceful handover of power after a disputed presidential poll. The opposition named those detained as Sergei Dylevsky, a tractor plant worker who has come to prominence as a strike leader and Olga Kovalkova, a member of main opposition challenger Svetlana Tikhanovskaya's staff. Allies of Ms. Tikhanovskaya formed the Coordination Council this month to oversee efforts for a peaceful transition of power from strongman Alexander Lukashenko, who rejects her claim to have won the election. Its members include Nobel Prize-winning author and outspoken Lukashenko critic Svetlana Alexievich and former Arts Minister Pavel Latushko. “We are under pressure. This morning two members of the presidium of the Coordination Council were detained,” another member, Liliya Vlasova, said at a press conference. Ms. Vlasova, a lawyer and mediator, said Mr. Dylevsky and Ms. Kovalkova are accused of illegally organising a strike, an administrative violation. “We consider these actions of the authorities are absolutely unlawful,” Ms. Vlasova said, adding: “We are negotiators.” Ms. Vlasova said that investigators had also summoned her for questioning later on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/belarus-detains-2-from-coordination-council/article32433620.ece
25 August 2020||Beijing/Islamabad,||China launches warship for Pakistan Navy||China has launched first of the four advanced naval warships it is building for Pakistan, amid deepening defence ties between the two all-weather allies. The launching ceremony for the first warship was held at the Hudong Zhonghua Shipyard in Shanghai on Sunday. Pakistan-China defence ties turn a new chapter with the launch of the first ship of Type-054 class frigate, Pakistan’s state-run APP news agency reported. The Type-054 class, equipped with the latest surface, subsurface, anti-air weapons, combat management system, and sensors, will be one of the technologically advanced surface platforms of the Pakistan Navy fleet, the report said. Pakistan signed a contract with the China Shipbuilding Trading Company Ltd. (CSTC) for the delivery of two Type-054 A/P frigates in 2017. Last year, the Chinese official media reported thatChina would build four advanced frigates for Pakistan Navy.  The launching of the ship coincided with the second strategic dialogue between Foreign Minister of China Wang Yi and his Pakistani counterpart Shah Mahmood Qureshi at the Chinese holiday resort of Hainan on August 21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-launches-warship-for-pakistan-navy/article32433622.ece
25 August 2020||Washington,||U.S. nod to plasma treatment||The U.S. announced an emergency authorisation to use blood plasma from recovered coronavirus patients as a treatment for the disease, which has killed more than 8,00,000 people globally. The plasma therapy shows “an incredible rate of success” and “will save countless lives”, President Donald Trump claimed on Sunday — but that went much further than his own health officials’ cautious welcome of the treatment. Plasma is believed to contain powerful antibodies that can help fight COVID-19 faster.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-nod-to-plasma-treatment/article32433632.ece
25 August 2020||Vienna,||Vienna, Aug 24, 2020 (AFP) -||Vienna will expel a Russian diplomat, Austria's Foreign Ministry said on Monday, as media reported he had been involved in economic espionage for years. “We can confirm that a Russian diplomat will be expelled,” the Ministry said.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/vienna-aug-24-2020-afp/article32433619.ece
25 August 2020||Paris,||Paris, Aug 24, 2020 (AFP) -||U.S. social media giant Facebook on Monday said it had agreed with the French government to pay €106 million in back taxes for its French operations over a 10-year period from 2009. It has also agreed to pay €8.46 million in taxes in the current year, a 50% increase from last year.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/paris-aug-24-2020-afp/article32433626.ece
25 August 2020||August 25 2020 00:00 IST,||India does need a Fiscal Council||The fiscal situation in India has been under severe stress even before COVID-19 and the novel coronavirus pandemic has only worsened it. The fiscal deficit of the Centre in 2019-20 as estimated by the Controller General of Accounts (CGA) was 4.6%, 0.8 percentage point higher than the revised estimate. For the current year, even without any additional fiscal stimulus, the deficit is estimated at about 7% of GDP as against 3.5% estimated in the Budget due to a sharp decline in revenues. The consolidated deficit of the Union and States could be as high as 12% of GDP and the overall debt could go up to 85%. When off Budget liabilities are considered, the situation looks even more alarming. While the prevailing exceptional circumstance warrants loosening of purse strings, it is necessary that the government must return to a credible fiscal consolidation path once the crisis gets over. Need for transparency Besides large deficits and debt, there are questions of comprehensiveness, transparency and accountability in the Budgets. The practice of repeated postponement of targets, timely non-settlement of bill payments and off Budget financing to show lower deficits has been common. The report of the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) of India in 2018 on the compliance of the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (FRBM) Act for 2016-17, highlights various obfuscations done to keep the liabilities hidden. These include special banking arrangements for covering arrears of fertilizer subsidy, issuing short-term bonds, unsecured loans and borrowing from the National Small Savings Fund (NSSF) by the Food Corporation of India towards meeting food subsidy and its arrears, financing irrigation projects from the Long Term Irrigation Fund (LTIF) created by the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD), and financing of railway projects through borrowings from the Indian Railway Finance Corporation (IRFC) are just some examples. We are familiar also with the cases of the Life Insurance of Corporation of India buying out the Industrial Development Bank of India and the Power Finance Corporation buying out the Rural Electrification Corporation (REC) and remitting the money to the government as disinvestment proceeds. In order to make the Budgets comprehensive, transparent and accountable, the 13th Finance Commission recommended that a committee be appointed by the Ministry of Finance which should eventually transform itself into a Fiscal Council to “..., conduct an annual independent public review of FRBM compliance, including a review of the fiscal impact of policy decisions on the FRBM roadmap” (Paragraph 9.65). The FRBM Review Committee too made a similar recommendation underlining the need for an independent review by the Finance Ministry appointing the Council. The problem is that a Council created by the Finance Ministry and reporting to it can hardly be expected to be independent. Therefore, the 14th Finance Commission recommended the establishment of an independent Fiscal Council which should be appointed by and reporting to Parliament by inserting a new section in the FRBM Act. Former Deputy Governor of the Reserve Bank of India, Viral Acharya, in his recent book, Quest for Restoring Financial Stability in India , also makes out a case for a bipartisan, independent Fiscal Council. The mandate A Fiscal Council is an independent fiscal institution (IFI) with a mandate to promote stable and sustainable public finances. Robert Hagemann (“How Can Fiscal Councils Strengthen Fiscal Performance?”. OECD Journal: Economic Studies, Vol. 1, 2011; p.76) defines a fiscal council as, “…a publicly funded entity staffed by non-elected professionals mandated to provide nonpartisan oversight of fiscal performance and/or advice and guidance — from either a positive or normative perspective — on key aspects of fiscal policy”. These institutions assist in calibrating sustainable fiscal policy by making an objective and scientific analysis. First, an unbiased report to Parliament helps to raise the level of debate and brings in greater transparency and accountability. Second, costing of various policies and programmes can help to promote transparency over the political cycle to discourage populist shifts in fiscal policy and improve accountability. Third, scientific estimates of the cost of programmes and assessment of forecasts could help in raising public awareness about their fiscal implications and make people understand the nature of budgetary constraint. Finally, the Council will work as a conscience keeper in monitoring rule-based policies, and in raising awareness and the level of debate within and outside Parliament. Diverse role, more acceptance According to the International Monetary Fund (IMF), there were 36 countries with IFIs in 2014 and more have been established since. While most of the IFIs are in advanced countries, emerging economies too have also shown growing interest in them. Although their common agenda has been to function as watchdogs, there is considerable diversity in their structure and functions. The important tasks of these IFIs include: independent analysis, review and monitoring and evaluating of government’s fiscal policies and programmes; developing or reviewing macroeconomic and/or budgetary projections; costing of budget and policy proposals and programmes; and presenting policy makers with alternative policy options. Over the years, monitoring compliance with fiscal rules and costing policies and programmes have become major tasks of these councils. The OECD (2013) has documented the important principles needed for successful fiscal councils under nine broad heads and these are: local ownership; independence and non-partisanship; mandate; resources; relationship with legislature; access to information; transparency; communication and external evaluation. These principles are important, ensure autonomy, being unbiased, transparency, and effective and accountable Councils. How effective have these institutions been? A study by the IMF (“The Functions and Impact of Fiscal Councils”, July 2013), documents that the existence of IFIs is associated with stronger primary balances; countries with IFIs tend to have more accurate macroeconomic and budgetary forecasts; IFIs are likely to raise public awareness and raise the level of public debate on fiscal policy. Case studies in Belgium, Chile and the United Kingdom show that IFIs have significantly contributed to improved fiscal performances. In Belgium, the government is legally required to adopt the macroeconomic forecasts of the Federal Planning Bureau and this has significantly helped to reduce bias in these estimates. In Chile, the existence of two independent bodies on Trend GDP and Reference Copper Price has greatly helped to improve Budget forecasts. In the U.K., the Office for Budget Responsibility has been important in restoring fiscal sustainability. Cross-country evidence shows that fiscal councils exert a strong influence on fiscal performances, particularly when they have formal guarantees of independence. The final word When the markets fail, governments have to intervene. What do we do when the governments fail? It is here that we need systems and institutions to ensure checks and balances. In that respect, a Fiscal Council is an important institution needed to complement the rule-based fiscal policy. Of course, it is not a ‘silver bullet’; if there is no political will, the institution would be less effective, and if there is political will, there is no need for such an institution. That is also true of the FRBM Act. While we cannot state that the FRBM Act has been an unqualified success, it has also not been an abject failure either. The counterfactual will show that things would have been much worse without it, and it has helped to raise the awareness of government, legislators and the public at large. Similarly, the Fiscal Council will help in improving comprehensiveness, transparency and accountability. M. Govinda Rao was Member, Fourteenth Finance Commission, and former Director, National Institute of Public Finance and Policy, New Delhi, India. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/india-does-need-a-fiscal-council/article32433604.ece
25 August 2020||August 25 2020 00:00 IST,||The challenge of catching elusive taxpayers||India’s tax collection is set to decline sharply this year because of the decline in national income and fall in employment due to COVID-19. Simultaneously, expenditures related to the pandemic are ballooning. Thus, the fiscal deficit in the budget is set to rise unless other expenditures are cut. However, there are committed expenditures which cannot be curtailed and the deficit in the budget is set to climb to a new high for 2020-21. So, there is no option but to try and collect more taxes. The Prime Minister unveiled income tax reforms to make the system faceless, painless and seamless. He stated that 15 million people pay income tax out of a population of more than 1.35 billion. This is the number for the financial year 2018-19. For 2019-20, the number of taxpayers may be similar given that the economy was slowing down and unemployment was at a record high. In 2020-21, the number would drop sharply due to the impact of COVID-19 and massive unemployment in the organised sector. Drop in number of taxpayers The number of tax filers has increased but the number of taxpayers has dropped. This is a result of the tax concession offered in the Budget — those filing a return up to Rs. 5 lakh do not have to pay a tax. Interestingly, in 2012-13, a year for which the government had released detailed data in 2016, the number of effective tax payers was 16 million. So, in spite of an increase in population and the laws introduced in the last six years to bring the rich into the tax net, there has been little change in the number of taxpayers. The fact that the direct tax to GDP ratio in percentage terms is stagnating at about 5.5% is another indication of this. There are two categories of the well-off in the country: those who file a tax return and those who completely escape the tax net. If the former had declared more of their incomes, the tax to GDP ratio would have risen. If those who were outside the tax net had come into the tax net and started filing their returns, there would have been a rise both in the tax to GDP ratio and the number of taxpayers. A 2016 report says the top 10% of Indians earned 55% of the nation’s incomes. If these people could be brought under the income tax net and they paid their taxes honestly, at current tax rates, income tax to GDP ratio alone would have been about 18%. Add to that the collection from other direct taxes, like corporate tax, and the figure would be more than 20%. This figure of 55% does not take into account the black income generation in the country. Clearly a lot of taxes are not paid out of white incomes and none from the black incomes. Demonetisation was supposed to bring out the black incomes and turn them white so that the tax to GDP ratio could sharply rise. The government made repeated announcements about how many more people had come into the tax net after demonetisation and about how more tax would be collected. No such thing has happened as the Prime Minister’s statement implies. The government has been trying hard to tackle the large black economy. As soon as it started its innings in 2014, the NDA set up a special investigation team under court orders. It renegotiated the tax treaty with Mauritius to get back to India the money held abroad. But nothing seems to budge the rich (say, the top 1% in the income ladder) to pay more tax. Actually, the rich are fleeing the country. More than 23,000 high net worth individuals left the country in five years up to 2019. Embarrassingly, when the Defence Minister was in France last year to receive the first Rafale fighter jet, the CEO of Dassault Aviation said in a speech that India should not terrorise them with its tax and custom rules. A considerable part of the tax filing process was computerised when e-filing and, earlier, PAN were introduced. These measures tried to cajole people into filing honest returns. Former Finance Minister Yashwant Sinha introduced the scheme of honouring honest tax payers. The government is again talking of it. The Vivad se Vishwas scheme was introduced to settle tax disputes. But none of these schemes seem to have delivered. A new system The government is able to trust neither the tax department officials nor the rich. So, it has decided to hand over the process of taxation to computers. The computer will decide who will assess the tax return of an individual. During the different stages of a case, different officers will be involved. That is why the new scheme is said to be faceless and anonymous so that no nexus can be formed between the taxpayer and the officer involved in passing the return, and money cannot be paid to evade taxes. The department is being reorganised into assessment units, verification units, review units and technical units. There will also be a small unit to take care of past matters. Apparently a pilot project was run last year to assess the efficacy of the new scheme of things. However, there is worry that the software can be manipulated by those who know the system. There is an administrative problem. The department is grossly understaffed and officers have inadequate time to scrutinise cases. A few thousand officers have to deal with lakhs of cases. What takes a clever Chartered Accountant a few months to prepare cannot be deciphered by an officer in a few hours. Incomes of salaried employees are simple to estimate but the problem lies with estimating business incomes. To estimate them one needs to know the revenue and costs. Both are fudged through under-invoicing and over-invoicing. Businessmen declare their entire household expenditure as business costs. Even if a lot of computerised data are available it may prove to be inadequate. In 2016, before demonetisation, the government had initiated an Income Declaration Scheme. To scare people, the department announced that it had data on 93 lakh high-value transactions and would use it to catch people but this had little impact. The highest tax rate has been brought down from 97.5% in 1971 to 30% (plus surcharge) now. After 1991, with new economic policies, the controls and regulations were sharply curtailed – the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices Act, the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, etc. were removed. But the well-off have constantly complained that tax rates are high and there are too many controls; that they pay all the taxes but get nothing in return. This lament is rather unfair since they have gained the most out of the country’s development. So, at what level would there be satisfaction that tax rates and regulations are fine? This is an important pointer to the feeling of social injustice in every section of the population. The well-off who have gained the most complain of it and the poor live with injustice. There is massive alienation in society. The pandemic also points to this – the way vast numbers have suffered and why they do not heed the authorities. Arun Kumar is Malcolm Adiseshiah Chair Professor, Institute of Social Sciences||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-challenge-of-catching-elusive-taxpayers/article32433615.ece
25 August 2020||August 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Reversing health sector neglect with a reform agenda||Two countries which lead in the COVID-19 cases tally in the world today, namely the United States (first) and India (third), are also the ones where the need for health-care reform post COVID-19 has been most keenly felt. This is due to the lack of effective universal health coverage (UHC) in these countries, which has broadened concerns beyond the frontiers of an epidemic response into the larger domain of access, equity, and quality in health care. Legacy implications and UHC This lack of UHC has a long legacy in both these countries, which they owe to multiple long-standing factors and historical reasons that have put a damper on the UHC agenda. This long legacy has two important and inter-related implications when it comes to health-care reform. First, certain entrenched characteristics of these health systems that have accrued over decades tend to dictate the terms of further evolution and lead to a number of compromises. Second, the long legacy itself comprises a path-dependent trajectory that precludes far-reaching health-care reform. The US Affordable Care Act (ACA) can be an example of the first implication. It envisaged a number of overarching measures to expand health insurance and improve access, including Medicaid expansion, essential health benefits, and discouraging risk selection in insurance. However, the foundational aspects of U.S. health care, such as a fragmented private insurance landscape and a love for expensive specialised care, could hardly be altered due to their entrenched nature. The ACA reforms were thus superimposed on such largely non-negotiable elements, which in turn constrained the nature and scope of those reforms. It is little wonder that the ACA has been not very successful on multiple fronts, such as ensuring access commensurate with insurance levels, and checking the rise of premiums and out-of-pocket costs. A similar set of entrenched and non-negotiable fundamentals, including weak public and pervasive private health care, will also impact health-care reform in India. India’s attempts The government has looked poised to employ Ayushman Bharat–Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (AB-PM-JAY) health insurance as the tool for achieving UHC, and such calls have only grown stronger in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic. Plans are reportedly under way to extend coverage to the non-poor population under AB-PM-JAY, which currently covers the bottom 40% of the population. Taking the health insurance route to UHC driven by private players, rather than strengthening the public provisioning of health care, is reflective of the non-negotiability of private health care in India. This could have several unwanted consequences, which merits attention. Stark maldistribution of health-care facilities (almost two-thirds of corporate hospitals concentrated in major cities) and low budgetary appropriations for insurance could mean that universal insurance does not translate to universal access to services, much akin to what was seen under the ACA in the U.S. Thus far, insurance-based incentives to drive private players into the rural countryside have been largely unsuccessful, and experience suggests that the public sector could be the only effective alternative. Further, the Indian story has traditionally been one of aiming high with little homework. Envisaging universal health insurance without enough regulatory robustness to handle everything from malpractices to monopolistic tendencies is a case in point. This could have major cost, equity, and quality implications. For example, shouldn’t there be a potent ‘Clinical Establishments Act’ before embarking on a universal scheme involving large-scale public-private collaboration? A similar argument can be made about the National Digital Health Mission (NDHM) conceived by the Centre. Integration and improved management of patient and health facility information are very welcome. However, in the absence of robust ground-level documentation practices and its prerequisites, it would do little more than helping some private players and adding to administrative complexity and costs like the electronic health records did under the US ACA. One possible advantage for India over the U.S. could be a relative ease of integrating fragmented schemes into a unified system. The AB-PM-JAY has this ability, but it would require mobilising sufficient and sustained political consensus. The second implication concerns path-dependent resistance to reform. The bigger and deeper the reform, the more the resistance. Covering the remaining population under the AB-PM-JAY presents massive fiscal and design challenges. Turning it into a contributory scheme based on premium collections would be a costly and daunting undertaking, given the huge informal sector and possible adverse selection problems. Meeting requirements through general revenue financing would greatly strain the exchequer and looks very unlikely especially in the immediate aftermath of the pandemic. In either case, an effective roll-out of UHC would require a robust regulatory and administrative architecture, entailing huge administrative expenses and technical capabilities. Harmonising benefits and entitlements among various beneficiary groups, and a formalisation and consolidation of practices in a likely situation of covering outpatient care, are formidable additional challenges. While these would need to be pursued incrementally, the question arises as to how to push such a thoroughgoing reform agenda, especially against a backdrop of decades of frail capacities and neglect of the health sector. Upheaval yes, but also action While upheavals offer windows for pushing reform, as Johnson notes, “the weight of past and pre-existing paths strongly constrain and limit the impact of the most radical ruptures”. We cannot afford to be complacent and think that the pandemic will automatically change the Indian health-care landscape. This is particularly important since a protracted presence of the pandemic in the country could undermine its gravity and the perceived urgency for major reform. It will require mobilising concerted action from all quarters. Civil society would need to utilise this opening to generate widespread public consensus and pressure for health-care reform. The fact that States with higher per-capita public spending on health have fared better against COVID-19 can be invoked to back the reform argument. At the same time, politics would need to recognise the unprecedented populist significance of health and marshal enough will to negotiate organised opposition to change. Dr. Soham D. Bhaduri is a Mumbai-based physician, health-care commentator, and editor of ‘The Indian Practitioner’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/reversing-health-sector-neglect-with-a-reform-agenda/article32433606.ece
25 August 2020||August 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Palestine, now a footnote||In an agreement brokered by the U.S., Israel and the United Arab Emirates (UAE) have agreed to establish full diplomatic relations. This is a historic moment for Israel. For a long time, Israel was a state that no country in West Asia was to recognise, negotiate with or broker a peace with until statehood was granted to the Palestinians. However, Israel managed to achieve full diplomatic relations with Egypt in 1979 and then with Jordan in 1994. This is the third significant win for Israeli foreign policy where it has managed to keep the precondition of Palestinian statehood off the table and establish full diplomatic ties. An unconventional statesman Soon after U.S. President Donald Trump announced the joint statement from Washington, the Prime Minister of Israel, Benjamin Netanyahu, said it was a “historic day”. This sudden development has surprised the world of diplomacy. Mr. Netanyahu has been an unconventional politician. He has always been convinced that Israel can achieve peace with the Arab states on its own terms, without using the old-school formula of ‘land for peace’. His Gulf diplomacy began a few years ago. He sought the participation of Israeli sports teams in international tournaments held in the UAE. The Israeli Culture and Sports Minister, Miri Regev, visited Abu Dhabi on an official state visit in 2018. On an invitation from the U.S., Mr. Netanyahu met Arab leaders at a conference in Warsaw in 2019. A video of this meeting, leaked by the Prime Minister’s Office, showed Ministers of the Gulf countries defending Israel while speaking about the Iran issue. Indeed, it is the Iran factor that has facilitated this friendship between Israel and the UAE. In fact, since the time Mr. Netanyahu announced that he would extend Israeli sovereignty over parts of the West Bank, there has been rhetoric against it. But because of Iran’s rising regional influence, the UAE considers full diplomatic ties with Israel acceptable. Iran has sustained its nuclear ambitions and has been politically resilient despite regional and international coercion. Also, led by Saudi Arabia, the Gulf monarchies have been making desperate attempts to have a strategy with the U.S. and Israel for maintaining the status quo. This diplomatic win comes for Mr. Netanyahu in the middle of a legitimacy crisis. He has been facing protests from the public in Jerusalem for more than a month. In the middle of the COVID-19 pandemic, thousands of Israelis have been demanding his resignation. The Jewish diaspora in the U.S. has also protested against him in solidarity with the Jews at home. In addition, he stands on trial on charges of fraud, bribery and breach of trust. Just when everything appeared to be out of control, he has surprised his supporters with this major diplomatic breakthrough. What makes this victory sweeter for him is the vindication of his decade-long policy that Israel will achieve peace on its own terms instead of making compromises and painful concessions.  Palestine, a non-issue in the region The substantive political issues of the Palestinian people have withered away. For a long time, the Palestinian issue has become a non-issue in the region. When she got the news of Israel-UAE deal, Hanan Ashrawi, member of the executive committee of the Palestine Liberation Organization, tweeted: “We are nobody’s fig leaf!” She also tweeted to the UAE leader, Mohamed Bin Zayad, “May you never experience the agony of having your country stolen... May you never be sold out by your ‘friends’.” The question of Palestine was not a precondition or part of the deal that Egypt signed with Israel in 1979. Under Gamal Abdul Nasser’s leadership, Egypt was the leader of the Arab world, but after Nasserism and the wars in 1967 and 1973, it realised that it did not have enough leverage to compel Israel to accept the two-state solution. This was the case with Jordan too, when it established full bilateral ties with Israel in 1994 leaving the Palestinian cause in the hands of Yasser Arafat. The Palestinian issue is a non-issue for the Arab rulers because it is not an existential matter. There is solidarity among the Arab people with the Palestinians, but that’s about it. The ruling class is not accountable to the public as most of the Arab rulers are not democratically elected and often make decisions depending on the situation in the region. That’s how the Iranian factor has moved them closer to Israel. Yasser Arafat was right in believing that it is childish for the Palestinians to sit behind the autocratic Arab leaders. The agreement shows that the Palestinian national movement needs to be reawakened, but there is no Arafat to lead it. Khinvraj Jangid is Associate Professor and Director, Centre for Israel Studies, OP Jindal Global University, Sonipat. Email: khinvraj@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/palestine-now-a-footnote/article32433610.ece
25 August 2020||August 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Reality on the big screen||Recently, the unfortunate crash of an airplane in Kozhikode shook the entire nation. It was widely discussed in the media as it should have been. Twenty people have died in the accident, including the pilot and the co-pilot of the aircraft. The tragedy felt even more acute because the aircraft carried people who were stuck abroad waiting to return home in these trying times. Kerala has had to deal with landslides and floods in several pockets of the State besides the ongoing COVID-19 crisis. The airplane crash added to its woes. However, more than 50 passengers injured in the crash have already been discharged from hospitals and are on their way home. A beacon of human empathy The media also focussed on the residents of Malappuram district who arrived in large numbers to participate in rescue operations immediately after the accident. Some of these residents heard the thunderous noise and readily swung into action. Not only did they rush to the spot, they also informed their friends, activated WhatsApp groups, mobilised support and took the affected passengers to hospital in their own vehicles. They also waited patiently in queues to donate blood to help the injured passengers. The rescue operation was swift because of the participation of the local people. At a time when the news space is dominated by heartbreaking reports of disease, death and incarceration, this gesture by the local populace is a beacon of human empathy. Lest we forget, this is the same Malappuram which was maligned in sections of the media recently for political reasons. At the same time, I am not suggesting that Malappuram needs a clean chit or an image rectification certificate from anyone. In the recent past, several Malayalam films have focused on current events in Kerala. Virus became a nationwide favourite during the pandemic. The film chronicles the Kerala government’s exemplary efforts to successfully contain the Nipah outbreak. Another film, Trance , though not based on a particular event, poses a warning about the pitfalls of blind faith. Several events interwoven into the film, about dubious ‘godmen’ and their pseudo miracles, are regularly reported in the media. There is thus a discernible tradition or, if I may say, a contemporary trend of turning recent encounters into films. Though this is not peculiar of Malayalam cinema alone, very few film traditions manage to do it as effectively as the Malayalam film industry. Screen adaptations like any other work of art are not free from artistic manipulations. Thereby they largely depend on the individual helming the project. The task of movie-making Having said that, cinema as an image-based medium has a wide reach which cannot be disputed. While cinema doesn’t have to be always utilitarian, it surely has a role and responsibility in a film-loving nation like ours where audiences often attempt to memorialise their present and the past through films. People also express resentment and anger when films touch a raw nerve, ask difficult questions or seemingly offend their religious sentiments. This makes the Indian film audience a rather peculiar and vulnerable film-watching lot. The purpose of a film should be determined by its maker but many of these choices are also guided by the times we live in and the sociopolitical climate that prevails in the nation. This makes movie-making an even more onerous task. For instance, if someone were to turn the Kozhikode incident into a film, not only will it document the rescue operation, it would also serve as an important reminder of human empathy in a world that has largely endangered such emotions. Cinema could do so much in such divisive and strife-ridden times and most importantly, remind us of the need for collective empathy and public action. Kunal Ray teaches literary & cultural studies at FLAME University, Pune||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/reality-on-the-big-screen/article32433612.ece
25 August 2020||August 25 2020 00:00 IST,||People’s parties||Six mainstream parties of Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday vowed to work together for the restoration of its special status under the Indian Constitution. On August 5, 2019, the Centre hollowed out Article 370 and dismembered J&K into two Union Territories through a dubious legislative route. Saturday’s joint declaration is a reiteration of their Gupkar Declaration a day before the Centre’s move last year. Still, this signals a slow return of political activity in J&K which had been stalled for over a year. With leaders in jail and curbs on communication and gatherings, mainstream politics has been under lockdown even as militancy showed an uptick. Several leaders have since been released, but many still remain in detention, including former Chief Minister Mehbooba Mufti. Besides the PDP’s Ms. Mufti, the declaration was signed by NC president Farooq Abdullah, People’s Conference chief Sajad Lone, J&K Congress president G.A. Mir, M.Y. Tarigami of the CPI(M) and Muzaffar Shah of the Awami National Conference. They have said their “political activities will be subservient to the sacred goal of reverting to the status of J&K as it existed on 4th August 2019”. Regional parties, the J&KPM and the PDF, also supported the declaration. The Centre’s Kashmir strategy apparently assumed that mainstream parties had no popular support and would wilt once the heavy restrictions on their leaders stayed long enough. It also tried, rather naively, that a new cadre of politicians could be raised and a dramatic change in political culture achieved through external stimulants. Defectors from the PDP and panchayat leaders who won in an election boycotted by most parties completely failed to build any alternative politics. The Kashmir policy has been a mix of reckless audacity and ignorance, laced with the BJP’s brand of unitary nationalism. Asymmetric power sharing with several regions and the Centre has been critical to the formation and stability of the Indian Union. The current government itself, which is ostensibly opposed to special arrangements, negotiated on one with Naga rebels. The Centre has also reiterated there would be no alteration in any of the existing arrangements in the Northeastern region. In the case of J&K, the mainstream parties with deep social roots have always welded the region close to India. The BJP and the Centre sought to delegitimise them all as ‘soft separatists.’ They were immobilised and rendered vulnerable before their own people. These moves undermined all elementary principles of democracy and federalism, but also impaired what the Centre claimed it was doing — closer integration of J&K with India. There is a need for immediate course correction. J&K’s statehood must be restored and political activities should be freely allowed, for a start.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/peoples-parties/article32433599.ece
25 August 2020||August 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Back and forth||Pakistan’s moves to tackle terrorism on its soil, particularly cross-border terrorism, have often been described as “one step forward and one step back”, when it comes to the broader support terror groups have enjoyed within the country. Thus, it would come as little surprise that within days of issuing a “Statutory Regulatory Order” (SRO) listing (that included Dawood Ibrahim, the LeT’s Zaki Ur Rahman Lakhvi, and about 85 other designated terrorists) directing officials to implement the UNSC committee resolutions against them, Pakistan’s Foreign Affairs Ministry (MFA) denied that the listing was new. The listing had UNSC and Interpol information on at least five Pakistani passports and three Karachi addresses that belonged to Dawood, the former underworld don and the accused mastermind of Mumbai’s 1993 blasts. However, the MFA says that the SRO did not imply an admission that he lives there. Instead, it argues, the move was a routine one, as a part of Pakistan’s international commitments. Accordingly, Pakistan is required to align its domestic terror listings with those issued by the UNSC’s ISIL and Al-Qaeda Sanctions Committee (under UNSC Resolutions 1267/1989/2253). Thus far, the domestic listing, maintained under the country’s Anti-Terrorism Act by the National Counter Terrorism Authority (NACTA), had not included either Dawood or Lakhvi, who was tried briefly for the 26/11 attacks but was granted bail in 2014. In contrast, LeT chief Hafiz Saeed and JeM chief Masood Azhar, who was designated by the UNSC in May 2019, have been added to the domestic NACTA list. The MFA also claims that the listing that included Dawood and Lakhvi had been issued earlier, a claim countered by Indian government sources, who say this is a first. The confusion over the SRO and Pakistan’s disclaimer give credence to the belief that its government lacks a seriousness of purpose when it comes to its actions against all terrorists. If, in fact, the SRO had named these terrorists in past orders, then why has it failed to add them to its domestic listing? If it has included Dawood’s addresses and passports on its own SRO, directing officials to ensure everyone on the list does not have access to funding, arms or travel, then for the Foreign Ministry to say it is paying lip service to the FATF directives, is a matter of concern. Finally, regardless of which list Pakistan places any of the terrorists named, and when it did so, the question is what has Pakistan done to investigate, prosecute and apprehend them? In October, Pakistan is expected to face some of these questions at the FATF plenary session, which will decide if its actions merit a reprieve from the grey or “increased monitoring” list, or be downgraded to the black or “high-risk jurisdiction” list and face sanctions. Pakistan needs to show proof of its actions on the ground, rather than going back and forth on the paperwork.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/back-and-forth/article32433600.ece
25 August 2020||August 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Non-Co-operation (From an editorial)||We desire to draw the earnest attention of our readers to the account published elsewhere of an interview with the Hon. Mr. V.J. Patel, Joint General Secretary to the Indian National Congress, who has just returned to India after ably championing the cause of this country in the land of its rulers. His opinions are entitled to particular respect because to an intense patriotism he has now added the weight of his experiences in England where he has been in touch with progressive circles, while he has been a keen student while there of the movements for self-determination in other lands such as Ireland and Egypt. His outlook on politics is not bounded by the parish-pump, neither does his patriotism run to impracticable extremes. That Mr. Patel’s enthusiasm takes a more severely practical turn than that of others, we submit, is no reason for thinking that he is trying to move with the current. Mr. Patel was naturally impressed with the views upon the Indian situation held by our friends of the Labour Party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/non-co-operation-from-an-editorial/article32433607.ece
25 August 2020||August 25 2020 00:00 IST,||India can take it (From an editorial)||Foreign reporters tend to flock to trouble spots all over the world which are in the news. The Government of India seems to have taken strong objection to the British Broadcasting Corporation’s coverage of Calcutta which has been the storm-centre of political strife for some time now. The External Affairs Ministry has gone so far as to ask the B.B.C. correspondent in India to leave the country, because his headquarters Organisation has been showing a series of documentaries of life in Calcutta by the French photographer, Louis Malle. Evidently, what has displeased the officials in New Delhi is that the B.B.C. took no notice of their protests and continued to show a series of Malle films on television which seemed indirectly to justify the rise of naxalite outrages in Calcutta. It is, of course, painful for any nation to have its defects described at great length in foreign papers or foreign films. But it is only in totalitarian countries that unfavourable reports are banned and correspondents expelled at short notice. We should be able to tolerate distortions and indictments since we ourselves engage in criticisms of other countries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/india-can-take-it-from-an-editorial/article32433608.ece
25 August 2020||LISBON,||Bayern’s season of joy is complete with a grand treble||Kingsley Coman headed Bayern Munich to a sixth European Cup title, scoring against boyhood club Paris Saint-Germain to seal a 1-0 victory in the first Champions League final to be played without fans. As the costly front three of PSG — Neymar, Kylian Mbappe and Angel Di Maria — were frustrated in front of goal, it was a winger who was born in Paris and started his career at PSG who inflicted the blow. The 24-year-old Coman ghosted in at the far post unchecked by the PSG defence and was ready to meet a cross from Joshua Kimmich in the 59th minute. Reprising 2013 Bayern also became a treble winner, as in 2013, by adding this crown to the Bundesliga trophy — won for an eighth successive season — and the German Cup. Bayern joined Liverpool as six-time champion of Europe, only behind AC Milan (seven) and Real Madrid (13). PSG’s footballing superstars were subdued at a final which lacked the usual pre-match entertainment from pop stars. Not that PSG lacked chances to take the lead at a final that should have been played in Istanbul in May, rather than the Portuguese capital in late August when seasons usually begin not end. Only the presence of “Istanbul” on the match ball that Neymar struck at Bayern goalkeeper Manuel Neuer in the 18th was a reminder here of the pandemic-enforced change of location. Neymar did spark the move that saw Herrera and Di Maria combine but the Argentine could only strike over. And an interchange between Herrera and Mbappe before halftime ended with a weak shot from the French forward.  “So many people deserve credit for this victory,” said Bayern’s coach Hansi Flick. “You saw during winter how much determination we have in this team, which is obviously something you wish for as a coach.”  The result: Bayern Munich 1 (Coman 59) bt Paris Saint-Germain 0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bayerns-season-of-joy-is-complete-with-a-grand-treble/article32433717.ece
25 August 2020||Southampton,||Poor weather frustrates England||James Anderson’s bid to become just the fourth bowler to take 600 Test wickets was hampered by yet another dropped catch on Monday as poor weather frustrated England in the series finale against Pakistan. Anderson, who started the fourth day’s play in the third Test with 598 wickets, induced an edge from Shan Masood but wicketkeeper Jos Buttler floored a routine chance. It was the fourth dropped catch in 37 balls off Anderson and the closest either he, or England, came to a wicket in the session in Southampton. Pakistan was 41 for no loss after being made to follow on when rain stopped play and the players took an early lunch. Masood was on 13 and Abid Ali on 22, with Pakistan still 269 runs adrift of England’s mammoth first innings total of 583 for eight declared. A huge downpour during the interval then threatened to keep the players off the field for several hours. With more rain forecast for Tuesday and no certainty as to when England will next play a Test due to the coronavirus pandemic, Anderson could be left stranded on 598 Test wickets for some time yet.   Pakistan 80 for one  Pakistan was 80 for one in 43 overs with Abid (41) and Azhar (14) at the crease||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/poor-weather-frustrates-england/article32433715.ece
25 August 2020||Bengaluru,||One mistake could spoil the entire tournament: Kohli||Royal Challengers Bangalore (RCB) skipper Virat Kohli impressed on his teammates the need to follow all COVID-19 safety protocols, in the team’s first virtual meeting after landing in Dubai. In a meeting attended by over 30 RCB players and staff, Kohli stated that if a player violates the rules during the course of the IPL, he would be letting the team down. “I expect everyone to be on the same page in terms of securing the bubble, and making sure that nothing is compromised. One mistake from any of us could spoil the entire tournament. None of us want that,” Kohli said in the meeting, posted on RCB’s Twitter handle. Letting team down “In my opinion, if someone was to end up in that situation (breaking a rule), he is letting the whole team down. It might happen at a stage when we can’t afford to lose that player. “If we get harmed by his absence, then the whole team, system, and culture loses. I want everyone to understand the repercussions if someone violates any of the rules,” Kohli stated. RCB, or indeed any franchise, will be keen to avoid a repeat of a breach that occurred in England recently. The England-West Indies Test series, held in a similar bio-secure bubble setting, saw England pacer Jofra Archer being fined and warned for making an unauthorised visit to his home in Hove. An in-from Archer was forced to miss the second Test as he had to undergo five days of isolation and testing. RCB Director of Cricket Operations Mike Hesson explained that a wilful breach of the rules “will be dealt with very seriously”, while an accidental breach will result in the player going into a seven-day isolation period. The player will have to repeat the COVID-19 testing before he can re-enter the bubble, Hesson added. As Kohli alluded to, “if someone breaks this bubble — that we have worked incredibly hard to put in place — it affects the whole tournament. It’s not just about RCB, it’s about the tournament’s television rights... So there will be strong consequences if players break the rules,” Hesson said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/one-mistake-could-spoil-the-entire-tournament-kohli/article32433732.ece
25 August 2020||PARIS,||PSG fans arrested||Nearly 150 people were arrested as Paris Saint-Germain fans set cars ablaze, smashed shop windows and clashed with police in the French capital after the team's Champions League final defeat, police said on Monday. The violence occurred around the Parc des Princes Stadium and on the Champs-Elysees avenue during and after the match. Thousands of supporters had gathered at the Parc des Princes to cheer on PSG, lighting flares and chanting as they watched on a big screen. The trouble lasted several hours, as groups of fans threw bottles and fireworks at police, who responded with tear gas and rubber bullets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/psg-fans-arrested/article32433721.ece
25 August 2020||New York,||Women’s top seeds make their way out||Top-seeded Karolina Pliskova and No. 2 Sofia Kenin crashed out of the Western & Southern Open on Sunday, falling in their opening matches at the National Tennis Center here. Russia's Veronika Kudermetova, ranked 41st, toppled World No. 3 Pliskova of the Czech Republic 7-5, 6-4 in the second round. France's Alize Cornet notched up her first win over a top-five player in two years when she shocked Australian Open champion Kenin 6-1, 7-6(7) to reach the round of 16. It was a stunning turn of events on a day that saw men's fourth seed Stefanos Tsitsipas lead the way into the round of 16 with a 6-1, 6-3 victory over two-time Grand Slam finalist Kevin Anderson.  Important results:   Men: Second round: David Goffin bt Borna Coric 7-6(6), 6-4; Stefanos Tsitsipas bt Kevin Anderson 6-1, 6-3. First round: John Isner bt Hubert Hurkacz 7-5, 6-4; John Millman bt Adrian Mannarino 4-6, 6-4, 7-6(2); Grigor Dimitrov bt Ugo Humbert 6-3, 6-4.   Women: Second round: Veronika Kudermetova bt Karolina Pliskova 7-5, 6-4; Alize Cornet bt Sofia Kenin 6-1, 7-6(7); First round: Elise Mertens bt Rebecca Peterson 6-0, 6-2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/womens-top-seeds-make-their-way-out/article32433735.ece
25 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||Sindhu credits teamwork||This time last year, P.V. Sindhu was crowned World champion in Basel, Switzerland. The tag is now helping her chase another goal — the Olympic gold next year. “The tag of being a world champion for the second year does help me prepare as I chase the Olympic gold,” she said. “I am taking this pandemic break in a very positive way for it will be the same for all. Fortunately, I am able to maintain the desired fitness levels to be back on court whenever the competition is on.” Sindhu said that her success last year was a result of teamwork. “I repeat that my success story is a result of teamwork. At Suchitra Badminton Academy, I thank Raju sirs — Praveen (founder) and Pradeep (director) — who make it a point even now to ensure that everything is in place for me.” As a case in point, Pradeep revealed the collective strategy behind the decision to skip the Thai Open before the Worlds last year, which gave her extra time to focus on fitness, apart from other aspects of the game. “There was a lot of criticism then about that move, but Sindhu proved everyone wrong,” said Pradeep. “We worked on subtle changes, like taking the shuttle a bit higher than she was doing. We worked on stroke-selection by showing a lot of videos of her previous matches.”  The tag of being a World champion for the second year does help me as I prepare to chase another goal — to win the Olympics gold next year||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sindhu-credits-teamwork/article32433738.ece
25 August 2020||KOLKATA,||BFI optimistic about Big Bout season||The Boxing Federation of India (BFI) believes that the second edition of the Big Bout Indian Boxing League can be staged by the end of this year or early next year. As of now, the Sports Authority of India (SAI) has not allowed sparring to resume in the National camp due to the pandemic. However, the BFI is optimistic of squeezing in the Big Bout ahead of the Olympics. “We are confident of hosting the second season either by the end of this year or early next year. We will be considering all the guidelines and health safety protocols laid out in the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) while the Big Bout league gets staged this season,” BFI president Ajay Singh told The Hindu . Good viewership Notwithstanding the hiccups in its inaugural edition last year, Ajay said the Big Bout made an impact and had good television viewership. “The primary objective was to identify and put together credible team owners along with boxers of calibre like Rio Olympic bronze medallist Ingrit Valencia and renowned British boxer Scott Forrest. “Airing it on Star Sports was also a big boost and ensured Big Bout made a confident start in its maiden year,” said Ajay. According to the BFI president, the league can only get better and become financially more viable. “The experiences of the first season will be valuable in putting together a stronger foundation for the coming seasons,” said Ajay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bfi-optimistic-about-big-bout-season/article32433711.ece
25 August 2020||Chennai,||The country needs a professional basketball league: Rijiju||Union Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju called for a professional basketball league to grow the game in the country during a conclave organised by the Integrated Basketball Players Association of India on Sunday. The minister, who was the guest of honour, said: “Basketball is a very, very interesting game, and it is one of the most popular sports not only in the USA but also in places like China and Europe. Global sport “When basketball is a global sport, India cannot afford to remain low. We must do certain things to ensure that we produce quality basketball players. For this, we need to have a professional league in India. We should have more tournaments and good leagues where we have international players participating.” Rijiju added, “In metropolitan cities, basketball is already very popular. We have to take it to the rural areas and at the school and college level. It is an exciting game, and it will not take much time to grow. The intensity catches the imagination of the viewers, and it is a very spectator-friendly game.” He also listed out some of the policy initiatives undertaken by his ministry with the objective of helping India crack the top 10 in the medals tally by the 2028 Olympics. The conference was dedicated to the memory of former Basketball Federation of India secretary-general Harish Sharma.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/the-country-needs-a-professional-basketball-league-rijiju/article32433784.ece
25 August 2020||KOCHI,||Blasters enters volleyball||After making Kerala Blasters the club with the biggest fan base in football’s Indian Super League, parent company Blasters Sports Ventures Private Limited has now entered volleyball with an aim to boost the sport in the State. It has signed a deal with Serbian First Division club Radnicki Belgrade and the club will be now will renamed Radnicki Blasters. Serbia is ranked No. 11 in the FIVB’s world men’s rankings (India is at No. 78). Through the new partnership, Radnicki will offer technical expertise, training infrastructure, support and international exposure to budding volleyball talent from Kerala. Will it also see some of Kerala’s top players, who are among India’s best, playing for Radnicki in the Serbian League? “That will be the aim moving forward but it’s too early now,” Nikhil Bhardwaj, Kerala Blasters’ co-owner, told The Hindu on Monday evening. Exchange of knowledge “Currently the focus is purely on exchange of knowledge and expertise with their coaches and a chance to send talent from Kerala to train with them. In time, hopefully our players, on merit, will be able to represent us there also.” “Over the past six years, we’ve learnt of the passion Kerala has towards football and sports. Our time here has helped us realise the State’s fervour towards volleyball, a sport that is equally prominent among men and women. This motivated us to introduce Radnicki Blasters, to identify talents from the State, provide unique opportunities and build a platform to prove their excellence.” “Radnicki Belgrade is a club with rich tradition in one of the most popular sports in Serbia, volleyball. We are honoured and thrilled to partner with Blasters Sports Ventures in this wonderful project. We look forward to a long-term relationship,” said Nikola Biverovic, Sports Director, Radnicki. “In future, our club will be named Radnicki Blasters and our first team and academy players will wear the Radnicki Blasters jersey with great pride and an even bigger responsibility.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/blasters-enters-volleyball/article32434028.ece
25 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Arjuna snub ‘not pleasant news’, says Abhishek||Being ignored for the Arjuna Award was “definitely not pleasant news” for Abhishek Verma. But instead of ruminating about the miss, the air pistol ace was “very happy” that his friends and teammates, Manu Bhaker and Saurabh Chaudhary, got the nod. The 31-year-old, who has a list of achievements to feel proud of, was also pleased with his mentor Jaspal Rana being honoured with the Dronacharya Award. After the Asian Games bronze in 2018, Abhishek won World Cup gold medals in Beijing and Rio last year. He also won the mixed air pistol gold with Manu Bhaker in the Asian Championship. He had made the World Championships final and won the team silver. “My name was not in the list. It was definitely not pleasant news for me, especially in this pandemic situation, where I am already struggling to keep myself busy,” observed Abhishek, an engineer and a lawyer rolled into one. “I am very happy that Manu Bhaker and Saurabh Chaudhary got the Arjuna award. Also, my mentor Jaspal Rana sir is being honoured with the Dronacharya award,” he said. Tough situations and disappointments have not disturbed Abhishek’s focus on Olympic preparation. With the support of Olympic Gold Quest (OGQ), he has been able to set up an electronic target at his home in Chandigarh and a mini gym. Busy Apart from doing the ‘Art of Living’ course online for yoga and meditation, Abhishek has kept himself busy with “cycling, learning to play the guitar, 3D drawing, German language and video calls with cousins and friends”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/arjuna-snub-not-pleasant-news-says-abhishek/article32433909.ece
25 August 2020||Abu Dhabi,||Call it a run out: Karthik||Kolkata Knight Riders captain Dinesh Karthik finds it extremely unfair that the legendary Vinoo Mankad’s name is used in a negative manner for a dismissal which is absolutely legal. “There are two issues I have with this. First is the implementation of it. Second is the name ‘Mankad’ run out,” Karthik was quoted cricketnext website. “All the way from Don Bradman to Sunil Gavaskar, everyone has said it’s completely within the rules. The ICC and MCC have also taken a stand that it is okay. So I don’t see the reason why bowlers or any team that does it is looked at in a negative way. Karthik said the dismissal should not be called ‘Mankading’, especially when the ICC and MCC call it just a run out.  If Mankad was the first person who did that run out, Bill Brown was the first person who got run out for being silly and walking out of the crease. Why is it that people remember Mankad and not Brown?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/call-it-a-run-out-karthik/article32433713.ece
25 August 2020||NEW YORK,||Johnson is new No. 1||Dustin Johnson seized the World No. 1 ranking in emphatic style on Sunday, firing an eight-under final-round 63 to win the US PGA Northern Trust by 11 strokes. Johnson finished with a 30-under 254 at TPC Boston, with Harris English a distant second on 265 after a closing 69.   The scores: 254: Dustin Johnson 67, 60, 64, 63; 265: Harris English 64, 66, 66, 69; 266: Daniel Berger 66, 66, 67, 67; 267: Kevin Kisner 65, 66, 70, 66, Scottie Scheffler 70, 59, 67, 71; 268: Jon Rahm (Esp) 69, 67, 67, 65, Webb Simpson 70, 64, 68, 66.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/johnson-is-new-no-1/article32433719.ece
25 August 2020||August 25 2020 11:14 IST,||Sudoku - August 25, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-august-25-2020/article32434522.ece
25 August 2020||August 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Pretty powerhouse||In the early 2000s, we often laughed at the suits in the airport or at cafés who tapping away at their smartphones with little wand-like devices. It all looked ostentatious, and we knew it would take some special technology to make the stylus even seem cool. Then the S Pen from Samsung — a stylus for the Note range of devices — came along and things started looking up for the seemingly vestigial accessory. In fact, for this range of smartphones, it was not just an accessory, it was a part of the device’s ecosystem. Having taken the Note20 Ultra 5G for several good spins over the past couple of weeks, one of the biggest gaze-pullers is the design. I had the Mystic Bronze model. Thanks to the chrome rose-gold curved sides and the sleek side buttons with the flat top and bottom edges, the Note20 Ultra 5G has a luxurious feel. If you thought the S20 Ultra was speedy, the Note20 Ultra 5G is a few levels up. One can opt for either the 90Hz or 120Hz frame refresh rate. This device is also equipped with clever adaptive behaviours in refresh rate depending on your activity; streaming and gaming will occupy higher refresh rates while more monotonous activity such as basic browsing or texting will demand lower ones. The aforementioned is helped by the Exynos 990 processor, which is manufactured on Samsung’s new 7nm LPP EUV (extreme ultra-violet) process. The Exynos 990 has a triple-cluster CPU core set-up bettering power distribution and graphics improvement. It prevents annoying screen tearing and/or glitches for smoother animations. Thanks to this form of Machine Learning in the Note20 Ultra 5G, for a 4500mAh battery, the device is optimised to run all day and halfway through the night before you hit the first margins of a Battery Saver mode. Newfound strength The Note20 Ultra 5G comes with — finally — Corning Gorilla Glass Victus. The scratch resistance of this protection is up to four times better than competitive aluminosilicate (which typically fails at less than 0.8 metres) and I (accidentally) put this to the test during a recent tumble on some stairs which left me a little bruised but the smartphone still looking brand new and unaffected by trauma. There does not seem to be any weight difference with the new Victus glass and even if there is, it is not too noticeable. The 0.7 millimetre-tipped S Pen is neatly tucked away on the right side bottom of the device for easy access. While I did not exactly end up like one of the aforementioned suits with their PDAs, I adapted to using a stylus fairly quickly. There is a quick tutorial to understand the newer quirks to the S Pen as well as the existing basics. I found the S Pen helpful in getting precise shorthand done during interviews, and the Note 20 Ultra 5G quickly learned to keep that on hand for me as a go-to note-making option. The no-touch screen commands using the stylus also added some whimsy to my experience. The responsiveness of this gadget is strengthened by the Exynos 990, and has impressive standby power. And the cameras: as usual, Samsung does well with the camera setups, barring one major drawback. With the weather changes heading towards more humid — even by Hyderabad standards — I caught a little condensation in the gaps between the lenses and device body. I often had to wait for the condensation to ride itself out, which was a little frustrating. However, as with our previous review of the S20 Ultra, the Telephoto, Portrait modes and Space Zoom produce quality results, with little to no compromise. Video recording is a delight as is audio capture with the in-device Dolby Atmos tech. Ultimately, the Note 20 Ultra 5G is pricey at Rs. 1,04,999; you have to be sure this is the phone you want for the long haul. For those wanting a similar experience but not ready to commit, opt for one of its less pricey counterparts such as the Note 9 or the Note 10.  Specifications  Display:6.9” edge Quad HD+ Dynamic AMOLED 2X ; Infinity-O Display (3088x1440),496ppi, HDR10+ certified ; 120Hz refresh rate Dimensions & weight:164.8 x 77.2 x 8.1mm, 208g ; S-Pen: 5.8 × 4.35 × 105.08mm, 3.04g  S Pen:Bluetooth enabled, Lithium Titanate Battery: Up to 24 hours of battery standby time ; Pressure levels: 4096, Pen tip diameter: 0.7 mm, IP68 Sensor:Ultrasonic Fingerprint sensor, Accelerometer, Barometer, Gyro sensor, Geomagnetic sensor, Hall sensor, Proximity sensor, Ambient Light Sensor Battery & charging:4500mAh ; Fast Wireless Charging 2.0, USB PD 3.0 (PPS) certified Fast Charging for wired charging (AFC and QC2.0 compatible)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/pretty-powerhouse/article32434100.ece
25 August 2020||August 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Homegrown epic||Mythology has always been a rich source to tap into for video games. Japan has done it time and time again, with games such as Okami, Nioh and countless more; India, too, has rich mythologies and its concepts and influences can be seen across several games. However, there have not been many that completely encompass our cultures, even from an Indian studio — until Pune-based Nodding Heads Games released Raji: An Ancient Epic, which is strong on story and gameplay, while respectful in its representation of Hindu and Balinese mythologies. Rooted in fantasy Raji is a classic tale of good versus evil, with gods and demons in an endless battle for control. The last great war had pushed the demons into the shadows but they have resurfaced again, led by the demon lord asura Mahabalsura, the invasion to take over the lands of humans has begun. Raji, a nimble acrobat and tightrope walker and her brother Golu, a puppeteer, are street performers who are caught and separated in the onslaught. Days later, Raji wakes up with powers, chosen by the gods to take on the demons as she sets out to find her lost brother, ultimately learning more of these mysterious powers. The story is told through stunning 2D puppetry instead of traditional high concept rendered videos. The tholu bommalata style of shadow puppets as cutouts are detailed, complete with the puppeteering sticks, artfully setting the stage for the story. Raji is a strong central character reminding me of Prince of Persia. The voice acting is great, but it would have been even better with a Hindi voice over, with subtitles for international audiences, to complete the immersion into Ancient India. Raji’s gameplay has several influences that bring it all together into one coherent experience, a multiplane platformer very much in the vein of the original God of War. The main character is graceful as she skilfully jumps over obstacles, manifesting magical weapons, to dispatch demons thrice her size. Each strike hitting with sparks and fireworks. On the smaller Switch screen it is easy to lose Raji in the fray, as the camera seems to zoom out, making it very Diablo-like at times, with little arenas tailored to give you freedom with Raji’s agile fighting style. Not a very long game, there is a handful of well-crafted levels, that feels more a first step into creating a world that would hopefully span more games. The platforming also feels like Ubisoft’s side-scrolling Assassin’s Creed games, one of which was also set in India. Yet, the detailing and style in Raji feels a lot more historical in its setting, inspired by royal Rajasthan architecture. A rare gem, Raji is a stunning game, lovingly hand-crafted with excellent art: towering statues lit in shafts of light, glowing illustrations on the walls, ancient wall murals and carvings, palaces lit with moody lanterns, the city in the distance, and even beautiful ornate doors with sunlight filtering through stained glasses. If you own a Nintendo Switch, Raji lends itself well to hand-held gameplay which has us looking forward to seeing more releases from Nodding Heads. For best results, however, it is recommended you play it connected to a TV. If you don’t own a Switch, Raji is slated to launch on PC too, so hopefully it will make a jump into other consoles as well. The writer is a tech and gaming enthusiast who hopes to one day finish his sci-fi novel  Raji: An Ancient Epic  Developer:Nodding Heads Games Price:Approx. Rs. 1800 on Nintendo Switch; coming soon on PC, Steam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/homegrown-epic/article32434095.ece
25 August 2020||August 25 2020 00:00 IST,||On war and wisdom||Amid these housebound times, how about having a virtual museum tour of The Ramayana ? Founded by Bhuwan Arora, the app TheRamayana.com with its collection of comprehensive and illustrated guides gives multiple filters to select stories from the epic. Twenty-five students across India have worked on this project, says Bhuwan, adding, “Instead of proceeding through a traditional narrative, the app gives users freedom to explore stories from unconventional and different narratives which can be further explored with tags, and lets users be engulfed in this universe of theRamayana.” An odyssey It all started with the re-telecast of Ramanand Sagar’s Ramayana on Doordarshan. Bhuwan, who shifted from Bengaluru to Faridabad to be with his family during the lockdown, saw his father glued to the television. He was amazed to see lakhs of queries on Google related to the epic. “I realised the epic’s huge demand and market, especially in vernacular languages, and wanted to create a product that is appealing and easy to consume even for those who cannot read,” he states, adding they used Google Translate and manually rectified errors. Brinda Singh, head of the content research team, reached out to college students through social media. “Since the colleges were shut due to lockdown, many students were looking for internships. I could sense an opportunity and roped in talented freshers interested to work on this idea,” Bhuwan explains. The team stuck to the Valmiki and Tulsidas’Ramayana, and guidelines were formulated. Eight students researched the locations and places mentioned in The Ramayana ; different maps available online were searched and the team created their own to show locations that were believed to be associated with it and how they look now. “Hampi is Kishkinda, the kingdom of the Vanara King Sugriva. Dandakarnya Forest (Rama passed through it in search of Sita) is in Chattisgarh. We also had to map according to the seven Kandas and ensure no story is missed out,” informs Bhuwan. The perspective poll to different stories was added, to challenge the user’s viewpoint on the story. The short stories with only 70 to 80 words (two minutes) are crisp and informative. The audio was created by students with theatre experience in college plays. “We have added no emotions or interpretations to what has happened. It is up to the reader to interpret and take the story the way they want,” adds Bhuwan. The app was launched on July 20 after a month of its beta launch; it had crossed 850 downloads across iOS and Android till August 21.  TheRamayana.com is available for Android. The iOS version costs Rs. 299 while the Android version is free with in-app purchases.   For all things AI Bhuwan Arora, an alumni of IIT Delhi and founder of The Mind Network, explains his ideology as ‘roots’ and wants to create mind-morphing AI (Artificial Intelligence) that can take decisions. He says, “I want to replicate human intelligence and see how the mind works by understanding its cognitive architecture and different fundamentals such as consciousness, logic and memory. I want to get to the roots of it.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/on-war-and-wisdom/article32434103.ece
25 August 2020||Chandigarh/Bhubaneswar,||Haryana Chief Minister, Speaker test positive||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal and Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta on Monday tested positive for COVID-19. Both the leaders confirmed it on Twitter. “I was tested for Novel Corona Virus today. My test report has returned positive. I appeal to all colleagues and associates who came in my contact over the last week to get themselves tested. I request my close contacts to move into strict quarantine immediately,” Mr. Manohar Lal tweeted. Mr. Gupa, in a tweet, said: “Yesterday [Sunday] I got my COVID-19 test done and the report has come positive. My health is fine, but I am getting home quarantined on the advice of doctors. I request that everyone who have come in contact with me in the last few days to please isolate themselves and get examined.” The Assembly session, slated to start on August 26, will be presided by Deputy Speaker Ranbir Gangwar. Earlier Mr. Gupta’s political secretary and a nephew had tested positive. Following this, the Speaker got himself tested for the virus. Shibu hospitalised Former Jharkhand Chief Minister and Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) supremo Shibu Soren, who had tested positive for COVID-19, was hospitalised in Ranchi on Monday. Mr. Soren, father of Chief Minister Hemant Soren, and his wife Roopi Soren were found to be infected on Friday (August 21). “Guruji (as the septuagenarian leader is known popularly) has been admitted in Medanta Hosptial at Ranchi for precautions only. His health conditions are absolutely fine,” said Supriyo Bhattacharya, party general secretary and spokesperson.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/haryana-chief-minister-speaker-test-positive/article32433921.ece
25 August 2020||New Delhi,||Tax collection in the Capital 57% less than expected in April-July||The different phases of the lockdown and unlock has taken a toll on the Delhi government’s tax revenue collection. According to data accessed by The Hindu , the total tax revenue collection has gone down by 57.2% than the expected collection for the April-June period as per the annual budget 2020-21. Moreover, the collection this year is down by 44.3% compared to last year for the same period. The collection from five streams — VAT, GST, Excise Tax, stamps and registration, and motor vehicle tax — was expected to be Rs. 14,700 crore. But the amount the government received was only Rs. 6,282.32. Also, the amount is 44.3% less compared to the same period last year, when the total tax revenue collection was Rs. 11,284.47 crore. But the monthly tax revenue collection from the five streams, though lesser than last year and the prediction, has been increasing over the months. In April, it was Rs. 525.50 crore, it increased to Rs. 1,479.66 crore in May, Rs. 1,852.37 crore in June and Rs. 2,424.79 in July. Apart from the tax from the five sources, the government also gets money from the Central government in the form of GST compensation and loans. Including this, the total receipts or earning of the Delhi government was Rs. 18,033.19 crore from April to July last year. The same has dropped to Rs. 12,288.67 crore this year, which is 32% less. But after the pandemic struck, the government has cut down its expenses, reducing the effect of the fall in revenue. The expenditure of the government was Rs. 14,411.94 crore from April to July in 2019 and it has reduced to Rs. 11,376.44 crore for the same period this year — a reduction of 21%. “The total income [including contributions from the Central government] for the period has fallen by about Rs. 6,000 crore compared to last year. But during the same time, the expenditure has reduced by about Rs. 3,000 crore. So, the net effect is a loss of about Rs. 3,000 crore,” a Delhi government official told The Hindu.  Strict watch The Delhi government is monitoring expenses and currently, all expenses above Rs. 1 crore need the Cabinet’s approval, which was not required before the pandemic. “Already the earnings are less by about Rs. 6,000 crore and this is expected to increase over the year in all likelihood. It is safe to assume that the revised budget will be much lesser than the budget of Rs. 65,000 crore,” the official said. On July 2, the Delhi government had formed a 12-member committee headed by Dialogue and Development Commission (DDC) Vice-Chairperson Jasmine Shah to explore economic reforms to help businesses recover from the impact of COVID-19. The committee has not submitted any solutions and is expected to do so in the coming months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/tax-collection-in-the-capital-57-less-than-expected-in-april-july/article32433907.ece
25 August 2020||New Delhi,||Proceed with hearing in Chief Secy assault case: HC||The Delhi High Court on Monday allowed a trial court here to proceed with hearing arguments on framing of charges in the then Chief Secretary assault case in which Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and his Deputy Manish Sisodia were made accused. Justice Vibhu Bakhru allowed an application by then Chief Secretary Anshu Prakash and modified its March 14, 2019 order by which the trial court was directed not to hear arguments on the charges. Mr. Prakash has also sought a direction for an early hearing of the petition filed before the High Court by Mr. Kejriwal and Mr. Sisodia challenging the trial court’s October 22, 2018 order permitting two other advocates to conduct the prosecution on behalf of the officer of Delhi Police, instead of a regular Public Prosecutor attached to the court concerned. The High Court, however, noted that the petition is listed for hearing on November 2 and it was not feasible to hear it at an earlier date. During the hearing, senior advocate Siddharth Luthra, appearing for Mr. Prakash, said in order to save time, he had no objection if the arguments on charges are heard and the case is prosecuted by the regular Public Prosecutor. Senior advocates Dayan Krishnan and N. Hariharan, appearing for Mr. Kejriwal and Mr. Sisodia, also said they do not have any problem on regular prosecutor conducting the case before the trial court.  The criminal case relates to alleged assault on Mr. Prakash during a meeting at Mr. Kejriwal’s official residence on February 19, 2018.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/proceed-with-hearing-in-chief-secy-assault-case-hc/article32433927.ece
25 August 2020||CHANDIGARH,||AAP seeks tabling of motion to repeal Central ordinances||Ahead of the Punjab Assembly’s one-day session on August 28, the Aam Aadmi Party on Monday said it has sought permission from the Speaker to table a motion for repealing of the Centre’s three agriculture-related ordinances and Power Amendment Bill-2020. Senior party leader and Sunam MLA Aman Arora said he has sought permission from the Speaker to table a motion in this regard under Rule 71 of the Vidhan Sabha rules during the session. ‘Federal set up violated’ Mr. Arora said the three agriculture-related ordinances and the Power Amendment Bill-2020 by the Union government were contrary to the federal structure of the country, besides impinging on the rights of the States. He said the farmers would be left at the mercy of big corporate houses and rural economy of Punjab would be shattered if the ordinances were implemented. “Similarly, if the Power Amendment Bill-2020 became a law, the entire gamut would go into the hands of big corporate houses and different rates of electricity would be charged from rural and urban consumers and the powers vested with State Electricity Regulatory Commission would go to the Centre and the State government would not be able to protect its own interests,” he said. The Centre had recently promulgated the three agriculture related ordinances — Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Ordinance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/aap-seeks-tabling-of-motion-to-repeal-central-ordinances/article32433920.ece
25 August 2020||Kolkata,||‘No CM face for BJP in West Bengal polls’||Former Meghalaya Governor Tathagata Roy arrived at the Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose International Airport here on Sunday and was greeted by a huge crowd of BJP supporters. Mr. Roy has already expressed his wish to join active politics and said he has no reservations if the party projects him as the Chief Minister candidate. The State unit has a number of CM candidate hopefuls, including president Dilip Ghosh, who helped the party increase its Lok Sabha tally from two to 18 in the 2019 polls. The central leadership on Sunday tried to put all speculation to rest saying a decision on the post will be taken after the polls. “We will fight the elections under the leadership of Narendra Modi,” said national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya. He also told journalists that all the leaders — Dilip Ghosh, Mukul Roy and Rahul Sinha — will work as a team. The central leadership has always maintained that in States where the party is not in power, there is no question of going to the polls with a chief ministerial candidate.  Active role On Monday, Mr. Tathagata Roy also said it is “premature to think” who will be the CM candidate. “At this moment, it is important for us to take note of the shortcomings of the party and strengthen it.” He also met Mr .Vijayvargiya during the day giving clear hints that he will play an active role in State politics. Political observers say with different factions trying to assert themselves, the central leadership has few options but to put all speculation to rest. “The inner party feud can intensify with more CM contenders joining the party fold, particularly with the return of Tathagata Roy. The BJP is left with little option but to give a clear message that it will go to polls under Narendra Modi’s leadership and not any State leader,” Biswanath Chakrborty, political observer and head of the department of political science at the Rabindra Bharati University, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/no-cm-face-for-bjp-in-west-bengal-polls/article32433924.ece
25 August 2020||Bhopal,||More hunger among M.P.’s women workers||The COVID-19 induced lockdown has negatively impacted the nutrition availability of women workers in Madhya Pradesh, with 57% reporting a reduced frequency of meals, a survey said. This reduction is nearly twice the number of deprived men. Overall 88.17% women workers reported a decline in food consumption with majority of them engaged in the service sector where the loss of livelihood due to the lockdown has been the most significant, according the NGO ActionAid India, which works for child and women rights and emergency response. The group had conducted a nine-day survey in May across 26 of the 52 districts of the State and involving 782 respondents. In Madhya Pradesh, every four in five workers had reported a loss of livelihood owing to the lockdown. “Service sector is the worst hit with 95% workers reporting losing jobs, followed by the construction sector where 81% lost jobs,” said the survey, titled ‘Workers in the time of COVID-19’. “The worst hit demographic group is tribal women, most of whom are migrant workers. We will submit the survey to NITI Aayog advocating for policy changes to support the workers,” said Narendra Sharma, Regional Manager, ActionAid India. The survey found that consumption levels in general had reduced across the board irrespective of livelihood status. According to the survey, only half the ration card holders could access supplies through the public distribution system. This despite the fact that 80% of workers who did not migrate had ration cards. “More than a distribution issue, it has been about accessibility to ration and implementation of several welfare schemes during the pandemic,” said Mr. Sharma.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/more-hunger-among-mps-women-workers/article32433923.ece
25 August 2020||New Delhi,||CM thanks banquet halls in city for joining fight against COVID-19||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, while interacting with representatives of banquet hall associations on Monday, said that the people of Delhi, including the associations will have to work together to revive the economy. He thanked the associations for cooperating with the Delhi government during the rise in COVID-19 cases in June, by letting the banquet halls getting attached with hospitals treating such patients. The associations thanked the government for opening up banquet halls and suggested various measures to revive the banquet hall industry. Mr. Kejriwal said that their suggestions will be implemented and measures will be adopted to revive the banquet industry in Delhi. “In June, when the cases started to rise and the bed capacity had declined, Satyendar Jain Ji called some of you to have a discussion and requested that the banquet halls be attached with the hospitals. I am happy that you, the banquet industry, decided to support us whenever required,” he said. “Now is the time to bring the economy back on track... I will hold another meeting with the representatives of the banquet halls in few days,” he also said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cm-thanks-banquet-halls-in-city-for-joining-fight-against-covid-19/article32433901.ece
25 August 2020||New Delhi,||Kejriwal launches mobile app and online OPD registration system||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday launched a mobile app and online OPD registration system for Shri Dada Dev Matri Avum Shishu Chikitsalaya. The app will be a convenient solution, especially for pregnant women during the time of COVID-19 pandemic as they will no longer be required to stand in queues for registration. He said that the Delhi government would launch the Hospital Management Information System (HMIS) to bring all hospitals in Delhi on one platform and then integrate the features of the app with HMIS to improve its efficiency. “Shri Dada Dev Matri Avum Shishu Chikitsalaya conducts 10,000 deliveries across the year. This hospital has only 106 beds for now, but the capacity of the beds will be increased to 281 in the coming days, the inauguration of which was held in January this year and will be completed soon,” Mr. Kejriwal said. According to the Delhi government, the key features of the app include no-queue appointment, no waiting time, online Flu Clinic Registration for COVID-19 and helping prevent COVID-19 infection by ensuring minimal contact with healthcare providers and other patients. “The Delhi government is bringing together all hospitals in Delhi through the HMIS, including Mohalla Clinic, polyclinic, multi-specialty and super-specialty hospitals. This is a very ambitious project and will be completed within one year,” Mr. Kejriwal also said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/kejriwal-launches-mobile-app-and-online-opd-registration-system/article32433903.ece
25 August 2020||New Delhi,||Google Pay violation: HC seeks reply from govt., RBI||The Delhi High Court on Monday sought response of the Centre and the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on a plea seeking action against ‘Google Pay’ for allegedly violating the central bank’s guidelines related to data localisation, storage and sharing norms. Penalty imposition A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan also issued notice to Google India Digital Service Pvt Ltd on the petition of advocate Abhishek Sharma seeking to impose penalty on the company for alleged violations of laws. The court has posted the case for further hearing on September 24. The petition sought direction to Google India Digital Service to give an undertaking to not store data on its app under UPI ecosystem and further not to share it with any third party, including its holding or parent company. It also sought direction to the company not to share any data from UPI switch with any other party. Third-party app The plea stated that Google India launched, ‘Tez’, a mobile payments service targeted at users in India which later folded into the new ‘Google Pay’ app. It said ‘Google Pay’ is a third-party app which facilitates payment in the UPI ecosystem and is able to do the same by partnering with various PSP/acquirer banks. “Further, ‘Google Pay’ is regulated by respondent number 2 [National Payment Corporation of India] which is responsible for granting permission to Payment Service Provider [PSP] as banks and to third-party apps to operate under the UPI network,” it said. The plea claimed that the company was storing personal sensitive data in contravention of UPI procedural guidelines of October 2019, which allows such data to be stored only by PSP bank systems and not by any third-party application. The plea sought direction to the RBI to take appropriate punitive action against the NPCI and revoke its authorisation to operate and regulate the UPI payment system, on account of risking customer payments data, its failure to audit Google India Digital Service Pvt Ltd and take any steps against it despite its acts of flagrant and serious non-compliance of applicable laws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/google-pay-violation-hc-seeks-reply-from-govt-rbi/article32433893.ece
25 August 2020||GURUGRAM,||‘BJP’s misrule is responsible for Gurugram’s plight’||Deputy Leader of Congress Legislative Party Aftab Ahmed has held the “misrule” of the BJP for six years responsible for the plight of Gurugram and said that the ruling party had done little for the district except changing its name. In a press statement, Mr. Ahmed said Gurugram had a decisive role to play in the development of not just Haryana but the entire country and it attracted investment from across the world, but the city was suffering due to wrong policies of the BJP government. Recent flooding Referring to the recent flooding, Mr. Ahmed said the city had made headlines for long hours of traffic jams and vigilantes beating up people in broad daylight over the past six years. He said that Gurugram had been in news for all the wrong reasons on the law and order front. Mr. Ahmed said the city was flooded every time it rained and the people were caught in the traffic for hours, adding that flyovers on NH-48 had developed cracks, just a few months after the construction. ‘Rampant corruption’ He said an under-construction elevated corridor recently collapsing on Sohna Road had exposed the poor quality of infrastructure in the city and also raised serious questions over the working of the government. He alleged that corruption and mismanagement are rampant during the BJP rule. Mr. Ahmed alleged that the Haryana government had also proved ineffective in preventing the spread of COVID-19 in Gurugram. He said that the government must wake up from its slumber and stop pushing the city towards devastation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjps-misrule-is-responsible-for-gurugrams-plight/article32433894.ece
25 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||DMC riots report lacks credibility: Delhi Congress||An 11-member committee of the State Congress set up to study the Delhi Minorities Commission fact-finding report into the north-east Delhi communal violence said the report lacked credibility. Delhi Congress chief Ch. Anil Kumar said that the panel constituted by the DMC to probe the communal violence was a “weak and sham committee” which did not have any legal rights, either to call the Delhi police or force them to appear before it for recording their statements. Mr. Kumar demanded a judicial inquiry to unravel the truth and punish the guilty. Mr. Kumar said that the Delhi government’s sole purpose in constituting the fact-finding committee via the DMC seemed to be to absolve the Aam Aadmi Party from any blame for the violence and destruction. Mr. Kumar alleged that the Delhi government had stayed silent during the riots and if it had intervened, many lives and property could have been saved. Deliberate attempt “It was a deliberate attempt to exclude a member of the DMC from the fact-finding committee, as the DMC enjoys quasi-judicial powers under Section 10(5) of the DMC Act, and the Delhi police was rule-bound to respond to the summons of the fact-finding committee, if a DMC member was in it,” Mr. Kumar said. He added that if the Kejriwal government was serious about unravelling the truth and bringing the culprits of the riots to book, then it should have demanded a judicial probe, headed by either a sitting or retired Hight Court judge. The Delhi Congress questioned why FIRs were not filed against the BJP leaders who “incited communal violence”, and why the roles of the elected representatives of the BJP and the Aam Aadmi Party were not investigated by the fact-finding committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dmc-riots-report-lacks-credibility-delhi-congress/article32433899.ece
25 August 2020||New Delhi,||1,061 fresh virus cases take city’s tally to 1,62,527||With 1,061 new cases reported in the past 24 hours the total number of COVID-19 cases here stood at 1,62,527, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Monday. The number of COVID-19 positive people under home isolation in Delhi crossed 6,000 for the first time in August. Of the total number of cases, 1,46,588 people have recovered and there are 11,626 active cases in Delhi at present. Also, 13 more deaths were reported, taking the total number of deaths due to the virus to 4,313 . The number of new cases has been less than 1,500 for the past 39 days. The number of tests conducted in the past 24 hours were only about 60% of the average daily tests done in July. The positivity rate, which is the percentage of people who test positive, has increased to a 45-day high of 8.9%, as per the bulletin. This is the highest since July 10, when the positivity rate was 9.09%. The positivity rate, which was 12.2% on July 1 had stayed below it since then and even dropped to 5.2% on August 17. Though Delhi has a capacity to conduct around 11,000 RT-PCR tests a day, only 3,826 such tests were done in the past 24 hours. Of the total 11,910 tests done in the past 24 hours, 67.8% were rapid antigen tests, which have shown a low positivitycompared to RT-PCR tests. The number of containment zones in the city was 627 as on Monday. The Delhi government on Monday said that, after Delhi, the USA has adopted “convalescent plasma therapy” for treating critically ill COVID-19 patients. Congratulating the people of Delhi, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted, “They used to say, back in the day - what America does today, India would do tomorrow. Delhi has changed it. Now - what Delhi did yesterday, America does today. Congratulations Delhiites for achieving this for our country.[sic.]” “Back in April 2020, Delhi government was the first in the country to apply for permission from Centre to carry out trials of plasma therapy at Lok Nayak Hospital,” an official statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/1061-fresh-virus-cases-take-citys-tally-to-162527/article32433905.ece
25 August 2020||New Delhi,||21-year-old man arrested for killing dairy owner||A 21-year-old man was arrested for allegedly killing his employer after an argument broke out between them over salary, the police said on Monday. Tasleem, a worker at a dairy owned by 45-year-old Om Prakash, attacked the latter with a wooden stick and also slit his neck with a knife, they said. The accused then packed the body in a gunny bag and threw it in a well nearby. Tasleem from Uttar Pradesh’s Shamli was working at a hotel in Bahadurgarh for last two years. He was introduced to victim in June, 2020 by a relative and started working at the dairy with a monthly salary of Rs. 15,000.  Victim goes missing On August 12, the victim’s police approached the police stating that his uncle had been missing since the intervening night of August 10 and 11 and he was last seen with his servant. A few days later, the victim's body was recovered from a nearby well in a decomposed state following which a case of murder was registered at Baba Haridas Nagar. Next day, the police found out that the accused had disappeared with Prakash’s motorcycle and mobile following which they raided different places in Shamli, Panipat and areas in Haryana. Tasleem was arrested on Sunday after police received information that he was seen in the areas of Delhi's Jharoda but did not visit the dairy, said DCP (Dwarka) Anto Alphonse. During interrogation, he confessed to have killed Prakash after an argument regarding his salary. Due to the lockdown, the dairy business was not doing well and the victim asked him to work on a lower salary. This caused an argument between the duo following which Prakash went to sleep. This is when Tasleem committed the crime. When the victim’s relatives asked him about Prakash, he told them that he has gone somewhere and fled the spot. The mobile phone and a knife have been recovered from the accused, the DCP added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/21-year-old-man-arrested-for-killing-dairy-owner/article32433939.ece
25 August 2020||New Delhi,||Weekly markets open on trial basis with norms||Weekly markets in various parts of Delhi that have been shut since the beginning of the lockdown reopened on a trial basis on Monday with strict norms for maintaining social distancing, following directions of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority last week. In South Delhi, about 25 markets have been identified by the area municipal corporation to set up shop on different days of the week. Only one weekly market per day per zone is being allowed till August 30. These include the ones at Nizamuddin, Bhogal, Kalkaji, Govindpuri, Sarita Vihar, Badarpur, Shiv Nagar, Tilak Nagar, Janakpuri, Hari Nagar, Khayala, Ashok Nagar among other places. Similarly, markets in north and east Delhi have also been opened. Markets falling in containment zones, however, have not been given the permission to reopen. Among the markets that do open, strict compliance of standard operating measures and directions issued by the corporations and the government are to be followed. A zonal official has been identified for each market. He is required to ensure strict compliance of DDMA directions, an SDMC order states. These include ensuring adequate distancing between vendors and buyers, face covering or mask is worn, proper marking for maintaining distance must be undertaken with a distance of at least six feet maintained between two stalls. If any case is reported in the market then the ill person is to be placed in a room or area where they are isolated from others. No instance of crowding or congregation should take place, spitting is to be strictly prohibited and proper demarcation of weekly market regarding starting point to ending point should be ensured.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/weekly-markets-open-on-trial-basis-with-norms/article32433941.ece
25 August 2020||New Delhi,||Gupta seeks Hazare’s support against Kejriwal||Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta has written to anti-corruption crusader Anna Hazare for support in a mass movement against the “corrupt Kejriwal government” of Delhi, inviting him to the Capital for it. Mr. Gupta wrote, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), which came to power in the name of clean and fair politics had demolished all the parameters of “political purity.” “After coming back to power on the basis of false promises, false intentions and communal politics, the people of Delhi have suffered the communal riots planned by AAP. AAP has become a machine to form fake companies in the name of political donations and converting black money into white money... it is no longer a party of the common people but has become a party of people with black money,” the BJP leader alleged. Mr. Gupta said Mr. Hazare was requested to come to Delhi and help the BJP “in fighting the battle against the corrupt Kejriwal government which supports the rioters.”  When contacted, both AAP and Delhi government did not respond to allegations raised by the BJP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/gupta-seeks-hazares-support-against-kejriwal/article32433933.ece
25 August 2020||JAIPUR,||Charitable group extends relief to Assam flood-hit||A charitable group in Rajasthan has extended relief to flood-affected people in three districts of Assam by supplying ration kits. The floodwaters have caused huge damage to the infrastructure, including roads, bridges and embankments, in the northeastern State. Udaipur-based Narayan Seva Sansthan (NSS) is supplying food packets to the needy people mainly in Tinsukia district’s Lachon Gaon, Sivasagar’s Laibil and Jorhat’s Miri Pothar region. The ration kits contain dry food items, ready-to-eat food packets, dry snacks, biscuits, namkeen, milk powder and drinking water. NSS president Prashant Agarwal said here on Monday that an added initiative for offering hygiene items in the kits had also been taken by sending soaps and sanitary napkins to serve the flood-affected people during the COVID-19 pandemic. More than 200 families have benefited from the initiative. Mr. Agarwal said the NSS had decided to extend a helping hand to the flood-affected families, which included children, by offering the basic necessity of food in view of the havoc wreaked in large parts of Assam. The NSS is already supplying monthly rations to about 50,000 poor families in Rajasthan, Haryana, Uttarakhand and Maharashtra.  PPE kits for doctors A dedicated team of NSS in Udaipur had recently stitched over 53,200 face masks for the public at large and 780 personal protective equipment (PPE) kits for doctors and nursing staff amid the pandemic. The PPE items included aprons, gowns, surgical masks, gloves and shoe covers. Mr. Agarwal said a skill centre at the Sansthan was also planning to resume its classes to provide training to the needy persons. The NSS has taken up activities such as artificial limb distribution, corrective surgery, skills education, health care support, free food offering and talent nurturing to bring the differently-abled to the mainstream.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/charitable-group-extends-relief-to-assam-flood-hit/article32433918.ece
25 August 2020||LUCKNOW,||Court seeks record of Kafeel case proceedings||The Allahabad High Court on Monday instructed the Uttar Pradesh government’s advocate to make available the original record of the proceedings under the National Security Act, 1980, against Gorakhpur doctor Kafeel Khan. Dr. Khan is incarcerated in a Mathura jail in connection with a case related to his comments during a speech against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act at the Aligarh Muslim University. The court also granted both parties time to file additional documents and listed the matter for August 27. The court is hearing a habeas corpus writ petition filed on behalf of Dr. Khan by his wife Nuzhat Perween. The Supreme Court had on August 11 told the Allahabad High Court to decide the matter of Dr. Khan’s release within 15 days. The BJP government in Uttar Pradesh had in February slapped the NSA on Dr. Khan for allegedly making inflammatory and provocative comments during a speech against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act at the Aligarh Muslim University.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/court-seeks-record-of-kafeel-case-proceedings/article32433925.ece
25 August 2020||New Delhi,||HC extends stay on probe in criminal case against Dua||The Delhi High Court on Monday extended its interim order staying the investigation in a criminal case filed against journalist Vinod Dua for allegedly making statements conducive to public mischief. Justice Anup Jairam Bhambhani highlighted that a similar matter relating to an FIR against Mr. Dua is pending before the Supreme Court and hence it was proper to wait for the top court's decision. The court noted that the decision of the Supreme Court on the case could have bearing on the plea before it. It has posted the case for hearing on September 22. The court was hearing Mr. Dua'a plea seeking quashing of the FIR lodged against him by the Delhi Police Crime Branch on a complaint by a Delhi BJP leader. The FIR was lodged on June 4 on the complaint of BJP spokesperson, Naveen Kumar, alleging Mr. Dua of spreading rumours and misinformation about Delhi riots. The complaint stated that Mr Dua's his comments in the webcast — The Vinod Dua Show — contain communal overtones, which during the current COVID-19 crisis, was causing public disaffection, which shall cause hatred and ill-will between different communities. The webcast aired on March 11, 2020. This is the second FIR registered against Mr Dua based on the webcast. The other FIR was registered on the complaints of one Ajay Shyam Vill in Kumarsain police station, Shimla. Sections 124A (Sedition), 268 (public nuisance), 505 (Statements conducing to public mischief) and 501 (Printing or engraving matter known to be defamatory) of IPC have been quoted in the FIR. Mr. Dua had moved the top court against the FIR registered against him in Shimla over his YouTube show on communal riots in Delhi earlier this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-extends-stay-on-probe-in-criminal-case-against-dua/article32433929.ece
25 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Man held for assaulting minor||A 42-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly sexually assaulting a 12-year-old girl in a park in Rajouri Garden, the police said on Monday. The accused had also shot a video of the act, they said. A passer-by stopped the accused and called the police. A team came to the spot and nabbed the accused, said an officer, adding that his mobile phone has also been seized. The minor has been handed over to her parents. A case under relevant sections of the POCSO Act has been registered and further investigation is under way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/man-held-for-assaulting-minor/article32433932.ece
25 August 2020||New Delhi,||Govt. website for registration of workers unclear, alleges BJP||The Delhi government may have started the registration of construction workers but there were problems with the process due to the unclear addresses of the schools where this was to take place, the BJP said. Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri alleged that a website advertised for the process was also not accessible. Letter to Kejriwal In a letter to Mr. Kejriwal, Mr. Bidhuri demanded that the area and the location of schools for registration should be clearly stated and the government should also ensure the smooth operation of the website. “In the absence of the clear addresses of the schools, workers are moving here and there to get their registration done. On the other hand, when they are trying to open the website, it is also not opening,” he added. He also added that places, where these schools are situated, should be clearly stated and the government should ensure of the smooth functioning of its website.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/govt-website-for-registration-of-workers-unclear-alleges-bjp/article32433935.ece
25 August 2020||August 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Mask for the masses||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/mask-for-the-masses/article32433897.ece
25 August 2020||New Delhi,||HC tells North body to release April pension||The Delhi HC on Monday directed the North Corporation to release pension for the month of April immediately, taking into account the plight of retired civic employees. Thousands of retired North Delhi Municipal Corporation officials have not been disbursed the pension due to them for the last five months, Nagar Nigam Seva Nivrit Karamchaari Kalyan Samiti said. “For the remaining pension, the Government of NCTD and North Corporation have been directed to file status report within two weeks with liberty to the petitioner to submit reply to the same. There are 12,000 retired employees,” it said. The case has been posted for September 21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-tells-north-body-to-release-april-pension/article32433902.ece
25 August 2020||New Delhi,||Senior staffer at BJP office tests positive for COVID-19||A section of the Delhi BJP office on Pant Marg has been cordoned off after a senior staffer tested positive for COVID-19, the party said. The area is located on the campus where the party’s senior State leaders operate from. The staffer, aged around 60, undertook a test on Sunday and his report stated that he was COVID-19-positive. Delhi BJP media cell head Ashok Goel said the office block where he used to sit has been closed for disinfection, while other staffers who sat there have undergone tests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/senior-staffer-at-bjp-office-tests-positive-for-covid-19/article32433900.ece
25 August 2020||New Delhi,||Yamuna water level below danger mark||The water level in the Yamuna, measured at the Old Railway Bridge, was close to the warning level on Monday morning before dropping in the evening, authorities said. The level at 8 a.m. was 204.38 metres and it dropped to 204.27 metres by 6 p.m., according to official data. The warning level of the Yamuna in Delhi is 204.5 metres and the danger mark is 205.33 metres — both at the Old Railway Bridge. “From Hathni Kund barrage, water is being released and we are keeping an eye.Flood-control system is ready, but the level is below the danger level,” Delhi Minister Satyendar Jain said. .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/yamuna-water-level-below-danger-mark/article32433937.ece
25 August 2020||New Delhi,||HC seeks govt. response on PETA plea||The Delhi High Court on Monday sought response of the city government on an application by People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA), seeking to implement the Prevention and Control of Infectious and Contagious Diseases in Animals Act, 2009, to prevent spread of glanders disease among horses, mules, ponies and donkeys here. PETA India, in its application, also sought implementation of the National Action Plan for Control and Eradication of Glanders. Justice Najmi Waziri has posted the case for further hearing on October 6.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-seeks-govt-response-on-peta-plea/article32433928.ece
25 August 2020||August 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Moving on||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/moving-on/article32433931.ece
25 August 2020||New Delhi,||‘Process to pay allowance to mid-day meal beneficiaries on’||The Delhi government on Monday informed the Delhi High Court that it was in the process of completing the exercise of payment of Food Security Allowance (FSA) to the beneficiaries of mid-day meals at the earliest. In an affidavit, the Delhi government stated that the exercise of obtaining bank account and other details of mid-day meal beneficiaries has faced several impediments due to the lockdown, as families of migrant students left for their hometowns. The process of FSA through Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) in lieu of mid-day meal has been undertaken for the first time from March 2020 due to closure of schools following the outbreak of COVID-19. Mid-day meals are provided to schoolchildren reading between Classes I and VIII. For March 2020, total eligible beneficiaries for FSA were 8,24,164. Of these, payment of FSA were made to 8,21,768 students at Rs. 85 per beneficiary per month for primary school (Classes I to V) and Rs. 78 per beneficiary for upper primary student (Classes VI to VII).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/process-to-pay-allowance-to-mid-day-meal-beneficiaries-on/article32433891.ece
25 August 2020||New Delhi,||Duo held for robbing cashier of over Rs. 6 lakh||Two men were arrested for allegedly robbing a cashier in Bawana industrial area of Rs. 6.5 lakh, the police said Monday. The accused have been identified as Manish Kumar and Karan Kumar (22). The incident happened on August 17 at 1.30 p.m. when the cashier of a private company was going to his workplace on a motorcycle after collecting Rs. 6,49,350 from Chandni Chowk. When he reached Yamuna Bazar, he was intercepted by two-wheeler-borne miscreants, who forcibly took the bag and sped off. A case was registered at Kashmere Gate police station. Later a team of Delhi Police Crime Branch started working on the case. DCP (Crime) Rakesh Paweriya said: “With the help of technical intelligence, we developed information about the culprits and nabbed them from Yamuna Bazar on Sunday night.” During interrogation, the accused confessed to the crime. Manish told the police that earlier, he worked as a taxi driver and in 2008, when an NRI hired his taxi from Delhi Airport, he along with his accomplice robbed and killed him. He was convicted for life in that case. In jail, he had come in contact with another convict, who was granted parole in July 2020. In March, after coming out from jail on parole, Manish contacted him and planned robberies. The police said they have recovered a car, two mobile phones, ATM card and a two-wheeler from the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/duo-held-for-robbing-cashier-of-over-rs-6-lakh/article32433940.ece
25 August 2020||New Delhi,||DMC gets its new chairperson||The Delhi government on Monday appointed Zakir Khan, a social worker, as the chairperson of Delhi Minorities Commission, said a Delhi government spokesperson. It also appointed Kawaljit Singh and Nancy Barlow as its members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dmc-gets-its-new-chairperson/article32433938.ece
25 August 2020||New Delhi,||Nikhil- FB brief||A Delhi Assembly committee on Peace and Harmony will hold a meeting on Tuesday in which journalists and an activist will be called witnesses on alleged “deliberate and intentional” inaction by social media platform — Facebook — to contain “hateful content”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/nikhil-fb-brief/article32433936.ece
