02-10-2020||India||Uttarakhand Congress starts signature campaign against farm bills||On the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti, Uttarakhand Congress on Friday started its signature campaign against the recently passed three agriculture laws by the government. The campaign kicked-off at the party state headquarters in Dehradun. The campaign was initiated by state unit head Pritam Singh by signing a letter addressed to the President to direct the Centre to repeal the laws or bring a new bill ensuring that the MSP mechanism will not be ended. Singh said, “The three laws brought by the Centre are absolutely anti-farmer. The Centre, under PM Modi, is working against the welfare of the farmers while promoting crony capitalism.”“Lakhs of farmers are protesting against them and Congress will continue to support them. We request the President through the signature campaign to direct the Central government to repeal the three laws or bring a new bill to ensure that the MSP will not be ended,” said Singh. Also read: BJP leader wanted to give Mamata Banerjee Covid hug, tests +ve for virusMeanwhile, the ruling BJP termed the campaign as a farce. Bansidhar Bhagat, party state president, said, “This is a farce and not more than a political gimmick. In all these years when they ruled the country, they never thought of working for the farmers, and now when PM Modi is working for them, they can’t tolerate it.”“This signature campaign against the agriculture laws only shows their anti-farmer mindset,” said Bhagat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-congress-starts-signature-campaign-against-farm-bills/story-dp3HaTsQGCecs7kFWT6HyL.html
02-10-2020||Dehradun||Farm bills 2020: Farmer protests hit paddy purchase, sale in Uttarakhand’s Haridwar||Farmer protests over the three farm bills recently passed by Parliament have affected the procurement and sale of paddy in Uttarakhand, especially in Haridwar where most of the crop is grown. Farmers associated with Bharatiya Kisan Union factions of Tikait, Ambawat, Tomar, Ridh and Uttarakhand Kisan Morcha are protesting across the state, particularly in the plain region farm belts of Haridwar and Udham Singh Nagar. Also read: Stubble burns, farmers from Haryana say they have no optionPaddy procurement centres, run by the food and civil supplies department and Uttarakhand State Cooperative Federation Limited (UCF), have seen an abysmal footfall since they opened on Thursday. Farmer union representatives said they were busy holding protests, sit-ins and blocking highways, leaving them no time to queue up at paddy procurement centres. In addition, they are expected to register through e-portals -- something they are not used to. Till last year, cooperative committees were involved in procuring the produce from farmers but now it is done through food and civil supplies department and the UCF. In the paddy-growing area of Haridwar, there are 17 procurement centres; seven of the UCF and the rest of food and civil supplies department. A quick survey of these centres revealed that most of them saw just a handful of farmers visit in these two days.“Due to farmer agitation, all agriculture-related work has been affected. But, we have make that sacrifice. Farm bills are anti-farmer and the minimum procurement price is also low, farmers are voluntarily joining the agitation... paddy crops can be sold a few days late too,” said Rahul Chaudhary, a farmer leader from Bahadrabad. Farmers aren’t too happy with the minimum support price either. The government set Rs 1,868 per quintal for common grade paddy, and Rs 1,888 per quintal for grade A as the minimum support price. “The government should increase minimum support prices of crops, provide a subsidy, lower fertilizer costs and ensure proper procurement set-up. Farmers should have a bigger say in the process,” said Manglaur legislator Qazi Nizamuddin. On the low footfall, however, UCF officials said paddy crop was still being harvested and more farmers were expected now that the monsoon season was over.“Our centres are assisting farmers in every possible way so that this process is convenient and time-saving for them. Operators register farmers’ details coming for procurement and the payment gets credited into their accounts within a stipulated time frame. As our centres will remain open till December, footfall will increase in the coming days,” said Mangalaur and Paniylaa–Lathardeva procurement centre in-charge Rajendra Singh Bisht.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/farm-bills-2020-farmer-protests-hit-paddy-purchase-sale-in-uttarakhand-s-haridwar/story-lPM7Be85lhof8DnZBVssMK.html
02-10-2020||India||On Gandhi Jayanti, Sonia Gandhi says farmers protesting farm laws will be successful||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Friday expressed confidence that protests by her party and farmers against the Centre’s three contentious farm laws will be successful as she issued a video message on the birth anniversaries of Mahatma Gandhi and Lal Bahadur Shastri.“Today, when we are observing the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi and Lal Bahadur Shastri, farmers are protesting against the three anti-farmer laws. I believe that the agitation by farmers and Congress will be successful and farmers will emerge victorious,” Gandhi said in her message in Hindi.Farmers across the country have taken to streets against the three laws, which, they say, will lead to the dismantling of the Minimum Support Price (MSP) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.Congress has been at the forefront of protests against the farm laws. In fact, Gandhi had asked Congress-ruled states to explore ways to ‘bypass’ the three new laws. The Modi government, on its part, has hailed the three laws as ‘pro-farmers’ and ‘revolutionary’. Prime Minister Modi has repeatedly assured farmers that MSP will not be withdrawn.However, farmers have continued to protest, with the northern states of Punjab and Haryana being the epicentres of the stir. In Punjab, farmers have been holding a ‘rail roko’ agitation since September 24.Opposition parties, including the Congress, have thrown their weight behind the protesting farmers. Punjab’s Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) was forced to break its ties with the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) led by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over the three laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-gandhi-jayanti-sonia-gandhi-says-farmers-protesting-farm-laws-will-be-successful/story-zIKf613mwKfFnwvzxQNobN.html
