06-10-2020||Chandigarh||At farmer rally, Rahul Gandhi takes a jibe at PM Modi over Air India One||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of wasting taxpayers’ money while addressing a farmer rally in Haryana’s Sirsa.The Wayanad MP, while addressing a rally during his ‘Kheti Bachao Yatra (Save the farming)’ in Sirsa’s Dussehra ground, said that PM Modi bought the Air India One because he saw that his friend US President Donald Trump has the Air Force One.He also raked up the Ladakh issue while addressing a rally in Noorpur in Punjab. “On one hand, PM Modi has bought two aircraft worth Rs 8000 crore. On the other hand, China is at our borders and our security forces are braving harsh cold to protect our borders,” Gandhi said, according to ANI.When questioned by the media over BJP’s remarks over Rahul Gandhi sitting on a cushion while sitting atop the tractor during the ongoing protests against the farm bill the Congress leader said that the brand new aircraft that has been bought for the prime minister had many comfortable luxury beds onboard. The former Congress president also lashed out at the BJP regarding the handling of the Hathras gangrape case and asked the prime minister to not remain silent over the horrific incident that has led to nationwide protests. He also harshly criticised the UP government’s response towards the issue saying that chief minister Yogi Adityanath should have shown decency to at least call the incident tragic.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/at-farmer-rally-rahul-gandhi-takes-a-jibe-at-pm-modi-over-air-india-one/story-3oh9svIHZ3zAQozGxw1j1M.html
06-10-2020||India||Odisha dithers over its farming ordinances as monsoon session ends||Having opposed the farm bills on opening of agricultural sale and marketing outside the APMC mandis for farmers, as well as allowing contract farming last month, the Biju Janata Dal in Odisha may have quietly shelved two of its own farm ordinances with similar provisions from being converted to laws.Though the Naveen Patnaik government had listed Odisha Agricultural Produce and Livestock Contract Farming and Services (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020, and Odisha Agricultural Produce and Livestock Marketing (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020, among the 10 ordinances, in the monsoon session of the Assembly for converting them into bills, it has now quietly shelved the idea.The two ordinances promulgated in May this year aimed at registration farmers with contract farming companies for improving production and productivity and amendment of Odisha Agricultural Produce Markets Act, 1957, for geographically restriction-free trade and transaction of agricultural produce including livestock across the state and country. With the monsoon session of the Assembly adjourned today, a day ahead of the schedule, the chance of the twin ordinances becoming law may be a remote possibility now.Also read: NDA seat-sharing pact sealed, Nitish Kumar jabs ex-ally Chirag PaswanSenior Congress leader Narasingha Mishra said by shelving the twin ordinances, the government may be hoping to get some breathing time as there is anger brewing against the twin farm laws - Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act and Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act - passed by the Parliament last month.“The Naveen Patnaik government brought two of its farm ordinances in May this year ahead of the central ordinances. There is not much difference between the central ordinances as well as state ordinances. During the all-party meeting last month, I had raised the issue with the parliamentary affairs minister but I did not get a satisfactory reply. Now, it is clear that the BJD government does not want to confront the farming community of the state by converting the ordinances into laws during the pandemic. It would have been better had they been forthcoming about it. But it’s unfortunate that they are hush about the whole thing,” said Mishra.Last month, the BJD had opposed the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, and Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of the Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, alleging that they had little provision for small and marginal farmers as well as sharecroppers. “We can’t support the bill till we are sure that farmers’ interest will be protected,” said BJD leader and Rajya Sabha member Prasanna Acharya.However, the Odisha cooperation department, which had piloted the twin farm ordinances in a comparative analysis done in July, had admitted that there is not much difference between the central ordinance (now enacted into law) and state ordinances. As per the comparative analysis, the Odisha ordinance allows a farmer to enter into a written farming agreement for any farming produce which is same as per the central Act. The Odisha ordinance has only provisions of state government collecting a facilitation fee of maximum 4 percent from the corporate houses that come for contract farming while there are no such features in the central law.Similarly, the period of agreement for contract farming in the central Act is minimum of one crop season/one production cycle (for livestock) to maximum of 5 years, while in the state ordinance the minimum agreement period is of one crop season.Parliamentary affairs minister Bikram Keshari Arukh said the two ordinances were supposed to have been introduced as bills in the monsoon session but for some reasons, they could not be introduced in the Assembly session. “We may introduce the bill in the winter session. But nothing has been decided as yet,” he said. Minister and secretary of cooperation department, however, did not respond when asked why the two ordinances were not brought in as bills despite the initial announcement.BJP leader Bhrugu Buxipatra said the BJD’s rethinking on the two ordinances may have been a ploy to hoodwink the people of the state. “The BJD would have supported the farm bills in the Parliament but for the CBI raids in the chit fund scam. The similarity of state government’s ordinances on farming with the central laws speaks much about the BJD’s confusion,” he said.However, BJD MP Amar Patnaik said Odisha ordinance on farming was different from central laws. “Our ordinance takes care of small and marginal farmers which is lacking in the central law. There is still time for the state ordinances to get passed,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-dithers-over-its-farming-ordinances-as-monsoon-session-ends/story-KHbqhVJI3xKgthCzAib1HL.html
06-10-2020||Lucknow||RLD’s mahapanchayat on Thursday; may trigger farmers’ agitation in western UP||Speculation is rife that the Rashtriya Lok Dal’s (RLD) proposed mahapanchayat in Muzaffarnagar on Thursday against the controversial farm bills may trigger farmers’ agitation in western Uttar Pradesh (UP). Besides, UP Police’s assault on RLD leader Jayant Choudhary and his supporters in Hathras district on Sunday triggered an uproar among the followers of late Prime Minister and Jat leader Charan Singh. Jayant is the grandson of Charan Singh and also the son of former Union minister Ajit Singh. RLD and Samajwadi Party (SP) workers in Hathras were assaulted by the UP Police on Sunday after they had allegedly breached barricades in their bid to reach Boolgarhi village in the district, which is in the eye of a raging political controversy. Trouble had erupted after a Dalit teenager (19) was allegedly gang-raped by four upper caste men and the grievous injuries led to her death last week.The UP Police’s action against Jayant has enraged the Jat community, which is largely engaged in agriculture and also a dominant caste group in western UP. A video of the assault went viral, where Jayant can be seen interacting with media persons, when the police resorted to lathi charge and beat up RLD leaders and their supporters. However, the video clip did not show RLD supporters trying to breach police barricades to enter into Boolgarhi village. Sunday’s incident ahead of the mahapanchayat has angered the public and RLD leaders are expecting a massive turnout at the event in support of Jayant. “The party has a rural base and farmers are associated with it in large numbers. Majority of them still admire Charan Singh. The assault on Jayant has angered the public and they are expected to turn up at the mahapanchayat in large numbers to show their solidarity with Jayant and his family in a bid to send a message to the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP),” said Rahul Deo, Meerut district president, RLD.Rajkumar Sangwan, RLD’s organisational general secretary, said the mahapanchayat was announced to oppose the controversial farm laws and the Muzaffarnagar district administration’s decision to register cases against party leaders, who had protested against these legislations and staged a dharna last week. “UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath wants to govern the state with batons. FIRs (first information reports) are being routinely filed against opposition parties to suppress our voices of dissent,” said Sangwan. RLD workers and leaders staged a protest outside the office of the divisional commissioner in Meerut on Monday. They raised slogans and burnt an effigy of the UP CM to oppose the assault on Jayant and RLD supporters in Hathras on Sunday. “We demand arrest of the police personnel who had assaulted our leader and supporters and condemn the ‘jungle raj’ under Yogi’s rule in UP,” said Narendra Khajuri, a RLD leader. RLD leaders have been busy mobilising farmers and party supporters in villages to ensure their participation in the mahapanchayat in large numbers, said Sunil Rohta, a spokesperson of the RLD. “We have been receiving an overwhelming response from the public and expecting a good turnout at the mahapanchayat on Thursday,” said Rohta.He claimed that the event would trigger a movement against the farm bills and the “excesses of the ruling party”. Dharmendra Malik, UP spokesperson of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), a farmers’ organisation linked to the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), the ideological parent of the BJP, said farmers from western UP were against the farm laws and a movement was building up against the recent legislations. He said the BKU had called for a warning protest on October 22, where farmers would stage a protest at district and tehsil headquarters across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/rld-s-mahapanchayat-on-thursday-may-trigger-farmers-agitation-in-western-up/story-y3VC8OdNt43lh9TnnvAOML.html
