15-10-2020||City||Trains to Katra for Navratri cancelled due to farmers’ agitation in Punjab||Even as the Jammu and Kashmir administration mobilised its resources to ensure strict adherence to the Covid-19 guidelines ahead of nine-day long Navratri festival in Katra, two trains—Vande Bharat and Shri Shakti Express, scheduled to run from Delhi on Thursday—were cancelled at the last minute in view of the farmers’ agitation in Punjab over the controversial agrarian laws. Director of Jammu Railway station and senior divisional traffic manager Railways Sudhir Singh, said, “Vande Bharat and Shri Shakti Express trains from Delhi to Katra have been cancelled due to the farmers’ agitation in Punjab. Every day it appears that the farmers’ agitation will subside but it’s still lingering.” “Till it ends, trains can’t be run. Now we will see on Friday if we can run them,” he added. The official said that a passenger train usually transports1,000 passengers. Also Read: Delhi-Katra Vande Bharat, Chandigarh-Delhi Shatabdi: List of new trains available from October 15“However, it depends upon ticketing and how many people want to visit the Shri Mata Vaishno Devi shrine,” he added. “The Jammu and Kashmir administration, in tandem with the railways, has made all arrangements for the Navratri festival. The first Vande Bharat train had to run on Thursday. Now, we will see if we can run it on Friday,” he said. The administration has made Covid-19 testing arrangements in Katra, Udhampur and Jammu. Security is also in place at Katra and the Vaishno Devi shrine. Reasi district police chief, SSP Rashmi Wazir, said, “We have deployed five quick reaction teams in Katra and three in the Bhawan (the sanctum sanctorum). There are eight police checkposts along the tracks leading up to the cave shrine and there will be round-the-clock patrolling during the festival.” She added that armed security personnel, policemen and CRPF personnel will guard the pilgrimage site 24x7. “We are confident of an incident-free Navratri festival,” she said. Wazir said Udhampur-Reasi range deputy inspector general of police, Sujit Kumar, reviewed the arrangements for the festival in Katra on Tuesday. “The cap on per day pilgrims to the shrine has been increased to 7,000 from 5,000. During the festival, two special trains, apart from Vande Bharat, will also run from Varanasi and Delhi,” she added. The health department has also augmented its infrastructure, setting up more testing kiosks and staff in Katra, including the railway station. Every pilgrim arriving in Katra will have to undergo a rapid antigen test (RAT) before being allowed to proceed on the pilgrimage. In case anyone tests positive, they will have to be quarantined in Katra for 10 days. A few hotels have also been identified for paid quarantine. However, if persons who test positive don’t want to be quarantined for 10 days, they can avail cabs to return home by road. Reasi district commissioner Indu Kanwal Chib said, “There are 10 testing kiosks at the Katra railway station for the visiting pilgrims and five more will be added depending upon the bookings.” “Covid-19 testing arrangements are in place. Our health staff has also been augmented. We are prepared for the yatra to begin this Saturday.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/trains-to-katra-for-navratri-cancelled-due-to-farmers-agitation-in-punjab/story-pTOVGMNNOP3E3deMxpCa4L.html
15-10-2020||City||Farm bills: Maharashtra Congress to hold virtual rally; 5 million farmers from 10,000 villages set to join||The Maharashtra unit of the Congress will hold a virtual farmers’ rally on Thursday evening, as part of its ongoing protests against the recently passed farm laws.The Congress said around five million farmers from 10,000 villages in over 25 districts of the state would participate in the planned protest, where the arrangement of virtual platforms has been made. The Maharashtra unit of the Congress has been protesting against the “anti-farmer” laws over the past three weeks after they were passed by Parliament. Party leaders will address the virtual farmers’ rally from six districts in the state on Thursday evening. Congress’s Maharashtra in-charge HK Patil, Maharashtra Congress chief Balasaheb Thorat, state public works department (PWD) minister, former chief minister Ashok Chavan, and Member of Parliament (MP) Rajiv Satav will participate from Sangamner in Ahmednagar district.Former CM Prithviraj Chavan will address the rally from Kolhapur district. State medical education minister Amit Deshmukh , women and child development (WCD) minister Yashomati Thakur and energy minister Nitin Raut will take part from Aurangabad, Amravati and Nagpur districts, respectively. Party leader Muzaffar Hussain will join the protest from Palghar district.Also read: Congress-ruled states to intensify farm law stir“We have put up LED (light-emitting diode) screens, LCD (liquid-crystal display) projector screens and TVs at central places in 10,000 villages to enable farmers to participate. Community, marriage halls, grounds etc have been identified for meetings by the local members of the Maharashtra legislative assembly (MLAs), leaders and district presidents. In some of the districts such as Gadchiroli and Chandrapur, where the internet connectivity is poor, we will not be able to reach out to local farmers. We are expecting an impressive response in those districts, where the party has a strong leadership. Thursday evening’s event will be an unprecedented experience for both our leaders and workers,” said a Congress leader, requesting anonymity. Thorat said the party would continue to oppose the anti-farmer black laws. “The laws, which were passed without any discussion or debate, do not assure minimum support price (MSP) and will do away with the Agricultural Produce Market Committees’ (APMCs) protection that farmers have been enjoying for all these years. All three ruling parties in the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government are on the same page as far as the opposition to these laws is concerned. We will not allow their implementation in Maharashtra,” he added.Earlier, the party had launched a digital drive #SpeakUpForFarmers across various social media platforms on September 26 following which they met Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari two days later and demanded the scrapping of the laws. On the occasion of the Gandhi Jayanti on October 2, the party had held protest rallies across the state. It has also begun a campaign, which is aimed at collecting the signature of one crore farmers by October 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farm-bills-maharashtra-congress-to-hold-virtual-rally-5-million-farmers-from-10-000-villages-set-to-join/story-f456bsWVA8Hrn6aFk2vyTI.html
