23-10-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab farm bills are ‘zero’, says Haryana BJP chief||Haryana BJP president OP Dhankar on Thursday dismissed the farm bills passed by the Punjab assembly as ‘zero’, saying the bills only promised a minimum support price (MSP) on crops bought by the central government not on those bought by the state government.Speaking on the sidelines of an event, Dhankar said, “Captain Amarinder Singh took the short route, which will cause harassment to farmers in Punjab. The bills have made purchase of crops under MSP punishable but if the market price is already low and a farmer wants to sell his crop, who will agree to buy it? The farmers will be stuck,” Dhankar said.Hitting out at former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda in the run-up to the Baroda bypoll, Dhankar said, “Hooda cannot think beyond his family and wants to fight every election. He will replace his candidate (Indu Raj Narwal) in the future. His candidate is yet to win and he wants to replace him with someone probably from his family,” he said.“He fought the Lok Sabha elections and then the assembly elections. Ignoring Kumari Selja, he sent his son to the Rajya Sabha. He even wanted to contest in the bypolls,” Dhankar said.Dhankar said his party had given its ticket to an able candidate, Yogeshwar Dutt, whose entry to the Assembly will be a proud moment for every Haryanvi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-farm-bills-are-zero-says-haryana-bjp-chief/story-xjeXCAIt89zXaqi47mzDXN.html
23-10-2020||Election:||Bihar assembly election 2020: MSP only an excuse, farm laws protesters want to save middlemen, says PM Modi||Taking a swipe at opposition leaders protesting against three farm laws cleared by the Parliament last month, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said their motive was to save the middlemen and not farmers of the country. Speaking at an election rally in Bihar’s Sasaram, the Prime Minister said while the country found a resolution to the agri crisis and decided to eliminate the role of middlemen and brokers, those protesting were becoming a hindrance and openly favouring the latter. Follow latest updates on Bihar elections here He added that Mandi and minimum support price (MSP) were only excuses and the opposition leaders only wanted to save the middlemen. He also accused them of trying to create confusion when the work of transferring money into the bank accounts of farmers had begun before Lok Sabha elections last year. “Remember, before the Lok Sabha elections, when the work of giving money directly to the bank account of the farmers started, how they spread confusion,” he said. Modi was referring to the demonstrations that were held across several states following the enactment of three farm laws - Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020- during the monsoon season of the Parliament last month. Earlier the month, Congress leaders including former party president Rahul Gandhi held tractor rallies in Punjab and Haryana. During the rally, Gandhi asked the government why farmers were protesting if they were happy with the news laws, as claimed by the Centre.Watch: ‘Wasted 10 years of CM Nitish’: PM Modi blasts UPA in maiden rally||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-assembly-election-2020-msp-only-an-excuse-farm-laws-protesters-want-to-save-middlemen-says-pm-modi/story-z3SYt3ZNM6OAYGTL0EV61K.html
