02-04-2020||City||Coronavirus outbreak: In Mumbai, an uphill battle called Dharavi||Mumbai’s overworked public health officials face a new challenge this week: Dharavi. After a 56-year-old garment shop owner living in India’s largest, most-densely populated slum succumbed to Covid-19 on April 1, two teams of 50 officers and volunteers landed up in the area to spread awareness about Sars-Cov-2, the virus responsible for the global pandemic, and to quarantine 70 high-risk residents of an eight-building Slum Rehabilitation Authority complex in which the victim stayed. The locality also has 91 shops. All of them have been ordered shut, even those selling essential supplies. The next day, an additional 2,500 persons were home-quarantined, and will probably be tested for exposure to the virus.On Thursday morning, just as the two teams and an additional army of 800 community health volunteers were getting ready for another busy day at Dharavi, a second case emerged – a municipal conservancy worker from south Mumbai who was assigned the area, tested positive for Sars-Cov-2. Twenty of his friends and co-workers had to be quarantined.Neither the garment shop owner nor the conservancy worker has a travel history, according to information released by the city’s health department. “It is going to be an uphill task identifying asymptomatic patients in an area that has more than 8.5 lakh people,” says Kiran Dighavkar, assistant commissioner, BMC, and the officer is in charge of the city’s G-North ward where Dharavi is situated.It is not just about Dharavi’s population. Its inhabitants live in some of the most cramped spaces in the country. In an area measuring 2.1 sq km, the slum has over 57,000 shanties, huts and small flats, almost all of them illegal. Its estimated population density – 66,000 people per square kilometre – is more than double that of Mumbai (32,303 people per square kilometre), the fifth most-densely populated city in the world, according to a United Nations Population Prospects study released in July 2019. Mumbai is also the worst Covid-19-affected city in India, with 235 positive cases and at least 17 deaths on April 2. With private laboratories also testing for Covid-19, state health officials say this number will only rise.Mumbai’s – and Dharavi’s – population numbers make social distancing – one of the key preventive measures recommended by the World Health Organisation (WHO) – almost impossible to sustain. “It is almost certain that the cases will spike in Dharavi due to overpopulation,” says Baburao Mane, a former state legislator from Dharavi. “There are, on average, 10-12 people living in thousands of 250 sq ft huts. As summer approaches and the temperature soars, it will be almost impossible to prevent home-quarantined people from coming out of their cramped spaces.”For Dharavi, therefore, BMC has a special plan in place. It has created two teams of 25 people each that work round the clock in two shifts. These teams include a sanitary inspector, medical officers, police personnel and community volunteers. In addition, the ward officer has got on board 800 community health volunteers whose primary responsibility will be to trace vulnerable residents such as senior citizens, patients with respiratory ailments and pregnant women.“I have sought permission to convert the Rajiv Gandhi District Sports club in a quarantine facility with 300 beds,” says Dighavkar. “Once approved, we will shift high-risk people.”He says the primary concern for health officers is cooperation. “People in slums don’t cooperate. The statements given by the dead man’s wife and children have confused us. We are unable to trace his contacts. We don’t even know if he had visited his shop during the lockdown. Despite symptoms, has he roamed around the slum? The family can’t confirm this activity, and we don’t know how many people he may have infected.”Sanitation and water supply are other issues here. In line with WHO recommendations, the Maharashtra state health department too has advocated regular hand-washing with water and soap to avoid any possible transmission of Sars-Cov-2. In Dharavi, this is a distant dream. Neena More, a local social activist, says the slum averages one toilet per 500 people (official figures peg the number at one toilet per 1440 people), and most residents use the nearby Mahim creek for urination and defecation. “Every morning, people stand in long queues to use the toilets making them susceptible to the infection,” she says. And then, there is economic desperation. Almost every family in Dharavi faces the prospect of spending more than two months without wages on account of the nationwide lockdown and shutting of private business establishments. Shibani Salvi, a 26-year-old mother of two lost her last source of income in the third week of March. Prior to the lockdown, she earned Rs 20,000 a month working as a domestic help in five flats in the neighbourhood. “Now,” she says, “I cannot even go out of my house to collect my salary even though one of my employers called me. We have enough food to last only three more days. I don’t have money to buy even masks or sanitisers for my family.” One of Salvi’s employers is Divya Dhar, a 36-year-old designer who stays with her mother and two-year-old daughter at the affluent Shivaji Park. Even after the lockdown began, she would drive to Dharavi to fetch her domestic help and cook to help her concentrate on being a single working mother. From Wednesday – the day the news broke about the first Covid-19 fatality in Dharavi – Dhar has stopped the practice. “I can’t risk my daughter who is already an asthma patient. I will get tested. Until then, I have locked myself in a room,” Dhar says.Drinking water is another of Dharavi’s challenges. Qamruddin Sheikh, who runs an NGO named Bal Vikas Shikshan Sanstha the area, says that in an area that has scant drinking water, it is impractical to think they will keep washing their hands. “People are using handkerchiefs and cotton masks, both of which are of no use to stop the virus transmission. BMC should provide quarantined people with proper masks and hand sanitisers,” he says.Dighavkar says the primary challenge for health officers will be tracing the people who were in close contact with infected patients. One health officer HT spoke to said on the condition of anonymity, “Many of the shops in Dharavi are illegal, and people do not share information openly. Getting accurate information here is the work of a full-time detective.”According to the ward officer, BMC has been providing rice, wheat and dal to those in home quarantine, but residents HT spoke to, said the ration does not include essentials such as oil and vegetables. Besides, he says, there is little awareness.Sagar Kamble, a Dharavi resident, says, “Almost 80% of the slumdwellers here are uneducated and do not understand the gravity of the situation. Only a few gated colonies in the area have locked their premises; the rest of the population is roaming around freely.” Mane says this is the main reason he has been asking for compulsory screening of all of Dharavi’s residents. “BMC needs to screen all the locals and if needed, send them back to their respective villages using available public transport. There is no other way to enforce social distancing or to contain the virus.”But this is not possible, says BMC. The city’s health officers have overruled the possibility of running universal tests in Dharavi. “There are just not enough test kits,” says a health officer. “There is a shortage of masks and sanitisers in the slum, so with the help of NGOs and philanthropists, we are trying to procure protective masks for quarantined people.” He adds, “There is also large-scale ignorance. When our volunteers counsel on the importance of sanitation and social distancing, many from the Muslim community respond by saying their immunity is high as they eat meat. It’s not going to be easy at all.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-outbreak-in-mumbai-an-uphill-battle-called-dharavi/story-rC9AjvgmRw473stwBi0OrJ.html
02-04-2020||City||Coronavirus outbreak: Jamaat event was to be held in Vasai near Mumbai||The controversial Tablighi Jamaat congregation was to be held in Vasai on March 14 and 15, but was cancelled. Abdulqayum Abdul Ahmed Azmi, general secretary, Shamim Education and Welfare Society, Vasai, on January 22 wrote to Gaurav Singh, SP, Palghar, seeking permission for the congregation. “On 5 February, I had given them the permission for the two-day meet as there was no alert issued by the Centre. But after the warnings on March 6, I cancelled the permission,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-outbreak-jamaat-event-was-to-be-held-in-vasai-near-mumbai/story-AHU7xPzPgwvWeXMfiLMnkK.html
02-04-2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus outbreak: 2,500 residents of Mumbai’s Dharavi area to remain in home quarantine||Around 2,500 residents of Dr Baliga Nagar in Dharavi have been directed to remain under home quarantine after a 56-year-old man died of Covid-19 on Wednesday, while a 52-year-old man who worked as a sweeper in the area was tested positive for the virus 24 hours later. The colony with 308 flats and 91 shops has already been sealed by the authorities. Local ward office has said no resident will be permitted to step out of their homes and that food and other essential items would be provided by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).The 52-year-old Worli resident has been undergoing treatment at Seven Hills Hospital in Andheri. The civic body has also stamped 23 workers, who had worked with him in Dharavi, to remain under home quarantine.Meanwhile, the 56-year-old was suspected to be among those who had returned from the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi. However, assistant municipal commissioner Kiran Dighavkar said, “The family and the patient had denied any visit to the Jamaat event in Delhi. We are tracing all his close contacts and getting them in quarantine.” Around 70 high-risk contacts, including his family, neighbours and a physician, will be tested for Covid-19 on an immediate basis. The high-risk contacts of the victim also include 50-60 people in Sion Hospital whom the 56-year-old had met during his treatment. They too have been quarantined too. BMC is also tracing his close contacts from a nearby mosque which the patient regularly visited. “Meanwhile, four people, three from Dharavi and one from Mahim, who had returned from the Tablighi Jamaat event have also been quarantined at a nearby hotel. They will undergo tests and we are also tracing their contact,” said a civic official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/coronavirus-outbreak-2-500-residents-of-mumbai-s-dharavi-area-to-remain-in-home-quarantine/story-eghr5sIdLcI4oF6waCWrPN.html
02-04-2020||City||Coronavirus outbreak: 1,400 from Maharashtra attended Jamaat event||A total of 1,400 people from the state attended the Tablighi Jamaat event at Nizamuddin in Delhi, the state authorities said on Thursday. Of them, the district administrations have identified 1,300 people, including 127 from Mumbai, and quarantined most of them. Of the 127 identified from Mumbai, 105 have been traced and kept in quarantine.State health minister Rajesh Tope said, “According to the guidelines issued by the central government, we have successfully tracked 1,300 people who attended the Markaz congregation from different districts. Their samples will be collected for coronavirus testing.” “We gave ward-wise lists to all ward officers to track the 127 persons. The search operation for the rest is going on,” said a senior official from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). “Of the remaining, most of them are either out of Mumbai or Maharashtra. Many of them have given wrong residential addresses with telephone numbers, which is why we couldn’t track them,” he said.BMC officials said considering the chaos in Delhi, many people are unwilling to reveal that they attended the event. A senior IPS officer said the tracing was done in coordination with the special branch-1, the intelligence wing of the city police, which has units in all 13 zones in city, and the zonal police. Police officials said nine people from south Mumbai’s zone one area (Mohammed Ali Road, Dongri areas) have been quarantined, 20 from zone 8 (Bandra East, Nirmal Nagar, Vakola and nearby areas) and 10, including some Indonesian nationals, from zone 9 (Bandra West, Khar areas). Police said 20 members in zone 8 area hail from Gujarat and other states and had come to Mumbai from the gathering and got stuck owing to the lockdown. Twenty-one of the identified are from Andheri and Jogeshwari (zone 10). “Two people have been traced to Pathanwadi in Malad (east), while four from zone 12. These people were traced with the help of their phone call locations and also with assistance from the community leaders,” said an officer.Sources said the police will share the travel details of the members with the railways to get details of their co-passengers.Twelve people from Kalyan and five from Bhiwandi, who attended the congregation, have been put in home quarantine, said the health department of the Bhiwandi Nizampur City Municipal Corporation (BNCMC). “None of them have shown any symptoms so far,” said Jaywant Dhule, medical officer, BNCMC. Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner of Thane Municipal Corporation, said, “Twenty-five people had come to Mumbra. Some of them were from Bangladesh, a few from Malaysia while one was from West Bengal. All 25 have tested negative.” The police have registered a case against the trustee and cleric of the mosque in Mumbra for keeping the foreign nationals. Five attendees have been traced to Tulinj, Vasai, Nalla Sopara and other areas in the Palghar district. Of the 1,300 people, a majority are from Pune. Two persons from Pimpri-Chinchwad who attended the gathering tested positive. So far, the Pune administration has identified 182 persons, of which 106 have been sent to quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-outbreak-1-400-from-maharashtra-attended-jamaat-event/story-bmvgwfvwGERXyoJKji4nqN.html
02-04-2020||City||94 FIRs filed, Mumbai Police continue action against coronavirus lockdown violators||The Mumbai Police on Wednesday lodged 94 first information reports (FIRs) against those violating the lockdown orders. While 59 were against those gathering in one place, 24 were for unnecessary use of vehicles and the rest against hawkers and shop owners.Madhukar Pandey, joint commissioner, Mumbai traffic police, said, “If we catch motorists more than twice for using their vehicles unnecessarily, we will suspend their driving licences.” Since March 20, 709 cases have been registered in Mumbai, of which 246 are from north region (Goregaon to Dahisar) and 204 are from east region (Chembur to Mulund). In all 1,364 people have been booked, of which 1,100 have been arrested. In Dharavi, a 19-year-old man was arrested, 17-year-old was detained and 12 others were booked for pelting policemen with stones. According to Dharavi police, the incident took place around 6.30pm when 47-year-old constable Ashok Chavan and his colleague were patrolling the area. A group of 10, mostly youngsters, gathered near Joglekar Nullah road near Om Dutta CHS. Chavan along with his colleague asked them to go to their homes. One of the youngsters started to abuse them. As the constables threatened them with their batons, one of them started to throw stones, which forced the constables to move out of the area. “We detained a minor, who was released after counselling,” said Ramesh Nangare, senior police inspector at Dharavi police station.Meanwhile, the Dongri police arrested two people for circulating fake messages on social media . The police said the arrested accused are identified as Sadik Yakub Shaikh,30, and his friend Siddique Ayub Mada ,34, both residents of Amachi wala building, Dongri. “Action was taken as per the rules,” said Sandeep Bhagdikar, senior inspector, Dongri police station.The police have started to seize vehicles of citizens who refuse to stay at home and violate the lockdown order. A total of 190 vehicles – 38 from central zone, 38 from south, 33 from east, 20 from west, and 61 from north.In Bhiwandi, the police have started drone patrolling at major junctions. A total of 500 personnel have been deployed at 16 spots across the city. “We have two drone cameras. We will tighten the vigil,” said Rajkumar Shinde, deputy commissioner of police, Bhiwandi.The Palghar Police district has seized 418 vehicles and filed cases against 89 people. In Thane Rural area, cases have been filed against 3085 people for unnecessary traffic movement and ₹11,46,800 has been collected as fine. From March 18 to April 2, Thane police filed 284 cases .Milind Bharambe, special inspector general, law and order, Maharashtra, said, “We have registered 13,680 FIRs across Maharashtra till today.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/94-firs-filed-mumbai-police-continue-action-against-coronavirus-lockdown-violators/story-1VMOuMaWdnhScEOQaFXQzO.html
02-04-2020||Mumbai||As Covid-19 cases rose, commuters started to opt for private transport: IIT study||More people shifted to private transport for commuting to work in the transition phase until the national lockdown, states a study by the Indian Institutes of Technology in Mumbai (IIT-B) and Hyderabad (IIT-H). The study looks into the impact of Covid-19 on daily commute to work in the third week of March till the lockdown. In Tier-1 cities, it was found that about 12% of the respondents switched from public to private mode during the third week of March. This modal shift was around 9% in Tier-2 cities and about 7% in Tier-3. The report, said researchers, was based on the responses of over 1,900 participants from tier-1, tier-2 and tier-3 cities. Most responses were received from tier-1 (63.6%) followed by tier-2 (20.6%) and tier-3 cities (15.8%). “Given the uncertainties in the minds of commuters regarding their travel behaviour due to social distancing, it is important for policymakers and local transport authorities to understand the change in travel pattern,” said Digvijay S Pawar, assisstant professor, department of civil engineering, IIT-H. Moreover, nearly 48% of people said that they did not travel to work during the third week of March, whereas 28% continued the old frequency of travel to work. When enquired about the cancellation of trips between the cities using major modes of transportation, around 18 % said they cancelled their flights whereas, 20% cancelled train journeys. The research team comprised Prof. Nagendra Velaga, department of civil engineering, IIT-B, Ankit Kumar Yadav, a research student at IIT-B, S Pawar and Pritha Chatterjee, assistant professors, department of civil Engineering, IIT-H.When respondents were asked about their safety perception towards transport during the pandemic, 93% said that private transport was safer than public mode. The researchers also emphasised upon spreading more awareness about Covid-19, especially among the weaker sections of the society. “The rapidly changing diaspora of this pandemic is a threat to public health and is making human life more challenging,” added Pawar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/as-covid-19-cases-rose-commuters-started-to-opt-for-private-transport-iit-study/story-qapCbvHg2UGt1aLGBEUeaI.html
02-04-2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus lockdown: Thane society sets up medical helpline for residents||A co-operative housing complex in Thane has set up its own medical helpline for its 2,000-odd residents and restricted the entry of outsiders into its premises as part of its preventive measures against the spread of Covid-19.Tarangan Complex Federation in Thane comprises three societies and nine residential buildings. Among its residents are around 30 practicing doctors who work in some of the prominent hospitals in the area. “There are three high-profile doctors in our complex who have committed that they will available 24x7, in case anyone from the society needs help. This has been done because in a situation like this, there should be no panic and members will have guidance from the right source,” said Manohar Kataria, treasurer, Tarangan Complex Federation. Kataria added that one physician, who runs a clinic, has stocked essential medicines and is available on call and for home consultancy.Movement of residents outside the complex’s premises have been restricted as has the entry of outsiders. Vegetable and fruit vendors are allowed in an open space in the premises and there is a supermarket next to the housing society where residents can shop for groceries.“We have restricted movement of the people in open areas, except a few who have pets. All our common facilities are now shut since the government ordered gyms should be shut. Also, we have two lifts in our building, of which only one is allowed to function these days,” said Rajan Junagade, secretary, Tarangan Complex Federation.The housing complex also has its own “task force”, which takes care of the elderly and has followed up on those residents who had travelled abroad recently but were not stamped at the airport upon their return to Mumbai. “The task force, which consists of around 40 volunteers from the complex, looks after the elderly to help them in case of any necessity and also co-ordinates others tasks,” said Dr Hrishikesh Iyer, a dentist and resident of the society.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/coronavirus-lockdown-thane-society-sets-up-medical-helpline-for-residents/story-K6ZkgGAqxXJzFvRCejtbaL.html
02-04-2020||Mumbai||City cases rise to 235; civic body seals off 212 more areas||Figures released by the Mumbai civic body on Thursday showed an increase of 57 coronavirus cases and three deaths, taking the total number of cases in the city to 235.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said that 17 new cases were detected on Thursday, whereas 40 Covid-19 patients have been identified through private laboratory tests over the past four days. Meanwhile, the BMC has sealed off 212 areas and has taken over 10,000 rooms in hotels, residential complexes to accommodate those who have to be quarantined.Municipal commissioner Praveen Pardeshi told HT, “Yes, the number of coronavirus patients is increasing by the day. In order to deal with the situation, we have already sealed off 191 areas and will increase this further to prevent spread of disease.”Pardeshi added, “Till date, the civic body has taken over almost 10,000 rooms from the different hotels, lodges, residential complexes and vacant flats of builders across the city. This is where we are planning to keep quarantined suspected patients.’’The BMC has also tied up with the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (MHADA), under which MHADA decided to give 625 vacant homes that can be used for quarantine facilities. These include 265 flats in Mankhurd colony, 170 rooms in Charkop and 190 homes in Kandivli’s Mahavir Nagar, informed a senior BMC official. This move of MHADA came after the municipal commissioner came out with an order for requisitioning of empty residential buildings, lodges, hotels, dharmashalas, clubs, exhibition centres, colleges, hostels, dormitories, residential cruise ships, marriage halls, gymkhanas, banquet halls, institutions with immediate effect during last weekThis was the largest increase in the number of cases within a day in the state, said officials from the state health department. A day after a Dharavi resident who had contracted the coronavirus passed away, a 54- year-old sweeper in the locality tested positive for the virus on Thursday. According to the BMC, the sanitation worker lives in Worli, but works near the Mahim Phatak road in Dharavi. He developed symptoms three days ago, following which, he was quarantined at the SevenHills Hospital in Mumbai, where he tested positive on Thursday.In addition to this, three civic engineers from C-Ward, which covers areas such as Marine Lines and Charni Road, are home quarantined for 14 days after a 28-year-old junior engineer from the same ward tested positive for coronavirus on Monday. According to BMC officials, the 28-year-old engineer from C-Ward tested positive at Fortis Hospital and immediately, his three colleagues, who were his close contacts, were put on home quarantine for 14 days from Tuesday. No new cases or deaths in Worli, after 15 cases were confirmed on Wednesday. 192 high-risk persons were moved to Poddar Hospital.The BMC chief has also given directives that all private hospitals/dispensaries, which are closed amid the coronavirus outbreak in the city should be opened. Many private hospitals in the city are closed to ward off possible infection from the patients. The BMC has issued a circular on Thursday, saying that action should be taken if private hospitals are not opened and suggested patients should be attended with proper care.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/city-cases-rise-to-235-civic-body-seals-off-212-more-areas/story-TQuOh3WGfroNCRMjd5rHDO.html
02-04-2020||City||13 quarantined in Bathinda for links with ragi’s Chandigarh event||Thirteen persons of Chak Bakhtu village have been home-quarantined for their link with the event at Chandigarh in which Bhai Nirmal Singh, a ragi was present. Bathinda civil surgeon Dr Amrik Singh said nine persons of the village had gone to Chandigarh to attend the event held on March 19. They had come in contact with four more persons of the village. These are related to the man who organised the event, as he is native of this village. “All 13 who have been home quarantined are asympomatic to date and there would be a systematic follow-up of these till quarantine is over,” the civil surgeon added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/13-quarantined-in-bathinda-for-links-with-ragi-s-chandigarh-event/story-num1TqlJrOIIcwplvFr9kM.html
02-04-2020||City||Greater Noida: Two who attended Nizamuddin event detained, sent for tests||Two men, who are in their twenties, were detained by the Jarcha police on Thursday after they allegedly fled from Alwar, to where they had been tracked by the Rajasthan police as having attended the Tablighi Jamaat’s Markaz in Delhi’s Nizamuddin last month.Hundreds of people from all over the country, including foreign nationals, had attended a congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin Masjid in March, of whom more than 180 have now tested positive for Sars-Cov-2. State governments and administrations across the country are now working on tracing people in their respective states who had attended the event.The Rajasthan government had traced 13 such people to the Alwar district. Eight of these were detained by the state police while five managed to flee. They were traced to Gautam Budh Nagar’s Jarcha area on Thursday.“We received information about them by the Alwar police after which their locations were tracked. Two of them were found in the Jarcha kasba area, after which they were detained and sent for a test at the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS), after which they will be sent for quarantine,” Anil Rajpoot, station house officer, Jarcha police station.The two runaways included a 22-year-old man from Ghaziabad and a 25-year-old man from Saharanpur.They were booked at the Jarcha police station and a case was registered against them under sections 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code, along with other relevant sections.“The two persons who had helped the runaways to hide were also detained, booked and sent for testing, after which they, too, will be quarantined. The duo had reached Jarcha around 11am. There are other members of the host family as well but they claim to have been away when the two arrived. However, we will have them tested as well,” said the SHO.The other three who had allegedly fled from Alwar were not found and a search is on for them. The Gautam Budh Nagar Police have informed Ghaziabad police about them as they are residents of Loni and officers believe that they may be in Ghaziabad in hiding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/greater-noida-two-who-attended-nizamuddin-event-detained-sent-for-tests/story-Lqf3pnx8ce9ac0FIsYu0OL.html
02-04-2020||City||Ghaziabad: Health staff allege misbehaviour by patients in isolation ward||The staff nurses of the MMG District Hospital have given a written complaint to the of the hospital’s chief medical superintendent (CMS) about alleged misbehaviour by five suspected patients and one confirmed case of coronavirus who are lodged in the isolation ward. According to officials, complaints have been forwarded to the chief medical officer (CMO) for action and also marked to the district magistrate and senior superintendent of police of Ghaziabad district.According to CMS Dr Ravindra Rana, the complaint alleges that six patients admitted in the isolation ward of MMG Hospital have been passing comments and resorting to unruly behaviour with nurses. They added that the six are those who have been recently picked up by the health department in a drive to identify persons who attended different religious congregations, including the one held at Delhi’s Nizamuddin mid-March.“The nurses have given us in writing that the six male patients were roaming around without wearing proper clothes. They were also passing comments at the female staff and singing objectionable songs, besides demanding cigarettes from them. They have also alleged that the patients are not consuming medicines given to them and also try to come close to the staff even if they are told to stay at a distance. Also instead of maintaining social distancing, they are sitting together on the same bed and talking,” Dr Rana said.“Based on their written complaint I forwarded a letter Thursday evening to the chief medical officer of the district and sought his intervention. A copy of the same has been sent to the local police, the district magistrate and the Ghaziabad SSP. The nurses are working hard day and night at the isolation wards to treat patients and they are very upset with the unruly behaviour shown towards them. The complaint has been submitted by six nurses,” he added.He added that other patients in other isolation wards have shown cordial behaviour towards the doctors and the nurses.Though the ward is meant for suspected cases only the positive case was confirmed late Thursday. Ghaziabad CMO Dr NK Gupta said that with this latest case, the tally of confirmed Sars-Cov-2 cases in Ghaziabad has gone up to ten.“The latest case which tested positive is one of the six lodged in the isolation ward of MMG Hospital, who, we have come to know, has visited the event at Delhi’s Nizamuddin,” Dr Gupta added.When contacted over the issue of the alleged harassment, Shahi Imam Mufti Zameer said that no one should be rude or indulge in any sort of misbehaviour with health personnel.“Any such act against doctors or health staff is unacceptable. They are saviours and are fighting to protect everyone against Covid-19. I would also appeal that anyone who has visited any religious congregation should come forward voluntarily and take up medical examination. This will benefit everyone. Such a message has also been issued from Nizamuddin on Thursday,” he added.Till Thursday evening, the health department officials identified and put under quarantine and isolation at least 136 persons who had attended different religious congregations.“We are yet to receive the formal complaint copy sent by the CMS. However, I have directed the concerned station house officer to visit the isolation ward at least two times daily to ensure that there is no unruly activity of any sort against the hospital staff. We have already stationed personnel outside the ward and officials have been asked to take up legal action in case anyone is found harassing hospital staff,” said Manish Mishra, superintendent of police (city).In other two quarantine facilities at Masuri and Muradnagar, the officials have deployed a sub-inspector and two constables to ensure that there is no unruly activity on the part of anyone who is in quarantine.“The personnel have been asked to make use of force if any such activity is witnessed and also ensure that no one runs away from any of the two quarantine facilities. The police personnel have also been given protective suits and are working in two shifts of 12 hours per day,” said Neeraj Kumar Jadaun, superintendent of police (rural).Dr Gupta, meanwhile, said that he has asked police officials to take strict legal action against the six persons.“I have spoken to the CMS of MMG Hospital and he told me about nurses and staff allegedly being harassed by six persons lodged in the isolation ward. The six are those who were recently brought to the isolation ward after they attended religious congregations,” he said.“It was found that most of the time, they sit together on a single bed and do not maintain social distance. They should have been on their respective beds but continue to defy health protocols. What is worse is that one of these six was tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday evening. It is now suspected that the other five have chances of becoming infected as well,” Dr Gupta added.The health department said that 90 of 136 who were recently picked up were lodged at a quarantine facility at Masuri while 35 others are at a facility at Muradnagar. Six of them are in isolation at MMG Hospital while the remaining five are at Sanjay Nagar Hospital, they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-health-staff-allege-misbehaviour-by-patients-in-isolation-ward/story-mU1ZDjveiXsrhhFd58X31I.html
02-04-2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus: Mumbai witnesses 81% drop in NO2 levels in six weeks||A six-week assessment of air pollution data showed an 81% decline in nitrogen dioxide (NO2) levels in the air above Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). This is the first air quality assessment using satellite imagery since a lockdown imposed to contain the spread of the Sars-Cov-2 virus. “The absence or reduction of almost all major sources of air pollution led to a drastic drop in emissions [during the lockdown], which shows that the air can be cleaned if emissions are controlled. Clean air does not necessarily have to come at the cost which we are paying now due to the Covid-19 outbreak, but this crisis should be used as an opportunity to learn from and move forward,” said Sunil Dahiya, an analyst working with Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air (CREA).CREA’s assessment showed an 81% decline in NO2 levels over six weeks, based on the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) readings across 10 real-time stations in Mumbai, and satellite imagery (TROPOMI/S5P satellite data). The most significant fall in NO2 levels was witnessed between March 23 and 29 when the concentration dropped to 10 µg/m3 and satellite images showed almost no emissions over most of MMR. The daily average on March 29 was 8 µg/m3, the lowest of this year so far, against NO2’s safe limit of 80 µg/m3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-witnesses-81-drop-in-no2-levels-in-six-weeks/story-ak6mlk9ifmvErnVk5ojbNK.html
02-04-2020||Noida||Industrial and institutional areas shut, animals left starved, dehydrated||With industrial areas and educational institutes bereft of people and street food outlets and restaurants shutting shop owing to the 21-day nationwide lockdown to control the spread of coronavirus, animals, especially dogs, have been left starved and dehydrated.According to animal rescue and welfare organisations, while community dogs in and around residential societies are being fed by residents, a number of dogs and even large animals like cattle, which relied on street food vendors in institutional or industrial areas, have no source of food or water. “We have about 82 dogs at our dispensary in Sector 55 while there are over 90 dogs at the shelter in Sector 126. The highest number of cases are of starvation and dehydration, because restaurants and street vendors are no longer operating. Also, people who would normally go out and feed these animals are stuck at home due to the lockdown,” Sanjay Mahapatra, founder of animal welfare NGO House of Stray Animals (HSA), said.He added that while large animals like cows and oxen can still rely on greens, dogs and cats are left with no source of food.“Most of these starvation cases are happening in deserted areas like Knowledge Park (educational hub), Expo Mart (industrial area) and such. Every day, when we go out to feed animals, we get to see a lot of extremely weak dogs with clear signs of starvation — their stomach thin and tongue hanging out,” Kaveri Rana, president from People for Animals (PFA), Gautam Budh Nagar, said.She added that with the season changing, it also brings along the ailments such as parvo and distemper, and the numbers currently being reported are higher than usual.“There are at least four cases of parvo in puppies being reported on a daily basis, which is basically due to an intestinal infection that happens when they end up eating things like polythene, rotten meat or dead rotten animals,” Rana said.Distemper in both pups and adult dogs is another immunity-related disease due to wrong food habit and stress.A number of animal starvation cases are also coming in unauthorised colonies and slum clusters where migrant workers used to live, but are now gone.“Most of the migrant workers have left and those left behind are themselves struggling to meet daily needs, so how would they feed the dogs? Otherwise they take care of their community dogs quite well,” Rana said.While the animal welfare organisations are also facing a crunch in the number of volunteers and staffers available, the animal welfare department has issued 50 passes to animal lovers and volunteers to feed the community animals.“There are several NGOs feeding and taking care of both big and small animals and we have also issued passes to them so that they can feed animals without any hassle. Food is also being dispatched in certain regions. There are cases of ailments among dogs, but most of them are because of the season change. We also urge people to keep water and feeders with some grain in their balconies for birds and outside their houses for dogs, at least till the lockdown ends,” VK Srivastava, chief veterinary officer, Gautam Budh Nagar, said.Meanwhile, a number of volunteers are coming forwards to help animal NGOs with food items.“There are many who are supplying food items like rice, dog food and milk to shelter homes. These are serious times and we need to be compassionate,” NP Sigh, president District Development Resident Welfare Association (DDRWA), said.“I rescued a puppy yesterday from my society, got the number of a nearby shelter from Google. The pup was in a bad shape, and so we took a risk and went to the shelter. The shelter was short-staffed and needed volunteers, so I applied and will be getting a feeder’s pass to feed dogs outside of our society areas as well,” Samiksha, a resident of Sector 75, Noida, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/industrial-and-institutional-areas-shut-animals-left-starved-dehydrated/story-WqsJRvLogKeJ0v19m6qeiP.html
02-04-2020||Noida||Noida converts 20 community halls into shelters for migrant workers||The Noida authority has converted 20 community centres into shelter homes to house migrant workers and others rendered homeless and helpless by the ongoing 21-day nationwide lockdown to prevent the spread of Covid-19 pandemic.The authority officials said they will provide all essential services, including food and medicine, to those in these shelters. The authority has converted community centres into shelters after the Uttar Pradesh government issued directions to create more shelter homes to house homeless daily wage workers. “We have put in beds, mattresses and other required facilities at these shelters. We will provide all essential services, including food and medicine etc, to the people in these homes,” Rajeev Tyagi, chief engineer, Noida authority, said.These community halls are meant for holding functions, weddings and cultural events. If required, the authority will convert the remaining nearly 200 community halls into shelters in the time to come.These community centres are located in sector 19, 20, 55, 56, 61, 62, 71, 122, 135, two community centres in Chhalera village, Hazratpur Wazidpur community centre, Parthala village community hall, Nagla Charandas Community Hall, Bhuda Community Hall, Bhangel, Shahdra, Nagli Wazidpur, Jhatta and Kondli.The Gautam Budh Nagar police is keeping a track of all homeless migrant workers, who were passing through Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway areas. The UP government had directed officials in the district that migrant workers should be kept in isolation till April 14, to ensure that anyone found positive for Covid-19 does not end up spreading the infection. As per an estimate, these 20 community hall can accommodate at least 1,500 persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-converts-20-community-halls-into-shelters-for-migrant-workers/story-icWfZYDm2iGbIdokurZzkO.html
02-04-2020||City||Lockdown: 2,500 pilgrims stranded at Hazur Sahib for nine days||As many as 2,500 pilgrims, most of them from Punjab, have been stranded at Takht Hazur Sahib Sachkhand, one of the five temporal seats of Sikhs, in Nanded district of Maharashtra since the countrywide lockdown was enforced to combat the coronavirus outbreak. Talking to HT over phone, Gurmeet Singh Mahajan, a member of Takht Sachkhand Sri Hazur Abchalnagar Sahib Gurdwara Board, said, “There are around 2,500 pilgrims and most of them are from Punjab, who have been stranded here. Around 350 pilgrims have been staying in the gurdwara’s serai (inn) and 1,800 pilgrims have been accommodated in the serai-run by Kaar Sewa (a voluntary organisation). Other pilgrims have been accommodated at other locations.”He added, “Though we have made proper arrangements for their daily necessities, it is difficult for them to be away from their homes in such circumstances.”He said, “We are making all possible efforts to ensure the safe return of the devotees. BJP MP from Nanded Prataprao Govindrao Chikhalikar has been in regular touch with the central government. Five day ago, we had got assurance from Union minister Parkash Javadekar regarding the pilgrims’ return, but we are still waiting for some information from the Centre.”On March 25, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh had written to Union Home minister Amit Shah and Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray to help evacuate these devotees. Gurdaspur BJP MP Sunny Deol has also written a letter to the Maharashra CM.Meanwhile, Khadoor Sahib MP Jasbir Singh Dimpa on Thursday wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking arrangement of special train or flight for the safe return of the stranded pilgrims to Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lockdown-2-500-pilgrims-stranded-at-hazur-sahib-for-nine-days/story-ZlxT1FMSpMYJ6w2OnYhy8L.html
02-04-2020||Noida||GM Nagar DM directs factories to pay all workers by April 7||The new district magistrate of Gautam Budh Nagar has again asked factories and industries to pay salaries to all their employees by April 7. There are 8 lakh workers in the district, of whom 6 lakh work in the nearly 4,500 small and big factories in the district.“We have spoken to establishments to ensure that all workers are paid by April 7. We have told them that no employee’s salary should be cut because of the ongoing lockdown in view of Covid-19 spread. We have already deposited ₹1,000 in the accounts of 11,893 registered labourers, 1,750 labourers attached to the nagar palikas and panchayats and 1,076 labours under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act 2005,” district magistrate Suhas LY said.Former district magistrate BN Singh had last week passed an order that no landlord will ask for rent from tenants who are daily wagers or employed with essential services maintenance agencies for a month. This was done to stop the mass exodus of migrant workers to their native lands.Officials are trying to maintain the supply of essential goods in the district and have got a stock of 200 tonnes of wheat flour. By Friday, officials will get 500 tonnes of flour to ensure that there is no shortage during the lockdown.“We are holding meetings with officials attached with markets to fix prices of vegetables and fruits. We have enough stock of essential food items and people need not resort to panic buying,” Suhas said.The administration is also going to start a call centre to keep track of people who have been put under home quarantine and to help people who often mistake the common cold and cough for Covid-19 symptoms.“By Friday, we are expecting to start our new advanced call centre to trace contact points of infected persons. Our trained staff and doctors will be available to address grievances of people. Our doctors will help people in identifying symptoms of Covid-19 and to clear their doubts. We will give out the helpline number once all the arrangements are in place,” the DM said.The health department has also come up with 14 rapid reaction teams to immediately reach out to people who are infected with Sars-CoV-2 virus or any other medical urgency. Each team will have two officials and dedicated vehicles have been given to them.On Wednesday, the Government Institute of Medical Sciences in Greater Noida and the Super Speciality Children’s Hospital in Sector 30 faced a shortage of medical and protection kits. “We have now got 512 Viral Transport Media kits, 1,100 personal protection equipment kits, 1,513 N95 masks and 5,000 triple layer masks with us. We have enough arrangements for now,” Suhas said.Currently, there are 48 Covid-19 patients in the district, of whom 6 have been discharged while 42 are undergoing treatment at the Government Institute of Medical Sciences and the Super Speciality Children’s Hospital.“We have 48 ventilators on standby and currently all patients are doing fine so none of it is in use. There are 42 patients undergoing treatment in the district and we have a capacity of 340 beds, including 100 at the Sharda Hospital in Greater Noida,” the DM said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/gm-nagar-dm-directs-factories-to-pay-all-workers-by-april-7/story-cOefpgcpbuCX5Jjtp0Lu8I.html
02-04-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19 outbreak: ICSE, CBSE schools start new academic yr with online classes||Even as parents and teachers are uncertain over the reopening of schools in the wake of the lockdown, several private schools, especially the ones affiliated with the Indian Certificate of Secondary Education (ICSE) and the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE), which begin the new academic year in April, have started classes online. “We have started online teaching sessions for Classes 10 and 12. It is a good experience to use a wide array of resources available on the internet for online teaching. It is challenging for schools but is also a very good learning experience,” said Kavita Sanghvi, principal of Chatrabhuj Narsee Memorial School in Vile Parle.EuroSchool and Billabong High have started conducting live sessions through video conferencing and recorded sessions for the new academic year. The learning is further supplemented with digital textbooks, question-and-answer (Q&A) sessions and home assignments. Teachers said the experience has taught them to use the technology which they otherwise would not have tried. “The only issue with the younger kids is that it is more challenging to keep them engaged virtually and avoid distractions,” said a teacher of a suburban school, which has started some of its classes online.However, experts have warned against the complete replacement of classroom teaching with online medium. Francis Joseph, from SLN Global Network, a network of schools, said, “Online academic learning cannot replace face-to-face teaching. Besides, our teachers need training to be online tutors. With elite schools turning to ‘online only’ instruction, disparity between privileged schools and affordable schools are bound to widen due to varying contexts in the students’ home environment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-outbreak-icse-cbse-schools-start-new-academic-yr-with-online-classes/story-tdGAukJaG6hJDsrWz6ZCUN.html
02-04-2020||Mumbai||Haven’t approved timetable for summer exam yet: MU||After several colleges and students presented queries about exam timetables posted on social media, the University of Mumbai (MU) on Thursday has clarified that it has not approved any new timetable for the summer exam session. MU’s statement has come two days after the varsity postponed all its 750-plus exams of the current examination session until after April 15.“Due to Covid-19 outbreak, the government has declared lockdown up to April 14 and accordingly, University of Mumbai issued a circular that the varsity and colleges affiliated with us will not conduct any exam until April 14,” said a statement released by Vinod Patil, director, board of examinations and evaluations (BEE), MU. He further clarified that MU will not issue any timetable-related circular before April 14.His statement highlighted that during such “unprecedented times”, it is the collective responsibility of the staff and students to not fall prey to rumours. “We have realised that the staff and students are forwarding timetables of different colleges on WhatsApp groups to seek authentication, which eventually finds its way to others who assume the information shared is true. We have to stop this,” stated Patil’s statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/haven-t-approved-timetable-for-summer-exam-yet-mu/story-fAJxHOMnokJR10EICSL1EO.html
02-04-2020||City||2 arrested for spreading communal disharmony via WhatsApp video||Two men, including the administration of a WhatsApp group, were arrested by the Badalpur police on Thursday for allegedly spreading communal disharmony by circulating a video message.The incident came to light in the intervening hours of Wednesday and Thursday, when a man forwarded a video message in a Greater Noida-based WhatsApp group , named Jai Hind, of which several police officials are members.The message shows a family of one particular religion being quarantined, and a man alleging how they are being forced by the members of another religion to stay inside. The video further claims that the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic was part of a “conspiracy”.“There were two parts to the message. One was the video itself while the other was an accompanying text message, which used derogatory language towards the members of a particular religious community. The message should not have been forwarded,” said Harish Chandra, deputy commissioner of police(DCP), Zone 2. The suspects were identified as Yusuf Khan, the group administrator, who is a native of the Badalpur area, and Firoz Khan, a native of the Dadri area, who had sent the message.Police officials are now looking to trace the family that had made the video. The police said suitable action will be taken against them once they are identified.A case was registered at the Badalpur police station against the two suspects under relevant sections of the IT Act and Section 153B (promotion of enmity-prejudice to national integration) of the Indian Penal Code(IPC).The instructions to file the FIR were first given by DCP of Zone 3, Rajesh Kumar Singh, who had come across the message. It had a request to forward it as widely as possible. Afterwards, both the suspects had apologised profusely on the group, said the police. The police have also recovered the two phones used by the suspects.Gautam Budh Nagar police had earlier said that strict action will be taken against those who are spreading propaganda or fake news on social media in the light of the ongoing coronavirus crisis.Police officials are maintaining a strict vigil in the district to ensure that lockdown guidelines are being followed. The commissioner of police on Thursday inspected areas near Pari Chowk, while the department also used drones for surveillance. According to the police the purpose behind such measures was to ensure that Section 144 was not being violated and that there was no hoarding of essential supplies.The drones will capture the live footage of the violators making it easier for the police to take action against them. Security forces, including the Rapid Action Force (RAF), have also been deployed in the district to deter people from violating the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-arrested-for-spreading-communal-disharmony-via-whatsapp-video/story-enGNFo0jDpe9x3x10g8tlM.html
02-04-2020||Delhi||Most pvt schools say exams ended before lockdown, govt schools mull over implementation of CBSE directive||A day after the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) advised its affiliated schools to promote all Class 9 and Class 11 students to the next grades based on their internal assessments given the Covid-19 pandemic, a majority of private schools in the city on Thursday said they had managed to conduct the exams for these classes before the lockdown began, while those run by the Delhi government said they were yet to take a call on ways to implement the directions. In Delhi government schools, which are also affiliated to the CBSE, one exam was yet to be conducted for Class 9 and two for Class 11 before the lockdown was announced. However, the situation is different in both private and government schools of north-east Delhi where exams were first suspended in February due to the communal riots and later in March after the Covid-19 outbreak hit the Capital.The Delhi government had on Monday announced it would promote all students up to Class 8 to the next grades without them having to write exams under the no-detention policy. The uncertainty around the Class 9 and Class 11 exams was put to an end when, on Wednesday, the CBSE directed all its schools to promote the students of these classes based on their internal assessments. The internal assessment generally carries 20% weightage in the final results. It includes unit tests, projects, practicals and extracurricular activities. A senior official in Delhi government’s education department said that in their schools, only the Urdu language exam was left for Class 9 students and Sociology and Engineering graphic exams for Class 11. However, the government schools in north-east Delhi were yet to take at least four exams for Class 9 and five for Class 11. “We have just received the directions from the CBSE. We are now considering evaluating students based on their internal assessments that were conducted throughout the year and the annual exams that were held until the lockdown was announced. We will have to plan everything differently for the north-east Delhi schools. We will come up with a notification in a day or two,” the official said.Gayyur Ahmed, principal of Sarvodya Bal Vidyalaya in Jama Masjid, said the schools are ready with the internal assessment marks of these classes. “We will go ahead and promote the students as soon as we receive a direction from the government,” he said.Bharat Arora, general secretary of the action committee of private unaided schools, an umbrella group of around 1,000 private schools in Delhi, said, “Almost all schools affiliated to our organisation had completed their internal exams between March 10 and March 15, like every year. Many had also declared the results before the lockdown was announced. However, some schools were yet to conduct the compartment exams.”Officials in several popular private schools, including Amity International School in Saket, Springdales School in Pusa road, Sanskriti School in Chanakyapuri, Delhi Public School (DPS), Mathura Road, and Mount Abu School in Rohini, said that they had conducted the annual exams for classes 9 and 11 before the lockdown. Deeksha Khera, principal of DPS Mathura Road, said, “All our papers were conducted before the lockdown because generally exams are already done by that period. The results were declared online keeping social distancing measures in mind. If students fail in some papers, remedial measures will be taken.”The CBSE had also directed the schools to give class 9 and 11 students an opportunity of appearing in internal tests, online or offline, in case they did not clear them earlier. Salwan Public School in Rajinder Nagar is planning to avail themselves of option suggested by the board. “While our results were declared before the lockdown, some students did not clear the exam and were to appear in the compartment exam. For them, we plan to carry remedial measures in this period through e-learning resources and carry online assessment,” school principal Indu Khetarpal said.Experts said that it was the best alternative the CBSE could have come up with in the time of the pandemic. Shyama Chona, an education expert, said, “The schools can now test these students immediately after they get promoted to the next grades just to assess their learning levels. The teachers should know how much they know and how much they don’t. In this way, they can plan on how to bring the students at par in another two-three months in the same class.”Meanwhile, the students raised concerns over the possible learning gap that can arise because of the lockdown. “This lockdown will affect a crucial academic year for us. As soon as school reopens, there will be academic and extracurricular activities as well. We’ll be under extreme pressure,” Nashita Imtiaz, a Class 12 student of Springdales School in Dhaula Kuan, said. Some students also complained about logistical issues due to the lockdown and the feasibility of online lectures.”Classes have not started and most of us could not manage to procure our textbooks and mock tests before the lockdown. All learning is taking place through online classes, readings, and worksheets. There’s little classroom discussion. How much can one learn like that?” Rohit Kaushik, another Class 12 student, asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/most-pvt-schools-say-exams-ended-before-lockdown-govt-schools-mull-over-implementation-of-cbse-directive/story-fcPJNAXhu2OFO30oklxjPL.html
02-04-2020||Noida||Power demand fall causes discom ₹300cr revenue dip in March||Shutdown of industrial units and the subsequent decrease in power consumption, due to the 21-day nationwide lockdown, has resulted in a ₹300 crore-dip in March revenue of the Pashchimanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited (PVVNL), the power distribution arm of the Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation Limited (UPPCL).The power consumption last month decreased to 525 megawatts (MW) per day, from the March average of around 1,000 MW per day. The revenue has been hit as commercial and industrial establishments are charged more than domestic consumer per unit of electricity, said officials.Virendra Nath Singh, PVVNL’s chief engineer, says that the dip might be even higher. “We are unable to generate revenue from anywhere. Industrial units are shut due to the Covid-19 crisis, while, as per the rules, our officials are not collecting dues from defaulters. Even the consumption of power, purchased through power purchase agreements (PPAs), has reduced by 50%. We have suffered a revenue loss of over ₹300 crore last month,” he said.Singh said that decreased power consumption will affect the cash flow of the distribution company (discom), which will lead to delay in payments to the power generation and transmission companies. “Industrial and commercial establishments account for about 40% of the power demand in the district. In March, the average power demand per day was supposed to be 1,000 MW in Noida, which fell to less than 525 MW per day,” he said.Outlining the important factors of the financial relief package given by the Centre, Singh said that there is a three-month moratorium on payments for power purchased by all state-owned discoms. “Under this package, the penalty for late payments has also been waived off and the security payment has been reduced to 50% for future purchases,” he said.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath, on Wednesday, announced a waiver of fixed charges for industrial units, until the lockdown period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/power-demand-fall-causes-discom-300cr-revenue-dip-in-march/story-WWCV7nKbaaXHPX8DCR02gN.html
02-04-2020||Noida||Noida: 10 arrested for offering namaz on terrace despite lockdown||At least 10 men were arrested by the Sector 20 police on Wednesday and Thursday for gathering at a house in Sector 16 to offer namaaz despite the ongoing lockdown. The gathering was also in violation of Section 144 implemented in Gautam Budh Nagar district.According to the police, the incident came to light on Wednesday around 6 pm through a video which was being circulating online in which a dozen men could be seen offering namaaz on the terrace of a house in Sector 16’s JJ Colony.“It was found that the men had gathered during the day to offer prayers. While six of them--a father, four sons and a brother-in-law--are from the same family, the others were relatives and neighbours and had gathered at the house despite the lockdown,” said RK Singh, station house officer, Sector 20 police station.Section 144, which was first imposed in the district on February 16 for two months and then again on March 18, bars the assembly of more than four people at one place. The incident comes in the back drop of concerns over numerous religious gatherings across NCR and the country, held before countrywide lockdown came into force, becoming hot spots. “The owner of the house, Sadiq, was arrested yesterday while nine others were held later. Two of the men, including an elderly man, are missing. We hope to nab then soon because the lockdown is in force,” the SHO said.A three-week nationwide lockdown, to check the spread of COVID-19 in the country, was made effective March 25. “Wednesday’s incident was brought to our attention through social media after which we took suo motu cognizance and filed case against 12 people. None of them is a cleric and they lived separately so they should not have gathered in this manner at all,” said Singh.The suspects were booked under relevant sections of National Disaster Management Act-2005 , the Uttar Pradesh Epidemic Diseased Act-1897 and Indian Penal Code Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-10-arrested-for-offering-namaz-on-terrace-despite-lockdown/story-yiJBBCjpbNpNLFo9X1NJtL.html
02-04-2020||City||GB Nagar CMO Bhargava removed, AP Chaturvedi takes charge||Noida: Amid the rising Covid-19 cases in Gautam Budh Nagar, the chief medical officer (CMO) of the district, Anurag Bhargava, has been removed from the crucial post. Bhargava has been replaced by AP Chaturvedi, an official order said.The decision has been taken after UP principal secretary (medical education) Rajnish Dube submitted his report blaming former district magistrate BN Singh and Bhargava for poor performance in containing the spread of coronavirus in the district.During his visit to GB Nagar on March 30, chief minister Yogi Adityanath had pulled up Singh and Bhargava for the trail of employees at Ceasefire company in Sector 135 and their relatives who got infected with the deadly virus.Chaturvedi, joint director, Directorate General of Family Welfare, is appointed as the CMO of Gautam Budh Nagar with immediate effect, stated the order that was issued on Wednesday night by principal secretary (medical and health) Amit Mohan Prasad.As per the order, Bhargava has been attached with the chief executive officer of the Greater Noida Authority, Narendra Bhooshan. Bhooshan has also been appointed as the nodal officer in-charge of Gautam Budh Nagar district for handling Covid-19 outbreak.“Bhargava is directed to immediately hand over the charge to the new CMO and offer his services to the nodal officer,” the order said. Bhargava’s removal has come a couple of days after district magistrate BN Singh was removed following the chief minister’s visit to the city.Meanwhile, the Greater Noida authority CEO said, “All the officials are working round-the-clock to contain the outbreak of Covid-19 disease. We are streamlining all the procedures, including the information dissemination among the media persons.” By Wednesday night, the total number of Covid-19 cases had reached 48 in the district, which includes 29 persons directly or indirectly linked with fire safety solutions firm Ceasefire. The district has emerged as one of the epicentres of Covid-19 in the state.“A lot of work has been done in the last 48 hours to reach out to maximum number of people. We are going to come up with a set-up by late Thursday night wherein helpline numbers will be provided to people to get in touch with us to clear their doubts related to Covid-19 and they can also inform us if they have any complaints. All the officers are working together as a team to fight this outbreak,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate, GB Nagar.The Expressway police has lodged an FIR against Ceasefire under sections 45 (punishment of offences committed within India), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code. The FIR was lodged on the orders of Bhargava for hiding the foreign travel history by few employees of the firm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gb-nagar-cmo-bhargava-removed-ap-chaturvedi-takes-charge/story-2eoAK9YzaKhWL3Y3jPQfkI.html
02-04-2020||City||Ghaziabad administration fixes price of 21 essential commodities||In order to check overpricing of essential items, the Ghaziabad district administration has come out with a rate list of 21 commodities which are used on a daily basis by household consumers. Officials said they have released the wholesale and retail prices of 21 commodities which include sugar, pulses, oil, rice, salt, mustard oil and other spices.According to the list provided by the district administration, they have arrived at the wholesale and retail prices of the 21 commodities after holding discussions with different traders and market associations. However, officials said the price cap on the 21 commodities will be applicable only when they are sold in loose and not as packaged.“The packaged items and their different varieties, for instance, in the case of edible oils, will be determined by the maximum retail price (MRP). The 21 commodities which we have identified as those which are also sold in loose and the wholesalers and retailers will not charge anything more other than the rate determined by the district administration,” Shiv Prakash Shukla, city magistrate, said.As per the list, a kilogram of sugar must be sold at ₹37 in wholesale and at ₹39 in retail. The price of refined oil is capped at ₹93/litre for wholesale and ₹96/litre in retail. Likewise, the price for basmati rice is fixed at ₹60 per kilo (wholesale) and ₹65 per kilo (retail).The different pulses are priced between ₹65 and ₹97 per kilo (wholesale) and between ₹70 and ₹100 per kilo in retail. The wholesale price for flour is ₹27 per kilogram (wholesale) and it will retail at ₹28 per kilogram.“We have not fixed the price of fruits and vegetables as they keep fluctuating on a daily basis and the wholesale prices are determined by the Sahibabad vegetable market,” Shukla said.Officials said they have sufficient stock of potato, onion, tomato and fruits such as banana at the Sahibabad vegetable market and about 514 carts have been despatched from the market to different residential areas. Another 227 carts and 428 small goods carriers have been roped in for delivery of fruits and vegetables to all areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-administration-fixes-price-of-21-essential-commodities/story-ag29zxHg5OpuIShlgIIs7J.html
02-04-2020||Mumbai||3 engineers quarantined after colleague tests +ve||Three civic engineers from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) C ward, covering areas like Marine Lines and Charni Road, have been home quarantined on Tuesday after a 28-year-old junior engineer from the same ward tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday.Chakrapani Alley, assistant municipal commissioner of BMC’s C ward confirmed that the engineers have been home quarantined. The three engineers from the maintenance department have undergone testing for the coronavirus, and their results have come back negative.One of the home-quarantined engineers said, “We were tested, and our results have come out negative. However, we will be tested again in the coming 14 days.” He said that their colleagues from other departments are now being checked daily before they enter the office, and sanitisation of the whole ward office has been undertaken.The family of the 28-year-old junior engineer has also been home quarantined. The engineer does not have any travel history but there are chances he came in contact with someone who was infected, said BMC officials.Akash Purohit, local BJP corporator, said, “There were no cases in our area till the one from the BMC office. It is worrisome and all engineers entering are being screened now.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/3-engineers-quarantined-after-colleague-tests-ve/story-Wy07Vl99MfdORW1FRinD5H.html
02-04-2020||Mumbai||State govt records ₹25-K-cr revenue loss; set to worsen||The state government has recorded loss of over ~25,000 crore revenue, due to the Covid-19 outbreak. The first quarter of the new financial year, which began on April 1, is expected to be worse, according to finance officials.The Maharashtra government had estimated annual revenue of ~2.57 lakh crore from tax revenue at the rate of ~21,400 crore per month. However, given that tax collections are typically more than double in the last month of the financial year, monthly tax revenue was expected to be around ~44,000 crore. According to the preliminary estimates, the state was able to accumulate only around ~19,000 crore due to the major drop in collection of GST, excise and stamp duty following the coronavirus pandemic.“We were anyway expecting a drastic drop of ~16,000 crore in annual GST due to the slowdown, but the Covid-19 outbreak has now hit it further. Similarly, there will be a drop of ~2,600 crore in excise against the estimated annual revenue of ~17,977 crore. The losses from stamp duty are expected to be more than ~5,000 crore against the estimated annual revenue of ~29,500 crore. The state government’s decision of a 1% reduction in stamp duty had resulted in many homebuyers deferring their plans to the new financial year, hence we were expecting a drop in revenue. However, the pandemic has worsened it,” said an official from the finance department.Deputy chief and finance minister Ajit Pawar had demanded a special central package of ~25,000 crore, after reviewing the revenue deficit early this week. He also had reminded the Centre of the dues of ~16,654 crore owed towards the devolution of central taxes and grant-in-aide. The government is expecting April and the first quarter of 2020-21 to be worse with the drop in the collection to more than 60% of its tax revenue.“Against only one week of lockdown in March, April has two weeks [of lockdown] with no business and revenue. It will take at least a few months for the business and industrial sectors to regularise. It will result in major revenue losses to the government,” the finance department official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-govt-records-25-k-cr-revenue-loss-set-to-worsen/story-O4fAijZbczvMQy0AqtIlhM.html
02-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM briefs Sonia Gandhi on Covid-19, says no migrants issue in state||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Thursday assured Congress president Sonia Gandhi that the state did not have a migrants issue in the wake of the coronavirus lockdown, as he had directed the industry to absorb all such labourers stranded in the state at this critical juncture.Amarinder gave the assurance after the Congress president raised the issue during a Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting held through video conference to take stock of the situation and formulate a strategy for the party to play a strong role in this hour of crisis, according to an official statement.The chief minister said extensive arrangements had been made by the government to provide shelter and food to the migrant labourers, who could not leave the state in view the nationwide restrictions and sealing of borders.“The state government is taking all steps to address the issues arising out of movement of migrant labour back to UP and Bihar. The issue has been contained due to timely intervention and we are making all arrangements for their food and shelter,” he informed the CWC.In response to the concern expressed by Sonia on the arrangements for farmers in view of the onset of the harvesting season, Amarinder said all arrangements were being made to ensure smooth operations, with strict maintenance of social distance protocols in mandis. The state had also urged the central government to incentivise farmers to go in for staggered transportation of their produce to the mandis for procurement. Briefing the Congress president about the current situation in Punjab, which has a large NRI population, Amarinder said the state had so far been able to contain the spread of the disease through intensive tracing and surveillance. The state government was also preparing to deal with the eventuality of the disease acquiring larger epidemic proportions by May or June, he told the meeting.The CM said the state department of health and family welfare was in regular touch with the Union ministry of health and family welfare and was adhering to all the protocols laid down by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the central ministry. Asked about the problems faced by the state, he told the CWC that it was not receiving its GST share from the Centre, which was causing serious financial problems. On its part, the state government had sanctioned Rs 20 crore to all districts to ensure food and shelter for homeless and underprivileged, among other measures taken to combat the crisis, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-cm-briefs-sonia-on-covid-19-says-no-migrants-issue-in-state/story-LSDL18Ctn2sTWe73hSNw7O.html
02-04-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram police identify 25 residents who attended Tableeghi Jamaat event||The police have so far identified 25 people from the city who attended the Tableeghi Jamaat congregation mid-March at Nizamuddin in Delhi.The police said 12 of the identified persons were sent to a quarantine facility in Sector 9 on Thursday morning, while10 were sent to the facility Wednesday night. Two persons are yet to be traced, they added.One of the attendees, a 38-year-old-man, whose samples were sent for tests Wednesday night tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday, officials said.Police commissioner Muhammad Akil on Thursday said the police are coordinating with the chief medical officer and are sending all the identified people directly to the health department to ensure the samples of the identified persons are collected and they are put under quarantine. “We have to be very careful and have to take precautionary measures so that the people are protected,” Akil said.Police teams are also deployed at the quarantine facility set up at the Sector 9 government postgraduate college by the district health team. The police personnel have been provided with Personal Protective Kits (PPE), safety gear like zero power glasses, gloves, masks, shoe covers, head covers, and hand gloves to ensure their safety. Dr Jaswant Singh Punia, chief medical officer, said, “We have taken the samples of those identified by the police. Their samples have been sent for testing to Pandit Bhagwat Dayal Sharma Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) in Rohtak. They will be kept in the quarantine facility at the Sector 9 facility for 14 days. Police teams have been deployed at the facility so that the identified persons do not leave the centre. The police personnel have been provided with safety kits too to prevent contamination.”Haryana’s health minister, Anil Vij, on Wednesday, had said that at least 524 people who attended the Jamaat congregation were traced in Haryana. The congregation has emerged as India’s biggest Covid-19 hot spot till now.The Haryana Police have also formed a special task force with 500 police personnel to identify Jamaat attendees in the state. All crime investigating agencies have been roped in to identify people who attended the congregation.All inter-district borders in the state were sealed on Thursday to ensure that those who attended the congregation cannot enter or exit a district. “ Gurugram borders connecting Jhajjar, Rewari, Delhi, Nuh, Palwal are no longer open for people except for those supplying essential commodities or those facing medical emergencies,” the police commissioner said. “We are even checking all the ambulances plying on the roads near the borders to ensure no affected person is taking advantage of the situation,” he said.33 from Pataudi, Dhankot test negativeAccording to the CMO, 27 persons from Pataudi and six from Gurugram’s Dhankot, who were put under quarantine by the district administration and the police, tested negative for Covid-19 on Thursday. These 33 persons are also under quarantine in the Sector 9 facility.“All of them tested negative, but they won’t be discharged till they complete their quarantine period of 14 days. We are taking precautionary measures to avoid any community transmission,” Punia said. While tracing the Jamaat attendees, the district administration and police on Tuesday had put the 33 persons under quarantine and sent their samples to be tested for coronavirus and quarantine. The police, however, clarified on Thursday that none of them had attended the Jamaat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-police-identify-25-residents-who-attended-tableeghi-jamaat-event/story-TGLpEEDCpZnGIovcSyaYeN.html
02-04-2020||Gurugram||March air was ‘moderate’, but pollution dipped sharply since March 25||In March, the city recorded an average daily air quality index (AQI) value of 113, implying that it was experiencing largely ‘moderate’ air quality over the past month. However, the city has seen a sharp dip in pollution levels since March 25, when a nationwide lockdown to contain the outbreak of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) was enforced. Since the lockdown began, most vehicles have been off the streets and Gurugram’s air quality has ranged between 42 to 77, in terms of its daily average AQI value, while levels of particulate matter have remained within nationally prescribed ‘safe’ limits.The city’s average AQI value for February, as per Central Pollution Control Board data, was 190 (also in the ‘moderate’ category). “The air quality has remained in the ‘moderate’ category over February and March, but with a slight improvement due to the lockdown, as well as the rainfall earlier in the month. We will see an even sharper improvement between March and April, as the lockdown continues, mainly due to the shutdown of industries and lack of vehicles on roads,” Sachin Panwar, a city-based air quality scientist, said. Morning and evening peaks in the level of PM 2.5 (due to daily rush-hour commutes causing heavy traffic movement) have also flattened in the days since the lockdown came into force, according to an analysis by the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE). Data from three of Gurugram’s air quality monitors—at Gwal Pahadi, Sector 51, and Vikas Sadan—confirms that this is the case. All three monitors show PM2.5 to be at an average value between 40 and 50µg/m³ per day over the past 10 days, which is within the national safe limit of 60µg/m³. These monitors also show a sharp reduction in the levels of nitrogen dioxide (NO2), which can be directly attributed to the absence of vehicles on city streets, and closure of non-essential industries, both of which burn fuel and are major sources of NO2 in the atmosphere. “This analysis brings out the pronounced effect of traffic on hourly pollution trend and daily exposures to toxic vehicular pollution. With traffic minimised, hourly trends plummet. This is sharply evident in NO2 trends,” the CSE said in its analysis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/march-air-was-moderate-but-pollution-dipped-sharply-since-march-25/story-FLRtY79CN9ROyRCY9pGDxL.html
02-04-2020||Gurugram||Pandemic, lockdown likely to hit sales of residential units by 25-30%: Report||The Covid-19 pandemic that has forced the country into lockdown is likely to adversely affect the residential real estate sector, which has already been grappling with reduced demand for the last few years, according to a report.The report, released by a private real estate consultant, Anarock, on Wednesday, predicts a 25-30% decline in the sale of housing units this year, compared to 2019. With a large number of construction workers returning their hometowns, projects across the country could be delayed by a further eight to nine months.City-based realtors and consultants echoed the views, saying that all efforts by developers to stay afloat by reducing supply, completing projects and launching affordable projects will be for nought due to the Covid-19 pandemic.As per the report, 2.61 lakh residential units were sold in top seven cities in 2019 and the number could fall to 1.70 lakh and 1.96 lakh units. The pandemic could also lead to a decline in new launches, from 2.37 lakh units in 2019, to anywhere between 1.66 lakh -1.78 lakh units, according to the report.The top seven real estate markets in the country from which data has been collected are Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), Delhi-NCR, Chennai, Pune, Hyderabad, Bengaluru and Kolkata.Anuj Puri, chairman, Anarock property consultants, says, “Besides demand-supply decline in 2020, significant new trends will emerge across segments of Indian real estate. New business models will be tried, making players more reliant on technology for ensuring business continuity.”Developers said that due lockdown, there are no site visits, discussions, documentation or closures, which indicate a difficult next few quarters.In a earlier report released on March 25, Anarock had stated that about 15.62 lakh units that are under construction in top seven realty markets across the country will be delayed. MMR accounts for nearly 4.65 lakh such units while NCR, which includes Gurugram, Faridabad, Noida, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad, has over 4.25 lakh units in various stages of construction, which are likely to be delayed. All these units were launched between 2013 and 2019.To offset the problems, developers want the government to announce relief measures — relaxation in payment of licence fees, taxes and other levies — for the realty sector. Haryana Real Estate Regulatory Authority (HRERA) should also take the delays into account and provide relaxation on late penalties, they said.Pradeep Aggarwal, founder and chairman, Signature Global, a city-based realty company, said that to help businesses, there is need for suspending debt servicing, reducing interest rates across businesses and re-scheduling loan payments, among other things.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/pandemic-lockdown-likely-to-hit-sales-of-residential-units-by-25-30-report/story-9PJbcKvXbg7PbyC62cS1tO.html
02-04-2020||Gurugram||At Mapsko Casa Bella, residents ensure all follow lockdown rules||As the country remains in lockdown to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), authorities and many citizens are doing everything in their power to ensure people stay at home. At Mapsko Casa Bella, a condominium in Sector 82, residents are playing an active role in dissuading others from stepping out. All residents in the society have been advised against taking walks in the society’s lawns. While most adhere to the rules, some still venture out for fresh air and to discourage such residents, the society has opted for some negative reinforcements.The residents start clapping at those who violate the lockdown to embarrass them for not staying indoors. “The other day, I saw a resident taking a walk in the evening. When other residents noticed it from their balconies, they started clapping and made the walkers aware that they are walking in the park while the rest are staying indoors to keep everyone safe. It naturally embarrassed the walkers who do this often,” said Dr Rajesh Yadav, a resident and member of the condominium’s Covid-19 doctors’ group. The doctors’ group was formed to provide free consultations to residents as well as help formulate a set of precautions to be taken to keep the infection at bay.Yadav adds that since he has to step out to go to the hospital every day, he has isolated himself from the rest of his family. The moment he enters the house after coming from the hospital, he immediately changes his clothes and takes a shower. He remains in a room for most of the time, he said.“The only time I meet my family while having food. It is the only time I allow myself to be with them. This is the best way to ensure that no one gets infected and that everyone stays safe. My family is in quarantine because of me; they don’t go out to meet anyone or invite anyone in to the house,” said Yadav who lives in one of the villas at the condominium.Some of the preventive measures taken by the condominium to prevent the virus from spreading, are maintaining only one exit gate, maintaining records of residents going outside the society and hand-washing and sanitising at the gate.Only one gate at the condominium has been left open and the residents have also installed facilities to wash hands at the gate apart from providing hand sanitisers. Residents and the condominium staff alike are made to wash their hands before entering the society.“It is mandatory for anyone passing through the gate to wash their hands. They have to get down from their car, wash their hands, show their identity card and then go inside,” said Inder Bir Singh, maintenance head at the residency. Records of any resident that leaves the society are also maintained.The society has also cut down on number of staff inside the premises. The residents have also formed a special 15-member group of staffers, called the Casa Bella Emergency Response Team, who are responsible for assisting families in quarantine and helping senior citizens living alone apart from providing other services to the residents.“The idea behind the quick response team is to make sure that there is always a set of hands ready to tackle any issue that arises in the condominium. This includes attending to maintenance breakdowns, contacting emergency services, providing ration to those who are unable to step out and others,” said Satyavir Singh, president, Casa Bella Condo Association.The condominium staff has been provided with accommodation inside the society’s premises. They are also being provided food, cooking space and ration.The residency, which houses close to 850 families, has no grocery store on the premises but has a store attached to the property that has an outside entrance. To maintain social distancing at the store, the management discourages residents to step out to purchase essential items. Instead, the residents can place their orders at the helpdesk in their building or to the building’s supervisor in-charge. The order is then forwarded to the store and the staff delivers the goods to the residents.The society has allowed delivery of online orders of essential supplies to residents. Every package is dropped at the gate by the delivery agent, sanitised and then delivered to the residents by the condominium staff.Inder maintained that if the national lockdown were to continue till the end of the month, even then the society is equipped enough to sustain itself. He also often pens down circulars on tips and tricks to ace staying at home and mails them to all residents each morning. Some of the subjects covered by him in these circulars are how to be active at home, do’s and don’ts of social distancing, being energy efficient during lockdown and others.“I usually write them down in the afternoon after reading government directives online. Then these are mailed early morning to each resident. It is just a small way of keeping things interesting,” said Inder, a former army officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/at-mapsko-casa-bella-residents-ensure-all-follow-lockdown-rules/story-bYiZKTg46wl4zkjFy6PJxJ.html
02-04-2020||Chandigarh||Refused rice, Punjab govt to start giving free wheat, pulses in a week||The Punjab government will start free distribution of five kilograms of wheat per person and one kg of pulses per household to 36 lakh poor households for the next three months under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY) in a week.The state has been allocated additional 2.12 lakh metric tonnes (MTs) of wheat by the Union ministry of food, consumer affairs, and public distribution for the April-June period for distribution to 1.41 crore beneficiaries identified under the National Food Security Act (NFSA) to ensure availability of food to the poor during the national lockdown. Of this, 11,565 MTs of wheat will be distributed to 1.92 lakh ‘poor of the poorest’ households identified under Antyodaya Anna Yojana and remaining 2 lakh MTs to about 33.43 lakh priority households in the state. This is in addition to the subsidised wheat provided to all these ration cardholders.“The centre has allocated wheat, but we are still waiting for 10,800 MT of pulses which are expected to arrive from Rajasthan in the next three to four days. The distribution of wheat and pulses for three months will be done in one go and will be started in about a week’s time,” a senior food and civil supplies department said. Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had on March 26 announced the free supply of an additional 5kg of wheat or rice per person per month and 1kg of preferred pulses every month for three months to deal with the economic impact of the lockdown due to the coronavirus outbreak.The state government had requested the food, consumer affairs, and public distribution ministry to divide free ration into 10kg of wheat and 5kg of rice as the latter is ready to cook and also because of food habits of people from other states who have settled in Punjab and are covered under the NFSA. However, the central ministry did not accede to the request and allocated only wheat, citing limited availability of rice stock. Haryana and Rajasthan are the only other states in the country that have not been allocated rice for free distribution under the scheme. Overall, the Centre has allocated 36.88 lakh MTs of rice and 3.58 lakh MTs of wheat per month to the states and union territories under PMGKAY.Similarly, the Punjab government had on March 27 requested the Centre for four varieties of pulses, including moong whole, moongh dhuli, moong chilka, and urad sabut, as per the guidelines which mentioned preferred pulses, but has been allowed only chana dal (split chickpea lentils). The dal will be supplied by National Agriculture Cooperative Marketing Federation of India Limited (NAFED).“The state food and civil supplies department will first supply the free ration through the ration depots in a staggered manner to avoid overcrowding and subsequently give the subsidised foodgrains to them under the targeted public distribution scheme,” the official said. Principal Secretary, health and family welfare, Anurag Agarwal also issued an order on Wednesday to continue the suspension of biometric authentication of the NFSA beneficiaries through the electronic point of sale (ePoS) devices at fair price shops during ration distribution till April 15.In addition, the state government will supply 15 lakh packets of dry ration, each containing 10kg wheat flour, 2kg dal (lentils) and 2kg sugar, to daily wagers and unorganised labourers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/refused-rice-punjab-govt-to-start-giving-free-wheat-pulses-in-a-week/story-dvx3Yla2geT5eXgbpf10HO.html
02-04-2020||Gurugram||Haryana CM orders food packets for all truckers ferrying essential goods||Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar has asked all districts in the state to arrange food for hundreds of truck drivers ferrying essential commodities on the expressway and state highways, as all eateries and dhabas are closed due to the lockdown. There are nearly 800 trucks supplying raw material across the state who have been granted permission to enter the borders. The drivers of these trucks — ferrying essential food items — have complained of finding no eating places on the highways and expressway, due to which they had to work on an empty stomach. Some had even threatned to stop ferrying goods.Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner of Gurugram, said Khattar has now issued instructions that food packets and water should be made available at all the toll plazas for truck drivers crossing the district borders. “Food packets are available at all the toll plazas. There is no shortage of food and water for them. The staff of the toll plaza and volunteers have been assigned the task to ensure no one leaves without collecting their food packets,” he said.Khattar said the government was taking care of every person involved in supply of essential goods. “We have directed all the district police chiefs to ensure that there is no disruption in the supply chain for commodities across the state. There is no shortage of essential commodities across the state. We are focusing mainly on rice, wheat, pulses, vegetables and fruits, salt, along with petroleum products, among other things, which are all essential commodities and raw material required for the manufacturing,” Khattar told HT.Gurugram commissioner of police, Muhammad Akil, said that directions have been given to all police personnel deployed on the borders to ensure the trucks and vehicles carrying raw material and food supply are allowed to pass after conducting thorough checks. “We have directed to check if any person is taking advantage of the situation and trying to cross the borders in trucks carrying essential goods. Strict action will be taken against drivers who are found misusing the facility. No vehicle is made to wait at the border if their documentation is complete,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/haryana-cm-orders-food-packets-for-all-truckers-ferrying-essential-goods/story-xZb4CdkRSHVr6RJvmwyObN.html
02-04-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Property owners waive off rent to help migrant workers||To help the migrant labourers and distressed workers who have lost their jobs due to the nationwide lockdown to curb the spread of the Sars-Cov-2, several property and land owners in city have decided to not only waive off rent for their tenants for this month but also to distribute meals and other essential items. The city has over 40 villages where around five-six lakh migrant workers live as tenants in single-room tenements or similar units. Living on their salaries from month to month or day to day, the workers have been caught on the wrong foot as they don’t have money to pay rentals due to lack of work.In Chakkarpur village, which is adjacent to MG Road, a majority of the property owners have decided that they would not seek rent from their tenants in view of the prevailing lockdown. “There are at least 10,000 to 12,000 families living in this village and we have decided to help them by not asking for rent till the situation improves. Most landlords are waiving it off, some have decided to delay the collection for a month or two,” said Anil Yadav, the former sarpanch of the village.The villagers are also providing cooked meals, groceries and other essential items to the workers. The village elders, who are participating in the relief measures, also said that though these workers were crucial not only to the city’s economy, they helped pump in a lot of money in the coffers of the local businesses.Rakesh Daultabad, MLA, Badshahpur, on Wednesday interacted with a number of property owners and exhorted them to waive off the rent and provide help to migrant labourers. “We will provide all help to migrant workers and many owners have agreed to forego rent. The migrant workers are part of and parcel of the city’s economy and the society, and they would be cared for,” he said.Local also said that apart from helping the workers with rent and food, they are voluntarily sanitising adjoining colonies to prevent the spread of coronavirus. Aryan Dahiya, a member of Team Dhanwapur, a group of 15 people from the village who are working to sanitise adjoining areas and are helping migrants, said that he has decided to waive off the rent owed by 20 families for now that are living on properties owned by his family. “We have a 15 members’ team and it is engaged in sanitation works in Tekchand Nagar, Surat Nagar, Ram Vihar, Dhanwapur and adjoining areas. We are spending money from our own pocket to fight the Covid-19 pandemic,” said Dahiya, adding that other villagers are also doing the same.Officials engaged in relief efforts also say that it is because of the support of locals and NGO that the city has not witnessed a reverse migration, the likes of which were witnessed in neighbouring Delhi. “About 80% workers in the city have stayed put after the lockdown was announced as they were assured of help and support by locals,” said an official, requesting anonymity. Basai village, which is a large conglomeration of unauthorised colonies and urbanised village areas, locals say they are providing food and other essentials to migrant labourers. “I have five families living on rent and I have waived rent charges off for now,” said Raj Singh, a Basai resident.In Gadoli village, which is on the outskirts of the city, Harish Mehlawat, a local, said they are working with the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram and other NGOs to provide food to over 1,000 migrant labourers staying in the nearby Ramprashtha city. “Many of us have contributed in cash and kind, some have waived off rent and all efforts are being made to help the distressed workers,” he said. Anirudh Saxena, who works in a private firm and lives in a rented accommodation in the Basai area, said that his landlord has asked him not to pay the rent if there is any delay in salary payment, or in the event of termination of job. “I am thankful to the locals who are supporting us. I will pay my rent later and this has reassured other tenants as well, who are not leaving the city anymore,” said Saxena, adding that this has come as a big relief to many who work as daily wagers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-property-owners-waive-off-rent-to-help-migrant-workers/story-hNn7Uhd5ldyxGHQCizW8XM.html
02-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM prohibits religious gatherings, orders tracking of Markaz attendees||With infections linked to a March event of the Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi leading to a countrywide surge in Covid-19 cases, chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Thursday completely prohibited all gatherings, including religious, in the state.The chief minister said the state government will impose a total ban on all congregations, irrespective of the religion involved. “I will personally talk to the acting jathedar of the Akal Takht,” he said, directing the state chief secretary to discuss the matter with the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) in view of the upcoming Baisakhi festival.Amarinder also ordered 21 days of quarantine for all those who had returned to the state from Nizamuddin (Delhi) since January this year, and asked the police and administrative officials to move aggressively to track, trace and isolate all such people.He directed the police and health department to constitute special teams to track and follow up on those who had returned to Punjab from Nizamuddin. The chief minister issued these instructions while reviewing the current situation through a video conference with DCs and other senior officials of the civil administration and police department. The state authorities were initially slow in tracking and tracing the Nizamuddin returnees and swung into action after reports of a surge driven by infections among the Jamaat’s members came from different parts of the country.200 FROM PUNJAB VISITED NIZAMUDDINAccording to DGP Dinkar Gupta, some 200 persons from Punjab had visited Nizamuddin and returned here, at different times, with 12 districts believed to be affected. They were being tracked, along with some from others states who had arrived in Punjab for Tablighi Jamaat work. The health department was debriefing and contact tracing them, though, so far, no corona confirmed cases had come to light.Health secretary Anurag Agarwal informed the chief minister that the department had so far received a list of 125 of these persons, of whom 73 had been tracked and samples collected in 25 cases, some of whom had come to Mansa as late as March 19. As a precautionary measure, all of them had been placed in quarantine, he added.The Kapurthala deputy commissioner informed the CM that 31 people who returned from Nizamuddin had been quarantined though they had been found to be asymptomatic so far. In Patiala, too, 29 of them had been quarantined but there were no symptoms shown by them.On a suggestion from director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta, the CM ordered quarantine of the Pakistani nationals who were in Amritsar, saying the state could not afford to take any chances at this critical juncture.The Amritsar DC said Pakistan had given permission to allow entry of four of its citizens who had come from Delhi, of whom three had tested positive. The BSF and immigration staff who handled them had been quarantined, he said, but added that there were a few more Pakistanis still stuck in Amritsar. Amarinder also warned the officials against any complacency in terms of curfew enforcement and law and order, as well as relief measures and management of essential supplies. He inquired about the steps being taken to protect and provide for the migrants who are stranded in Punjab due to the sealing of the borders and other restrictions.The Pathankot DC said 111 migrant labourers from J&K were stuck in the district and had been accommodated in marriage palaces and other places, with strict social distancing norms being maintained. Three had been quarantined as they had fever and cough. QUOTE The state government will impose a total ban on all congregations, irrespective of the religion involved.Capt Amarinder Singh, chief minister||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-cm-prohibits-religious-gatherings-orders-tracking-of-markaz-attendees/story-aKJSEyyYQFvMH8Xsp44kDM.html
02-04-2020||City||Covid-19: Punjab adopts 2-pronged monitoring strategy||Chandigarh The Punjab Government is adopting a two-pronged strategy against COVID-19. The first is to ensure co-ordination among different departments and another for tracking and follow-up of cases at the district level. For coordination, a State Control Room, functioning from Sector 17, primarily deals with inter-department issues and also acts as the communication link between the state and the Centre. It is headed by principal secretary rank IAS officer, Rahul Tiwari. Three more senior IAS officers, Ravi Bhagat and Vipul Ujjwal, Sumit Jarangal are also part of this control room that has team of 18 officials, including two PPS rank police officials, two PCS rank administrative officials, two officials from food and civil supplies and officials from the health and family welfare department.This works in two shifts from 5.30am, closing at 11.30pm. Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh has a video conference meeting with this team once every three days. The follow-up and tracking of cases is done at the district level by a teams that civil surgeons head. Committees have been formed for health sector response and procurement, lockdown implementation, media and communication and for agriculture & food-related issues.The health sector and procurement committee has Dr KK Talwar and Dr Raj Bahadur as professional advisors, which would assess and review all requirement of personnel, material and infrastructure and ensure timely procurement. The Committee would also ensure provisioning of IT support needed for COVID-19 management. The committee on media and communication would be headed by secretary, information and public relations, with Joint Development Commissioner (IRD), Director Health Services (State Epidemiologist) as members and Director Information & Public Relations as convener. These committees would meet as frequently as required and report to the COVID-19 Management Group headed by the chief secretary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-punjab-adopts-2-pronged-monitoring-strategy/story-DcEUvkdgFvapi9LknQTaJM.html
02-04-2020||City||Covid-19: Fearing infection, Verka village does not allow cremation of ragi||Residents of Verka village, on the outskirts of the city, did not allow the administration to cremate the body of Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa, a former hazoori ragi (gurbani singer) of Harmandar Sahib, in their village crematorium on Thursday. The village was chosen for the cremation only because it was on the outskirts. Villagers were apprehensive of the fear of spread of the infection. Khalsa, a Padma Shri awardee, had died due to covid-19 on Thursday about 4:30am. Finally, Khalsa was cremated in a private field at Fatehgarh Shukar Chak village, 2km away. In the afternoon, residents, along with local Congress leader Harpal Singh Verka, had locked the crematorium. “We fear that the smoke will affect the health of people living around the crematorium, since this disease is not curable,” said Harpal. The two main crematoriums, the Durgiana Temple and the Gurdwara Shaheed Ganj, are in densely-populated areas. SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal said, “Nothing is as sorrowful as the stand of the villagers, who have invited shame for the Sikh community. We will build a memorial for Khalsa.” Akal Takht jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh said, “It is the worst degradation of human values to not give space for cremation to the man, who served at the Harmandar Sahib for decades.” SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal said the ragi had been insulted and the CM must not allow such incidents to recur. Akal Takht head granthi Giani Malkeet Singh performed the last rites. Khalsa’s son Amiteshwar Singh was also present.Had performed wedding rituals at Moga village on March 15Moga Health department officials inspected Daudhar and Manawa villages in Moga district, after it emerged that Khalsa had performed wedding rituals at Daudhar village gurdwara on March 15. No one was found symptomatic. Strap/BlurbPadma Shri awardee finally cremated at private fields in a village, 2km away; SGPC president calls it a shame for the Sikh community&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&BOX PLEASEMASTER AT SINGING GURBANIBorn to farmer Chanan Singh and Gurdev Kaur at Jandwala village in Ferozepur district, Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa learnt ragas mentioned in the Guru Granth Sahib from professor Avtar Singh, an expert of Gurmat Sangeet tradition, at the Shaheed Sikh Missionary College, Amritsar. Khalsa authored two Punjabi books.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-fearing-infection-verka-village-does-not-allow-cremation-of-ragi/story-51rWeoog4yDtlf2mfeKP9L.html
02-04-2020||City||21 Muslims who travelled to Delhi, Mumbai quarantined in Kapurthala||Twenty-one members of the Muslim community from Kot Karaar Kalan village in Kapurthala district, who recently travelled to Mumbai and New Delhi to pay obeisance at religious shrines, have been home quarantined, officials said on Thursday.Seven persons who had returned from the national capital on March 22 did not attend the Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Nizamuddin, they said.The 14 returned from Mumbai on March 18. “We have conducted medical tests and all of them are fit. But we have put them under home quarantine as a precautionary measure,” said Kapurthala sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Varinderpal Singh Bajwa. 6 samples taken in JalandharThe health authorities in Jalandhar district collected samples of six close contacts of Bhai Nirmal Singh, a Gurbani exponent and Padma Shri awardee, who passed away in Amritsar after testing positive for Covid-19. They were kept in the isolation centre of the Jalandhar civil hospital.Bhai Nirmal Singh also met noted environmentalist Balbir Singh Seechewal on March 12 in the Lohian Khas area where Seechewal along with local residents was carrying out desilting of the Sutlej.The health department teams on Thursday conducted check-up of Seechewal and his aides, who came in touch of Bhai Nirmal Singh, in Sultanpur Lodhi. Seechewal said since it was two weeks ago when he met Nirmal Singh and completed 14-day period, he will not go into isolation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/21-muslims-who-travelled-to-delhi-mumbai-quarantined-in-kapurthala/story-QOzwlCLZWqYQVW0tNksTlO.html
02-04-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Cops crack down on fake news, teams set up for monitoring||Cracking down on those spreading fake news on the coronavirus crisis, Punjab director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta on Thursday announced the constitution of a special team to monitor all social media platforms, as well as to identify and take action against anyone found to be circulating false news.The team will be headed by an ADGP-rank office to be stationed at police headquarters, the DGP said, directing all district police chiefs to take prompt action against those spreading false news. He said the onus of spreading false news would be the admin of WhatsApp group, and, therefore, group admins should cooperate with police in identifying those elements who want to usurp their group for their personal agenda.21 OPEN JAILS FOR CURFEW VIOLATORSGupta said that to strictly enforce the curfew in the state, the police and district administration were setting up open jails for curfew violators. Twenty-one such jails were already operational, with more to be notified tomorrow, he said, adding that anyone found violating the curfew would be sent to these jails and booked under the Disaster Management Act, 2005.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-cops-crack-down-on-fake-news-teams-set-up-for-monitoring/story-jUKRhcfKydnVvrpvhjXOVN.html
02-04-2020||Lucknow||Three more corona suicides in west UP||Three people, including a government employee, committed suicide in the region in the past 24 hours for fear of Covid 19. While one person each died in Saranpur and Shamli, another ended his life in Bareilly.With this, the suicide toll due to corona fear has touched seven in the state.In Saharanpur, a 38-year-old clerk in Ganna Vikas Parishad office in Shermau area hanged himself from a ceiling fan in his office on Wednesday evening, said circle officer of Nakur area Yatendra Singh Nagar.“A suicide note recovered from his pocket said he was dying as per his own wish because he was afraid of getting infected by corona virus,” the CO said.SSP of Saharanpur Dinesh Kumar P said that the man committed suicide under depression. His body was sent for post mortem examination and people were told to take necessary precautions instead of fearing the virus. In a similar incident, a 35-year-old vegetable vendor hanged himself in a quarantine ward in Shamli on Thursday morning. His sample had been sent for testing in Meerut lab and the report was expected on Thursday. Vineet Jaiswal, SP Shamli said, “A ward boy spotted his body hanging from the ceiling fan and chief medical officer ( CMO) Sanjay Bhatnagar informed authorities about the incident”.The deceased was a vegetable vendor in Delhi and had returned to his village on March 30. The next day he approached health officials and requested them to admit him to hospital as he was feeling sick. He was admitted to the quarantine ward and his sample was sent to Meerut lab on Wednesday. The report was supposed to come on Thursday. The SP said the body was sent for post mortem examination.In Bareilly, a 23-year-old migrant labourer who escaped from a quarantine centre to meet his family in Lakhimpur, allegedly committed suicide after learning that the police were searching for him.The victim, youngest among six siblings, was quarantined at a school on the village outskirts on returning from Gurugram on March 28.According to police, he had escaped from the quarantine centre twice to meet his family, but officials thwarted his attempts on both the occasions and brought him back to the camp.On Tuesday afternoon, police said he again escaped from the camp and went to his village to meet his family. When he learnt that the police were looking for him, he fled from his house and later his body was found hanging on the village outskirts.The police added the body was sent for autopsy and the district administration would provide compensation to the bereaved family.Mitauli SDM Digvijay Singh said, “The victim was quarantined following the government’s directions. We even informed him that isolation was a precautionary measure to ensure the safety of his family members and neighbours. The victim had fled from the camp to meet his family. When police reached the village searching for him, he escaped and was later found hanging.”Maigalganj police station SHO Chandrakant Singh said, “It appears that the victim took the extreme step as he started panicking at the quarantine centre despite repeated attempts by officials to make him understand that it was just a precautionary measure. Authorities have provided proper food and other necessary facilities at the centre. We are investigating the matter and a case will be registered based on the findings.”FLASHBACKOn Tuesday, a farmer, who was suffering from fever and cold, committed suicide to ‘’save his entire village from being infected”. The incident took place in Mathura.Earlier on March 24, a young man who had been suffering from fever and cough, committed suicide in Kanpur by hanging himself because he feared he was suffering from corona virus.Last month, in two separate incidents, two youths had committed suicide in Hapur and Bareilly because they also believed that they were suffering from the deadly virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/three-more-corona-suicides-in-west-up/story-UMD1lLH6Nj9JRaiNuE74eN.html
02-04-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19 outbreak: Cases confined to 7 Punjab districts, NRI belt worst-hit||The positive cases of coronavirus in Punjab are restricted to seven of the 22 districts so far, with nearly 65% infected patients belonging to the Doaba region, known as the state’s NRIs belt.Of a total of 47 cases, 31 have been reported from SBS Nagar (19), Hoshiarpur (7) and Jalandhar (5) districts — all falling in Doaba. No case has been reported in the region’s fourth district, Kapurthala, as yet. The state’s other districts with positive cases are Mohali (10), Ludhiana (3), Amritsar (2) and Patiala (1).At five deaths, Punjab is fourth among states in terms of Covid-19 casualties in India followed by Maharashtra (13), Gujarat (7) and Madhya Pradesh (6), according to the Union health ministry. As per the data compiled under the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) of the state health and family welfare department, testing was done in the rest of the 15 districts on 300 people put under quarantine but all samples turned out to be negative.Of the 1,434 samples tested in the state till date, 1,236 have been found negative while reports of 151 are awaited. “Due to an aggressive awareness campaign on the ground and, of course, the lockdown, the virus has not been able to find a footprint in 15 districts. If people adhere to the rules of social distancing, we will be able to win this battle,” Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, the health department’s Covid-19 spokesperson said.State health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu claimed things were quite under control in Punjab. “If we keep aside SBS Nagar which has 28 positive patients who came in direct or indirect contact with 70-year-old Baldev Singh, a raagi (Gurbani singer), and two of his associates who returned from Germany via Italy in a connected flight, Punjab’s tally will look satisfactory. The department has controlled the situation in SBS Nagar as well,” said Sidhu. ‘Jamaat participants pose bigger challenge’People from or in Punjab who attended the controversial Tablighi Jamaat gathering in Delhi’s Nizzamuddin are set to become new challenge for the state, said medical experts.The total number of persons who attended the gathering has increased from nine on Wednesday to 125 on Thursday and the hunt is on to trace more.“Even as we have been able to trace 75 people of the 125, finding their contacts has become a serious challenge for us, given the rate at which these participants are turning positive in other states,” a health department official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-17-outbreak-cases-confined-to-7-punjab-districts-nri-belt-worst-hit/story-WbqVZt2KojZtGoTif6PAfJ.html
02-04-2020||City||Navi Mumbai police carries route marches in city to enforce lockdown||The Navi Mumbai police are carrying out route marches across the city in teams of 10 to 15 members, including police officers and constables, to enforce the lockdown and social distancing. The marches are carried out in the afternoon and at night when people are likely to flout lockdown rules by trying to get out for a stroll or a ride. The route march which is carried in jurisdiction of each police station is also accompanied by public service announcements on social distancing and self isolation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/navi-mumbai-police-carries-route-marches-in-city-to-enforce-lockdown/story-eIlhM2EEhtHa6YrJhXsE3J.html
02-04-2020||City||Ulhas group utilises lockdown to hold e-sessions on water bodies||In view of the lockdown, Ulhasnadi Bachao Kruti Samiti started an online session on Thursday to discuss and explain the importance of water bodies. Around 40 people from across the country and also from abroad logged in for the sessions. The first session focused on water hyacinth, its advantages and disadvantages. “We will make this a weekly activity and get more experts on board,” said Ravindra Lingayat, volunteer at Ulhasnadi bachao Kruti Samiti.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ulhas-group-utilises-lockdown-to-hold-e-sessions-on-water-bodies/story-uCGJmMbnkHxEdRtAYyqK9J.html
02-04-2020||Mumbai||MahaRera extends completion date by three months||In view of the lockdown, the Maharashtra Real Estate Regulatory Authority (MahaRera) has extended the completion deadline of all projects by another three months. The order issued on April 2 stated that all MahaRera-registered projects whose completion or revised completion or extended completion expires on March 20, 2020 has been given an extension of three months. MahaRera has already deferred its hearings and asked its staff to work from home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharera-extends-completion-date-by-three-months/story-Q5p5Kk1FWOdYW74HSWaM5H.html
02-04-2020||City||Residents’ group extends aid to vendors amid coronavirus lockdown||A residents’ organisation from Kamothe, Ekta Samajik Sanstha, is helping vegetable vendors tie-up with housing societies so that residents get fruits and vegetables at their doorstep. Amol Shitole, president of the residents’ group, said, “We coordinate over the phone and maintain zero contact. We are catering to 40 housing societies. The vendor delivers vegetables inside the society premises or at the main entrance.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/residents-group-extends-aid-to-vendors-amid-coronavirus-lockdown/story-EkNYs7ExlBL7UG0kwhu8yL.html
02-04-2020||City||20-yr-old student found hanging in hostel room in Pune||PUNE A 20-year-old student of a reputed institute in Pune was found hanging in her room late on Wednesday.The girl, a native of Gadchiroli, had stayed back in the city to finish her submission work, according to police.“Her assignments were due for submission on April 4 and she was stressed about it, according to four other girls who were also in the hostel with her. They were together till 10pm. Her friend, a few rooms away, dialled her at 10:30pm, but she did not answer the phone. The girls informed the warden and the window to her room was broken open. She was found hanging,” said senior police inspector Gajanan Pawar of Vimantal police station.The girl was a final year student at the institute.Her parents had planned to seek permission to come and collect her after April 4, police were told.Police have registered an accidental death report at the Vimantal police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/20-yr-old-student-found-hanging-in-hostel-room-in-pune/story-xpd3N2YEWBuz0zGoy610zO.html
02-04-2020||City||1.09 lakh gloves, 65,000 masks seized in drive against black marketeers||New Delhi: Nearly 1.09 lakh gloves, 65,000 sanitary masks and thermal scanners were recovered from three places in east Delhi in a joint operation against hoarders and black marketeers by the police and Delhi government officials. A total of 10,700 kg of wheat and 800 kg of rice were also hoarded at a fair price shop in Delhi’s Chanakya Place, officials associated with the operation said. The Delhi government and the city police have been repeatedly cautioning people not to hoard when the country is a under a 21-day national lockdown. In the first operation on March 23, the Shahdara police along with teams of ADM, Shahdara and SDM Vivek Vihar conducted a raid at a house in Karkardooma after information that the house owner, who is in the business of supplying essential medical equipments, had illegally stocked such items. “We seized 1.09 lakh gloves, 64,878 packets of masks and six thermometers from the house. A case under section 7 of Essential Commodities Act was registered and the house owner, Sachin Grover, was bound down in the case. Grover had been hoarding the items with intent to sell them on higher rates,” said Dinesh Kumr Gupta, deputy commissioner of police (Shahdara). In a similar raid on Thursday, two men Jagan Nath and Iqbal Javed, were arrested from Seelampur area after they were caught hoarding masks and sanitisers. Both of them ran medical stores. “A senior government official went to buy the items posing as a decoy customer. Both the medical store owners claimed that the items were not available. But when a raid was conducted, several masks and bottles of sanitisers were found,” said DCP, (northeast) Ved Prakash Surya. In another raid, the food and supply minister, along with the enforcement team visited a Fair Price Shop at Chanakya Place in southwest Delhi and found its owner and the record book missing. “There was only a cash memo and on checking the stock at shop and allocation of food supply to the shop, a shortage of: Wheat (1000 kg wheat) and Rice 800 kg was found misappropriated by the shop owner,” said a police officer. A case was registered and the shop owner, Prashant Rathi, was nabbed. His questioning led to the recovery of 7,000 kg of the misappropriated wheat, the officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/1-09-lakh-gloves-65-000-masks-seized-drive-against-black-marketeers/story-PoRRPy9HVYNjfKgWMxhaRI.html
02-04-2020||Mumbai||Lockdown to benefit work on Mumbai-Pune Expressway||The Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) will demolish a British-era Amrutanjan bridge along the Mumbai-Pune expressway using controlled blasting. According to officials, the work was not possible owing to heavy traffic along the expressway. However, with a nation-wide lockdown imposed, the work will be completed in 10 days. “The bridge has not been in use for long. The road beneath has a sharp turn which makes it an accident-prone spot,” an official from MSRDC said. The authority has proposed a 10-km traffic diversion for goods vehicles for 10 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/lockdown-to-benefit-work-on-mumbai-pune-expressway/story-iu3V62PHneeV78CCMkjxWN.html
02-04-2020||Lucknow||UP govt to now issue inter, intra-district e-passes||The UP government will now provide e-passes to individuals and institutions during the ongoing lockdown period.Issuing directions in this regard to district magistrates here on Thursday, chief secretary Rajendra Kumar Tiwari said e-pass system was mainly meant for the organisations and institutions that were maintaining the supply of scheduled essential commodities and providing scheduled essential services during the lockdown period.“But in special cases, ordinary citizens can also apply for e-passes to get health and medical services,” he said. The chief secretary told the DMs that applicants could apply for e-passes using the link http://164.100.68.164/upepass2.“There is a provision for issuing institutional e-passes but one institution can apply for a maximum of five people for e-passes on the same portal,” the CS said. He said eligible applicants could download a copy of e-pass through a link that would be communicated to them through SMS on their given mobile numbers. He said electronic copy of the e-pass would also be valid.Tiwari said SDMs would issue e-passes within district while ADMs would be authorised to issue inter-district passes within the state. “The institutional passes will be valid for the lockdown period but the passes issued to common citizens will be valid for one day in case of intra-district and for two days in case of inter-district passes,” the CS clarified.He said passes already issued by the administration would also remain valid but from April 2 evening onwards, e-passes alone would be issued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-govt-to-now-issue-inter-intra-district-e-passes/story-AKdqehRXbdNfv9Q3LY7WgL.html
02-04-2020||City||Coronavirus: Disinfection contractors protest over non-payment||Contractors in charge of disinfection protested outside the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) headquarters in Panchpakhadi on Thursday, claiming that the civic body has not paid them for the last eight months. In the backdrop of the coronavirus pandemic, the corporation was carrying out fumigation across Thane city. The corporators claimed that if the TMC does not pay, they will have to seek help from residents to refuel their vehicles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-disinfection-contractors-protest-over-non-payment/story-Ska9zpxma3sMznJ2ZQ6msO.html
02-04-2020||Mumbai||GoAir extends rescheduling scheme to April 30 in view of lockdown||GoAir has extended the ‘Protect Your PNR’ scheme till April 30 in order to support passengers who are not willing to travel as a precautionary measure. “GoAir is extending the industry’s most generous ‘Protect Your PNR’ scheme till 30th April, 2020 wherein customers are eligible to reschedule their flight for the next one year, ie until 30th April 2021. This is truly providing peace of mind for one full year,” said GoAir spokesperson. Earlier, the scheme was valid till April 14, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/goair-extends-rescheduling-scheme-to-april-30-in-view-of-lockdown/story-Q32gYdSqd3V7UwKfT8D5cO.html
02-04-2020||Mumbai||Railways start parcel trains to carry essential goods||In a bid to maintain supply of essential commodities in the country, Indian Railways started operating parcel trains to carry milk, essential commodities, fast moving consumer goods. Two such parcel trains carrying essential commodities including rice and wheat arrived in Nagpur from Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday. The railways ministry has asked Western Railway to operate parcel trains between New Delhi and Mumbai if required. “Parcel trains can consists of 20 coaches and carries only essential commodities. As the supply of commodities is impacted through road, the frequency of the parcel trains will be increased. Loading of parcel trains with commodities have begun from Tuesday.” said an official from Central Railway.The Central Railway will be operating four special trains between Kalyan and Sankarli in Madhya Pradesh and between Kalyan and Changsari in Assam. Parcel train between Kalyan and New Delhi will also be operated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/railways-start-parcel-trains-to-carry-essential-goods/story-KefkxbRw4IsdnWujmL0wZM.html
02-04-2020||City||Kalyan nurse alleges ill-treatment from neighbours||A 26-year-old nurse from Kalyan, who works at Nair hospital in Mumbai, has complained that her neighbours are ill-treating her, accusing her of spreading the virus. She said she complained to the police but has not received any help. Darshana Bahiram, a resident of Tisgaon, Kalyan (East), said, “My neighbours tell me to stay in the hospital and not return home.” The police said they would visit her place and counsel the residents. An officer from Kolsewadi police station said, “We have taken note of her complaint and will send cops to her housing society.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kalyan-nurse-alleges-ill-treatment-from-neighbours/story-eE3vG2a6GILizXrLU0HaCL.html
02-04-2020||City||No labourers for nullah-cleaning work amid Covid-19 lockdown||The Thane Municipal Corporation will clean nullahs using machines because they might not get labourers to carry out the work before monsoon. The tenders for the nullah-cleaning work were floated on Wednesday. With the entire TMC mechanism busy in tackling coronavirus outbreak and labourers not being available, the pre-monsoon nullah cleaning work might get affected. A TMC official said, “We have a robotic excavator and we will hire excavators and JCBs.” The decision will be taken depending on the response to the tenders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-labourers-for-nullah-cleaning-work-amid-covid-19-lockdown/story-sSS0cRjJPNGHMC0l0gFXbJ.html
02-04-2020||Chandigarh||Low speed internet frustrates students in Valley||It has been more than a week since 25-year-old Falah Noor, an M Tech student from Chandigarh Group of Colleges (CGC), Landran, Mohali, has returned home in Srinagar and is unable to access internet properly.“I am working on my dissertation but unfortunately the speed is so poor that I am unable to even download study material to complete it,” Noor said.“I have to complete my thesis at the earliest, but with this speed, I am not sure how long will it take,” she added.Omar Maqbool, who hails from Uri and is a B Tech student at CGC Jhanjeri, Mohali, said he has not been able to download an e-book related to his studies. “Internet is really slow here. Student fraternity is the worst sufferer,” he said.“With the exam season round the corner, our college has already started giving online classes, but it is of no benefit to us as we are not able to attend it,” said Adnan Altaf, a second semester Bachelor’s student at Amar Singh College, Srinagar.“After receiving poor response for online classes, our university has started mailing study material, however, it is also taking hours to download and many a times, we even fail to download it,” said Hazim Bin Bashir, a 5th semester computer sciences students at Islamic University of Sciences and Technology.Danish Khan, a sixth semester student from Law department at Kashmir University, said the students have not received study material as of now due to poor 2G internet service. “Our precious time is being wasted and we are also lagging behind in our career,” he said.Muskaan Sahaf, a recent pass-out of Women College, Srinagar, said that she is unable to prepare for her post-graduate (PG) admission. “I had applied for MA in Journalism at Kashmir University and Jamia Millia Islamia, but I can’t access online study material to crack the entrance exams,” she said.Gazi Muzzamil, president of Jammu & Kashmir Students Movement, said they were facing discrimination. “When the students from the rest of India can enjoy high Internet speed, then why this discrimination with the Kashmiri students only? Don’t we have the right to study?” he asked. He said that it will affect their upcoming exams. “The students wouldn’t be able to perform well as they haven’t been given any study material nor any online classes are conducted,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/low-speed-internet-frustrates-students-in-valley/story-eGKW3jw1APhCiGATpfC1iN.html
02-04-2020||Lucknow||Stop paying fixed charges to pvt generators: AIPEF||All-India Power Engineers’ Federation (AIPEF ) has urged discoms (distribution companies) to save fixed charges that they pay to private generators using force majeure (unforeseeable circumstances) clause of the power purchase agreement.Chairman, AIPEF, Shailendra Dubey on Thursday said there was a drastic reduction in load and demand in all states as all the industrial, commercial units besides railways had been shut under the ongoing lockdown. Dubey said it was more important for UP discoms to stop payment of fixed charges to generators as UP government had announced that industries were exempted from paying fixed charges of electricity to discoms during lockdown.“The imposition of lockdown qualifies as force majeure under the PPA as events and circumstances are beyond the control of the state discoms,” he said.He further said in view of a sudden drastic reduction in demand load, discoms should immediately stop purchasing power from these power plants till the things got normal. “Thus already financially crunched discoms will not be further burdened by paying fixed charges without purchasing electricity,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/stop-paying-fixed-charges-to-pvt-generators-aipef/story-iHbKyqPhIsr2BlJ30Hae7H.html
02-04-2020||Chandigarh||Three Tablighi Jamaat attendees test positive for Covid-19 in Himachal||Three people from Una district of Himachal Pradesh, who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in south Delhi, tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday, taking the total number of cases in the state to six, additional chief secretary (health) RD Dhiman said. The three patients are being shifted to Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College (RPGMC), Tanda and authorities have started tracing their contacts.Dhiman said a total of 27 samples were tested in the state on Thursday of which 23 are negative..He said samples of the two suspected cases with Jamaat link in Kangra are negative. “The sample of another suspected case has failed and will be collected again. So far, as many as 270 samples have been tested in the state,” he said.A Tibetan man from McLeodganj was the first person from the state who had succumbed to the disease. One patient has been discharged after he tested negative. The number of active cases in the state is four. 190 with Tablighi Jamaat link quarantined in HPAs many as 190 people from Himachal Pradesh, who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat at Nizamuddin in New Delhi, have been identified and quarantined in the state. While the authorities are on to trace their primary contacts.The official figure states that 73 people are quarantined in Baddi, 35 each in Una and Sirmaur, 23 in Shimla, 10 each in Chamba and Kangra, and four in Mandi.After the state government received a list over 840 Himachalis, who had travelled to south Delhi’s Nizamuddin area during Markaz Tablighi, an event which has emerged as a hotspot for the spread of novel coronavirus, a statewide campaign was launched on Wednesday to trace them.An Active Case Finding (ACF) Campaign to detect virus infected people will be launched in Kangra, Hamirpur, Una and Chamba districts from Friday.During the week-long door-to-door campaign, two-member teams will inquire people about their health and travel history. “Teams will guide the people about maintaining social distancing and using masks,” a government spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/three-tablighi-jamaat-attendees-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-himachal/story-M7vTambbrjegPpSeMYey8I.html
02-04-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Ahead of Friday prayers, Himachal bans religious congregation||Ahead of Friday prayers, the Himachal Pradesh government on Thursday banned the religious congregations across all the 12 districts in the state.The decision has been taken after South Delhi’s Nizamuddin area, where Tablighi Jamaat event was held, has emerged as a hotspot for the spread of Covid-19.Soon after Prime Minister Narendra Modi held video conference with the chief ministers of all the states and Union territories, CM Jai Ram Thakur gave necessary directions to the state officials.Jai Ram directed deputy commissioners and superintendents of police to impose total ban on of the social and religious gatherings and asked them to motivate the religious leaders not to organise such events and take necessary action against the violators.“We have asked the authorities to disseminate the recorded messages of religious leaders through various modes to motivate people of their respective communities to avoid religious gatherings and celebrations in their areas,” the CM said.So far, 190 persons associated with Tablighi Jamaat have been quarantined in HP.While 11 members of the jamaat, who trudged 100 kilometers from Poanta Sahib defying the curfew orders, have been booked. “During relaxation in the curfew hours, public should strictly adhere to social distancing,” director general of police (DGP) Sita Ram Mardi said.Meanwhile, 17 people from the state who attended Nizamuddin event and are quarantined in Delhi are in good health, the DGP informed.He further appealed to the people of Muslim community to perform Friday prayers at their home.Considering the ongoing harvesting of crops, the CM said that farmers should be sensitised regarding the importance of social distancing and should ensure all measures to contain the spread of Covid-19..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/coronavirus-ahead-of-friday-prayers-himachal-bans-religious-congregation/story-ncPWr2ySoZJk4nIvV8SFZJ.html
02-04-2020||Lucknow||34 Jamaatis quarantined in Moradabad, Maharajganj||As many as 13 people who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat at the Markaz in Nizamuddin in Delhi were picked up from a mosque in Barwalan area in Moradabad on Wednesday.Superintendent of police (SP) City Amit Kumar Anand, said, “They are all from Assam. They will be placed under quarantine.”“Police were informed about these people and their primary test has been conducted. Investigation will also be conducted,” he added.In Gorakhpur region, over 21 people from Maharajganj district who attended the Tablighi Jamat at Delhi’s Markaz on March 18 and 19 have been identified by the district administration and quarantined in Maharajganj’s Women Hospital. Their samples have been sent for testing and the list of their names sent to the state Government for further action.The 21 men had already isolated themselves at home. Gorakhpur district magistrate Ujjawal Kumar said “ Twenty-one people, including 15 elderly , who returned on March 21 from Delhi’s Markaz after attending Tablighi Jamat have been quarantined. Their swabs have been sent for testing.”Several state governments are tracing and identifying all those who attended the gathering. A large number of people in different states have already been placed under quarantine as a precautionary measure.Meanwhile, the Uttar Pradesh government has identified as many as 569 people who attended the congregation at the Markaz in New Delhi early this month along with 218 foreign nationals suspected of being infected by Sars-Cov-2 Covid 19 and quarantined.UP Police identified 218 foreign nationals, who had come to Uttar Pradesh at different stages on tourist visas but some of these foreigners joined the Jamaat. Police have seized the passports of these foreigners and have got them quarantined. Along with this, they are being investigated. The police have also filed an FIR against people who provided shelter to foreigners.OVER 100 BOOKEDCases under Foreigners Act have been registered against over a hundred religious preachers in different districts of Meerut region and presently they have been kept under quarantine.In Meerut district, cases under Section 14 b of the Foreigners Act have been registered against 19 preachers who came from Sudan, Djibouti, Kenya and Indonesia and stayed in mosques of Sardhana and Mawana towns.SP (Rural) of Meerut Avinash Pandey said, “Initially they violated the visa rules. They came here on tourist visa and got involved in religious activities in violation of visa rules”. Besides, they didn’t inform the local intelligence office about their arrival in the city and their guides hid their movement from authorities, which was also violation of Foreigners Act, he said.The SP said cases had been registered against preachers from abroad under Section 14 b of Foreigners Act and under Section 14C against their local guides. He said that the state and Union governments had issued guidelines about foreign preachers on Thursday.Cops also confiscated passports of these foreign preachers, which would be case property during investigation.Presently all these preachers and their local guides are under quarantine and their samples have been sent for corona test.In Saharanpur, cops have lodged 6 FIRs against 57 religious preachers who came from Indonesia, Sudan, Kazakistan and other countries and were involved in missionary activities in violation of visa rules. “We have lodged cases against them under Foreigners Act and investigation will be conducted against them”, said SSP of Saharanpur Dinesh Kumar P.District authorities of Shamli, Hapur and Bulandshahr districts also registered cases against nine foreign religious preachers from Thailand, eight from Bangladesh and 17 from Indonesia and Bangladesh in their respective districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/34-jamaatis-quarantined-in-moradabad-maharajganj/story-ks1q6hRYFzRfkcbyOKnIdN.html
02-04-2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh to transfer online pension to 8.7mn beneficiaries||After clearing dues of about Rs 611 crore to MNREGA workers, the state government will transfer online pension to 8.7 million beneficiaries under various categories that include old age, widows and disabled persons categories.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath will transfer the pension at a programme being organised here on Friday.An official spokesman later said amount of about Rs 1500 crore was also being released to different departments. This includes Rs 389 crore being released to buy medical equipment, Rs 750 crore for help to needy, Rs 100 crore for distribution of masks and Rs 215 crore for distribution of food packets in different districts of the state.Yogi gave directions in this regard at a high level meeting convened to review the work of 11 committees constituted to oversee the situation following enforcement of lockdown, its fall-out and make recommendations for follow-up action. He said the enforcement of lock-down should be 100 percent across the state to combat Sars-Cov-2. He said the police must try to convince the people about the lock-down and legal action should be taken against those who defy the law.TABLIGHI JAMAATHe said those who attended the Tablighi Jamaat event should be identified under any circumstances and a case be registered against them for hiding facts and also against the people giving them shelter. He said ‘namaz’ at public places should not be allowed and strict action should be taken against those violating the lock-down under the provisions of Epidemic Act and Disaster Management Act.NO SHELTER HOMES IN TENTSYogi said district magistrates should ensure that no shelter homes were run in tents and open spaces in the state. He said adequate security arrangements should be made for security of shelter homes, counselling arranged for the aged and women etc. and an incharge be appointed for every shelter home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-to-transfer-online-pension-to-8-7mn-beneficiaries/story-8y05tfrSZhlnbuU27tRREL.html
02-04-2020||Mumbai||2,520 prisoners released from Maharashtra jails amid Covid-19 pandemic||Maharashtra government released 2,520 from 47 prisons till Thursday since it took a decision to release close to 11,000 undertrials who were facing prison terms of less than seven years. The maximum number of prisoners were released from Arthur Road prison with 379 prisoners, followed by 236 prisoners from Thane, 201 prisoners from Taloja and 161 from Yerwada prison.To curtail the spread of Covid-19 pandemic, the apex court on March 23 had issued a directive to release prisoners in order to reduce overcrowding in jails, which was acted upon by the state which within three days of the order decided to release 11,000 undertrials.“Yogesh Desai, deputy inspector general, South Region, Maharashtra prison confirmed that the Maharashtra prison department had prepared a chart of the inmates. “It has been submitted to the legal aid service, and courts across the district and city. Accordingly, bails are been given to the inmates to reduce overcrowding across jails,” added Desai. Desai added that every inmate is made to undergo a test before he or she is released on bail. Sunil Ramanand, additional director of general, prisons said, “Inmates are being released on bail on daily basis following the court order. The aim is to decongest the prisons.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/2-417-prisoners-released-from-maharashtra-jails-amid-covid-19-pandemic/story-uDqccplHrDRSk2lgq0ajCM.html
02-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Students rush to aid daily wagers in and around campus||Students from Delhi’s different varsities have taken it upon themselves to raise funds, and tend to the woes of those who have been suffering due to the lockdown. The college goers are at the forefront when it comes to procuring essential food items, medicines and other necessities for those daily wage earners who have been an integral part of their once active campus life — from a bun tikki vendor to a construction labourer. “Reality hit me hard when 45-year-old year old Ganga Devi, who sells sanitary napkins in a slum near Kashmere Gate, told me that feeding her family had become impossible because of the lockdown,” says Sanskar Saraf, a B Com (Hons) student at Shri Ram College of Commerce, Delhi University, adding that he got motivated to help more daily wage earners and “Spoke to them about their basic requirements, jotted all the government schemes they could avail, and even helped them avail these schemes.” READ | Delhi University staff to contribute day’s salary in fight against Covid-19Students of Indian Institute of Technology Delhi (IIT-D) have managed to raise money, with the support of their faculty members, to fund the living of some workers on their campus, which includes about 350 daily wage construction labourers who have been stuck there due to the lockdown. Pranay Piyush, a final year student of textile engineering at IIT-D recounts, “It all began with a campus wide student initiative to extend financial support to the rickshaw pullers on our campus. Soon our efforts caught attention of our faculty members, and a Benevolent Fund Managing Committee was set-up, which helped to bring in more funds on a larger scale to extend the contributions to mess workers, construction workers and other such people who had been working to make our lives on campus easier. We have now received a a total contribution of around ₹12 lakh, in two days, from the students, faculty and our alumni. I have no words to express how glad I feel that so many students came forward to contribute for this cause. I am grateful to have been a part of this initiative.” The students of Jamia Millia Islamia are all heart. Hundreds of students have come forward to help the daily wage earners in their own capacity, and funds have been collected via online platforms from each department. Adeeba Ashraf, a graduate in Bachelor of Dental Surgery from Jamia Millia Islamia, says, “The students of Jamia Millia Islamia have been collecting money, buying essential items and delivering them on scooties and bikes. I believe the faculty is also thinking of contributing one day’s salary to the PM’s funds. There is a huge campus wave, and the students are doing whatever they can to raise money and help those in need.” READ | JEE Advanced 2020 postponed due to coronavirusAmit Tuteja, founder of Connecting Dreams Foundation, a non-profit organisation, has brought together youngsters from DU, to help the daily wagers. Tuteja says, “We work with 40 colleges in DU who have been assigned various projects that involve action targeted programmes for economic, environmental and social upliftment of the economically weaker sections of the society. To help the daily wage workers, there was a core team of students that got in touch with the communities of daily earners, and asked them about their problems and challenges. Students then created a list of beneficiaries near the communities that are ready to help and then they became facilitators for solving problems by connecting the beneficiaries with the daily wagers.”Author tweets @FizzyBuddha Follow @htdelhi||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/covid-19-students-rush-to-aid-daily-wagers-in-and-around-campus/story-sUtfBQTb6F8viQFxwczsaO.html
02-04-2020||City||Lockdown effect: Amrutanjan bridge to become history, finally||Pune The Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) has decided to demolish the 190-year-old Amrutanjan bridge near Khandala ghat on the Pune-Mumbai expressway as the busy stretch is deserted due to the national lockdown.The road development utility that sought special permission from Raigad district collector and local police will raze the historic structure using explosive material between April 4 and April 14.The Raigad police have also made traffic arrangements near Khandala ghat to ensure no vehicular movement affects the demolition work.According to the Raigad police, the bridge built by the British in 1830 has become a hindrance for traffic leading to mishaps on the expressway. Though not in use since the MSRDC built another bridge parallel to the old one while constructing the expressway, it had earlier decided to retain Amrutanjan bridge.The iconic bridge, often the attraction of tourists for taking photographs of the picturesque Khandala ghat, was causing traffic interruptions after the expressway was built. As the pillars of the bridge were coming in the way for commuters and slowing traffic, MSRDC had written to Indian railways, the custodian of the bridge, for its demolition.“While the planning to demolish the Amrutanjan bridge was on for long, it wasn’t feasible due to the otherwise heavy traffic movement on the expressway. However, with lockdown and deserted expressway, MSRDC has decided to raze the bridge,” said Digambar P Pradhan, superintendent of police, highway safety patrol (HSP), Thane, in his order.According to the police, the bridge often lead to traffic congestion near the old structure. British officer Captain Hughes, responsible for developing railway tracks between Mumbai and Lonavla, built the bridge in one year. The bridge later became a vital link between the two cities of the state. The structure later came to be known as Amrutanjan bridge as a giant advertisement by balm producing firm Amrutanjan was put up near the bridge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lockdown-effect-amrutanjan-bridge-to-become-history-finally/story-2UV96SHeE7lkKzrQ7SUdsI.html
02-04-2020||Lucknow||Outer gate of Sibtainabad Imambada in Lucknow collapses||The outer gate of Lucknow’s historical and heavily encroached Sibtainabad Imambada in Hazratganj collapsed on Thursday afternoon. No one was hurt as shops in the area were closed due to the ongoing lockdown, said officials. The 173-year-old gate was encroached by some shops, including a restaurant, a rejuvenation centre and a paan shop, said a rescue operation staff. “On a normal day, the incident could have wreaked havoc as the market area remains crowded throughout the day,” he said.District magistrate Abhishek Prakash said, “There has been no casualty. Teams of Lucknow Municipal Corporation, district administration and the police are carrying out a joint operation to remove the debris.”Municipal commissioner Indramani Tripathi said he spoke to the district magistrate and LDA V-C for setting up a high powered committee to probe into the collapse of the structure. Prima facie, it seemed that alterations in the structure, including digging of the base, were on. But this has to be ascertained by a team of experts, he said. “The incident calls for a check of structural strength of all the old buildings in Hazratganj and its vicinity. Those guilty will not be spared. The officials responsible for the upkeep of such heritage buildings,” added Tripathi.The Sibtainabad Imambada, situated in the heart of the city, was constructed by Nawab Wajid Ali Shah in 1847 for holding majlis and carry other religious practices during Moharram. Heritage experts said administration officials never made any attempt to get the area and the old gate freed from encroachers.“The gate was encroached by a restaurant and some shops for decades now,” said Mohammad Haider, mutawali of Imambada, Sibtainabad. Haider said he had written many letters to the Archeological Survey of India (ASI) and also informed the local administration about the possible threat to the old structure.A few others also claimed that the foundation of many of such old buildings weakened due to Lucknow Metro’s underground work. Kumar Keshav, MD, UP Metro Rail Corporation, said: “Metro conducted a study before the construction of underground metro line in Hazratganj.” “The lines don’t pass through the place where the incident has occurred. Besides, train operations were not on for the last 10 days. Above all, plying of Metro doesn’t cause enough vibrations to cause damage to a building,” said Keshav.Santosh Kumar, SHO, Hazratganj, who was on the spot with his team, said: “We rushed to the spot as soon as we heard about the collapse. No FIR has been written so far. No loss of life or injury has been reported.”Heritage enthusiast Mohammad Haider said he had lodged a police complaint and named a restaurant owner and another outlet for the encroachments.Sangeeta Agarwal, owner of Ayurveda Rejuvenation Centre, said: “Fortunately there are no casualties. A portion of our balcony and hoarding were damaged. May be there was some fault with the building itself and hence it collapsed,” she said. However, restaurant owner could not be contacted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/outer-gate-of-sibtainabad-imambada-in-ganj-collapses/story-mSUlz8HJap1zyLvft3mLMN.html
02-04-2020||City||3 Bangladeshis who attended Delhi Jamaat test positive for Covid-19 in Haryana’s Palwal||Three Bangladeshi nationals on Thursday tested positive for coronavirus in Palwal’s Huchpuri village, taking the count in the state to 33, said Palwal chief medical officer (CMO) Braham Deep Sindhu.About 12 persons, including 10 Bangladeshis, participated in south Delhi’s Nizamuddin Tablighi Jamaat from March 13 to 15. Many of them came to Palwal and stayed in various mosques in villages to familiarise people about their religion, it has been learnt. “Three Bangladesh residents have been confirmed positive for coronavirus, seven of them confirmed negative by Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak. Today, we sent samples of remaining two persons to a private laboratory in Gurugram. The report is still awaited. All the three positive tested men are in their (early) 30s. All of them have been kept at the Civil Hospital’s isolation ward”, said Sindhu.The CMO said the Bangladeshis had stayed in various mosques of five villages: Chhainsa, Mathepur, Durenchi, Mehlka and Huchpuri in Palwal’s Hathin area.“The district administration and health teams have been pressed into service in these five villages and interacted with people. A team of five medical officers and overall 50 health staff have been sent to five villages. To avoid community spread, we have asked the health officials and nurses to check each member of these villages. We had kept 56 people from these five villages in isolation wards of the civil hospital, 90 in a private health centres in the district and nearly 300 persons have been home quarantined,” Sindhu added.Hathin sub-divisional magistrate Vakil Ahmed said all the villages in question and the borders had been sealed.“We have deployed the police team and health officials in these five villages. The administration has asked people not to panic and stay inside their homes,” Ahmed added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-bangladeshis-who-attended-delhi-jamaat-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-haryana-s-palwal/story-LAGvy7akRcmGsWRZ8vvRVM.html
02-04-2020||Delhi||Jamia student held for involvement in north-east Delhi riots||The Delhi Police on Thursday said they had arrested a PhD scholar from Jamia Millia Islamia in connection with a case of rioting and criminal conspiracy pertaining to February’s riots in north-east Delhi that claimed the lives of 53 people and left over 400 injured. His alleged “involvement in the conspiracy to instigate the riots, funding the violence and the agitation against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) in Shaheen Bagh” is also being probed, officers privy to the case said.Joint commissioner of police (special cell) Neeraj Thakur confirmed the arrest of Meeran Haider but did not share further details.A senior police officer from the special cell, who did not want to be named, said that Haidar is the president of Bihar-based political party Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD)’s youth wing—Chhatra RJD—Delhi unit. Haider is currently being interrogated at the special cell’s Lodhi Colony office.According to the officer, Haider, a resident of Jamia Nagar, was served a notice on March 31, asking him to join the probe in the case of rioting and criminal conspiracy that was registered by the crime branch after the north-east Delhi riots. Haider was asked to reach the special cell’s Lodhi Colony office at 10am on April 1 (Wednesday).“We arrested Haider in the case, as we have enough evidence to prove the charges against him. His role in funding the riots and anti-CAA protests is being probed,” the special cell officer cited above said.The Jamia Coordination Committee (JCC) alleged that Haider was called for interrogation by the Delhi Police’s special cell at their office in Lodhi Road on Wednesday.“Yesterday around 10pm, men in uniform had approached his local residence enquiring about him. He was taken into custody around 10.30pm on Wednesday. The JCC demands that he must be immediately released as all charges against him are baseless,” said the committee in a statement.The University administration said they have not been informed about the incident by the police and denied to comment further.The JNU unit of RJD on Thursday also issued a statement demanding his release. “Delhi Police had asked Meeran Haider, the president of the young RJD, Delhi, to join the investigation and then arrested him without giving any valid reason. Today, when the whole country and the whole world is busy dealing with this pandemic, the government is arresting innocents like him. We demand his immediate release,” the statement read.On March 9, the special cell had arrested Mohammad Danish, a 33-year-old member of the Popular Front of India (PFI), in connection with the case on similar charges.Danish’s arrest came a day after the special cell arrested a couple—Jahanzaib Sami,36, and his 39-year-old wife Hina Bashir Beigh—for their alleged links with the Islamic State-Khorasan Province (ISKP), instigating protests against the CAA and spreading hatred between communities in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/jamia-student-held-for-involvement-in-north-east-delhi-riots/story-9b7dqUAOb4nY5GSqzWJnSI.html
02-04-2020||City||58-year-old brother of UK-returned Covid-19 woman tests positive in Hoshiarpur||A 58-year-old man from Pensran village in Hoshiarpur district was referred to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital, Amritsar, after he tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday.Amritsar civil surgeon Dr Prabhdeep Kaur Johal said, “A new patient referred from the Hoshiarpur civil hospital is Covid-19 positive as reported from the Viral Research and Diagnostic Laboratory of Government Medical College, Patiala, on April 1. The patient has diabetes besides fever, cough and breathlessness. The patient is a high risk case.” Punjab special chief secretary Karan Bir Singh Sidhu also confirmed the news by tweeting, “He is a primary contact of a UK-returned woman, his sister. They were under home quarantine.”REST OF FAMILY’S SAMPLES SENT FOR TESTINGThe patient was referred to Amritsar as he was not showing improvement since he was admitted to the civil hospital in Hoshiarpur on March 29.Hoshiarpur civil surgeon Dr Jasbir Singh said that the man had received his sister and her family at Delhi airport on March 13.The four members of his sister’s family were asymptomatic but now that their contact has been diagnosed with coronavirus, their samples have also been sent for examination, the civil surgeon said.So far, six people, including Harbhajan Singh of Moranwali who died last week, have tested positive for Covid-19 in Hoshiarpur district and all belong to Posi block.Pensran village in Garshankar has been sealed and the samples of 41 contacts of the infected person have been collected. 69-year-old woman is Ludhiana’s 5th caseA 69-year-old woman from Shimlapuri in Ludhiana has been tested positive for Covid-19. She is undergoing treatment at a private hospital on Chandigarh Road. According to civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga, the woman had visited Mohali on March 17 to meet her niece. On March 23, she was rushed to a private hospital for fever, dry cough and respiratory issues. She was tested for Covid-19 on Thursday in which she was found positive for the virus. She is the fifth Covid-19 case from Ludhiana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/58-year-old-brother-of-uk-returned-covid-19-woman-tests-positive-in-hoshiarpur/story-exJic6q0d3O13iLLnTnPBN.html
02-04-2020||Mumbai||Senior citizens tribunals can evict abusive children from ancestral properties: HC||The Bombay high court (HC) has held that senior citizens tribunals, established under provisions of the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act, 2007, can evict abusive children from the resistance of their aged parents even if it is an ancestral property.Justice Sadhana Jadhav recently rejected an appeal filed by an Andheri (West) resident and his wife after the sub-divisional officer (SDO), Mumbai suburban district on October 17, 2018 passed an order evicting them from the residence of the man’s aged parents.The order came on an application filed by the aged parents invoking provisions of the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act, 2007. They complained the disputes arose between them and their son and daughter-in-law after the latter purportedly forged their signatures and withdrew a total of ₹2.26 crore from their bank accounts. This, according to the parents, happened when they went to Singapore. After realising that their son and daughter-in-law took the money, the couple lodged a complaint against them. They, however, had to arrange bail for their son as he threatened to commit suicide behind bars.The parents alleged they had to face systematic harassment thereafter and eventually approached the senior citizens tribunal in April 2018.Their son and daughter-in-law then moved the HC challenging the order on the grounds that the property was not self-acquired property of the parents and that they have been living at the premises for a long time and argued that the SDO could not have evicted them from the property at the behest of his aged parents.Justice Jadhav refused to accept the argument and said although the property is ancestral one, the court cannot be oblivious to the fact that the interest in the property would devolve upon the son only through the parents. “As on today, life, liberty and dignity of the respondents (parents) are of paramount importance.”The court said the 2007 Act is a special statute enacted to protect the life, liberty, dignity and property of senior citizens and parents, who are in peril at the hands of their own children and grandchildren, and that the object of the Act is required to be achieved by all means.The court also rejected argument advanced on behalf of the son and his wife that SDO cannot issue an order of eviction and only the district magistrate can do so, in view of the fact that all powers of the district magistrate are delegated to the SDO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/senior-citizens-tribunals-can-evict-abusive-children-from-ancestral-properties-hc/story-miKKQhWOCxWQZvTSY2YOsJ.html
02-04-2020||Mumbai||Air India to ferry stranded foreigners to London from Delhi, Mumbai||National carrier Air India will operate charter rescue flights to London between April 4 and April 7 from Delhi and Mumbai to fly stranded foreigners to London. The airline will use Boeing 777 aircraft for the operation. Delhi to London flights will operate as AI 161 and will take off from Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International (IGI) Airport at 2am and arrive in Delhi as AI 162. The Delhi-London flight will operate on all four days. However, Air India’s flights from Mumbai will operate only on two days; on April 5 and April 7 as AI 131 (Mumbai-London) and AI 130 (London-Mumbai). Air India has not released information on the number of passengers for the flights yet. Passengers, who will fly free of charge, will have to arrange their journey from London. These aircraft will return as ferry flights - without passengers - on their way back to India. The national carrier has earlier operated rescue flights to Israel, China and Germany (Frankfurt). The airline flies with two sets of crewmembers during such rescue flights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/air-india-to-ferry-stranded-foreigners-to-london-from-delhi-mumbai/story-0Ngi5yszYARopHjL5GYQIK.html
02-04-2020||Mumbai||After traversing over 3000 km, T1C1 finds its home at Dyanganga sanctuary||The three-year-old male tiger (T1C1), whose 3,020 km journey over 13 months was being tracked by wildlife experts, has possibly established its new territory at the Dyanganga Wildlife Sanctuary (DWS) in Buldhana, according to a report shared by the Maharashtra forest department on Wednesday.This is the final report, developed by scientists from the Wildlife Institute of India (WII), Dehradun, detailing findings of the longest ever recorded movement of a tiger in the country, monitored via a radio-collar. The carnivore will now be tracked using camera traps.The animal was radio-collared on February 27, 2019 at Tipeshwar Wildlife Sanctuary in Yavatmal district. From February to June 2019, it covered 360 km within Tipeshwar. From June to December (dispersal period), the tiger traversed through human-dominated landscapes, forests, open lands, agricultural fields, canals and water bodies across the central Indian landscape, covering eight districts and four wildlife sanctuaries in Maharasthra and Telangana trying to find its territory. Though the tiger reached DWS in November, it moved further northwest towards Ajanta caves but soon returned to DWS. From December onwards, the tiger began using the entire sanctuary, and also the adjacent territorial forests that cover an area of 1,185 km as its habitat. He has now made an area of 50 sq km in the forest as his home territory.“Despite travelling long distances, the animal hardly encountered conflict. This shows the ability of tigers to be away from humans while walking, provided the landscape is conducive. We need to ensure these fragmented forest zones, and the overall corridor is stopped from being deteriorated further,” said Bilal Habib, WII scientist who radio-collared the tiger in February 2019 has been tracking his movement along with his team - Parag Nigam, Pallavi Ghaskadbi, and Zehidul Hussain. “The animal has achieved all skills to survive and shows a normal predation pattern with regular kills inside DWS. The movement behaviour shows that the animal is using the main DWS as his core habitat and occasionally using buffer areas as well,” he added. After tracking the tiger for 13 months and receiving a total of 6,240 global positioning system (GPS) locations, the battery of the collar had almost drained, said scientists. On March 28, using the remote drop-off option, the collar was finally removed.“Due to the growth in the tiger’s neck size, the collar would have gotten tighter by the day. From existing 10 camera traps, we are adding another 50 to monitor his movement,” said Nitin Kakodkar, principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife), Maharashtra. “Now we know such long dispersals do take place and without conflict. The first-of-its-kind study proves the elusive behaviour of the animal,” he added. T1C1 is Dyanganga’s first tiger and the forest department is studying the feasibility of releasing a female tiger there for mating. “A committee, set up to check the viability, had its first meeting but they were to visit the site to check the prey position and survey the habitat but couldn’t due to the Covid-19 lockdown. Based on their final report, a decision will be taken,” said Kakodkar. The movement of T1C1 has opened new conservation challenges for the dispersing tigers in the state. It has also shown the ability to disperse individuals (tigers) to traverse through human-dominated landscape without any conflict, the report concluded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/after-traversing-over-3000-km-t1c1-finds-its-home-at-dyanganga-sanctuary/story-KCB6YJ8nYe3Q4ma96mxx8N.html
02-04-2020||Lucknow||Men in Khaki go beyond call of duty, save elderly’s life||At a time when most people are doing their bit to stay safe in the time of lockdown to check spread of Sars-Cov-2, UP police are also helping people with food, water besides providing other assistance to the people in need. Going beyond their call of duty in Lucknow, four policemen, while they were on ‘assisting people’ job, rushed to a hospital to save the life of a stranger by donating blood to him. They responded to a man urgently needing blood on a WhatsApp group they were members of. “I was distressed as the blood bank that had supplied blood to me easily had started facing problem under the lockdown,” said Dr Nilesh Kumar, a government veterinary doctor posted in Siddharthnagar.“My ailing father Bhagwan Das, 68, was on dialysis at a private hospital in Lucknow. This was much before the lockdown. On March 18, we shifted him to the Vivekananda Polyclinic. His condition was critical and the hospital immediately admitted him. The blood bank gave us blood for transfusion twice. But on March 27, his health deteriorated but by then blood was not available without first donating it and no friends and relatives could come under the lockdown. In such a crisis, an acquaintance messaged someone. Soon, four policemen in their uniform walked in, donated a unit each and left,” said Dr Nilesh.A government spokesperson identified three of them as head constable Dilip Patel, constable Avnish Upadhyaya and constable Pradip Gangwar. The name of the fourth policeman could be established.“Our requirement was two units, they donated four. We now have two units in reserve,” Dr Nilesh added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/men-in-khaki-go-beyond-call-of-duty-save-elderly-s-life/story-MeY0ObgF7d8ivPysYaRNTJ.html
02-04-2020||Chandigarh||Padma Shri awardee Bhai Nirmal Singh dies after testing positive for Covid-19||Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa, 67, a Padma Shri awardee and a former hazoori ragi (Gurbani exponent) at Golden Temple, passed away after a heart attack at 4.30am on Thursday, a day after he was diagnosed with coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Amritsar civil surgeon Dr Prabhdeep Kaur Johal said he was put on ventilator on Wednesday night after his condition worsened due to his bronchial asthma.With his death, the toll due to Covid-19 in Punjab has risen to six.Bhai Nirmal Singh was referred to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital (GNDH) from the local Shri Guru Ram Das Hospital on March 30 after he complained of breathlessness.“He visited England in November. A health department team visited his house on March 3 after we got the information that two guests – his uncle and aunt – from the US visited him. They were found asymptomatic. When the home quarantine period of the guests was over on March 17, they were found asymptomatic. Bhai Nirmal Singh then went to Chandigarh for a kirtan samagam on March 19 where over 100 people gathered,” Dr Johal said.“He tested positive for coronavirus on Wednesday. He may have caught the infection during his trip to Chandigarh. He died of sudden cardiac arrest on Thursday,” she said.Punjab special chief secretary Karan Bir Singh Sidhu also confirmed the news by tweeting, “Bhai Nirmal Singh passed away during the ambrosial moments of Amrit Vela around 4.30 am on Thursday.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhai-nirmal-singh-passes-away-day-after-testing-positive-for-covid-19/story-jQUzjUCcp6VzKLU9W5riVN.html
02-04-2020||Education||Coronavirus: Classrooms all set to go digital in Patna||With all educational institutions facing closure owing to the nationwide lockdown, most of the private schools in the capital city are now contemplating using digital platforms to kick-start this year’s academic session, informally, soon.Many schools have asked the students to install a digital learning application in their smart phones to facilitate online classes, beginning this week. Usually, the new academic session in schools begin in the first week of April.Prarambhika, a private CBSE school in Patna, rolled out its first interactive online learning class on Wednesday for students of classes nursery to 10.Sumit Prakash, director of Prarambhika, said, “Thanks to virtual classrooms, we started the new academic session using these digital platforms. We began the online class with the school prayer as per the custom. The teachers have designed online content, including study material and video lectures following the CBSE curriculum.”“The school will carry out interesting activities such as storytelling and other fun games to break the monotony and facilitate better learning to students”, he added.Students, when contacted by the HT, said they had downloaded different online learning platforms such as Diksha, SWYAM, and e-Pathshala in accordance with their respective schools’ directives. However, some schools are yet to introduce the electronic mode of teaching. Bishop Scott Group of Schools has come up with a 360 degree virtual curriculum engaging students in academic and extracurricular activities while sitting at home, overcoming the factor of physical absence.Ashfaque Iqbal, vice- principal of Bishop Scott Boys’ School, said, “Anticipating the closure, the school had already prepared interactive study material online in systematized manner for conducting classes. We have prepared a daily timetable for carrying out the lessons. We have also integrated study material, video lectures, and worksheets for comprehensive understanding of the students, followed by revision notes, online assessments and doubt clearing sessions. Apart from this, we have encouraged students and teachers to join Diksha , e-pathshala and other such CBSE forums.”The extracurricular departments have also switched to online mode for keeping the students fit and entertained. “Music classes, dance classes, and yoga classes are facilitated daily through the portal,” he added.Similarly, St. Michael’s High School is all set to employ the online learning method. Principal Father Armstrong Edison said, “In the first phase, we have started with online worksheets for primary to secondary students. Later, we will introduce pre-recorded video lectures for the higher classes.”Principal of Don Bosco Academy, Mary Alphonsa, said, “We have designed e-content for classes four to 12. The online study material available at the school’s smart-class is being shared with students so that they become familiar with the new syllabus. Teachers are giving assignment worksheets online that students need to submit within a stipulated deadline.”Meanwhile, parents have also welcomed this move. Vinay Kumar, whose son studies in class nine, said, “Digital learning tools were much needed during this time. At least, children are now utilising their free time and internet for productive work instead of playing online games. This will also help them to cover their syllabus without getting overburdened after the schools reopen.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/coronavirus-classrooms-all-set-to-go-digital-in-patna/story-dlmoGPUW8kCv5wKebmQ8HO.html
02-04-2020||Chandigarh||Social distancing a myth: Colonies in Chandigarh give curfew a pass||People sitting in close groups outside their houses, multiple two-wheelers moving in a narrow street and crowds gathering outside every shop to buy essentials even amid curfew remains the order of the day in various villages and colonies in Chandigarh. Despite various appeals by the UT administration to maintain social distancing and constant vigil by the police, colony dwellers in the periphery stay out and about. Ramlal Yadav, father of three, was sitting outside his house in a densely-populated Maloya colony along with seven other men and children. When asked why all of them were ignoring social distancing, he said, “What will we do while sitting at home all day? We don’t have any work these days, we were just chit-chatting sitting outside.”Spread over around 60 acres across the city, the Colony No 4, Janta Colony, Guru Sagar Colony in Maloya, Sanjay Colony, and Rajiv Colony in Sector 38 and 10 such other colonies and slums are home to over three lakh people, mainly migrant labourers, household maids and garbage collectors, out of Chandigarh’s total population of 14 lakh (an estimate). 10-year-old Sumitra Kumari along with her seven friends went to seven houses for ‘kanya poojan’ in Vikas Nagar, Mauli Jagran, on Wednesday. While Sumitra was “not aware that people were not allowed to go out due to curfew,” her 17-year-old brother, Shailesh Kumar, said, “My friends and I go for a bike ride in the evening because sitting home all day gets boring.”WHERE IS THE ENFORCEMENT?Dalip Sharma, councillor from Bapu Dham Colony, said, “We have appealed to the residents multiple times to stay at homes, yet they are unaware of the intensity of the disease. Police officials are stationed at the spot, but they have to be more strict with people.”Anil Kumar Dubey, councillor from Mauli Jagran, said, “I am aware of the issue. I have talked to the SHO concerned and requested them to deploy more force here.” As per the curfew norms, people are allowed to visit the nearest shops on foot and use of vehicles is not permitted. In fact, various marks for social distancing were also made by UT administration outside shops. However, residents continue to disregard them.Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Nilambari Jagadale said, “We are taking strict action against violators. There are instances where people are taking out their vehicles deliberately thinking that they will evade police action. We will ensure there is strict compliance of the prohibitory orders.” LOCKDOWN NO DETERRENT IN MOHALI VILLAGES Despite Mohali district seeing 10 positive cases of Covid-19 in the past two weeks, including the death of a 65-year-old man in Nayagaon, residents in several villages are seen defying the curfew imposed to check the spread of the disease with impunity. While residents of sectors and phases in Mohali town have maintained discipline by staying indoors, residents in Shahimajra, Mataur, Kumbra, Sohana, Mauli and Mohali villages are mostly seen out and about, chatting in groups. Small grocery shops in villages, stay open morning and evening, with several customers standing outside without adhering to social distancing norms.Parminder Sohana, area councillor of Sohana village, said, “50% of the people are tenants. We have directed them to stay indoors, but to no avail. I have even requested the police to conduct patrolling regularly.”Jafar Ali, a resident of Mauli, said we come out in the evening hours sometimes as staying indoors the entire day gets difficult. “We also know that the virus is dangerous, but we are adopting all precautions,” he says.Fed up with people venturing out, residents of Phase 11, Mohali, a densely-populated area, barricaded the entry point and even pasted the posters of ‘No Entry’ there. Ravi Kumar, who runs a sweet shop in Phase 11, said, “These are mostly youngsters who do not understand the gravity of the issue and flee when the police comes to the area.”When contacted, additional deputy commissioner (ADC) Aashika Jain said, “We are trying to enforce the curfew. Our officials visited various places and have also asked the sarpanches of the villages to direct the residents to stay indoors. The police have been told to register cases against the violators.”Meanwhile, the district authorities have roped in the gurdwaras in villages in Zirakpur, Dera Bassi and Kharar to regularly make announcements asking to stay indoors.“Apane ghar ch hi raho, khet jan liye vi bahar na aona. Sabun nal haath dhone ne,” goes the announcement made regularly by a gurdwara in Chhat village reminding them to stay indoors and wash their hands regularly, besides inform the authorities if anyone has travelled abroad.Meanwhile, police control room (PCR) vehicles were blowing horns passing through Kharar and Dera Bassi at regular intervals, keeping people indoors.On Wednesday, though, people came out but in small numbers, especially in colonies and villages, but were asked to go back home after strict warning. “Residents of slums, colonies and villages are coming out to collect the food packets being distributed by different organisations,” said a policeman posted at a naka in Balongi.“We have directed all the people distributing dry ration to ensure that the packets are delivered at the doorsteps so that the residents do not move out of their homes,” said Kharar DSP Pal Singh. “Anyone distributing cooked food has to ensure that social distancing is maintained. People have started following it,” said Dera Bassi DSP Gurbakshish Singh Mann.PANCHKULA STAYS INDOORS Ludhiana Implementation of lockdown was in large with most markets wearing a deserted look on Wednesday. Shops, including departmental and grocery stores, barring chemists, remained closed in several markets.Even those that were open, did not witness high footfall, as people have already stocked up on essentials, shopkeepers said.The situation in inner sectors was slightly different where some people were seen moving out. Some were seen stocking up on essential commodities or doing bank work. Shopkeepers have cordoned off corridors to maintain safe distance from customers. Vendors with milk and bread are turning up in sectors by around 7am. Sanjay Goyal, a chemist in Sector 4 market said, “For the last two days, few people are turning up for medicines or other essentials as most have stocked up their monthly quota.”Meanwhile, Swiggy and other e-commerce companies have started delivering ration, dairy and grocery items. As per police data, 10 FIRs have been registered for violation of lockdown and quarantine, 506 challans have been issued and 65 vehicles have been seized, at a total fine of ₹23.14 lakh, till Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/social-distancing-a-myth-colonies-in-chandigarh-give-curfew-a-pass/story-arHQNxxAEMy0AhFNZnn9zI.html
02-04-2020||Chandigarh||Bittu gives Rs 1 crore to buy equipment||MP Ravneet Singh Bittu has given Rs 1 crore to the district health department out of his MPLADS funds to buy medical equipment. The department has decided to purchase 51 infrared thermometers, 5,100 PPE kits, 2.1 lakh triple-layer face masks, 38,250 latex gloves, 4,250 litre sanitiser, six X-ray machines, 20 oxygen cylinders, 20 wheelchairs and 20 stretchers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bittu-gives-rs-1-crore-to-buy-equipment/story-Ztt77xcfos90qNiHB1TBiI.html
02-04-2020||City||Virus scare takes a toll on poultry sector in Chandigarh; egg, chicken prices down by 30%||Prices of chicken and eggs have crashed by up to 30% with residents staying away from poultry products in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak.Even as there is no scientific evidence to show that coronavirus spreads through eating meat products, shopkeepers say due to the outbreak scare, their sales have dropped by over 70%, forcing them to reduce the prices.Meat shops across the tricity are now selling chicken broilers for ₹160 against ₹220 earlier in March, while a tray of 30 eggs, which earlier cost up to ₹150, is now being sold for ₹90. In Chandigarh, meat shops are allowed to be open from 11am to 3pm, while in Mohali and Panchkula shopkeepers are selling poultry products through home delivery. Atul Sonkar, president of the Chandigarh Meat Market Welfare Association, Sector 21, Chandigarh, said, “We are facing the worst times in our business as the demand for chicken has dropped greatly due to the coronavirus fear. Even, eggs are seeing fewer sales. False information on social media is misleading people and affecting our business,” he said.Vikas Kumar, owner of Meat Master in Mohali, said ever since the curfew was imposed in the city, they were receiving minimal orders for chicken and eggs. “The price of the 30-egg tray has dropped from ₹130 to ₹90, while chicken broiler is being sold for half the price since there are no customers,” he said.‘UNPRECEDENTED SLUMP’Poultry farmers say they had never seen such a slump in business. The poultry industry in Barwala-Raipur Rani belt feeds Haryana, Punjab, Delhi, Himachal Pradesh, and even Uttarakhand, Uttar Pardesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal and Assam. Sandeep Punia, a farmer in Ambala’s Nagla village, said his wholesale business had been on a decline since February. “We are compelled to sell broiler for ₹20 per kg, whereas the rearing cost is ₹80. We are incurring losses in the sale of eggs as well. Earlier, we were making ₹2.5 per egg, but now it is just ₹1.8 per egg,” he added.President of the Haryana Poultry Farmers’ Association, Barwala, Darshan Singla said, “Barwala belt is the largest poultry producer in the region. In the past one month, the egg producers of Barwala have lost ₹500 crore due to the coronavirus scare.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/virus-scare-takes-a-toll-on-poultry-sector-in-chandigarh-egg-chicken-prices-down-by-30/story-CjRUjmSO4e6Hvbee8d0jSM.html
02-04-2020||City||Coronavirus curfew: Panchkula shops to close by 6.30pm, orders DC||Panchkula deputy commissioner (DC) Mukesh Kumar Ahuja on Wednesday ordered all shops, except chemists, to close by 6.30pm. Ahuja said social distancing was essential to check spread of coronavirus. Hence, keeping in mind the health and safety of residents, the shops’ opening hours had been curtailed.As the orders came into force with immediate effect, police teams were sent to close the shops in all sectors post 6.30pm. The DC issued instructions to the local deputy commissioner of police (DCP) and sub-divisional magistrates to ensure strict compliance of the orders. Violation of the orders will be punishable under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code.DRONE TO KEEP A CHECK ON VIOLATORS IN PANCHKULAIntensifying checking of people violating the lockdown orders in the district, the Panchkula police on Wednesday decided to maintain vigil through drone cameras. Deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Mohit Handa said people violating lockdown orders in markets and on roads will be monitored through drones.“People roaming on streets will also be booked,” he said. Handa appealed to residents to step out only for essentials and cooperate with the police. He said movement of people was also being monitored through CCTV cameras installed in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-curfew-panchkula-shops-to-close-by-6-30pm-orders-dc/story-zW50AXONrtvJHZUIWpzcGI.html
02-04-2020||City||Day after Mohali man’s death, 4 new cases in tricity||Chandigarh/Mohali: A 49-year-old man, who resides in Sector 35, has tested positive for Covid-19, taking the total count in Chandigarh to 16, on Wednesday.Also, a day after a 65-year-old Mohali man died of coronavirus infection, three more people have tested positive, taking the count to 10 in the district.The Chandigarh patient is under observation at Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, where he was admitted on March 30.Officials said he had a “typical case of pneumonia and bilateral pneumonitis”.Officials said he has no travel history to any affected country, but he came in contact with his relatives at Mansa, Punjab, who had returned from Dubai and Singapore recently. His three family members have been home quarantined. The premises of the house has been sanitised by the health department. Information about his contacts in Punjab has been shared, officials said.In Mohali, a 76-year-old woman and her 10-year-old granddaughter, who are residents of Phase 9, have tested positive. The woman is the mother of an NRI who returned from Canada recently and tested positive along with his wife in Chandigarh on March 30.A 55-year-old man of Jagatpura in Mohali also tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. He was in direct contact with a 22-year-old resident of Sector 30, Chandigarh, who had returned from Dubai on March 11 and had tested positive for coronavirus on March 27.Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said, “All three positive cases were in contact with Chandigarh patients. We have admitted them to Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur. They are stable. We are taking samples from their areas.”The Jagatpura man’s wife and two children have been moved to a quarantine facility in Phase 6, Mohali.Meanwhile, the test reports of seven family members of the 65-year-old Mohali man, who died due to Covid-19 on March 31, are negative. Even, the second nurse of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) who was tested after coming in contact with the man has been reported to be Covid-19 negative. A 32-year-old nurse had tested positive on Tuesday. Dr Singh said all nine patients admitted to different hospitals of Mohali are responding to treatment and are stable. “We will be taking second sample of a 27-year-old woman admitted to the civil hospital on Thursday, and in case the report is negative, she will be discharged,” he said.Jagatpura, Faidan sealedThe Mohali-Chandigarh border crossing that links Jagatpura with Faidan in the UT was sealed after the 55-year-old man tested positive for Covid-19. Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan along with officials of health department visited Jagatpura, which houses at least 20,000 migrant workers. Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) has been deployed to strictly enforce the curfew in the village. A team of the health department is also conducting door-to-door survey to trace contacts of the patient.Meanwhile, a similar situation was witnessed at Faidan village, located adjacent to Sector 48 beyond the railway line. At least 40 people from the village have been kept at the community centre in Sector 47, which has been converted into a temporary quarantine centre. The decision was taken in view of health protocols, as home quarantine was unsafe for the villagers, said officials.UT to shift positive cases to PGIMeanwhile, the UT health department has decided that all the positive patients will be shifted to the Nehru Hospital’s Extension Block at the PGIMER from Friday (April 3).“Present positive patients may also be shifted and the decision in this regard will taken later,” said UT health secretary Arun Gupta.However, all three hospitals (PGIMER, GMSH-16 and GMCH-32) will continue to screen patients and take samples of suspected cases and keep them in respective isolation wards till the receipt of results. The confirmed cases will be shifted to the Covid-19 dedicated facility.A senior UT officer, on the condition of anonymity, said the decision has been taken keeping in view the scarcity of resources, including protective gear, and to make their judicious use.However, PGIMER doctors have reacted sharply to the decision. “This is an unscientific decision as positive patients will be moved from one place to another, increasing the risk posed to health workers. The decision should be reviewed,” said Dr Uttam Thakur, president of the Association of Resident Doctors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/day-after-mohali-man-s-death-4-new-cases-in-tricity/story-h7mbIg9WHvYIri3HMg6LvN.html
02-04-2020||Chandigarh||In absence of doctors, drugs, pregnant women run pillar to post||Amid curfew in the districts adjoining Chandigarh, pregnant women are having harrowing time as an already burdened health infrastructure deals with the pandemic. While cities are locked down, these women are being forced to travel from one government hospital to another only to be referred to Chandigarh.Writhing in labour pain, Jaspal Kaur, a 31-year-old pregnant woman, reached a health centre in Kurali at 3am on March 25, only to be referred to Kharar at 9am because, apparently, “the doctor had not arrived”. At 1pm, she was referred again to the Government Multi-Speciality Hospital in Sector 16 citing “blood level is too low”.Requesting the authorities “not to refuse them at the last moment, Kaur said, “We have great trust in you, but when the time (of delivery) comes, you ask us to leave and find another hospital. Amid such circumstances, it becomes difficult to make arrangements last moment.”Breaching all precautionary measures to be taken against coronavirus infection, a 25-year-old Sarita Devi was made to wait outside an ESI hospital in Baddi for four hours as the hospital reluctantly agreed to arrange for transporting her to Chandigarh. This, after the hospital staff earlier refused to attend to her, citing “non-availability of labour inducing drug”.Tired and on the verge of a breakdown, Sarita said, “My delivery was scheduled for today, but at noon I was asked to go to Chandigarh. I waited till 4pm outside the hospital and it was after much reluctance that they arranged for an ambulance.” It was learned that the doctor there was unavailable.sSimilar was the case of Neetu Devi of Bulongi, Mohali, whose delivery was scheduled at Mohali civil hospital, but she was referred to Chandigarh at the last moment. Rinky, a 30-year-old pregnant woman, was referred from Dera Bassi civil hospital to Mohali, and from there to the Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, and yet again to Mohali, She finally came to GMSH-16.ADMISSIONS TO LABOUR ROOM HALVEDThe gynaecology department of GMSH-16 conducts on an average 10,000 deliveries a year. “In routine, we have around 40 admissions to the labour room, which has now reduced to 20. But we are still receiving a lot of referrals,” said Dr Amandeep Kang, head of the gynaecology department.In January, there were 195 referrals from three districts—Mohali (130) , Ropar (64) and Fatehgarh Sahib (1)—and in February, the number was 135. In the last 10 days, the hospital has seen 40 referrals, out of which 26 are from Punjab.“Amid curfew, it becomes difficult for families to look after patients and newborns. They have to make frequent visits to the hospital,” she said.PREGNANCY AND CORONA“According to the guideline issued by the Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists, pregnant women are equally at risk just like the normal population. There is no documented evidence of transmission from mother to baby in the womb and neither via breast milk,” Dr Kang said.She advised pregnant women to restrict going out, maintain social distancing, take good diet and multi-vitamins and do moderate exercise.“Due to the pandemic, they should avoid routine check-ups, and visit hospitals only in case of emergencies like labour pains, bleeding or leakage. If you are suffering from dry cough and sudden onset of high grade fever, you should visit a healthcare facility immediately,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/in-absence-of-doctors-drugs-pregnant-women-run-pillar-to-post/story-QInHDsjxcSELSTg5U8f8JM.html
02-04-2020||City||In a first, a hush over Panchkula’s Mansa Devi temple on ashtami during navratri||Amid the lockdown in view of coronavirus, the Mansa Devi temple in Panchkula remained closed for the first time during navratras that began last week. On Wednesday, the temple lacked the usual buzz on the occasion of ashtmi, which witnesses close to one lakh devotees every year. The gates of the temple premises are locked with police personnel deputed across the temple. On March 17, the administration had closed the temple to the public as a precautionary measure till further notice. Priests, however, are conducting the daily rituals and religious activities in the temple. Meanwhile, the shrine board has arranged for a live telecast of the aarti for devotees on its website and social media platforms including YouTube and Facebook for the Chaitra navratras. Besides Mata Mansa Devi temple, the Kali Mata temple in Kalka and other local temples are also closed till further orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/in-a-first-a-hush-over-panchkula-s-mansa-devi-temple-on-ashtami-during-navratri/story-QXGOHJQi6zMheCxxYHKi3L.html
02-04-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus curfew: Youth suspected of using fake curfew pass held in Chandigarh||A Khuda Ali Sher man was arrested for allegedly using a fake curfew pass on Wednesday.Police said the accused, Divyank, who is in his 20s, was moving in a car when he was stopped at a check post set up near Hallomajra light point to rein in violation of curfew orders.“DSP traffic Harjit Kaur asked Divyank for his reason to be on the road despite the prohibitory orders. He produced a photocopy of a curfew pass, but it didn’t have any reference number or validity date,” stated an official statement by the police.As Divyank was unable to provide a valid reason for his movement, he was booked under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). He was later released on bail.“The investigating official will verify the pass produced by the accused through the Kharar sub-divisional magistrate (SDM,” the police said.ADVISER TWEETS ABOUT INCIDENTReacting to the case, UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida tweeted: “Fake forged curfew pass detected..Criminal prosecution follows, Beware..With that if u loiter in city, u will suffer in captivity (sic)”ISSUE FEWER PASSES: GUV TO MOHALI, P’KULAPunjab governor and UT administrator VP Singh Badnore has asked the Panchkula and Mohali administrations to reduce the number of curfew passes being issued, as it is leading to crowding in Chandigarh. While Punjab imposed curfew in Mohali on March 23, Chandigarh administration imposed it on March 24. Both introduced curfew relaxations later and started issuing curfew passes online.UT administration allows curfew passes to government employees, persons providing essential and emergency services, grocers, chemists and vegetable sellers.“While UT has been strict with issuing of passes, Mohali is being lenient and issuing them to all and sundry. As curfew passes of all three cities are valid across the tricity, it is causing problems in Chandigarh. People having passes from Mohali and Panchkula crossover to Chandigarh, beating the purpose of curfew here,” said a UT official, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/coronavirus-curfew-youth-suspected-of-using-fake-curfew-pass-held-in-chandigarh-adviser-issues-warning/story-utrYHz82OBB6vMjeGjqucL.html
02-04-2020||City||Ludhiana jail break: Inmates escaped due to fear of coronavirus, say police||A day after police nabbed an inmate, who had escaped with three others from Ludhiana Central Jail four days ago, the inmate confessed that they had escaped due to fear of coronavirus.On Tuesday, Suraj Kumar, 26, of Sultanpur in Uttar Pradesh was nabbed from Dholewal when he was standing in a queue for langar.During investigation, Kumar has told the police that he along with three other inmates — Ravi Kumar ,24, of Samrala, Aman Kumar,23, of Mandi Gobindgarh in Fatehgarh Sahib and Arshdeep Singh, 24, of Basti Ajit Nagar of Sangrur were afraid of getting infected with the virus in the jail. Therefore, they planned the escape, said assistant commissioner of police (East) Davinder Chaudhary.On the wee hours of Saturday, the inmates had tied their blankets together to use it as a rope for scaling the wall. The jail authorities came to know about the jail break in the morning during daily attendance.Chaudhary added that the police teams are conducting raids at the whereabouts of the accused and Suraj is also being questioned for more details. The other three inmates are yet to be arrested.Suraj Kumar has been residing at Kheri Dhandara village and is facing multiple trials. He has told the police that after escaping from jail, everyone got dispersed and he stayed at Transport Nagar for a day. The next day he had gone into hiding in Dholewal, however, when he ran out of food due to curfew, Suraj queued up to get food (langar) being distributed by an NGO.On Tuesday, the police had received a tip off about Suraj and they arrested him from the queue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-jail-break-inmates-escaped-due-to-fear-of-coronavirus-say-police/story-bMYH69bmpP7DnsXxnXeGKO.html
02-04-2020||City||Postal dept resumes delivery services in state||The postal department resumed its delivery services, which had been temporarily suspended a week ago in the wake of the novel coronavirus outbreak, after Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad recognised their services as essential during a meeting held via video conferencing on March 30.Asking the department to rise to the occasion, Prasad said, “The postal department was at present responsible for delivering money orders, adhaar linked payments and medical kits.”On March 22, the department of posts in Punjab had suspended the postal services after different branches had reported that people had stopped receiving registered mails from the postman and they were fearful of contracting Covid-19. Punjab Circle chief post master general Anil Kumar has instructed head post offices in the state to deliver packets and parcels of dry ration and other essential commodities at beneficiaries’ doorstep. Post offices have been asked to deliver LTD (local town delivery) articles on priority. “Special efforts should be made to deliver money orders. Divisional heads should ensure that Intra Circle Mail Motor start plying with immediate effect by liaisoning with local authorities. All divisional heads should contact state government authorities and proactively offer their services for delivering goods, groceries, ventilators and other items,” the instructions state. Post offices in Ludhiana become functional Ludhiana post offices senior superintendent of post offices Amanpreet Singh said, “On Wednesday, all post offices were opened. We have also started mail services and started making bookings for Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh.” With buses and train services shut, the postal department has decided to continue its postal delivery services through available Mail Motor Services (MMS). Ludhiana divisional offices have five MMS’ to transport posts. There are 14 delivery offices in Ludhiana from where postmen collect mails. The Head Post Office at Ludhiana covers 45 post offices in urban areas and 11 branch offices (BO) that cater to 85 villages. An official, on condition of anonymity, said Ludhiana division receives 6,000 to 7,000 articles for delivery on a daily basis. Singh said amid the lockdown, the postal department had redistributed the MMS to compensate for the loss of other means of transport. “Of the five MMS, one will be used to deliver mails bound for Patiala and Sangrur and others will deliver mails to rural areas of Ludhiana,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/postal-dept-resumes-delivery-services-in-state/story-51BxC60NQdGKTDvWl1W10K.html
02-04-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s PGIMER accuses business conglomerate of intellectual theft||:The Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, has accused business conglomerate Mahindra and Mahindra of intellectual theft and breach of patent law.Association of resident doctor’s in an official release routed through the public relations department of the institute has claimed that Dr Rajeev Chauhan, assistant professor in PGI’s department of anesthesia has been working on designing a low-cost ventilator over the past one year and filed a patent on December 22, 2019 with application no 201911053339 to Indian Patent Authority. The institute’s ethics committee has already given approval for this device in October last year. “The Mahindras approached us via email due to the national emergency in the wake of Covid-19 and within 48 hours copied our innovation. The same mechanism has been applied using a linear actuator, which was we had developed. However, without giving due credit to developers, the Mahindras have claimed that it is their indigenous product,” said Dr Rajeev Chauhan.Official spokesperson of the business group said they were dismayed by these allegations and will issue a statement on Thursday. However, PGIMER’s official release stated that, “We (doctors) are starting a social media drive and will appeal to PMO and other high officials to intervene and protect the interests of our young innovators from the big sharks. This is against patent laws and demoralising for young innovators of the nation’s premiere institutes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-s-pgimer-accuses-business-conglomerate-of-intellectual-theft/story-WqUvqZg8KbceJ36arTIGOO.html
02-04-2020||City||Deliver food grains to students at home: Punjab director of public instructions||The latest order by the Punjab director of public instructions (DPI, elementary) Inderjit Singh asking the district education officers (DEOs, elementary and secondary) to get the food grain packets delivered at students’ homes amid lockdown in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak has put the authorities in a fix.Moreover, the letter does not specify who is going to deliver the packets. However, the school heads and teachers said they will be assigned the duty. But they are clueless about who will prepare the packets as per the quantity set by the authorities.The letter also mentions that the authorities must e-transfer the cooking cost in the bank accounts of students as per the funds allotted. But most students in the district do not have bank accounts. As a result, authorities are looking for other options to provide the funds to students.A school head of a government school, requesting anonymity, said, “While the police are lodging FIRs against the violators amid lockdown due to coronavirus outbreak, the authorities want teachers to make arrangements for delivering food grain packets to children at their homes. Will the government take responsibility if a teacher gets affected while distributing grains?”As per the orders, a sealed packet of 1.2kg wheat and 1.2kg rice will be delivered to the house of each primary student. Further, a packet containing 1.8kg wheat and 1.8kg rice will be delivered to each upper primary student at his/her doorstep.The food grains for 24 days will be delivered to the students of Classes 1 to 8 and the funds of ₹107.52 for primary students and ₹161.04 for the upper primary students will be e-transferred in their bank accounts. 1.2 LAKH STUDENTS ARE COVERED UNDER SCHEMEIn Ludhiana, 1.2 lakh students are covered under the mid-day meal scheme. These students are studying in 1,536 government schools including primary, middle, high and senior secondary schools.DEO (elementary) Rajinder Kaur said, “We have received the letter from the higher authorities and will abide by the order. Many teachers in the district are voluntarily providing ration and funds to the underprivileged students. We will make all efforts so that no government school student may sleep with an empty stomach.”“Though many students in the district do not have bank accounts, we will look for other ways so that funds and food grains are provided to the students,” she added.Inderjit Singh said, “The order has been issued so that students can survive in these tough times. Many teachers are on duty as a sector officer and they will make arrangements to deliver food grains to the students.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/deliver-food-grains-to-students-at-home-punjab-director-of-public-instructions/story-jCLgucx5ZHDpm87N1txGRM.html
02-04-2020||Chandigarh||SCERT promotes students to next class amid lockdown||​ Amid the lockdown in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak, the joy of students of pre-primary classes to Class 4 knew no bounds when they got to know that they have been promoted to the next class as per the recent orders by State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) director Inderjit Singh.This is the first time that no parent-teacher meeting has been conducted to declare the results of primary classes where students were handed over report cards specifying their grades and overall percentage.The move has been taken by the council keeping in mind that the data and results prepared by the teachers have been kept in schools and authorities are being unable to reach the schools to collect the lists due to the lockdown.As per the Right to Education Act, even if a student from these classes gets an E grade, he/she can be promoted to the next class. Singh said, “As per the Right to Education Act, we can promote the students of these classes to the next class. Amid lockdown in the wake of coronavirus outbreak, it is not feasible to reach schools to get the results. So, we have promoted the students.”​As per sources, 92,000 students of pre-primary classes to Class 4 have been promoted to the next class.PERFORMANCE EVALUATED IN MARCH FIRST WEEK​​The performance of students of all these classes was evaluated in March first week and teachers have prepared the lists and report cards.​Jaswinder Kaur, head teacher of Government Primary School, Chanan Devi, said, “Around 500 students are enrolled till Class 4 and all have been promoted to the next standard as per the council instructions. The results have been uploaded on the ePunjab web portal as per the orders. A message informing the parents that their wards have been promoted to the next class has been sent on a WhatsApp group formed by the teachers.”​ Sushil Kumar, a parent, said, “My children are studying in Class 2 and Class 4 at Government Primary School (GPS), Haibowal Khurd. On Tuesday, we got a message that both of them have been promoted to the next class. I was overjoyed and told my children about their results. For the past two weeks, both have been helping their mother in household chores and have been repeatedly saying that they miss learning lessons through projectors at school.”​The authorities at GPS, Haibowal Khurd, have informed the parents about the results of their wards through the WhatsApp groups formed by class teachers. Shivani Sood, school head, said, “Many parents do not have smartphones and internet access, so we had called them to inform them about the results of their wards,” adding that she had also sensitised the students about coronavirus and distributed masks and ration to the underprivileged students on March 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/scert-promotes-students-to-next-class-amid-lockdown/story-HGEM65HXPqmVuF2Ab8ljhM.html
02-04-2020||City||Partially burnt body of youth found in Batala||A partially burnt body of an unidentified youth was recovered on the outskirts of Buttar village of Batala on Wednesday.Village sarpanch Balwinder Singh said that a village resident found the body of victim, aged around 30, on the roadside and informed the police.During initial investigation, the police found that there were injuries, inflicted with sharp-edged weapons, on the head and neck of the deceased.Fatehgarh Churran DSP Balbir Singh said “It’s a case of murder. Somebody killed the victim and later set his body on fire.”The police had registered a case under Section 302 of IPC against unidentified persons.“We are checking the footage of CCTV cameras installed on the road leading to the crime spot,” the DSP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/partially-burnt-body-of-youth-found-in-batala/story-UliHo4JhCgUxsXoHpIXWtJ.html
02-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab mulls use of rice mills’ premises for wheat procurement||The Punjab government is considering a proposal to use the premises of 4,000-plus rice mills in the state, besides already established 158 mandis and 1,832 procurement centres, for wheat procurement to make it a staggered affair in view of the curbs imposed to stop the spread of COVID-19 outbreak.Also, in order to maintain social distancing and prevent large gatherings of farmers, labour and all others involved in procurement, the government has decided to ask the farmers to bring produce to mandis turn-wise.“We have roped in arhtiyas (commission agents) who would coordinate with the farmers attached to them and call them by turns,” said additional chief secretary agriculture Viswajeet Khanna, adding that arhtiyas would issue tokens to the farmers in this regard.Khanna added that all other issues concerning procurement would be thrashed out in a few days. “Rice mills could be used for procurement operations provided we are able to arrange infrastructure and manpower,” he said.There are at least 13 lakh wheat growers in the state who are attached to 22,600 arhtiyas for disbursal of cost of produce – minimum support price (MSP) and their day-to-day needs.“One arhtiya has 25 to 400 farmers attached with him, and we have told all of them to get ready to ensure hassle-free operation,” said state president of state arhtiya association Vijay Kalra.He said his association has provided details to the government about number of farmers attached to each arhtiya, their addresses, nearby mandis and how much payment was made for wheat crop in the last rabi season. “I think all the information will help the government to make better planning.” READY WITH ALL LOGISTICS: MINISTERFood and civil supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, “We are ready with all logistics such as gunny bags, crates, tarpaulin and cash credit limit (CCL) from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) for making payment to the farmers and transporters.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-mulls-use-of-rice-mills-premises-for-wheat-procurement/story-gdztnlbFPmucK8SpG7Y5zM.html
02-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM urges Sitharaman to expedite ₹26,064-crore CCL authorisation||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Wednesday wrote to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman seeking her personal intervention to direct the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) for expeditious authorisation of Cash Credit Limit (CCL) of ₹26,064 crore for the coming Rabi season.In a letter to the finance minister, Amarinder said the immediate release of CCL would not only ensure smooth procurement of wheat crop but also relieve the farmers, already under stress.Amarinder apprised Sitharaman that the Punjab government had already submitted its proposal to the RBI for the CCL authorisation. The chief minister also informed Sitharaman that the state was facing unprecedented crisis because of the ongoing lockdown in view of Covid-19 pandemic and procurement of Rabi crop, which was due to begin on April 1, 2020, will now start on April 15. However, this will be possible only if the RBI issues authorisation against the state’s projection of estimated amount to procure 114.76 lakh metric tonne of wheat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-cm-urges-sitharaman-to-expedite-26-064-crore-ccl-authorisation/story-IwYB1kH1z5ffleUHdR9KeI.html
02-04-2020||Chandigarh||Cop inspires people to fight corona via Punjabi song||A baton-wielding Punjab Police officer has sung a song to inspire people to stay indoors and make the fight against coronavirus a success. Assistant sub-inspector Pamma Malhi is urging people through the song to follow statewide lockdown rules and health advisory to enable the country to win a battle against the coronavirus.A video of the Punjabi song was shared by chief minister Amarinder Singh on his Twitter handle on Wednesday.“A song on precautions against coronavirus creative way of spreading awareness on COVID-19,” the chief minister wrote.The uniformed policeman is saying washing hands with soap and cleaning with hand sanitisers help fighting the coronavirus.The lyrics of song are of Partap Paras.In the video of nearly four minutes, the state police have been showcased with their relief operations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cop-inspires-people-to-fight-corona-via-punjabi-song/story-91K4VtjO0aWNKLf7EyhW3M.html
02-04-2020||City||Covid-19: Punjab CM’s pic on relief material bags stirs up row||A picture of chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on the relief material bag has stirred up a row with the opposition terming it “self-promotion” in time of pandemic.The department has dispatched 15 lakh bags, each containing 10kg wheat flour, 2kg dal (lentils) and 2kg sugar, at a cost of Rs 70 crore to the state exchequer. The material is packed in a bag having a picture of Amarinder in folded hands, with the tagline ‘A small effort of Punjab government to deal with Covid-19’. These bags will be supplied to 15 lakh families, which are not covered under the public distribution system (PDS). Leader of opposition in Punjab Assembly and AAP MLA Harpal Singh Cheema said, “The CM and his cabinet colleagues have failed on all fronts during the past three years and they are trying to take political mileage through Covid-19 relief.”He also alleged discrimination in distribution of relief material at the village level, saying a large number of needy families are being ignored. “While opposition MLAs are not allowed to leave home, Congress ministers and legislators are distributing the relief material in bags having picture of CM to their supporters. It’s not a social service, but self-promotion by the CM at the cost of tax payers’ money in the time of pandemic,” said Cheema. SAD leader Daljit Singh Cheema said there was no need to waste precious time and delay distribution of essential items by packaging them with the chief minister’s picture. “There will be many opportunities to put the CM’s picture on a variety of things, but in today’s crisis, such actions should be avoided.”MINISTER JUSTIFIES MOVEFood and civil supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu justified the move, saying: “The CM’s picture is needed to differentiate the Covid-19 relief material. The state is also distributing atta-dal under the PDS. DCs are distributing ration from money released under CM’s relief fund. A picture is needed to differentiate the Covid-19 relief material, so that it is not used under PDS. If all material is distributed in similar packets, there are chances of bungling as someone can raise bills of this material under PDS.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-cm-s-pic-on-relief-material-bags-stirs-up-row/story-Atnx8jRaj0yHITbFk2YEPP.html
02-04-2020||Chandigarh||Fire breaks out at knitwear unit in Ludhiana, no casualty||A major fire broke out at a knitwear unit, JP Knits, situated near Jalebi Chowk at Bahadurke Road here on Wednesday morning.However, no casualty was reported as the multi-storey building was closed due to lockdown and the two labourers, residing in labour quarters, situated at one side of the premises, came out safely. The flames were doused after a firefighting operation of over 12 hours.According to information, the fire brigade received an alert around 5 am and 12 fire tenders from all the five fire stations in the city were rushed to the spot.The reason behind the incident is still uncertain, but the owner, Gundeep Singh, suspected that a short circuit might have triggered the fire as, he said, an electricity transformer in the street had also caught fire on Tuesday night.One of the labourers, residing in labour quarters, Arun, said that they were sleeping in the quarters when they came to know about the fire around 4:45 and that they informed the owner and the fire brigade immediately.Gundeep said he had not yet ascertained the loss, but goods and machinery worth lakhs have perished. The building had also got damaged, he said.Fire station officer Shristi Nath said, “A total of 12 fire tenders were deputed to douse the fire and the tenders were refilled with water over 100 times.”Sub fire officer (SFO) Maninder Singh said, “Firefighting arrangements were in place at the factory and the operation lasted for over 12 hours.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/fire-breaks-out-at-knitwear-unit-in-ludhiana-no-casualty/story-ZnePYHPCDESjoqwHF6OZTP.html
02-04-2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus update: 56-year-old man dies of Covid-19 in Mumbai’s Dharavi, colony sealed off||A 56-year-old Dharavi resident with no travel history died of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) late on Wednesday, civic officials said, after he had tested positive for the infection (Sars-Cov-2) earlier in the day. The state health department, however, was yet to confirm the death as due to Covid-19 at the time of going to press.The man was the first such case in the area, one of Asia’s largest slums, even as eight of his family members have been quarantined and will undergo tests tomorrow. Local ward officials are tracing his contacts as it was found that the deceased visited a nearby Jama Masjid daily.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here The Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA) colony, where the 56-year-old used to reside, has been sealed. The colony has eight buildings with 308 flats and 91 shops. The local ward office said no one will be allowed to go out of the colony as food and essentials will be provided by the civic body.A senior Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) official confirmed that two people who attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi were also from Dharavi and have been home quarantined for the past several days. “We are now checking if those two were visiting the same Masjid. We are also contacting people who were regulars at the Masjid. The two suspected people are asymptomatic and will undergo tests tomorrow.” The deceased used to run a garment shop at AKG Nagar in Dharavi.Click here for complete coronavirus coverageThe 56-year-old had reported of a cough on March 23 and had visited the local clinic there. Following this, on March 28, the patient had complained of chest pain and underwent treatment at Sion Hospital. The test results of the patient arrived on Wednesday, after which, he was moved from Sion Hospital to Kasturba Hospital. All high-risk contacts of the patient have been stamped and quarantined. A senior civic official said, “The close contacts of the patient are being tracked. This is a sensitive area considering the dense population here. Due to this, we have sealed the entire building.” “The person has a garment shop in AKG Nagar. We still don’t know how he got infected. We have sealed 300 flats along with 90 shops in the area. All senior citizens’ samples will be tested for the virus. We will provide rations to the building. No one will be allowed to come out until the people test negative for the virus,” said Kiran Dighavkar, ward officer.(with inputs from Eeshanpriya MS and Rupsa Chakraborty)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/one-covid-19-case-in-dharavi-sra-colony-sealed-off/story-1zBLRziRUueVwE2CrjVdgI.html
02-04-2020||Delhi||Life in a lockdown: In Lajpat Nagar, silence drowns out normal din||In the bustling markets of Lajpat Nagar, a go-to place for shoppers and tourists, the ubiquitous cycle rickshaws that normally vie for space with pedestrians are nowhere to be seen. There is also lots of space, and none that needs to be vied for.Since March 25, when a 21-day nationwide lockdown kicked in to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), long-time residents in the area say they are nonplussed by the silence,, which is only broken by barking street dogs, chirping birds, and the occasional vehicle.The busy Central Market is now empty, its 700-odd shops shut. Only four establishments — two chemists and two grocers -- stay open these days.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemic“There is complete silence in the area these days. We have been meeting virtually to discuss measures such as providing food to workers and other vulnerable sections. We made around 1,000 kits of dry ration for distribution to families of migrant workers and rickshaw pullers. Our area has a large migrant workforce and a good number of street vendors, all of whom have been left with little means to fend for themselves,” said Ashwani Marwah, general secretary of the Lajpat Nagar traders’ association.  In the Afghan colony in Lajpat Nagar-2, however, business seems a bit more like usual. Also, the direct impact of the lockdown on foreign nationals is visible here. Even though five flights have been arranged so far by the Afghanistan government to get its citizens home, several Afghans who visit India in search of better medical facilities are stranded in the Lajpat Nagar locality that has long been their haunt.For many of them, Lajpat Nagar — a residential area developed to house refugees who immigrated from Pakistan during Partition — is a second home. Thirty-year-old Hamid Hakim, an Afghan, said he wanted to stay back in Delhi as the city has better medical facilities as compared to his country. However, his budget does not permit him to stay for too long.“Due to the closure of banks, we have not been able to exchange currencies. No money transfer is happening and I’m slowly running out of money,” he said.Thirty-year-old Hamida, who was here to collect her degree from a Delhi college, said her flight to Kabul is scheduled for April 5. “ But I cannot return home to Herat province and will have to stay in Kabul at some hotel as Herat is in a lockdown starting Wednesday,” she said.Sayeed Abdul Azeem, a 26-year-old student, said there is panic and uncertainty because the last flight to Afghanistan is set to will depart on April 5 and no one knows when things would return to normal.Among those hurrying back home is 80-year-old Khalid Mohammad, who came for an eye treatment with his wife and daughter. “I will now have to leave my treatment halfway and return to my country,” he said.In other parts of the residential area, the only ones out on the road are some vegetable and fruit vendors, who are conducting business, but with precautions.Satish, a fruit-seller, says business has taken a hit. His faced covered by a mask , Satish makes it a point to wash his hands every time after serving a customer. “I have been maintaining proper hygiene and as a precautionary measure, I have also kept a sanitiser at hand. I close my shop in the afternoon because not many people step out during daytime,” he said.Nisha, a 21-year-old student at Zakir Hussain College, said she and her family are worried about the increasing number of cases from Nizamuddin, which is not far from from Lajpat Nagar.“Due to the lockdown, I cannot join my internship as I was supposed to. The number of cases being reported from Nizamuddin is alarming,” she said. The headquarters of the Tablighi Jamaat in Nizamudding has emerged as a Covid-19 hot spot over the past three days.Meanwhile, the local residents’ welfare associations (RWA) in the area have been ensuring that people don’t step out, unless absolutely necessary. “In the whole of Lajpat Nagar-4 (Amar Colony), only three of the 25 gates remain open during the day. Only one person from a family is allowed to go out at a time to get essentials. We arrange for essentials such as medicines for senior citizens who are living alone,” said Pramod Kumar Taneja, chairman of the Amar Colony RWA.He says the RWA has tied up with the local councillor to provide food and essentials to nearly 4,000 people housed in the slum clusters nearby. “The food is being prepared in our block and two persons take it daily to the slums.”Abhishek Dutt, the councillor from Andrews Ganj, South Delhi Municipal Corporation, says he has been in constant touch with RWAs and was responding to their needs. “On our local helpline number — 8883030201 — for Kasturba Nagar constituency, of which Lajpat Nagar is a part, I have got at least 35 complaints from people who are disabled and could not go out to get food. We have ensured that all such people are catered to. From Thursday, we are also starting an initiative with RWAs to provide cooked meals to labourers and other workers at least once a day,” Dutt said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/life-in-a-lockdown-in-lajpat-nagar-silence-drowns-out-normal-din/story-wMSYlP0SlkPwe9XBYfXIzK.html
02-04-2020||Delhi||‘Items flew off the shelves after PM address’, says grocer from Delhi||As an entire country locks itself indoors for 21 days to beat the spread of Covid-19, one man has been working tirelessly — for sometimes as long as 13 hours a day — for the past two weeks. Sajjan Kumar Agarwal, a 50-year-old grocery store owner in east Delhi’s Vasundhara Enclave, says he has never seen a panic like this among customers before. “At our store, the madness begun on March 22 when the Delhi government announced a lockdown. I did double my normal sales that night. The customers said that since the restaurants were also shut, they needed more food supply. But the situation went out of control after the 21-day lockdown was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” he said.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicAgarwal said that there was a huge rush at his shop immediately after the announcement. “That night, I sold thrice of what i usually do. People were buying as if they will never get a chance again. By the weekend, my stocks had been completely wiped out,” he said, adding that he and his staff could not even take a lunch break for at least five days.On Monday, he had put up a poster on his shop with a message that read “please do not buy extra groceries”. “The situation has calmed down now. The number of customers we are receiving now is fewer than what we used to get before. People seem to have stocked enough groceries for the next few weeks,” he said.Agarwal, who lives in a joint family in New Kondli — barely a kilometre away from his shop — opens his Ravi General Store every day at 9 am. Immediately after reaching the store, he instructs his employees to tie a rope around the shop to ensure that social distancing norms with customers are followed. He has distributed masks and hand gloves to his employees and has also kept a bottle of hand sanitiser on the counter for them to use. “I have stopped home delivery. We normally have 10 boys working at the store for home delivery but now only four are reporting to work. We only deliver for elderly people now, that too only till the main gate of the residential societies. I am responsible for their safety as well. We also maintain social distance from each other at work. Half of my day goes in telling customers to maintain a social distance and stand in the circles that we have drawn outside the store,” he said.Around 2:30 pm, some disgruntled customers were spotted returning from Agarwal’s store. “We have to send back many customers daily because we are out of stock for many items, including ready to eat items, flour and packed foods like biscuits, chips and Maggi. It’s disheartening to say no to anyone, but we are having trouble in getting supplies these days. The distributors are not being able to transport goods as per our requirements. They do not have enough manpower,” he said.By 4pm, a truck carrying packed drinking water bottles arrives at the store. “We are not receiving Bisleri water daily. Now I’ll call some customers who I had turned back earlier in the day,” says Agarwal, with a smile on his face.While his employees wrap up the work by 9pm and leave for home, Agarwal stays back for another half an hour to ensure that none of his customers is left behind. By 9:45 pm he is home. “I wash my hands before entering the house and take a shower immediately. I interact with hundreds of people every day. I have to take a lot of precautions to keep my family safe. I have my old mother at home,” he said.When asked if he does not feel like staying at home like others , he said, “It’s a privilege to be there for the people. If we stop working what will they eat? I will continue working no matter what. The doors of my store will remain open for all my customers,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/it-s-a-privilege-will-continue-working-no-matter-what-grocery-store-owner/story-Ek3Tn5p3J295V5fvOmwgbN.html
02-04-2020||Delhi||16 mosques in Delhi that hosted members of Tablighi Jamaat congregation disinfected||At least 16 mosques, which were earlier identified by Delhi Police for having housed around 150 foreign nationals and over 20 Indians who were a part of the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Nizamuddin earlier this month, were sanitised on Wednesday.The Tablighi Jamaat headquarters has emerged as the biggest Covid-19 hot spot in India so far, with at least 53 people from there testing positive for Covid-19 in the Capital alone, and more than 500 in hospital for showing Covid-like symptoms. Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicMore than 1,800 people who attended the congregation have been placed in quarantine in the city.The 16 mosques are located in areas such as Pul Prahladpur, Malviya Nagar, Shastri Park, Chandni Mahal and Turkman Gate in Old Delhi. Several foreign nationals -- from countries including Indonesia, Malaysia and Kyrgyzstan — who visisted the Jammat’s headquarters this month were staying in these mosques.At one of the mosques in Old Delhi’s Chandni Mahal, 15 pilgrims from the Jamaat’s Markaz building — five couples from Indonesia, four men from Algeria, and an Indian national from Hyderabad — have been quarantined on the third floor of the masjid.“They have been here since the lockdown was announced. They are in complete isolation. They cook their own food on the third floor and even offer namaz there. None of them have shown any symptoms. The health officials had come to visit them on Wednesday and gave them a form that was to be filled, if anyone fell sick,” said Shakeel Ahmed, president of the masjid committee.On Wednesday evening, the local police held a meeting with the heads (Imams) of all mosques in the Walled City area at the Jama Masjid police station to discuss measures that needed to be taken.“The police have asked us to not let anyone come inside the mosque premises and maintain hygiene. We had already shut the masjid and nobody is allowed to come in, even for namaz. The police have also collected the passports of the pilgrims and a letter has been sent to the respective embassies,” said Mohammad Ali, imam of the Chandni Mahal mosque.Hafiz Mohammad Javed, a social worker and a representative of the masjid committee, said that he had earlier advised the Markaz authorities of taking precautions as well. “We had told them to take all precautionary measures. However, it was only later that they realised that some people were feeling unwell,” said Javed.At least 12 Indonesia nationals arrived in south Delhi’s Hauz Rani and Malviya Nagar areas on March 30, said Haji Kallu, the president of the masjid committee. These people, Kallu added, have been quarantined at the mosque. “They came to the mosque on March 30; we don’t know where they stayed before that. We immediately informed the area sub-divisional magistrate and the police about them. They came and checked their visa and passport details/”Less than a kilometre away, 13 Kyrgyzstan nationals and one Indian, all members of the Tablighi Jammat, moved to another mosque in the area on March 22.Mohd Aslam, a member of Tablighi Jammat associated with the mosque, said, “Their details were shared with the local authorities. The medical team visited the mosque on March 30. We have kept these people on two separate floors of the mosque as per directions of the medical team. We are not entering the mosque and providing them food and other stuff from outside.”In the Shastri Park area, at least 35 people were shifted to a quarantine facility from two mosques.In Wazirabad, 15 people, including 12 Indonesian nationals, were quarantined inside the area’s Jama Masjid mosque, said an official.Syed Ahmed Bukhari, the Shahi Imam of Delhi’s Jama Masjid said: “I have informed people in the community, especially in mosques, that wherever members of the Jamaat are staying, they should inform the district administration and local police and get those people tested. If someone is staying in their house, even then you should get the person tested. The measures taken by the government are for the welfare of the people. We had closed Jama Masjid for prayers for the general public due to the disease on March 23, after which all other mosques in the city had followed suit.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/16-mosques-that-hosted-members-of-tablighi-jamaat-congregation-disinfected/story-sy8DNxn9oHpMztLAM9VTVK.html
02-04-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 outbreak: 227 workers stranded in Gurdwara Majnu ka Tila rescued||At least 227 migrants from Punjab, who were stranded in Delhi due to the 21-day nationwide lockdown, were evacuated from a gurudwara in North Delhi’s Majnu ka Tila by the police and Delhi government authorities on Wednesday, officials associated with the operation said.They were shifted to two government schools in Nehru Vihar in Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) buses, after following due protocol pertaining to the coronavirus (Sars-Cov-2) pandemic, police said.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicAlthough none of the migrants showed any symptom of the virus on Tuesday night, health officials will screen them for a confirmation at the two schools, which have been converted into quarantine centres, deputy commissioner of police (north), Monika Bhardwaj, said.The evacuation comes after 29 people, who had attended a Tablighi Jamaat earlier this month in South Delhi’s Hazrat Nizamuddin, tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday, taking the total to 53 of the 152 cases in Delhi. The 53 were among over 2,300 people, including foreigners, who were staying in the religious establishment and were evacuated in the last two days.At least seven such participants, who returned to their homes in Telangana, died due to the infection, triggering panic across the country and prompting authorities to carry out operations to identify, evacuate, and isolate people who had attended the religious congregation. On Tuesday night, the police received information regarding a gathering of around 300 people in the vicinity of the gurdwara at Majnu ka Tila. Upon confirming the information, the Delhi government was intimated and requested to take the necessary steps.“Directions were issued to the district magistrate concerned and the deputy commissioner of police to conduct a joint operation in order to evacuate the gurdwara premises at the earliest. Once done, people should be screened by doctors. Symptomatic cases should be sent to hospitals and asymptomatic cases should be accommodated in the quarantine facilities set up by the government. All individuals will be provided with regular meals and other essentials. After that, the gurdwara premises should be contained and sanitised as per the Delhi government’s protocol,” said Satya Gopal, additional chief secretary of Delhi.After the necessary arrangements, the evacuation operation began on Wednesday. Till afternoon, a total of 227 people were shifted to the schools in the two buses. Amid information that the evacuated people were to attend a religious gathering at the gurdwara, DCP Bhardwaj said, “All of them are migrant workers belonging to Punjab, but working in Delhi-NCR. They all took shelter in the gurdwara after the lockdown orders, as they had no way to return to their homes.”A senior official of the government’s revenue department said, “The gurdwara committee should have informed the police and the subdivisional magistrate concerned about the gathering. A detailed report had been sought from the SDM and the government is likely to request the L-G to initiate the registration of an FIR by the police.”In a video tweet, Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) president, Manjinder Singh Sirsa, said that none of the evacuated persons was there to attend a religious gathering or employed in the gurdwara. He said that none of them exhibited any symptom of the infection.“All of them had gathered outside the gurdwara from Noida, Faridabad and other parts of Delhi-NCR to board buses to Punjab, as many buses for their states run from near the gurdwara. They took shelter in the gurdwara as no buses were available. Three days ago, DSGMC arranged two buses and sent some people back,” Sirsa said in the video.He said that after a complete lockdown was enforced in the city, many were stranded at the gurdwara, and he had informed the Punjab and Delhi governments about this through tweets and videos. “We also shared a list of those people with a Punjab member of Parliament. From Tuesday night, the Delhi government administration has been taking care of them. They were evacuated and shifted to schools. The administration asked us to provide them food three times, which we will be doing,” he says in the video.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-outbreak-227-punjab-migrants-evacuated-from-gurdwara-in-majnu-ka-tila/story-i5ejijgMukq1fOk6TexvmI.html
02-04-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 update: Phones of those in quarantine to be tracked for violation, says CM||Mobile phones of more than 24,000 individuals in Delhi, who are presently under quarantine to prevent the spread of coronavirus, will be put under surveillance for security agencies to check if they have violated the quarantine. The security agencies will go through their GPS locations to determine if they are staying put, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said Wednesday. Experts said there is no past pandemic to set a precedent for this one, but raised concerns about possible violation of privacy rights. Police said they were yet to be notified on the move.“We have seen several developed nation track phones of their quarantined patients to check against violations and the method seems to have worked. In a meeting with the lieutenant-governor, we too have decided to adopt the method. We have already provided 11,084 phone numbers to the police and another set of 14,345 phone numbers will be provided today (Wednesday),” Kejriwal said.He further said, “By tracking the locations of those numbers for the quarantine period, the police would be in a position to ascertain if the quarantine was violated at any point. We had to take such strict measures considering how the virus has spread across countries.” “We are yet to be notified about the announcement made by the CM regarding electronic surveillance on quarantined people. As and when we are informed about it, necessary steps would be taken to implement it,” said a police officer, who did not want to be named.Category A persons – individuals who have returned from coronavirus-affected nations and are symptomatic, and their contacts – are isolated in government facilities. But, asymptomatic persons – classified under Category B and C – are either asked to go for self-quarantine in their residences or remain isolated in government centres, depending on their travel history and other factors that include age and other ailments, as per the guidelines issued by the Union health ministry. In Delhi, till Wednesday, the virus was infected 152 (as on Wednesday) individuals and claimed two lives, Kejriwal said. The city, along with the rest of India, is currently in a 21-day lockdown to prevent the spread of coronavirus.Of the 152 persons diagnosed positive in Delhi, Kejriwal said, 49 had a travel history to an affected nation, 29 were people who came into their direct contact and 24 are cases originating from the Markaz gathering in Nizamuddin. A recently held religious congregation in Nizamuddin Delhi has led to many who attended the event contracting the virus.“There have been no past pandemics to set a precedent. Law and order authorities have always had access to call detail records and locations, which now form the basis of many investigations and charge sheets. In the present case, with the invocation of the Epidemic Act, there is even a plausible legal cover, for this action, which maybe justified as checking for possible violations of the Act,” senior Supreme Court advocate Sanjay Hegde said.Srinivas Kodali, a researcher on data and governance, said: “The government has pushed the burden onto individuals. Instead of helping them go through quarantine, the government is forcing its might onto victims. Such exercises do not build trust and could actually lead to more people jumping quarantine and keeping their phones turned off. Not to mention that this is an outright violation of a person’s fundamental right to privacy as there are other less intrusive ways to do this without violating an individual’s privacy.”RATION FOR POOR WITHOUT CARDSDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal Wednesday said poor people in Delhi, who do not have a ration card yet, can apply for the same online and avail of ration from fair price shops starting this month with the help of the acknowledgement receipt. He pegged the number of such people at one million. Delhi already has 7.1 million beneficiaries under the public distribution system of essential items. All of them are entitled to receive 7.5kg additional ration – primarily comprising rice and wheat – from April in light of the 21-day lockdown.“I will ensure that nobody stays hungry during or after the lockdown,” Kejriwal said after the announcement made through a video conferencing to address the media.Meanwhile, lieutenant-governor Anil Baijal ordered the use of fire tenders for disinfecting hot spot clusters, quarantine centres and vulnerable public spaces to prevent the spread of coronavirus.“Directions have been issued to use the fire brigade for disinfecting vulnerable neighbourhoods, especially the hot spot areas, quarantine centres, public places, etc. District disaster management authorities will take concerted preventive actions and ensure social distancing at ATMs, food distribution centres, etc.” a statement from Baijal’s office read.So far, Dilshad Garden and Nizamuddin localities have been identified as coronavirus hot spots in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/govt-to-check-gps-locations-of-24-000-people-to-see-if-they-jumped-quarantine/story-yLzRbwp0HqEAoRBIwF42RO.html
02-04-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 outbreak: FIR for ferrying migrants in DTC and cluster buses||The Delhi Police have registered a case against staff of buses that ferried people trying to reach Anand Vihar bus terminal to leave for their homes soon after the 21-day country-wide lockdown was announced.Tens of thousands of people, mostly daily wage workers, had gathered there over the weekend in the hope of getting transport to their homes in town and villages in Uttar Pradesh.The first information report (FIR) was registered at Shakarpur police station on Sunday after two policemen deployed at a checkpost near ITO complained that they found buses, meant for serving essential service providers, were used to ferry the people to Anand Vihar despite the lockdown.The policeman on whose complaint the FIR was registered said in his statement that his colleague and had come across seven such buses on Sunday and sent them back. They did the same with 37 other buses — both from the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) and cluster bus service.The policeman alleged that the people in the buses had not been issued tickets either, and when he asked the drivers and conductors about it, they said they had “received orders from above”.The FIR was registered under the Disaster Management Act and the IPC sections pertaining to negligence that could spread a disease, disobedience to quarantine rule and disobedience to an order issued by a government servant.Apart from the drivers and conductors, the FIR also named the Delhi Integrated Multi-Modal Transit System (DIIMTS) operations head, CK Goyal.Speaking to HT, Goyal said that he was not a decision maker, an initiator or a violator and that only government orders were followed. “All those buses were on scheduled duty and the drivers had strict instructions to serve only essential service providers,” said Goyal, adding that he had acted on the “written directions of the government”.He said that two officers were suspended in the case in which the FIR has been registered.The Union Ministry of Home Affairs on Sunday had suspended two top bureaucrats of the Delhi government and issued show cause notices to two others for ‘dereliction of duty’ regarding containment of Covid-19. The disciplinary proceedings were issued against additional chief secretary (transport department) Renu Sharma (suspended with immediate effect), additional chief secretary (home and land buildings departments) Satya Gopal (show-cause notice), principal secretary (finance and divisional commissioner Rajiv Verma (suspended with immediate effect) and SDM Seelampur, Ajay Arora (show-cause notice).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/fir-for-ferrying-migrants-in-dtc-and-cluster-buses/story-Ot3QwuoXGMtqHaq8hD6A3O.html
02-04-2020||Pune||49,952 quintals of fruits, veggies arrive at Market Yard in Pune; precautionary measures in place, say officials||A total of 49,952 quintals of vegetables and fruits arrived at the Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC)-run Market Yard in Gultekadi on Wednesday as traders commenced wholesale business, said officials.The produce which arrived at the market on Wednesday was more as compared to Tuesday, said an official of APMC, on condition of anonymity. On Tuesday (March 31) 29,436 quintals of supply had arrived at the market, said the official.The Maharashtra government and traders under the APMC which run the wholesale vegetables and fruits markets at various locations in the state were unable to resolve their differences on keeping the markets open as an essential service for the public.The APMCs had decided to observe a closure from March 25 to March 31 as a precautionary step against Covid-19 (coronavirus) in view of the crowds that gather at the markets.BJ Deshmukh, APMC administrator, said, “The supply of vegetables and fruits is back to normal in the city as traders resumed business as usual at Market Yard. We took all the necessary precautions to avoid the crowd and people maintained social distance.”Deshmukh said, “There were restrictions on vehicles entering the market. Only retailers who had passes were allowed to enter the markets and individual customers we not allowed.”Vilas Bhujbal, president, APMC traders unit, said, “We have followed all the rule which are in place to stop the spread of Covid-19. APMC staff and police together took necessary care that social distance was maintained and people were not allowed to stand in groups.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/49-952-quintals-of-fruits-veggies-arrive-at-market-yard-precautionary-measures-in-place-say-officials/story-m2MyWF63CILfkFKPETiI2K.html
02-04-2020||Pune||1,592 cases filed in ten days against lockdown violators in Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad||The Pune police have registered 1,087 cases under Section 188 of Indian Penal code (IPC), while the Pimpri-Chinchwad police have registered at least 505 cases Section 144 of Code of Criminal Procedure against violators in the last ten days, according to officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/1592-cases-registered-against-violators-in-last-10-days/story-KsKKHBJ5LAi4gbrtyTJSON.html
02-04-2020||Pune||Man sitting on bench outside his house in Pune killed after car rams into him||A man was killed while he was sitting on a bench in Ghorpadi, after a car rammed into him on Monday morning.The victim has been identified as Gopi Arif Swamy, 52, a resident of Ganpati chowk in Aglavi chawl, Ghorpadi. The bench is located outside the house of the deceased man. The road runs very close to the bench on which he was sitting.According to the complaint lodged by Benny Arif Swamy, 45, the victim’s brother, the car was speeding when it rammed into the victim. Swamy was rushed to a nearby hospital, but was declared dead on arrival. His body was handed over to his family members after post-mortem.The police have not identified the driver or the car. Therefore, the reason behind the car plying on the road the amid lockdown is yet to be ascertained. A case under Sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way), 304(a) (causing death due to negligence) of Indian Penal Code along with Section 119/177 of Motor Vehicle Act has been registered at Mundhwa police station. Assistant police inspector Manish Patil of Mundhwa police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/man-sitting-on-bench-outside-his-house-in-pune-killed-after-car-rams-into-him/story-BvkpkG5lgOC8C4BK8bntSK.html
02-04-2020||Pune||Six-year-old sexually assaulted in Chakan||A doctor from Sassoon General Hospital informed the Pune police on Tuesday that a six-year-old girl has been sexually assaulted in Chakan.A complaint in the matter has been registered by the child’s 24-year-old mother on Tuesday night. The incident came to light when the child began complaining of stomach pain.According to the doctor who wished to remain anonymous, the 24-year-old mother of the child brought her to the hospital after she began complaining of stomach ache. The police are yet to make an arrest in this regard.The doctors believe that the incident took place between March 20 and 26 on multiple occasions. The lockdown in the state began on March 22 which was later extended to 21 days. This means that the girl was assaulted during the period of the lockdown.A case under Sections 376(2)(m) and 376 (ab) of the Indian Penal Code along with sections 4, 5(i) of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (Pocso) was registered at Chakan police station. Police sub-inspector MT Shinde of Chakan police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/six-year-old-sexually-assaulted-in-chakan/story-ZDq60eTUhUpIifbd7BFk3I.html
02-04-2020||Pune||Police case against two functionaries of a mosque in Ahmednagar, administration identifies 46 Tablighis who participated in Delhi meet||Ahmednagar police have filed a case against two functionaries of a mosque from Nevasa taluka in the district for allegedly allowing 10 foreign nationals to stay at its premises during the Covid-19 lockdown, police said on Wednesday.According to officials, these foreign nationals were found inside the mosque when the police were on patrolling duty late on Monday. The foreign nationals, according to Newasa police, were inside Bhaldar mosque also known as Markaz Masjid even as the functionaries of the religious place failed to inform the administration, despite instructions in view of the Covid-19 outbreak.The offence was registered against two trustees of the mosque under Section 188 (disobeying an order issued by a public servant) of the Indian Penal Code and provisions of the Epidemics Diseases Act, 1897, the official said.The action came against the background of two positive cases of Covid-19 in the last week of March in the district. Those two Covid-19 positive are nationals of Ivory Coast and France who along with 12 others had come for another religious congregation in Ahmednagar city. On Tuesday, three more persons who came in contact with the nationals of Ivory Cost and France, tested positive.In the latest case, the foreigners, who hail from Ghana, Dakar, Djibouti and Benin, were staying at the Masjid since before the lockdown was imposed, said a senior police official.The men were shifted to a nearby hospital and the administration and health department has now collected their swab samples for testing.Meanwhile, the Ahmednagar district administration has traced 46 persons comprising 29 foreign preachers and 17 workers of Tablighi Jamaat who had attended the religious congregation at Nizamuddin Markaz in New Delhi which is the world headquarters of the Muslim missionary organisation. District collector Rahul Dwivedi, said, “The administration has identified 46 persons who visited Delhi for the international meet and some of them who could be traced so far have been quarantined with samples being tested.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/police-case-against-two-functionaries-of-a-mosque-in-ahmednagar-administration-identifies-46-tablighis-who-participated-in-delhi-meet/story-sqgtCommY8Y5NqRo5wrEyI.html
02-04-2020||Pune||Covid-19: Sassoon hospital’s psychological helpline gets 40 calls in 24 hrs||Since the announcement of a 21-day lockdown period on March 24 by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to curtail the spread of Covid-19 (coronavirus) cases caused due to the Sars-CoV-2 virus, psychological helpline numbers, including the suicide helplines, have witnessed an increase in the number of calls. Sassoon General hospital on Tuesday launched a 24X7 psychological helpline number for those who may face issues of depression and loneliness due to the lockdown. The helpline number received 40 calls in just 24 hours, according to Dr Nitin Abhivant, head of the psychiatric department, which has started the helpline.These calls are from people seeking assistance in issues like depression, loneliness, irritation, sleep deprivation, fear and family conflict, according to experts.“People were seeking psychological help in OPDs and so we decided to launch a dedicated helpline number. The most common complaint from the callers is fear and anxiety due to the rapidly changing socio-economic conditions and also their physical well-being,” said Dr Abhivant.“Any disaster has a direct impact on the mental health of a person. Within such a short span people are seeing such rapid changes which are bound to have a psychological impact,” he said.“We counsel them and if they need admission or medical treatment we recommend them to come to Sassoon or the nearest government hospital. This fear is among all socio-economic class,” said Dr Abhivant.Dr Abhivant also added that not only common people, but health workers at the forefront are also seeking mental help. He said, “Medical workers are also facing these issues as they are physically and mentally exhausted. They also need morale-boosting and we help them with that.”“The government must look into this issue as well because the psychological impact of this condition is huge and even after the infection reduces, the long term impacts need to be tackled,” he added. Johnson Thomas, director, Aasra, a crisis intervention centre for the lonely, distressed and suicidal, said, “People reaching out to us through our helpline number has increased after the lockdown was announced.”“Even though all the family members are at home they do not communicate with each other as they are busy on their mobile phones and this is leading to conflicts between parents and children,” said Thomas.“The couples with distressed relations are facing more issues as they are confined in their houses all day,” he said.“Senior citizens seek communication and interaction with family members during this time of distress, but as they do not get the required support and help they seek assistance from helpline numbers,” said Thomas.“Staying together all the time also has its own issues as it leads to aggravating the problems and even minor conflicts become a major point of tussle,” he added. Need psychological assistance? Call on Sassoon helpline number 02026127331Aasra helpline number 022 2754 6669||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/sassoon-hospital-s-psychological-helpline-gets-40-calls-in-24-hrs-spike-in-calls-due-to-covid-19-lockdown-mental-health-experts/story-YTqw8SdQbDtL0FJiSisaOI.html
02-04-2020||Pune||15 mobile dispensaries launched in Pune to give doorstep treatment||With many private clinics closed in the city due to the spread of the Covid-19 infections, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) launched 15 ambulances/buses which have been converted into mobile dispensaries on Wednesday. The idea of ‘doctor at your doorstep’ has been launched with the help of Bharatiya Jain Sanghtana (BJS) to reach the population living in slums and at the temporary shelters, with a focus on old-age homes in the city. “The ambulances have been allotted to each of the 15 wards and are equipped with a crew of one doctor, one nurse, one attendant and a volunteer who will work from 10am to 5pm in various localities of the city,” said Dr Anjali Sabane, PMC, health department. The idea was conceived by Shantilal Mutha, founder of BJS and supported by the government of Maharashtra, after most of the physicians closed their clinics in fear of not able to control social distancing at the clinics and fear of spread of the Sars-Cov-2 virus. “Our main focus for these mobile dispensaries is to look after senior citizens (60 years and above) and also check every one at the temporary shelters set up at PMC schools,” said Shekhar Gaikwad, municipal commissioner, PMC. According to Dr Sabane, “The mobile units will check at least 2,500 people per day and have the strength to check for symptoms of 500 patients in a day. The service will continue until Covid-19 is completely contained.” BJS has taken 15 of their buses and tempo travellers and retrofitted them within 24 hours to be ambulances. The interior of these makeshift ambulances have front seats removed, to make space for a stretcher and movement of doctors, if needed, and has a loud speaker, chairs for patients to sit when stopped in a place, and medicines for those with symptoms of cough, cold and running nose.“Due to the lockdown many of the residents are unable to get out of their homes for treatment of minor ailments and with these mobile OPDs, the doctors can offer their services at the residents’ doorstep,” said Shantilal Mutha. “Also, the data collected of all the residents will come in handy for the government to create a bank of those checked for Covid-19 and eliminate rechecking,” he added. Mobile help Divided into teams, the old-age homes which the teams will be visiting are:Team 1- Ahmednagar road, Wadgaon sheri, Yerawada, Kalas, Dhanori, Dhole Patil road, old-age home at Chandannagar, Kharadi Team 2- Shivajinagar, Ghole road, Kothrud, Bavdhan, Aundh, Baner, Aathashri, Pashan and Good chef homes, Prabhat road Team 3 – Warje, Karvenagar, Dhanakwadi, Sahakarnagar, Sinhgad road, Matoshri, Karvenagar; Savali in Dhayari and Goyal Ganga at Sinhgad road; Savitribai old-age home in Jadhavnagar Wadgaon; Aarpan old-age home at Sinhgad road; Sevadham Vrudhashram in Dhayari; Trimurti homes in Nav Sahyadri, Karvenagar; Jivahala in Wadgaon Dhayari; Spandan care centre in Dhayari; Sankalp old-age home on Sinhagad road; Cipla cancer unit in Warje; Agrasen old-age home at Warje naka; Maher waat, Wadgaon Dhayari; Sahajivan ashram, Dhanakwadi; Tapodham Sadhak ashram, Warje and Hingne Mahila Vrudhashram, Karvenagar Team 4 – Kondhwa, Yewlewadi, Hadapsar, Mundhwa, Wanowrie, Ramtekdi; Shambhu Raje Pratisthan, Tukai Tedki, Hadapsar; Pitashree Vrudhashram, Bhagyodyanagar Team 5 – Kasba peth, Vishrambaug, Bhavani peth, Bibvewadi; Shatayu Bhavan, Pune Vidyarthi griha; Umit care centre, Sukhsagarnagar; Aadhar seva vrati Vuhashram, Salisbury park; Jaaniv Vrudhashram, Salisbury park; David Sassoon orphanage, Navi peth; Matukul Pune Mahila Mandal, Parvati; Sandhya, Nana peth; Krushna Prabhu old-age home, Shahu College and Prem Niwas old-age home, Bhavani peth||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/15-mobile-dispensaries-launched-in-pune-to-give-doorstep-treatment-to-elderly-in-slums-shelter-homes/story-EuqAsMgAhDh4Ouv7pAcWkO.html
02-04-2020||Pune||Fumigation with sodium hypochlorite solution without proper procedure more dangerous, warn experts||To contain the spread of the Covid-19 infections, private societies have been opting for fumigation with 1% solution of sodium hypochlorite at open places including passages and staircases, which experts say can be more dangerous than beneficial. While fumigation with this solution is expected only in areas where a positive Covid-19 patient or a suspected patient is living, many a times private societies and even Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) staff have been found spraying the solution without protective gear. Indian Medical Association (IMA) also cautions the use of the solution as it is highly inflammable. Dr Avinash Bhondwe, state IMA president, said, “As per the guidelines of the Centre for Disease Control, USA, the same guidelines which we are following, states that sodium hypochlorite solution should be used only for surgical cleaning like the surgical tables, surgical instruments, operation table and floors and clothes using during operation. Government officials and workers who have been spraying the solution are not aware that if anyone is exposed to the solution then it may cause skin irritation, blindness if it enters the eyes, exposure to the vapours can also cause burning sensation in the respiratory tract and if it enters the respiratory system it may cause choking too.”While the Pune fire department staff has fire proximity suits for all the manned fire tenders for spraying the solution, the sanitation workers and its contract labourers do not have protective kits.A fire department official responsible for spraying this chemical, on condition of anonymity, said, “We use about 10ml of sodium hypochlorite for about 10 litres of water. We have given the workers gloves and masks and have asked them to spray the solution in the direction of the wind so that it does not splash onto the workers. We spray the solution only in areas where positive and suspected patients are living in open areas, including the staircase and open passages.”Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on March 30 tweeted, “This is to inform that all spraying of disinfectants is being done by urban local bodies centrally as per schedule. Please refrain anybody else apart from Urban Local Bodies to step in and spray as their will. The Disinfectant must not be sprayed without the permission of ULB’s as a wrong formula can be more harmful than its intention to citizens and animals. Only ULB’s will spray as per the medical needs and globally advised protocols.” (sic.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/fumigation-with-sodium-hypochloride-solution-without-proper-procedure-more-dangerous-warn-experts/story-Wjg65uWFwMDSpshsToj4RL.html
02-04-2020||Pune||106 of 182 Nizamuddin event participants from Pune division traced, search on for others through CDR||The state administration has traced as many as 106 of the 182 persons in western Maharashtra who had either been or came in contact with those who went to Tablighi Jamaat – called a markaz –in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area that has now emerged as a hot-spot for Covid-19 infections in the country. The respective administration of Pune revenue region’s five districts – Pune, Satara, Sangli, Kolhapur and Solapur – have started collecting swabs of 94 persons quarantined so far while others traced till now are being brought to the quarantine centre. The government officials with help from the police have also launched a search for those who have not been traced by tracking their call details record (CDR), said Pune divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar. “We have discovered that some people have gone to other states and have also changed SIM cards of their mobile phones. Search is on for those individuals. Others traced so far have been put under quarantine and their samples have been sent for testing, the reports of which are awaiting,” said Mhaisekar. Among the 182 persons, 136 are from Pune district, five from Satara, three from Sangli, 17 from Solapur and 21 from Kolhapur. Some of these people as a part of a religious congregation attended markaz in Nizamuddin. Of the 136 persons in Pune district, 70 have been traced so far while search is on for rest, said officials.The search for all those who attended the Delhi event began after the Union home ministry alerted various states, including Maharashtra, that those who attended the religious congregation and then dispersed to various parts of the country may have the possibility of being infected with the Sars-Cov-2 virus. Various states are now tracking down these people with an aim to limit the spread of the virus by isolating those who attended the congregation, and the people they came in contact with.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/106-of-182-nizamuddin-event-participants-from-pune-division-traced-search-on-for-others-through-cdr/story-GHaykgDHopDEKyOekQ0UvI.html
02-04-2020||Pune||Pune u-19 cricket sensation Siddhesh Veer dedicates lockdown to fitness, watching Tendulkar videos||The city’s cricket sensation, Siddhesh Veer, who made his presence felt in the 2020 under -19 World Cup with the Man of the Match award against Sri Lanka is strictly following the stay at home orders during the lockdown. Missing his ground practice, Veer is dedicating three to four hours to fitness. Veer who stays in Katraj is currently spending his lockdown phase at his village in Bhor which is 53 kilometres from the city.Morning sessionMy day starts at 7am and I exercise till 10am which also includes meditation. My father keeps a watch on how I go about my exercise routine. It includes different types of squats, lunges, push-ups. Once the session is completed, I have a healthy breakfast and then, I enjoy watching television till the lunch is ready. I like to watch movies and listening to songs, so the TV provides me complete entertainment. On regular days, it is not possible for me to watch the TV for such a long time.Afternoon sessionOnce lunch is finished at 1pm, I play carrom with my father. It is fun to play and also helps to increase your focus. My father enjoys more as he finally gets a partner to play. At 3pm, I go to sleep for two hours.Evening sessionAt 5:30pm, I start my fitness routine which includes core rehabilitation exercises. The session is generally of one and a half hours. On alternate days, I also do bowling practice on the terrace. I am back to rest mode once the session is completed and after having dinner, I switch to my hobby which is – watching videos of Sachin Tendulkar before I go to sleep.No gymI will not say life is difficult without the gym, because I do most of exercises at home and it is not affecting my fitness regime. If I miss doing any exercise, then my father is standing right next to me to remind me.Hobby I have worshipped Sachin Tendulkar since my childhood and whenever I get the chance to watch highlights of his batting performance, then, I am always ready for it. Because of the lockdown, I have the time to watch his video and his batting style gives me confidence. No one in the world can copy him and by watching him, I become mentally strong and keep telling myself that ‘even I want to give my best when it comes to cricket’. Every video of Sachin Tendulkar is like a learning lesson for me. I also enjoy watching Rahul Dravid videos. The whole world is going through a bad period and I urge people to stay at home for our benefit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-u-19-cricket-sensation-siddhesh-veer-dedicates-lockdown-to-fitness-watching-tendulkar-videos/story-g4Y8mOvVC9OviydneML3AP.html
02-04-2020||Pune||Daily production of 3.10 lakh litres of hand sanitiser begins in Maharashtra||Maharashtra’s sugar mills and distilleries have taken the lead in the production of hand sanitisers to ensure their availability to the government hospitals. A daily production of 3.10 lakh litres of sanitiser began in the state over the last four days, the state’s sugar commissioner Saurabh Rao said.“In view of Coivd-19, the demand for sanitisers has increased resulting in a shortage. The central government had instructed that distilleries run by cooperative sugar factories should start production. Maharashtra have the necessary permission to 19 sugar factories and the actual production began four days ago,” he said.The sanitiser produced by the distilleries would be supplied to medical colleges and government hospitals,” he said.Rao noted that the National Health Mission’s director Anup Kumar Yadav was coordinating the supply chain across the country. Once the demand of the government hospitals is met, permission would be given for private sale, he said.Factories have been given the freedom to supply in bulk or in bottles of a standard size. A circular had been issued by the ministry of consumer affairs, food and public distribution on March 19 instructing tate governments to give permission to sugar industries to undertake production of hand sanitisers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/daily-production-of-3-10-lakh-litres-of-hand-sanitiser-begins-in-maharashtra/story-GhfiCoclOLdoM4wAtwyoRM.html
