03-04-2020||City||On-ground health workers in Doaba march on to conduct surveys, identify contacts||In the battle against coronavirus, the contribution and commitment of state health department’s on-ground workers has been immense across Doaba. These employees include the auxiliary nurse midwives (ANMs) and primary and multipurpose health workers. They have been working across villages, some of them sealed, to trace the contact history of positive patients by door-to-door surveys and to monitor persons who have been home quarantined. With SBS Nagar reporting 19 cases so far, they are often racing against time too.COMMITTED TO BREAKING VIRUS CHAINNirmala Devi, ANM, posted at the health centre at Pathlawa village in SBS Nagar, the home of the state’s first coronovirus victim, Baldev Singh, was posted here in 1997. Her local knowledge helped in tracing down all close contacts. “I am committed to breaking down the chain of virus. We are working for the betterment of the society, even as we know of the risks,” she says. On life at home after a 12-hour work day, she says, “I isolate myself at home. I am a single mother and thus have to cook for kids and other family members, which is also a risk.”Her colleague, Parmila Devi, who has conducting door-to-door surveys with another senior staff member Balwinder Kaur, said the work involves preparing 12 types of reports. “We try to extract the maximum information about positive patients and their contacts,” Devi said, adding that she too is isolating herself at home.‘WORKING AS A TEAM CRITICAL’At Bharowal sub-centre in SBS Nagar, Jaswinder Singh, 38, a multipurpose health worker, who had a leg amputated in 2009, has been tasked with monitoring home quarantined people. “We are working as a team and visiting 30 houses a day for follow-up,” said Jaswinder.At Virk village in Phillaur sub-division, Jalandhar, where five positive cases were reported, the entire 4,000-population was surveyed for contacts of the patients.Avtar Chand 54, the multi-purpose supervisor (MPS), part of the four-member door-to-door survey in Virk village says, “I, along with team comprising another MPS, ANM and anganwadi worker traced three relatives of Baldev Singh after conducting a survey with the help of local gram panchayat.”Kuldeep Verma, 48, another MPS, in the village, said, “It is a risky job. Our field survey and awareness campaign starts at 10am. The village is also sanitised daily. The biggest challenge is that most people are unaware and if we identify a suspected patient, they and their family members do not cooperate.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/on-ground-health-workers-in-doaba-march-on-to-conduct-surveys-identify-contacts/story-wwutLY7zhDQiRNciLfe4oM.html
03-04-2020||City||Covid-19: 6 of 1st casualty’s family in Punjab complete 14-day isolation; samples taken||District health authorities on Friday collected the re-samples of six family members of Baldev Singh, the state’s first coronavirus victim, of Pathlawa village in the Banga sub-division. The samples were taken as they completed their 14-day isolation that started after they tested positive for the virus on March 21. These family members of the septuagenarian victim are his three sons, a 36-year-old daughter, a 40-year-old daughter-in-law and a granddaughter aged 17.All of them are under treatment at SBS Nagar civil hospital. Civil surgeon Dr Rajinder Prasad Bhatia confirmed the resampling. They can be discharged if the samples taken today (Friday) and the second lot to be taken on Saturday both test negative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-6-of-1st-casualty-s-family-in-punjab-complete-14-day-isolation-samples-taken/story-9vhDK28YGYzD7Xpz6q7iTM.html
03-04-2020||City||2 jamaat attendees among seven new corona cases in Punjab||Seven fresh Covid-19 cases — three from Amritsar, two from Mohali, one from Ludhiana and Rupnagar each — were recorded in Punjab on Friday, taking the tally to 53.Among the three tested positive for the virus in Amritsar are two close contacts of former hazoori ragi of the Golden Temple, Nirmal Singh Khalsa, who was found infected with the virus and died on Thursday. The throat swab samples were tested at the Viral Research and Diagnostic Laboratory (VRDL) of Government Medical College, Amritsar. The patients are Nirmal Singh’s US-returned aunt, one ragi who accompanied him to Chandigarh for a religious congregation and a 67-year-old male.Mohali cases comprises two Tablighi Jamaat attendees, a 42-year-old of Mauli Baidwan in Sector 80 and 62-year-old of Sector 68. In Ludhiana, a 69-year-old woman from Shimlapuri was found carrying the virus and she has no travel history. A 55-year-old man from Chatamli village in Rupnagar was declared positive for the virus, making him the first patient in the district.Rupnagar deputy commssioner Sonali Garg said the patient was admitted to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, Chandigarh, on March 27 and declared positive on Friday. He is a patient of diabetes and hypertension, she said.She said the process to trace his contacts has started and the village is being sanitised. Rupnagar civil surgeon Dr HN Sharma said the family members of the patient will be home quarantined. Meanwhile, the health department has isolated Nirmal Singh’s 11 close contacts at Guru Nanak Dev Hospital (GNDH)—including his wife, two daughters, son, driver, two sewadars, uncle and aunt.“A health department team visited Singh’s house on March 3 after we got the information that uncle and aunt were visiting him. They were found asymptomatic. When the home quarantine period of the guests was over on March 17, they were found asymptomatic again. On Friday, however, his aunt was tested positive of coronavirus,” Amritsar civil surgeon Dr Prabhdeep Kaur Johal said on Friday.5 family members of ragi have been tested negative of the disease while reports of other members are awaited, she further said.A 67 year old man of Krishna Nagar, Amritsar, who was tested ‘positive’ for coronavirus on Friday, could be the first case of community spread in Amritsar, Dr Johal said.“The man complained of chest infection and visited GNDH for treatment on Wednesday and was declared positive for the virus on Friday. He is a shopkeeper and has no recent foreign travel history. He has not even travelled outside Amritsar for long. We have no idea from where did he contact the virus. This is a community spread case,” she said.Dr Johal said his house has been sealed and sanitised. “Man’s wife, two sons, daughter-in-law and a 8-month-old granddaughter have been isolated at GNDH and their throat swab samples sent for testing,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-jamaat-attendees-among-seven-new-corona-cases-in-punjab/story-Xgx8bm1o3aGPgiIMhnLztJ.html
03-04-2020||City||No Baisakhi celebrations at Takht Damdama Sahib||Amid the ongoing curfew in Punjab to stop spread of coronavirus outbreak, Baisakhi celebrations will not be held at Takht Damdama Sahib, Talwandi Sabo, or any other gurdwara in the state this year. The festival is celebrated on April 13. The decision in this regard was taken in a meeting of the Sikh clergy held through a video conference on Friday.The meeting was attended by Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh, who is also jathedar of Takht Damdama Sahib; head granthi of Takht Damdama Sahib Giani Gurjant Singh; Takht Patna Sahib jathedar Giani Ranjit Singh; Takht Keshgarh Sahib jathedar Giani Raghbir Singh and Takht Sri Hazur Sahib jathedar Giani Kulwant Singh. Thousands of devotees visit Talwandi Sabo every year to pay obeisance at Takht Damdama Sahib on occasion of Baisakhi which is also observed as the foundation day of the Khalsa. The festival is also linked with wheat harvest. The clergy directed all gurdwara management committees and Sikh organisations that instead of holding gatherings to celebrate Baisakhi in gurdwaras, they should hold ‘akhand path’ (non-stop recitation of hymns of Guru Granth Sahib) and ‘sehaj path’ and conclude the ceremony with prayers for the welfare of humanity.The clergy also asked devotees to remain at their homes and recite ‘sehaj path’ to observe the day and listen to kirtan to be telecast live from historical gurdwaras through television channels and internet media. Curfew is in force in Punjab till April 14. The state government has prohibited all types of gatherings, including religious ones. Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh had recently said that he will talk to jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh in this regard. He had asked the state chief secretary to discuss the matter with Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC). Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal had also urged the Akal Takht Jathdear not to allow congregations on occasion of Baisakhi.The meeting also condemned the terrorist attack on Sikhs in Afghanistan saying that it has shamed the humanity. The meeting asked the Sikh organisations across the world to help the Sikhs in Afghanistan in all possible ways.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-baisakhi-celebrations-at-takht-damdama-sahib/story-mJlbEmQf82XvpV5KNW1TNK.html
03-04-2020||Chandigarh||No decision yet on extending curfew in state: Punjab CM||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Friday said any decision on extending the ongoing curfew in the state beyond April 14 will depend on the situation at that time.The CM was reacting to reports in a section of the media quoting him as saying that he will not lift the curfew, imposed in view of COVID-19 crisis, on April 14. “What I had said was that no firm decision or timeline could be committed at this juncture,” he clarified in a statement, adding that restrictions would have to continue as long as these are needed to save lives and the state.Capt said that any decision on lifting or extending the curfew/lockdown in the state will be taken in the light of the situation that exists at the time. “It would depend entirely on how things are then. It is not possible to commit either way at this juncture, when the situation is dynamically evolving.”He added, “If things improve then there will be no need for such tight restrictions. However, if the situation takes a turn for the worse, there would be no option with the government but to continue with controls, either through curfew or lockdown or any other necessary means.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-decision-yet-on-extending-curfew-in-state-punjab-cm/story-uNZZeCUPagzjmOeuomoX5L.html
03-04-2020||Mumbai||Despite state order, private schools asking for fees: Parents||Even as the state education department has asked private schools to not demand fees amidst the lockdown, parents said that many schools are still sending them emails and messages asking them to pay the fees. On Thursday, a school in Navi Mumbai asked parents to pay through an online link. “We were asked to pay the fees and send an email after paying. When some parents tried to reason with the school authorities showing the education department’s guidelines, they said that parents can pay now or later,” said a parent of a student from the school. The school did not respond to calls and messages. On March 30, the education department issued a circular, asking schools to ensure that parents are not forced to pay fees. The department stated that the rule applies to all private schools in the state irrespective of the board they are affiliated to. Another parent of a student at a Malad school said that the authorities had sent an alert on the school application with the payment link. “Why are they even giving us an option to pay when schools are shut anyway?” said the parent. The Malad school also did not respond to calls and messages.Education department officials said that parents can write to them if schools are violating norms. “Action will be taken against the said school,” said a senior official from the department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/despite-state-order-private-schools-asking-for-fees-parents/story-iTJgLU0a1YPRS4Kt3P4FnL.html
03-04-2020||City||Kalyan housing society gives grains to 3 adivasi villages||Grains and other necessary food items were recently distributed among three Adivasi padas by a cooperative housing society in Kalyan with the help of the police. Around 112 houses of the Amivarsha cooperative housing society in Kalyan collected ~55,000 and distributed grains among 150 Adivasi families in Wadeghar, Umbarde and Mohane village. Apart from this, the society members also distributed 1 litre cooking oil, 5kg rice, 2kg wheat flour, 1kg sugar, 1kg toor dal, and spices to the families. A society member said they came to know about the plight of the Adivasi people from Avinash Palde, assistant police commissioner, Kalyan police, who resides in the same society. “We asked Palde if we can help them and immediately made a plan,” said Sunil Jain, society member.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kalyan-housing-society-gives-grains-to-3-adivasi-villages/story-8e6PYPsLqsz4YKoApP8CAP.html
03-04-2020||City||Group of doctors gives free medical aid to labourers in Ghansoli||A group of doctors from Navi Mumbai has started a health clinic in Ghansoli for daily wage labourers and lower income groups to provide free medical assistance.A bus equipped with an X-ray machine and blood testing is stationed at Samaj Mandir Hall.The clinic may soon reach other areas of the city.Dr Prashant Thorat, an ophthalmologist, set up the clinic with Dr Prakash Shendge, a surgeon with Kopar Khairane-based Om Gagangiri Hospital, and four other doctors.The nodal clinic set up at Ghansoli is catering to slum dwellers and daily wage workers, who are severely affected in the 21-day lockdown.“Many general practitioners are afraid of opening their clinics, fearing infection. But, doctors are needed the most now. Our aim is to help those unable to afford private hospitals as even the middle-income groups are affected,” said Dr Thorat.Patients can visit the clinic from 9am to noon. “If we find patients with symptoms of coronavirus, they will be referred to the health department, said Dr Thorat.Volunteers from the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh and a few NGOs will help expand the clinic by providing them personal protection equipment (PPE). They are looking at areas like Turbhe and Rabale where doctors are needed for the huge slum population. “We have three buses which we plan to use for community health service. Based on the response from the first clinic, we will identify more areas and set up clinics. This will also help us screen patients with coronavirus symptoms,” said Dr Shendge.Doctors have urged more medical associations to help them run the community clinics.The Navi Mumbai based ophthalmologist has also started a free online consultation where patients can seek consultation from a family physician, gynecologist, paediatrician, etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/group-of-doctors-gives-free-medical-aid-to-labourers-in-ghansoli/story-8aEpYeyxWLHbCi1GzXBcKJ.html
03-04-2020||Mumbai||10 CISF officers posted at airport test positive||Ten officers of the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), who were posted at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA), have tested positive for the Sars-Cov-2 virus, which causes Covid-19. Six tested positive on Friday and four had tested positive on March 29. All 10 are asymptomatic. The total number of CISF personnel who have tested positive is now 11, including one who has since tested negative.On March 27, a CISF head constable (HC) tested positive for Covid-19 after reporting a mild fever. Following this, 152 personnel were quarantined at a CISF residential camp at Kalamboli in Navi Mumbai. MA Ganapathy, special director general, CISF, said , “After the first positive case, we decided to test 11 of his close contacts, four of whom tested positive on March 29. As all lived in the same camp, we decided to test all 152 personnel living in the camp. Six more tested positive on Friday, taking the total to 10. All those who tested positive are asymptomatic.” The camp has since been vacated and sanitised.Senior CISF officers said one of the Covid-positive personnel has been admitted to Kasturba Gandhi Hospital and the six who tested positive on Friday have been admitted to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Hospital. In his two most recent tests, the HC has tested negative for the virus. Sources said the CISF officers may have contracted the virus from passengers while discharging duties at the airport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/10-cisf-officers-posted-at-airport-test-positive/story-8aUb5OVcKgfNaLshwrfLFN.html
03-04-2020||Mumbai||Wife of 63-year-old man who died of coronavirus discharged||The wife of the second Covid-19 patient who died in Mumbai has been discharged from Sir HN Reliance Foundation Hospital and Research Centre. This is the same hospital where her husband succumbed to the infection on March 22. The 64-year-old patient contracted the infection from his 63-year-old husband who got admitted at the hospital on March 14 after he developed symptoms. The man had travelled to Surat but had no foreign travel history or contact with any known traveller.After his diagnosis, both his wife and 32-year-old daughter were tested and found positive. The women were not even allowed to take part in the final rites of the patient after he died on March 22, as per the rules of the Union health ministry. Health officials said the man had a history of diabetes, high blood pressure and ischemic heart disease and had developed acute respiratory distress syndrome leading to his death. But as his wife did not have any comorbid issues, she has recovered.“She was admitted with her husband at our hospital. But as we have only two isolation beds, we had to transfer their daughter to another hospital. But thankfully, unlike her husband, she doesn’t have chronic illnesses, which helped in her recovery,” said a doctor from the hospital. According to sources, the deceased’s 32-year-old daughter has also tested negative for the virus in the last test and is likely to be discharged from Nanavati Hospital on Saturday. A doctor from the hospital said, “She is still in trauma after losing her father so suddenly, hence we are providing her counselling.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/wife-of-63-year-old-man-who-died-of-coronavirus-discharged/story-efo0JXHq71sw0hd6UPS5rL.html
03-04-2020||Mumbai||BMC gets experts to help with mental health issues||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) now has a team of mental health experts available on its coronavirus-related helpline, 1800-120-820-050, to help Mumbaiites deal with anxiety, feelings of uncertainty and loneliness, in the times of lockdown and social distancing.BMC’s helpline receives anywhere between 800 and 900 phone calls a day, requesting help with food, groceries or transportation in the times of lockdown. It is now adding help related to mental health concerns as well. On Friday morning, BMC posted on social media, “... You can now talk to a team of mental health experts...Dial 1800-120-820-050.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-gets-experts-to-help-with-mental-health-issues/story-KZsPSNznWynhw8RP8eUhjK.html
03-04-2020||Mumbai||35-yr-old surgeon from Dharavi tests positive, visited Rajasthan||A 35-year-old surgeon from Dharavi tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday, a day after 2,500 residents of Dr Baliga Nagar were home quarantined.The surgeon is suspected to have visited Rajasthan three-four days ago. All 48 flats and three nursing homes in the 14-storey building have been sealed. While 25 high-risk contacts have been tested for Sars-CoV-2, 300 residents have been quarantined. The remaining residents have been urged to remain in quarantine until the test results of the high-risk contacts are available.In the past two days, a 56-year-old garment shop owner from Dharavi and a 52-year-old sweeper tested positive for Covid-19. The garment shop owner had no travel history, but tested positive on Wednesday after he was admitted to Sion Hospital for chest pain. On Thursday, a BMC sweeper, who worked in Dharavi and lived in Worli, tested positive.The civic authorities are trying to find a link between all three cases. The BMC authorities said that the surgeon had called one of the private laboratories for the test. “We’re preparing a list of senior citizens and those with respiratory issues. We’ll run a check on them individually to find out how they’ve been doing,” Kiran Dighavkar, assistant municipal commissioner, BMC, said.The BMC is trying to find a link between the patients and the four who returned from the Tabligh Jamaat event in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/35-yr-old-surgeon-from-dharavi-tests-positive-visited-rajasthan/story-725jx8pu55uc7ZMYWHtSBJ.html
03-04-2020||Mumbai||BMC has a containment plan for Dharavi||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said it has a containment plan in place for Dharavi, India’s largest slum, after concerns grew on Friday following a third Covid-19 case. Dharavi recorded its first death on April 1, with two more positive cases recorded in the next two days, including a surgeon on Friday.The 240-hectare slum pocket has 850,000 residents and a population density of 66,000 per square kilometre, making it one of the more cramped spaces in Mumbai, the world’s fifth most densely populated city. Activists and health workers had expressed concerns over how social distancing is practically impossible in an area where an average of 10-12 people stay in each of 57,000 housing units measuring around 250 sq ft.However, BMC, which runs the city’s nodal health department, said on Friday that its officers had a containment plan in place for Dharavi almost a month ago. “We ran a house-to-house survey to get the actual figure of the slum dwellers to keep our amenities ready,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner (health), BMC. “This helped us list high-risk people living with co-morbid issues such as cardiac ailments, respiratory problems, hypertension and diabetes, among others.”Kakani said municipal workers, armed with this data, have been scouting for vacant places to isolate patients and vulnerable individuals. HT had reported on Thursday that BMC has identified Rajiv Gandhi Sports Club in Dharavi to be turned into a 300-bed quarantine facility. Kakani said they are searching for hotels that could be turned into isolation wards.There is also a group of 800 community health volunteers in place (HT reported this on Friday). The first batch of 200 volunteers was trained by the BMC, and they in turn are training 600 more Dharavi locals to sensitise others in the community about Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. “They are not only being trained to counsel, but also to handle suspected or infected patients,” Kakani said.Until Friday evening, over 3,000 people from Dharavi had been home-quarantined, with regular food packets being distributed by the BMC. However, there were complaints that these rations included only wheat, rice and lentils, but not oil and vegetables, making it difficult for the residents to cook.“We are also starting health clinics where medical officers will check slum residents if they develop any symptoms,” another senior health officer told HT. He added, “The BMC is disinfecting areas in Dharavi with sodium hypochlorite. We have collaborated with locals to keep tabs on those who have been home quarantine.”This has led to stigmatisation, many residents alleged. “Ever since the first death was reported on April 1, we have been targeted,” a local resident told HT on Friday. A private hospital allegedly cancelled the dialysis appointment of 47-year-old Amin Mansoori from Dharavi on Friday morning. “I have been visiting this hospital for the last four years. On Friday, they called me and asked me not to visit. I also have a house in neighbouring Mahim, but I couldn’t go there on account of the lockdown,” he said. “I have been trying to get a dialysis appointment at another facility, but have had no luck.”Another resident, 28-year-old taxi driver Sunil Mishra said he lost his job on Friday. “I am not infected nor have I been home quarantined, but my employer has fired me only because I live in Dharavi,” he said. “When I pleaded, I was asked to provide a health certificate, which I could not.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-has-a-containment-plan-for-dharavi/story-CvR53ILUL0gAd0huul7p3O.html
03-04-2020||City||Coronavirus lockdown: Yoga sessions go online for housing society in Mumbai||Mumbai: For Raheja Vistas Co-operative Housing Society Limited in Chandivli, the lockdown has meant setting up a system to record who is coming in and going out of the complex, as well as online classes for its residents.With 771 flats and a number of expats among its 3000-odd residents, Raheja Vistas knew the adjusting to the lockdown would be challenging but necessary. The society sees regular visitors and several residents are known to fly in and out of the country. Raheja Vistas’ resident, Sarthak Shah, who is an attorney by profession, said the society has maintained a record of everyone who has travelled internationally in recent times, and checked up on them.“We had one resident who self-quarantined herself in a hotel so that there was no inconvenience caused to other members. A tenant, who is Chinese, was a little apprehensive about how he should step out and interact with others, but the management committee made him feel comfortable,” said Shah.The society has also restricted movement into and out of the complex. Domestic help for only 10-12 families is allowed inside and in the past, a session was held in which domestic help were taught hygiene practices that must be followed during the outbreak in their own homes as well as workplaces.Atul Sharma, chairman of the society, said various online activities are conducted throughout the day for different age groups, to keep everyone occupied. From yoga to e-learning as well as religious sessions, there is a variety of options. “By having these sessions, we have people socialising, their fitness is maintained and there is competitive spirit as they stay engaged in an activity,” he said. Yoga instructor Hemamalini PJ said she has seen more interest in yoga during the lockdown than before. “Now that they have some time on their hand, I have had people inquiring to join the [online] classes and do a trial month to keep themselves engaged,” said Hemamalini.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-lockdown-yoga-sessions-go-online-for-housing-society-in-mumbai/story-Hoxy46ZRhZv3NnLCGD0FWO.html
03-04-2020||City||Coronavirus lockdown: Private vehicles prohibited on roads in Kalyan||After roads in Dombivli (East) were declared no-entry for all vehicles barring those providing essential services, Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation has imposed the same rule across Kalyan.Officials said the rule is in place from Friday 6pm and the decision was taken to stop residents from coming out unnecessarily.A total of 21 cases of people testing positive for Covid-19 have been reported in Kalyan and Dombivli.On Wednesday, the KDMC announced no entry of all private vehicles including two-wheelers, four-wheelers and taxis plying in Dombivli because of the rising cases.“Many will stay indoors as we have stopped vehicles from plying in the city. This will help control the spread of coronavirus. Those found violating the directions will face legal action,” said Madhavi Pophale, public relations officer, KDMC.“Vehicles providing essential services such as water supply, fire brigade, ATM cash vans, ambulance and others will be allowed to ply,” added Pophale.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-lockdown-private-vehicles-prohibited-on-roads-in-kalyan/story-TOHBW4aXQdqMKo1qc16X2O.html
03-04-2020||Mumbai||Additional Mumbai Police personnel, six drones deployed at containment zones||The top brass of Mumbai Police has ordered 45,000 police personnel in the city to ensure maximum police presence on streets, a senior IPS officer said.The officer said the directives have been given as a large number of personnel have to be deployed at more than 200 containment zones – sealed areas where Covid-19 positive patients are found – to ensure that social distancing and other orders are followed, as well as to increase police presence in the other areas of the city.“We are using six drones and may use more if needed to monitor the crowds and containment zones. We are following the government guidelines while monitoring containment zones,” said Pranaya Ashok, DCP (operation), and spokesperson for Mumbai Police.When asked if volunteers and paramilitary forces will be required as the number of containment zones have been increasing each day, deputy commissioner of police Ashok said, “We don’t need their deployment now, but may in future.”Meanwhile, the police, intensifying its action against those violating the lockdown orders in the city, registered 82 offences on Thursday against offenders of which 66 first information reports (FIRs) were lodged against those who did not follow social distancing and gathered at on place in some of the densely-populated areas. The total number of FIRs filed for violating lockdown orders has risen to 791 since March 20.“Half a dozen shop owners, pan stalls and other hawkers were also booked for running their businesses despite the lockdown orders under section 144 of Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC),” a police officer said. Section 144 authorises the executive magistrate of a state to issue an order to prohibit the assembly of four or more people in an area.One FIR was registered against a person who violated home quarantine orders.The police are also verifying if the 1,200 people who came from abroad and were traced and home quarantined are following the self-isolation norms. “The police also appealed to citizens with the help of religious and community leaders to not step out of their homes to offer Friday’s prayers. Mosques across the city also made announcements over speakers, appealing to citizens to offer the prayers from home and follow the government orders,” said a DCP rank officer. However, some violations were witnessed despite the appeals. “In Dharavi, the police arrested 10 people for defying the order and offering prayers on streets,” an officer from Dharavi police station said.Slums pose challenge The police are facing problems in their operations owing to the lack of co-operation from slum dwellers. The police said crowds gather near public toilets in the morning hours and similar scenes are also witnessed near ration shops and vegetable markets. In some areas, pan stalls and salons have also remained open. The police have been seeking the help of local community leaders, corporators and political activists in creating awareness at such areas. Along with filing cases against those flouting norms, the police have also been seizing the vehicles of those loitering around unnecessarily.Attack on copsMany dense population areas and slums also witnessed clash between police and public. Saveral videos also went viral where cops were attacked by the lockdown violators. In one incident a policeman was attacked in Dongri. Sandeep Bhagdikar, senior police inspector, Dongri police station said, “We booked a miscreant from Dongri for assaulting an on-duty a policeman who had stopped him on coming out of his home. The man did not give satisfactory answers and instead abused the police and assaulted him.”Four people arrested from the Govandi and Shivaji Nagar areas have been held for attacking and abusing on-duty personnel.66 FIRs in state“A total of 66 FIRs have been registered across the state for spreading misinformation and rumours related to Covid-19. Many cyber fraudsters are also trying to cash in on the lockdown by circulating phishing traps. We have made a list of such frauds and issued an advisory on our Twitter handle. Yesterday [Thursday], the Malegaon police arrested four people for circulating a religiously provocative video related to coronavirus,” said Balsing Rajput, superintendent, Maharashtra Cyber department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/additional-mumbai-police-personnel-six-drones-deployed-at-containment-zones/story-BpLGcCi46nKxc4zVhHvD4L.html
03-04-2020||City||Check ‘no-go’ zones near your area on Mumbai civic body’s website||Want to know which areas in your neighbourhood have been marked as containment zones?The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Thursday made public a Geographical Information System (GIS) map of 249 coronavirus containment zones on its official website.Citizens can log onto BMC’s website (https://mumgis.mcgm.gov.in/portal/apps/webappviewer/index.html?id=47726549910f4920b8ce6367053a1697) and search for their area to check the zones around them. The contained locations show up as green dots. A click on the dot gives the name of the building or road.Containment zones are the ones where a patient has tested positive or close contacts of positive patients reside, and is sealed by the BMC with help from the Mumbai Police. Those living in these zones are not allowed to get out of their areas and others from outside are not allowed to enter. The BMC claims it ensures the supply of essential goods and services to these areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/check-no-go-zones-near-your-area-on-mumbai-civic-body-s-website/story-1DZHlCBJ8ozIuxPKIMGwPM.html
03-04-2020||City||Three from Thane, three in Kalyan-Dombivli test positive for coronavirus||Three people from Thane tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday, taking the total number of infected people from the city to 16.A 45-year-old man from Majiwada contracted the infection from his sister-in-law, who had come visiting from Dubai. He has been admitted to Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani Hospital in Mumbai.Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner of TMC, said, “The man’s sister in law had come to visit him from March 12 to March 22. Few days after she left, he developed symptoms and tested positive for the virus on Thursday.”The TMC evacuated the building and disinfected it.The Thane Municipal Corporation said the 59-year-old Kalwa resident, who tested positive on Thursday works in a well-known chain of hotels and his children had come to meet him from Dubai last week.A private hospital in Kalwa was sealed as the man had visited the outpatient department (OPD) for a few days before undergoing test for coronavirus.The hospital staff was also quarantined. A TMC official said, “The 59-year-old man had visited OPD on March 30 and 31. We are also trying to contact the patients who had come to the OPD on these dates and are keeping a check on the doctors.”Two more persons have tested positive for COVID 19 in Thane, out of which one of the case is from Amrut Nagar, Kausa. The 47 year old man, who tested positive is first case from Mumbra and the corporation is establishing if he has any connection to those people who went to Delhi to attend a religious function. In the second case, Malvi informed that a 57 year old man has tested positive from Dhobi Ali.Meanwhile, a 65-year-old has been tested positive in Kalyan, while a 44-year-old and a 28-year-old from Dombivli also have been found positive for the virus, taking the total cases in the twin cities to 22. “Two of them are being treated at Kasturba Hospital, while the third patient is being treated at Thane civil hospital,” said a KDMC official. The civic body sealed a housing complex in Kalyan (West) after these cases. Meanwhile, KDMC chief Vijay Suryavanshi has urged private doctors, medical staff, ward boys and nurses to join the civic body to up the fight against Covid-19.“We want more medical staff, nurses and doctors to join us voluntarily. We will ensure their safety,” said Suryavanshi.KDMC will open eight community clinics across Kalyan and Dombivli to examine people having symptoms such as cough, cold and fever. The clinics will be open from 9.30am to 1pm.“Ten ambulances have been hired to transport patients,” said Shrikant Shinde, Kalyan MP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-from-thane-three-in-kalyan-dombivli-test-positive-for-coronavirus/story-D4IHRRYFGIbbUfpuERGX7O.html
03-04-2020||City||Delhi govt schools take classes to their students’ homes||New Delhi: On Friday, Muskan Singh, a student of class five at a government senior secondary school in Karol Bagh, asked her parents to narrate to her the three best stories of their childhoods. The 10-year-old then spent the rest of the day writing one of her own, as a part of an activity assigned by her teacher.This was the first school activity she was assigned since schools in the city shut, to prevent an outbreak of Covid-19. The school has now begun remotely sending activities to its students on a regular basis. Muskan’s father, Sumit Singh, a tailor, said he and his wife were worried about their daughter’s studies during the lockdown. “Neither of us is educated, and we do not know how to engage her in any learning activity. We ask her to sit with her books everyday, but to no avail. She would spend the entire day watching TV. since she can’t go out to play during the lockdown. We are happy that the school has started sending her this work — she was very excited to do that,” he said.On Monday, Delhi’s education minister Manish Sisodia directed government schools to send daily activities to students enrolled between nursery and class 8 through text messages, WhatsApp or in Interactive Voice Response (IVR) form, in an attempt to engage students in the learning process amid the lockdown to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease. Students have been asked to maintain a record of these activities in their notebooks. These will later be evaluated by teachers and be considered as part of the students’ internal assessments. According to the Delhi government ‘s education department, around six lakh students from nursery to class 8 in its schools were sent activities through SMS and over IVR on Friday. Awadhesh Kumar Jha, principal of Sarvodaya Co-ed Vidyalaya in Rohini, said the school is sending simple tasks to its students on a daily basis. “For students of nursery and kindergarten students, we have asked parents to make them learn the name of the vegetable that has been cooked at home, and make their child draw a picture of that vegetable in their notebook. For students of classes 1 and 2, we have asked parents to make their children think about all possible items at home that they can lock in their fists, and then them to actually check if their guess was right. I think this way, they will indulge in some thinking,” Jha said. Some schools have also started sending videos of science and mathematics-based activities they can perform at home using available resources. Harpreet Kaur, principal of Sarvodaya Kanya Vidyalaya in Tilak Nagar, on Friday shared a video with students of classes 6 to 8 on their class WhatsApp groups. In the video, a teacher demonstrated the hydrophilic nature of coronavirus. When a person uses soap to wash their hands, the virus gets attracted to the water — and does not remain on the body. “The teacher just used black pepper [to represent the virus] and soap in the activity. The students easily do this at home,” Kaur said.Arti Qanungo, who teaches English at a government school in Shakarpur, said she sends 10 new words to her students every day, to help them learn the language at home. “English is a major challenge for many of our students. They tend to forget the language since a majority of them do not have any English-speaking person at home,” Qanungo said.“I have also been sending them practice sheets every day, but not all of our students have access to smartphones. Many of them cannot study online. We are trying to call these students every day and tell them what they can write and read for the day,” she added.Meanwhile, due to logistical challenges, government schools are yet to start online classes for class 12, as announced by Sisodia on Monday. Binay Bhushan, director of the directorate of education (DoE), said the schools are trying to gather the details of students who have smartphones or such devices at home. “We have around 17,000 students who were given tablets by the government. We will start the online classes for them in a day or two. Meanwhile, we have asked teachers and principals to register the students who have their own devices at home for the classes,” he said.The Delhi government had already announced that it will tie-up with a TV channel for online classes in the event the lockdown is extended. “We will need such an intervention, else many of our students will be left behind,” a senior official said.In a statement issued on Friday, Sisodia’s office said that for classes 6 to 8, an exercise to help students understand how the family budget works was also designed. “In this activity, students were required to note down last month’s income and expenditure in their notebooks and analyse it,” it stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-schools-take-classes-to-their-students-homes/story-qqT5ES15mTXM1MWX6XZFkI.html
03-04-2020||Noida||Authority disinfects vehicles of staff providing essential services||The Noida authority Friday disinfected government vehicles being used by staffers providing essential services to people during the ongoing 21-day nationwide lockdown. The authority has deployed at least 5,000 sanitation employees and around 200 senior officials to oversee delivery of vegetables, groceries, dairy products and medicines. The vehicles were disinfected to contain the spread of Covid-19 among staffers who are also engaged in distributing food to the homeless and people staying in shelters and taking care of waste management, water supply and other civic services.“We are disinfecting all vehicles in order to contain the spread of Covid-19,” Ritu Maheshwari, chief executive officer, Noida authority, said.The Noida authority has engaged at least 500 vehicles to ferry staffers. As on Thursday, Gautam Budh Nagar district has 50 cases of Covid-19. The major challenge before officials is to contain the spread of Covid-19 through the city’s densely populated villages. The health department has alerted the Noida and Greater Noida authorities to being extra cautious while sanitising public places in rural areas after confirmed cases were reported from several villages, including Chauda village in Nodia and Patwari, Ghodi Bachheda and Bishnuli villages in Greater Noida.“Apart from disinfecting police stations, commercial areas and housing complexes, we have also started disinfecting 54 villages in Noida. We are mixing sodium hypochlorite in water and disinfecting banks, shops, community halls, roads and footpaths, among other spaces,” a Noida authority official looking after disinfecting drive, on condition of anonymity, said.Similarly, the Greater Noida authority is also disinfecting public spaces in rural as well as urban areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/authority-disinfects-vehicles-of-staff-providing-essential-services/story-KetheSYM1JzU4iue4se1dJ.html
03-04-2020||City||Three who had attended Tablighi Jamaat event found Covid-19 positive in Gzb; UP sees 50 new cases in 24 hrs||Three more cases of the Sars-Cov-2 were confirmed in Ghaziabad on Friday. According to the district’s chief medical officer (CMO), all three had attended the Tablighi Jamaat Markaz event at Delhi’s Nizamuddin mid-March. They had been admitted to the isolation ward of Sanjay Nagar District Hospital after attendees of the religious event were traced and put under medical observation due to a coronavirus outbreak there. “Four of those who had attended the event were admitted to the Sanjay Nagar Hospital isolation ward and samples of three of them were found positive for Covid-19. All four are from the Masuri area and among those who were traced by the health department in a drive to identify those who attended religious congregations, including the one held at Nizamuddin,” Dr NK Gupta, CMO, said Friday evening.On Thursday, another person who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat Markaz had tested positive for Covid-19. He had been lodged at the isolation ward of MMG District Hospital with five others. The officials, after he was declared positive, shifted the five others to a different facility.“In all, we have 177 people who were traced and picked up by the health department, and who have attended various religious congregations in the recent past. Of these, four have tested positive for coronavirus so far in Ghaziabad. As on Friday, the tally of Covid-19 positive patients in Ghaziabad is 13, including a couple which had got their test done by a private lab. Two others had recovered and discharged from hospital,” he added.Meanwhile, Amit Mohan Prasad, Uttar Pradesh’s principal secretary (health), said Friday afternoon that there was a surge in Covid-19 positive patients on Friday as compared to the state’s overall tally on Thursday.“On Thursday, there were 121 positive cases but by Friday afternoon, the tally had reached 172. There has been a sudden increase of 51 cases in a day and 47 of them are people who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi. The 47 positive cases have come to light in 14 districts of UP, including Ghaziabad, Agra, Saharanpur, Shamli, Hapur, Meerut and Azamgarh, among others,” he added.The state’s additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi said till Friday evening, at least 1,203 persons had been identified who had attended the Nizamuddin congregation and medical tests of 897 were conducted.“Another 296 foreigners have been identified and 228 passports have been seized so far, as they were on tourist visas and are not allowed to participate in any religious activity or missionary works. Thirty five FIRs have so far also been filed under the Foreigners’ Act, Epidemic Act and Disaster Management Act,” Awasthi said during a press briefing at Lucknow on Friday.“The increase in positive cases is a serious issue and we urge all those who attended the congregations to come forward for check up and testing, otherwise we will take strict legal action,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-who-had-attended-tablighi-jamaat-event-found-covid-19-positive-in-gzb-up-sees-50-new-cases-in-24-hrs/story-Wk72l0VVOKRXJFjQ6akunN.html
03-04-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Covid-19 patients to be treated at ESIC Hospital||The district administration on Friday designated the ESIC (Employees State Insurance Corporation) Hospital in Sector 9 as the Covid-19 hospital for Gurugram. The 126-bed hospital will serve as a one-stop hospital for treating coronavirus positive patients. The decision was taken in a meeting of senior district officials with VS Kundu, chief executive officer of the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA), who has been appointed as the monitoring officer for Covid-19 in the Gurugram district. Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner of Gurugram, on Friday issued the order declaring ESIC Hospital as the Covid-19 hospital in the district. “Sample collection will continue at the Sector 10 civil hospital. Only those who are detected positive for Covid-19 will be admitted at the ESIC hospital which will be equipped with all the facilities required for tertiary care,” Dr Jaswant Singh Punia, chief medical officer, said.Apart from this, the district health department has made arrangements in various hospitals and other facilities to keep people in quarantine. This includes a 300-bed facility at SGT Medical College in Chandu Budhera, a 100-bed facility in SCERT hostel, a 400-bed quarantine centre at government PG College, a 100-bed facility in Pataudi and a 20-bed unit at the ESIC dispensary. As part of paid quarantine facilities, over 367 beds have been reserved in different hotels of the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-covid-19-patients-to-be-treated-at-esic-hospital/story-ERk1hYgfAp6OJSDSCuintJ.html
03-04-2020||City||Noida: Medical staff to be booked if found on leave during COVID-19 outbreak||Noida: The health department of Gautam Budh Nagar is faced with lack of adequate manpower in the fight against Sars-Cov-2 as many employees attached with the health department and government hospitals have gone on leave following the ongoing coronavirus outbreak.To make sure staff report to work, the district magistrate has issued an order that people attached with the health department have to join work with immediate effect as leaves of all government employees have been cancelled in the district following the Covid-19 outbreak.The order directed all absentees to join work by 10am Friday and to submit an explanation for their absence by April 5 to avoid further action.Newly-appointed Gautam Budh Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY has said that officials attached with the health department will face legal action under Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, which calls for one year of imprisonment along with a fine and two years of judicial custody and a fine if any person dies or property gets damaged.“The situation in Gautam Budh Nagar is serious due to the number of cases of coronavirus. It has been noticed that many workers and officers are not fulfilling their duties and are absent, despite repeated reminders from the health department. Declaring the disease a disaster, the state has cancelled leaves of all workers and officers, with clear instructions. This is a very serious matter. In this situation, legal action will be initiated under section 51 of the Disaster Management Act,” said the order of the district magistrate.Despite the new orders, if workers and officers attached with the health department do not show up for duty and do not submit an explanation, legal action will be initiated, informed the DM.In addition, the district administration has been talking to the Indian Medical Association (IMA) to arrange isolation wards for Covid-19 patients. “We are holding meetings with the IMA, Noida and they have assured to help us in the fight against coronavirus. They have started making arrangements and in a day or two, all arrangements will be completed,” said Suhas LY, DM.The IMA has arranged around 70 ICU beds, including 15 for dialysis and 108 for isolation for Sars-Cov-2 patients. These arrangements have been made at Fortis, Jaypee, SRS, Indogulf, Felix and Chikitsa NMC Superspeciality hospitals. At least 100 beds each are being readied at Sharda, Kailash and NIU hospitals in the district.Currently, the district has 512 VTM kits, 1,100 personal protection equipment kits, 513 N95 masks and 5,000 triple layer masks, informed the DM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-medical-staff-to-be-booked-if-found-on-leave-during-covid-19-outbreak/story-65qaFDl2ob9IfuNA1ZPIaM.html
03-04-2020||Noida||Six more test positive for Covid-19 in Noida, total cases 54||The total number of Covid-19 cases has gone up to 54 in Gautam Budh Nagar Friday night with four people living in a slum in Nangla in Sector 5, Noida, testing positive for Covid-19. Preliminary investigations suggest the four have links with Ceasefire company in Sector 135, Noida. Of the 54 positive cases, 35 are directly or indirectly linked to the fire safety company that hid its employees’ foreign travel details. “We have locked down the whole JJ Colony in sector 5 for two days. We will sanitise the area. All residents have been asked to stay in home quarantine as a precautionary measure,” said Rajiv Rai, sub-divisional magistrate.Earlier in the day, two more persons, linked to Ceasefire, had tested positive. The patients are a 55-year-old woman and her 25-year-old son. The woman’s works with Ceasefire, but he had tested negative for the disease.“The husband of the patient works with Ceasefire and was negative for Covid-19. Both new patients have been admitted to the isolation ward at the Super Speciality Children’s Hospital in Sector 30,” Sunil Dohre, additional chief medical officer, Gautam Budh Nagar, said.The residential society where they lived has been sealed for two days and officials are going to sanitise the building where the family lives as well as the common areas on the premises. All residents have been asked to remain in home quarantine as per protocol. On Friday, two Covid-19 patients were discharged after treatment from Government Institute of Medical Sciences, Greater Noida. They include a 67-year-old woman and her 37-year-old son from Noida Extension. In total, eight have been discharged after successful completion of treatment.“The discharged woman had diabetes and blood pressure but she successfully completed the treatment. We are happy that our patients are recovering,” Dr Saurabh Shrivastava, head of the department of medicine, said.According to health officials, until now, none of the patients has required ventilator support and all have been responding well to treatment. Doctors are a little worried about one patient, an 82-year-old woman from Sector 37, who has dementia, blood pressure and a few other complications. Experts say senior citizens with a history of chronic diseases have more trouble recovering from Covid-19.The district administration is also coming up with a call centre to do contact tracing of people testing positive for the virus. “To break the chain, it is important to do contact tracing. We are going to use technology to trace the epicentre of the infection. Until now, a majority of the cases are linked with Ceasefire,” Suhas LY, district magistrate, Gautam Budh Nagar, said.The Expressway police has lodged an FIR against Ceasefire under section 45 (Punishment of offences committed within India), 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code. The FIR has been lodged on the orders of the chief medical officer for hiding the foreign travel history of a few employees.The managing director of ceasefire had returned from UK on March 1, another employee had returned on March 7 and they had a visiting auditor from London for three days in the third week of March. All the three persons jumped their quarantine and were attending office which led to the spread among other employees and then to their family members.The MD is undergoing treatment at the Government Institute of Medical Sciences but he is still asymptomatic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/two-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-two-others-discharged-after-treatment/story-PENs5ixZJ2AatZrVk5q9TK.html
03-04-2020||Noida||People offer Friday prayers at home amid lockdown||People in Gautam Budh Nagar district offered namaz at home on Friday as district mosques remained shut for outsiders on the second Friday of the 21-day national lockdown. Meanwhile, the police continued patrolling the streets and also used drone surveillance to ensure there was no public gathering.The Prime Minister on March 24 had announced a 21-day lockdown in light of the coronavirus pandemic. Mosques in the district had remained shut on March 27, the first Friday of the three-week lockdown, while people avoided venturing outside.“We had urged the people to offer their prayers from the safety of their homes. Today (Friday) also the mosque remained closed and only those who stay inside it offered prayers. We have put a notice outside the mosque requesting clergy members to stay at home till the lockdown is in place, and several other mosques also made similar announcements on loudspeaker yesterday,” said Shahid, the cleric at Nithari mosque.Places of worship in Gautam Budh Nagar had closed even before the national lockdown was announced. Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code, which bans the gathering of more than four people. has also been enforced in the district.Clerics had made announcements on Thursday requesting people to stay indoors and not gather with relatives or neighbours for prayers at any private or public place.In order to ensure that there were no violations of the lockdown, the district police remained on high alert.“ The police teams continued patrolling and we also used drones to monitor the situation. We wanted to be on the lookout for any gatherings on terraces in the city. However, no such incident was reported,” deputy commissioner of police (zone 1), Sankalp Sharma, said.On April 1, a video showing a dozen men offering namaz on the terrace of a house in Sector 16’s JJ colony cluster did the rounds on social media after which the police filed an FIR in the matter. The police had said that all of the men did not live in the house but had gathered from the nearby areas.“All of the 12 men have been arrested. The two men, who remained at large till now, were arrested Thursday from Sector 16,” Sharma said.On Thursday, the Gautam Budh Nagar commissioner of police had instructed all police personnel to keep an eye out for any gatherings by continuing patrolling and appealing to religious leaders to avoid offering prayers publicly. “We patrolled the streets today and based on the instructions given, drones were flown at several places in Dadri to ensure there was no public gathering by people from any religion,” DCP (zone 3), Rajesh Kumar Singh, said.Police personnel also carried out flag marches in the city with units of the Rapid Action Force.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/people-offer-friday-prayers-at-home-amid-lockdown/story-chilGAZphSISP9NI2ITDFL.html
03-04-2020||City||Misbehaviour with nurses: CM orders offenders be booked under NSA||The Uttar Pradesh government has taken a serious note of the alleged misbehaviour by some patients with nurses in Ghaziabad and has ordered that the offenders be booked under the National Security Act (NSA). On April 1, nurses from MMG District Hospital in Ghaziabad, in a written complaint, had alleged that six patients admitted to the isolation ward had misbehaved with them.“They (suspects) will not obey the law, neither will they accept the system as they are the enemies of humanity. Whatever they have done to the women health workers in Ghaziabad is a heinous crime. They will be booked under NSA. We will not spare them,” CM Yogi Adityanath said in a statement.“An incident like the one in Indore, where doctors were attacked, should not happen anywhere in the state. We will take whatever action is required by law,” Yogi added.The incident came to fore on Thursday evening after MMG Hospital’s chief medical superintendent Dr Ravinder Rana forwarded the nurses’ complaint to chief medical officer (CMO) Dr NK Gupta.“After the incident, police security has been strengthened at health facilities and the district magistrate has also told us to put up CCTV cameras inside quarantine centres. Five of the six patients were later shifted to isolation facility as one of them tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday,” Gupta said.Late Thursday, the police and the administration officials reached the MMG Hospital and conducted an initial inquiry. The officials later directed for the registration of an FIR against the patients who allegedly misbehaved with nurses.The FIR at Kotwali police station was registered against the suspects under the IPC sections 354 (outraging modesty of woman), 294 (obscene act), 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) and other sections related to conduct, and negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life.“After the medical superintendent gave a complaint to the SHO, we registered an FIR against the offenders. An investigation is on in the case,” Manish Mishra, superintendent of police (city), said.District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey did not respond to calls seeking his comment on the matter.Dr Rana said nurses have approached him time and again during the past two days with verbal complaints and he finally told them to give a written one.“Based on that, I sent a written complaint to the CMO and also marked copies to the district magistrate and senior superintendent of police. The nurses are continuing with their duties. The tests of five of the six patients shifted to isolation facility will be taken up as they spent time together instead of confining themselves to their respective beds,” Dr Rana said.According to officials, the six were picked up by the health department after they attended different religious congregations, including one at Delhi’s Nizamuddin last month.“They did not take medicines and kept listening to objectionable songs in the ward. They also dressed inappropriately and kept roaming around. They also demanded cigarettes from our staff,” a woman nurse said Friday.(With inputs from Lucknow bureau)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/misbehaviour-with-nurses-cm-orders-offenders-be-booked-under-nsa/story-eKmnlFuRSKj1jg8oiUzFZK.html
03-04-2020||City||Two Nizamuddin returnees test positive in PCMC||PUNE Panic gripped the residents of Pimpri-Chinchwad after two persons who had returned from the Tablighi Jamaat at Nizamuddin, New Delhi, tested positive for the Sars-Cov-2 virus on Friday.In the last 12 days, Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) did not report a single positive case of Covid-19. As many as 12 cases have been reported since the outbreak out of which ten have recovered and discharged from the hospital after completing the mandatory isolation period. The other two patients will be discharged soon, said civic officials.Anna Bodade, PCMC assistant commissioner, said, “Out of the two patients, the first sample test report of one patient has come negative after he was admitted on March 19 after returning from the Philippines. We are waiting for the second test report and will discharge the patient if the report comes negative.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-nizamuddin-returnees-test-positive-in-pcmc/story-8xqRwZmUhnWkEmScmCgGEO.html
03-04-2020||Delhi||SDMC screens sanitation staff for Covid-19 symptoms||In order to ensure the safety of its staff, the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) on Friday screened its sanitation employees and health workers for Covid-19 symptoms. These employees were deployed for the sanitisation and disinfection of Nizamuddin, which has evolved into a Covid-19 hot spot accounting for 259 cases, and areas adjoining it.According to municipal officials, 95 public health workers, field workers and sanitation employees were screened on Friday. The screening was done by a panel of specialised doctors.The south civic body in a statement said personal protective equipment such as hazmat suits, masks, and gloves are being provided to sanitation and field workers deployed in high-risk areas. Sanitation employees had been demanding screening of those engaged in sweeping, disinfectant spraying, collection and transportation of garbage in areas such as Nizamuddin in south Delhi and Dilshad Garden, another hot spot that falls under the East Delhi Municipal Corporation.“Of the 95 people screened, 59 are sanitation workers and the rest are from the health department. All are healthy and showed no symptoms of coronavirus. They have also been briefed by doctors to keep a watch on their health and in case of any symptom such as cold or cough or fever, they are to immediately consult a doctor,” a senior SDMC official said. Special sanitization drives are being conducted in densely populated areas.SDMC has also started ground-level monitoring of all Covid-19 hot spots in its four zones. Other than Nizamuddin, the SDMC Friday conducted intensive sanitisation drive in Kasturba Niketan, Lajpat Nagar, Bakkarwala quarantine centre, Kapashera Extension and Kalkaji by deploying tankers for spraying 1% sodium hypochlorite solution to curb the spread of the SARS CoV-2 virus that causes Covid-19, the civic body said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/sdmc-screens-sanitation-staff-for-covid-19-symptoms/story-U3xsPjhqQci4eVc7P05fbP.html
03-04-2020||City||Vasai MLA hands over 2 colleges to Collector to house medical staff||Vasai MLA and president of Bahujan Vikas Aghadi (BVA) Hitendra Thakur has handed over Vishnu Waman Thakur Trust-run two colleges, Viva College and Viva Institute of Technology, to Palghar district collector Dr Kailash Shinde to house medical staff and also admit Coronavirus patients. A letter to this effect has been sent to the Collector on Friday. Thakur said, the administration can set up ICUs, isolation wards for Covid-19 patients as the two colleges are currently shut due to the national lockdown. Currently, Palghar has recorded 11 Coronavirus patients and 2 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/vasai-mla-hands-over-2-colleges-to-collector-to-house-medical-staff/story-kmKELWNZqSTfY4jZXps4JN.html
03-04-2020||City||Thane doctors available for teleconsultation||The Thane Municipal Corporation and Indian Medical Association (IMA), Thane branch, have jointly initiated teleconsulting services. More than 650 patients have sought consultation within three days. “We have prepared a list of doctors from across the city who are available for teleconsultation. 60 doctors have made use of social networking or phone calls for consultation,” said Vijay Singhal, TMC commissioner. IMA has requested state health minister Rajesh Tope to provide protective gear and insurance cover for healthcare staff in private sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-doctors-available-for-teleconsultation/story-ONjgxmUqIULES9V7xpTEMK.html
03-04-2020||Mumbai||Don’t switch off fans on Sunday, suggest experts||As Prime Minister Narendra Modi urged the nation to switch off lights in their homes on Sunday to show solidarity amid Covid-19 outbreak, power industry could be facing a major challenge, experts said. Experts suggested that citizens must not switch off their fans, fridge or other gadgets except lights on Sunday to maintain grid supply. An official from Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Ltd (MSEDCL), which supplies power to the entire state, said they are studying on what can be the possible effects and how to manage the supply on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/don-t-switch-off-fans-on-sunday-suggest-experts/story-IoSe4wYT3MkgxJgXw6hF8H.html
03-04-2020||City||Coronavirus lockdown: Politicos catch up on reading, workouts, family time||MumbaiFrom taking e-reviews of the district administrations with jurisdiction over their home constituencies and conducting telephonic meetings with gram panchayat administrations and municipal commissioners to catching up on reading, exercise, and family time — leaders from Maharashtra who are not currently involved in the government’s decision-making process, are handling the lockdown one day at a time. Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar, who is staying at Silver Oak, his residence in Mumbai, is strictly adhering to the lockdown rules and is not conducting any meetings at his house. “ I have been getting phone calls from outside India from students and workers who are stranded in other countries. Then I talk to the foreign affairs ministry and concerned authorities [in other countries]. I’m getting these phone calls from Kazakhstan, from Tashkent, Philippines, and several other countries,” he said.Pawar has also been contacted for domestic emergencies from people across Maharashtra. “There are many problems with industrial workers and labourers, and they call me, so I try to find a solution and coordinate with the authorities concerned. There are no visitors but my telephone is continuously busy. Leaders from the state and district are giving me updates,” he said. For MLA and former chief minister Prithviraj Chavan, this is the first time in years that he can spend days at a time in his constituency in Karad. “At other times, I am travelling between Mumbai and Karad, and even Delhi, for work. I do not get so many days together in my constituency. This is the first time in so many years,” he said. Chavan said he is connected with the Satara district administration and village panchayats in his constituency, over the phone. He has also made suggestions to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, about allowing certain services to remain open during the lockdown in the state’s circular, such as wheat flour mills. Chandrakant Patil, BJP state president said, “As a party, we are doing a lot of work. All day, we have audio bridges lined up. Around 450 BJP municipal corporators excluding those in Mumbai, were lined up on the audio brief today, from morning till 4pm. We took stock of work done so far, and work that is planned. For example, BJP has decided to aid 52 lakh people and distribute grains. There are 1.2 lakh BJP workers active through 650 mandals. Each Assembly constituency is divided into three mandals. Devendra Fadnavis and I are constantly in touch with them and coordinating all day,” Patil is presently in his constituency of Kothrud in Pune, for better coordination with party workers in his constituency. His family is in Kolhapur. A senior member of the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) told HT that party chief Raj Thackeray has been closely monitoring relief material distribution at the hands of his party workers across Maharashtra, and reviewing what needs to be done to aid the state to get through these tough times. These leaders are also using this time to unwind and catch up on their reading, and exercise. “I am reading this book named Gandhi in Bombay: Towards Swaraj. Mahatma Gandhi had so many connections with Mumbai. The book is about the first time he came to Mumbai from South Africa. I was unaware that certain areas of Malad and Bandra have a connection with him and he stayed there,” said Pawar. The NCP chief has also been taking walks in his home twice a day to keep up his stamina. Similarly, Pratibha Patil, former President of India, who is living in Pune, said, “I read other books and follow the news.” Patil is in the middle of reading two books. “One of them is called Man’s Search For Meaning, by Viktor E Frankl, which is a 1946 non-fiction book set during World War II. The second book is called Yashwant, about Yashwant Rao Kelkar, a Mumbai-based professor from National College who was instrumental in forming ABVP,” Patil said. “I had no time to read earlier and I had held onto both these books for a long time. Finally, I began reading them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-lockdown-politicos-catch-up-on-reading-workouts-family-time/story-H4fzpjZ6HfaeI6gUBpO2rO.html
03-04-2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus lockdown: 30 Chinese nationals may come to city to help with Coastal Road work||mehul.thakkar@htlive.comAmid the lockdown owing to the coronavirus outbreak, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is likely to give a recommendation letter to allow 30 Chinese nationals to visit the city after one month, terming it a special case for tunnelling work of the ambitious coastal road. The civic body, however, will give the letter only if the situation improves, and the spread is brought under control in the coming days, said officials.A 12.9-m wide tunnel boring machine (TBM), which will be used for the coastal road work, has left from China’s Shanghai port earlier this week to reach the Jawaharlal Nehru Port near Mumbai by the end of April. The recommendation letter will be to help the 30 Chinese nationals, who will provide crucial help in assembling these machines, get visas. The BMC, which is implementing the project, has been in touch with the Central government authorities to find a solution.Vijay Nighot, chief engineer of the BMC’s coastal road project, said: “We will require around 30 representatives from the TBM manufacturing unit in China to visit Mumbai, and guide us during the tunnelling and assembling the machine. We will help them get visa by giving a recommendation letter, but only in case the situation improves in the coming days. It all depends on how things take shape in the coming days.”Currently, all international, domestic flights and Indian Railways are shut. HT had reported on February 20 that the tunnelling work on the western seafront, from Girgaum Chowpatty to Malabar Hill, was tentatively scheduled to start from May, but got delayed owing to the outbreak. The TBM was to leave from China on March 1 and reach Mumbai by March-end, however, it left for Mumbai only five days ago.According to BMC officials, the representatives from China will be screened following all necessary protocol to determine any symptoms or signs of the coronavirus. “We can also ask the Chinese nationals coming to Mumbai to get quarantined for 14 days. For now, we will have to wait and watch,” said a BMC official.Meanwhile, the construction of the coastal road along with Metro and road projects has also taken a hit in the past two weeks owing to the lockdown, as contractors are finding it tough to get labourers who have headed back to their hometowns.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/coronavirus-lockdown-30-chinese-nationals-may-come-to-city-to-help-with-coastal-road-work/story-HwJWv1aqDTuUiFpxeC2F9M.html
03-04-2020||City||HP helpline: 87% calls seeking evacuation, most from Punjab||Over three dozen officials attending distress calls at centres set up in the state say that most of them are regarding evacuation, followed by queries about food and medicines.These call centres became operational on April 1 after the state set up a disaster management helpline to collect and give information related to Covid-19.State disaster management authority director-cum- special secretary D C Rana said, “In the last three days, the staff has received around 87% calls seeking help with evacuation, and the callers were mostly from Punjab. Only 3% calls pertained to queries about medicines, while the remaining 10% were regarding ration supplies.”Rana, who is also the state nodal officer for COVID-19 outbreak, said the call centres are equipped with over three dozen computers, mobile phones, landlines and satellite phones to attend emergency calls. Besides this, the staffers generate a database of callers which is shared with the districts administrations. In the first two days, the call centre received nearly 400 calls.“We are using special software to generate data,” said Rana, who monitors the call centre at the secretariat for over 12 hours every day.The call centre is headed by principal secretary (revenue) Onkar Chand Sharma, who is assisted by five teams of state services officers.“At times it is quite distressing to hear callers explain their pain and plight,” said Garima Sharma one of the staff members at the call centre. “Recently there were two calls of medical emergency. We immediately got in touch with the administration in Tamil Nadu and Chandigarh to facilitate the respective callers,” she said.The helpline numbers are 0177- 2626076, 2626077, 2622204, 2629688, 2629939 and 2621154.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hp-helpline-87-calls-seeking-evacuation-most-from-punjab/story-edXEx3UTSC9iHaR5M4c0zN.html
03-04-2020||City||9 Tablighi Jamaat returnees booked for hiding travel history||The Himachal Pradesh Police have booked nine persons including eight Tablighi Jamaat returnees for hiding their travel history to Nizamuddin in Delhi. Out of nine persons, three were tested positive for coronavirus in Una on Thursday.One person was booked for providing shelter to the returnees at Nakroh village in Gagret. They were booked under Sections 269, 270 of the Indian Penal Code and provisions of the Disaster Management Act.So far, a total of 26 cases have been registered against Tablighi members and 11 people have been arrested. “As many as 204 Tablighi members who visited the Markaz have been quarantined in the state,” said Mardi.2 booked for violating curfew ordersThe Shimla police on Friday arrested two persons for defying the curfew. Both are migrant labourers from Bihar. During interrogation, the duo revealed that they walked for nine days from Ambala to Shimla.70-year-old woman dies of Covid-19 in PGIThe additional chief secretary (health) RD Dhiman said a 70-year-old woman from Delhi, who was staying in Baddi died of coronavirus in PGIMER, Chandigarh.She had visited a private hospital here on March 30 after suffering from high fever where doctors told her family members to home quarantine themselves.After her condition deteriorated, she was shifted to PGI on April 2. “After receiving information, the private hospital has been closed and the staff of the guest house she was staying in have been quarantined,” said Dhiman.Meanwhile, a woman from Kangra who was a coronavirus patient was tested negative on Friday, said deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati. The 63-year-old woman was tested positive for Covid-19 on March 20.The woman had a travel history to Dubai. She, however, did not disclose her travel history and has been booked under Sections 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code.Dhiman said over 29 samples came out negative on Friday. To date, 296 samples have been tested, of which 290 were tested negative and six positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/9-tablighi-jamaat-returnees-booked-for-hiding-travel-history/story-42tm2bNUv6GGiSYpjOnJFP.html
03-04-2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus outbreak: Thackeray’s election to House may get delayed||swapnil.rawal@hindustantimes.comThe coronavirus outbreak in the state could delay chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s election to the legislature. Thackeray, who took oath as the chief minister in November last year, has to get elected to either House of the state legislature by the end of May to remain in office. The Shiv Sena was planning to get Thackeray elected to the legislative Council, when nine MLC seats were due to be vacated on April 24. But the Election Commission of India (ECI) has not announced the date for the legislative Council polls in the state, which can put Maharashtra in a tricky situation.According to Article 164 (4) of the Constitution, “a minister, who for any period of six consecutive months, is not a member of the legislature shall at the expiration of that period cease to be a minister”. The six-month period in Thackeray’s case will end on May 28.With Thackeray spearheading the state’s measures to combat the outbreak, Sena insiders said the party has not yet strategised for the Sena chief to fulfill the constitutional requirement. Thackeray has earlier hinted that he would take the MLC route to fulfil the requirement. If Thackeray is not elected to either house, he would have to resign as the chief minister amid the public health crisis in the state. Due to the ongoing public health crisis, political activities in the state have come to a halt. The state has already pushed back local body elections and the ECI has deferred the Rajya Sabha polls that were scheduled in March.Rajya Sabha MP and Shiv Sena party secretary Anil Desai said that there is “status quo” on all elections by the ECI. “Now all elections are deferred by the Election Commission so it is status quo,” Desai said. When asked what is Sena’s strategy as Thackeray may have to resign if he does not fulfil the requirement, Desai said, “Technically it is true (about resigning), but the deferment was announced by the EC. It must have taken into account all such cases. If the requirements are to be fulfilled, the EC would have to take appropriate steps. Internal discussions are yet to happen, as dealing with Covid-19 situation is a priority.”Anant Kalse, former principal secretary of the state legislature, said this is an unprecedented situation. “As per the Constitution, if he fails to become a member of either of the House, he will have to resign. He can take the oath again. Of course, it is not permissible in the Constitution, but the Supreme Court may allow him as these are exceptional circumstances,” Kalse said. He added that Thackeray can get elected through Governor’s nomination, but “it is not a convention”.In the past, two Congress leaders, Sushilkumar Shinde and Prithviraj Chavan, became chief ministers while not being a member of either house of the state legislature. However, both were elected within six months to continue in office.Considering the bitter political fight between the Shiv Sena and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) after the state polls in October 2019, the latter would grab every opportunity to pull down the three-party Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government. “There would not be any political crisis in Maharashtra, we are certain of that a foolproof solution would be found,” said a Sena leader requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/coronavirus-outbreak-thackeray-s-election-to-house-may-get-delayed/story-7UagJNEDiWUrydQvSQA9ZI.html
03-04-2020||Mumbai||Innovations in Covid-19 diagnosis reach pilot test stage||The ball has started rolling for five innovations in areas of rapid diagnostic kits, assisted respiratory devices and preventives to combat the Covid-19 outbreak. Five manufacturers – CoSara Diagnostics Pvt. Ltd., Amligene Diagnostics Pvt. Ltd., Coeo Labs, Avyantra and Anabio Technologies Pvt. Ltd. – will now be connected to industry partners and government agencies for scaling up and deployment. Based on individual needs, deployment of each innovation will be preceded by pilot tests, fast-track regulatory clearances, corporate social responsibility (CSR) funding, investment and finally, industry scale-up.“These are times that remind us that India needs indigenously-developed innovations, given traditionally we have been working with global innovations. Supporting and investing in an innovative temperament over the last 10 years has led to this interesting churn in innovations for India,” said Dr Taslimarif Saiyed, chief executive officer and director, Centre for Cellular and Molecular Platforms (C-CAMP), Bengaluru, an innovation hub for biosciences supported by various arms of the Indian government.On March 26, a C-CAMP led initiative launched Covid-19 Innovations Deployment Accelerator (CIDA), to accelerate deployment of near-ready innovations to help control the pandemic. Till date, CIDA has received more than 450 ideas that are being reviewed for market readiness, scientific validity, feasibility and impact.Of the five chosen innovations, CoSara Diagnostics and Ampligene Diagnostics, through the manufacture of their rapid test kits, will help ramp up mass-testing of suspected patients infected with Sars-Cov-2, which causes Covid-19. The CoSara kit – approved by the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) – based on RT-PCR laboratory technique claims to produce results in two and a half hours. Ampligene’s kit, using loop-mediated isothermal amplification, needs to be qualified by the Drug Control General of India and promises results in 30 minutes.With preventive protective equipment (PPE) such as N95 masks and sanitised hospital linen in short supply, Anabio Technologies, with Swiss collaboration, will manufacture a spray with anti-viral properties that can turn a mask or any normal piece of cotton into an effective virus-blocker, and therefore can be reused. The spray has the potential to be a consumer product that may be bought off-the-shelf.“This anti-viral liquid to be sprayed on masks or soaked with cloth is important especially for those in the first line of defence to contain the spread of the virus. There is vigorous data on its efficiency from its use in Switzerland, and therefore will not need pilot tests in India,” said Saiyed. “This spray, heavily loaded with anti-viral and anti-bacterial properties, has been used for sportswear over the last six to eight years to prevent infections among players.”To address the shortage of ventilators at hospitals, Coeo Labs and Avyantra will manufacture continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) machines, which have been approved by the American Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to treat critically-ill Covid-19 patients with acute respiratory dysfunction. Current estimates suggest India has 57,000 ventilators. “At present, there is a worldwide rush for ventilators. Therefore CPAP machines can be used for those in the pre-ventilator stage for respiratory support. Additionally, CPAP machines can also be handled by any clinician and don’t need someone specially trained to put a patient on intubated support,” said Saiyed, adding that Coeo Labs, which has been manufacturing CPAP machines for premature babies over the last five years, will upgrade them to combat Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/innovations-in-covid-19-diagnosis-reach-pilot-test-stage/story-N1AbqWGfEGBocnWlwyiGNK.html
03-04-2020||City||Check-ups conducted for Thane cops||Thane police have started conducting tests on officers who are on duty so that they can get immediate medical help if needed. Thane police commissioner Vivek Phansalkar has directed every personnel to follow all precautionary measures. P Shewale, deputy commissioner of police, zone 4, said, “We are conducting check-ups for police twice a week. We are providing them with fruits which are high in vitamin C so that they remain healthy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/check-ups-conducted-for-thane-cops/story-wkGS2OyNAbg1IfWYv4XoxO.html
03-04-2020||Mumbai||Inmates in Maharashtra prisons start hunger strike||After the state government released 2,537 inmates from 47 prisons till Thursday after taking cognisance of a Supreme Court order, inmates from different jails have started hunger strike demanding that they, too, be released on bail. In another incident, two businessmen, who are booked for cheating, moved the Aurangabad bench of Bombay high court challenging the decision to release only undertrials or prisoners who are going through an imprisonment or face an imprisonment for a crime which attracts punishment less than 7 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/inmates-in-maharashtra-prisons-start-hunger-strike/story-owYDiTFMuAAl4OXF3CZkXN.html
03-04-2020||City||Navi Mumbai police start senior citizen cell||Navi Mumbai police have got in touch with 965 senior citizens in the past five days and provided them with groceries and medicines. Five special teams have been calling the elderly every day to get an update about their health and to check if they require any assistance. Suresh Rao, 85, a resident of Belapur contacted the police after he ran out of medicines, following which the police delivered it to his doorstep. The police have requested citizens to contact the senior citizen cell on 022 37575928 or send a text message on 8424820665.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/navi-mumbai-police-start-senior-citizen-cell/story-27C5dOvHmDBdlBYdGITNjL.html
03-04-2020||Mumbai||Court refuses interim bail to Rana Kapoor||A special court on Friday rejected plea for interim bail by Rana Kapoor, former chairman and managing director of Yes Bank. Kapoor had sought interim bail on health grounds in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak in the city. In the plea, moved last Thursday, Kapoor had pleaded that he has been suffering from several ailments including chronic immunodeficiency syndrome and added that if he contracts coronavirus it can lead to severe lung infection and death of the applicant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/court-refuses-interim-bail-to-rana-kapoor/story-g08f0rSGJuXDIj921KpbdJ.html
03-04-2020||Mumbai||Taj opens up hotels to doctors, medical staff||To help the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) in intensifying its battle against Covid-19, the Indian Hotels Company (IHC), a subsidiary of the Tata Group and owner of the Taj brand of hotels, is offering rooms at five of their hotels in Mumbai to BMC doctors and paramedical staff treating coronavirus patients. Rooms at the Taj Mahal Palace in Colaba, Taj Land’s End in Bandra, Taj Santacruz, The President at Cuffe Parade and the IHC’s Ginger Hotel in Andheri are now available to doctors and medical staff from municipal-run hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/taj-opens-up-hotels-to-doctors-medical-staff/story-ck7MbcWOH4lNcnwbHuM7dP.html
03-04-2020||Mumbai||BEST quarantines staff of Hutatma Chowk division||The Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport(BEST) has quarantined its employees working at its electric supply division at Hutatma Chowk in Fort after one of its employee tested positive for Coronavirus on Thursday. The electric supply division of Hutatma Chowk has also been shut by the organisation. The employee, who tested positive, had travelled to his native place on March 18 and March 19. “The employee had a fever and got himself admitted to a private hospital. He later tested positive for coronavirus. His coworkers are also under quarantine,” said an BEST official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/best-quarantines-staff-of-hutatma-chowk-division/story-SJat77UHaO7mCGXiLDhgqN.html
03-04-2020||Delhi||How children with special needs and their parents are navigating the lockdown||These days, Ravinder Kumar Srivastav is having a tough time explaining to his 14-year-old son, a student of Class 9 at a municipality school in Jahangirpuri, why his school is not opening, why the streets are empty, and why he is forced to stay at home.“I have tried hard to tell him about the coronavirus, but my son is hearing impaired and since I do not know the sign language, I cannot communicate properly,” says Srivastav. “He is getting restless and frustrated. He always felt better at school, where he communicated well with his special educator. I wish I had learnt sign language, it would have helped me calm him during these tense times.”While parents and children across the country prepare for a mass experiment in homeschooling and online learning, these are challenging times for parents of children with special needs. The closure of schools means their children are missing not just their studies, but also therapies.“Lockdown is a difficult period for deaf children as most of them cannot communicate even with their parents, leading to strife within the family. I get 20 calls a day from the parents of hearing-impaired children who find it hard to it deal with them. Most parents do not know the sign language, and they are now regretting not having learnt it,” says Ruma Roka, founder Noida Deaf Society, who runs a primary school for the hearing impaired in Noida. “While we are trying to send them video lessons in Indian sign language, the problem is most children at our school are from economically weaker sections and do not have access to good smartphones, computers or broadband connection at home.”“The lockdown and the prolonged disruption of education would leave a negative effect on the education and emotional growth of deaf children,” says A S Narayanan, President, National Association of the Deaf. “The government should involve Indian sign language experts in its awareness programme and official communication about coronavirus”.Many parents of children with neuro-developmental disorders — attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), autism, learning disabilities, cerebral palsy — that require continuous therapies are now having to play both teacher and therapist while they work from home.Take for example Rashmi Singh and Puneet Kumar whose nine-year old-son suffers from ADHD.Children with ADHD need to be engaged in various activities, and require supportive therapies.Rashmi and Punnet are doing the best they can. “It is not easy. He is hyperenergetic and we have to channelise his energy into something creative,” says Rashmi, a nutritionist. “I have never danced in my life, but now I have regular exercise and dance sessions with him,” says Puneet.Expert says every special child has individual needs—while some need extra time and assignments, others need adaptive special education, special subjects and a range of therapies: occupational, behavioural, speech, among others.Dr Ranjit R Anand, director, Maxwell Institute, a school for special children in Rohini, says isolation could be a problem if the child isn’t used to it.“An autistic child can have severe mood swings and they need special attention. While parents can help with physical exercises and some therapies, other therapies require trained professionals,” says Anand.“I help my son with speech therapy, but it is not possible to have the necessary infrastructure at home for other therapies,” says Manoj Chaudhary, who lives in Ghaziabad. His three-year-old son is autistic and requires occupational and speech therapy, among others. “He had shown considerable improvement, but these days he remains very upset.”The Owl House, a community support centre for families and individuals with special needs on Monday started a helpline to advise families during the coranavirus lockdown. “Most calls so far have been about behavioural issues; the children on the autism spectrum are prone to bursts of anger and self–harm,” says Priya Kataria, instruction and learning design manager, who supervises the helpline. “At times, it becomes difficult for parents to handle the situation. We try to understand the issue, offer advice and tools for dealing with the challenge.”Dr Shailendra Kumar, a certified Consultant Occupational Therapist and the founder of Child Neuro Rehabilitation (CNR) Clinic, says that effects of social distancing and lockdown on children with ASD (autism spectrum disorder) are as various and broad as the spectrum itself, and missing therapies will delay their next developmental milestone.The lockdown, he says, is a tricky time for parents of children with special needs, juggling as they are with various responsibilities while working from home. “They should try and involve their kids in various daily tasks which are easy to do and kids can easily understand them through visual prompts, like dusting, vegetable washing, filling water bottles, vegetable segregation, and various small role-playing games,” says Kumar.Parents should ensure that children with special needs, add Kumar, should avoid excess screen time, i.e. the phone and television. “Increased screen time is associated with a decrease in a neurotransmitter (GABA) which leads to aberrant behaviour. Parents, however, can use video calls with children for short consultations with their special educators and therapists,” says Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/how-children-with-special-needs-and-their-parents-are-navigating-the-lockdown/story-AxTqYsR7NnNnqIqH5CEkZN.html
03-04-2020||City||Facing Rs 450 cr loss, PSPCL defers paying full salary to 60% staff||The Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL), set to suffer a loss of Rs 450 crore due to the curfew with power sales nosediving, has paid only 60% of salary to employees, except those in C and D category. The deferred 40% is likely to be credited by April 20; PSPCL has a monthly salary and pension bill of Rs 250 crore. The decision impacts 60% of its 32,865 employees; the corporation has 71,000 pensioners who have got full payout. For the time being, the chief managing director (CMD) and all other directors will not get salary. They are retired power engineers from other entities and get pension. “The Punjab government had to pay Rs 14,718 crore to the PSPCL in 2019-20, but it gave us Rs 9,200 crore only. The shortage of Rs 5,500 crore of subsidy hit us financially. The curfew means a loss of Rs 450 crore. PSPCL has no option. It is not a cut, but deferring of salary,” said a PSPCL top functionary. “The pandemic of Covid-19 has affected the world economy. PSPCL’s revenue has also been hit due to the lockdown and the imposition of curfew. Under the current distress situation, and in view of the financial crunch of the PSPCL, it has been decided to defer or make part payments of salaries for month of March 2020,” the orders from PSPCL read. There is no deferment for all category D employees; probationers, those who work only on a basic pay scale and don’t get any other allowance; all employees of C category having grade pay up to Rs 3,400, and employees with net salary less than Rs 30,000.“We are strongly resentful. Employees brought PSPCL into profit. The government’s non-payment of Rs 5,500 crore subsidy led to the cash crunch. We have met the CMD, who has assured balance payment by April 20,” said Jasvir Singh Dhiman, president, PSEB Engineers Association. CMD Baldev Singh Sran could not be contacted despite repeated attempts.Strap/Blurb40% of amount has been held back and is likely to be paid by April 20; officials claim financial mess also due to non-payment of Rs 5,500 crore in subsidy from the state govt||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pspcl-imposes-40-pay-cut-no-salary-to-cmd-directors/story-tdqYVE2pCLG72FJ3TNVdLK.html
03-04-2020||Mumbai||Air India pilots oppose pay cut amid lockdown||Air India pilots have raised concerns over their pay cut announced due to nationwide lockdown. The Indian Pilots Guild (IPG) comprising of Boeing fleet pilots and Indian Commercial Pilots Association (IPCA) in a letter to its chairman and managing director Rajiv Bansal on Friday said that the pay cut on allowance is unequal and not acceptable to them. This comes after the airline announced 10% cut of the cabin crew and pilots flying allowance, few days after the lockdown was announced. The letter read, “By effecting a 10% cut on allowances for all employees, the category that has been affected the most are pilots.”The airline pilots requested Bansal to advise the senior executive management to draw up fair cost-cutting measures and not to manipulate the system to safeguard their salaries by burdening the frontline soldiers of the national carrier. “We are open to discussion on an alternative. We hereby seek your urgent intervention,” the pilots said.The pilots said that they are supporting operations of flights for essential services and ensuring the delivery of services is not affected and also rescue Indians stuck in various parts of the world, yet the flying allowance is not paid on time.“While all the other employees are paid in full, flying crew alone are made to bear the brunt with the delayed flying allowance. Implementation of sham austerity measures to cut the flying allowances on top of all this would be adding insult to injury,” the pilots complained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/air-india-pilots-oppose-pay-cut-amid-lockdown/story-m30N3Gm8lP7XXuJVJ9bX1L.html
03-04-2020||Mumbai||Poultry industry suffers Rs 13,000 crore loss due to Covid-19 pandemic||The Union animal husbandry ministry recently said the poultry industry had suffered ₹13,000 crore losses over the past month and the number was rising due to misconceptions that Sars-Cov-2 virus was being transmitted through consumption of eggs and chicken. A letter from OP Choudhary, joint secretary, Union animal husbandry ministry urged states to start a vigorous campaign to stop misinformation and save poultry farmers during the crisis.On Friday Union minister Maneka Gandhi said, “I have checked with concerned ministers of these departments, and they have denied giving any such orders. This is a suo moto letter written by the joint secretary and does not convey the government’s intent,” said Gandhi.Choudhary, who is also the chairman of the Animal Welfare Board of India, said he had received verified videos from north India, Maharashtra and Telangana of farmers burying live birds. “No scientific body has found any evidence of the virus transmitted through poultry products. They are immunity boosters. This negative perception is dangerous. Relief measures are being planned to revive the industry,” he said. A member of the Poultry Federation of India claimed losses stood at ₹22,500 crore for the entire lockdown period.Meanwhile, animal welfare groups said they challenged contents of the letter before the Prime Ministers’ Office, and will be approaching the Supreme Court. “The secretary cannot dictate what people should eat. Such directions, if needed, are issued by the Food Safety Standards Authority of India,” said Gauri Maulekhi from People for Animals.“In India, there are filthy and dirty meat markets with slaughter practices that do not comply with food safety standards. Such areas are hotbeds for the emergence of infections,” Maulekhi added.The People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) India said globally and in India people were beginning to value other forms of food and changing eating habits.“Different types of animal farming are linked to the emergence and spread of novel zoonotic diseases. To avoid a future pandemic, we need to act on scientific facts about how new viruses come from factory farming and live markets. The science is clear. Unless we act now on intensive confinement in the rearing of animals for food, no future pandemic could be ruled out and more are likely,” said Dr Manilal Valliyate, veterinarian and PETA India’s chief executive officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/poultry-industry-suffers-13k-crore-losses-due-to-covid-19-pandemic/story-yftzsYId8CbWMF1VkdYH0H.html
03-04-2020||Lucknow||We need to live first then rest follows: Gaurav Chopra||Actor Gaurav Chopra, best known for his Hollywood film ‘Blood Diamond’ and shows like ‘Uttaran,’ ‘Gulmohar Grand’ and many more, feels glad that his last venture, daily soap ‘Sanjivani’, just got wrapped on time before Covid-19 crisis halted the work everywhere in the country.“No one thought that this kind of cataclysm will engulf the world in just few weeks. We shot the last episode of our show on March 9 and not in the slightest thought did we knew that this will put an end to all work for weeks to come. It’s really disheartening to see where world has come to,” he tells over phone. Chopra is known as one of the fittest actors in the industry. “Fitness has always been my priority but that should be for everyone. Whether I am working or not, I always spend time doing things I love — keeping fit, music, reading or taking care of my family and home. I believe there are multiple ways to acquire a fit body, it’s as simple as maintaining a healthy lifestyle and loving oneself. Doing gym for hours is of no use till you have a fit mind and treat your body like a temple of goodness,” he said. The actor is making most of the quarantine days. “This is a tough time for the country and to support the cause we just have to stay home. We have umpteen time to do things we always wanted to do. I am a private homely person and most of time I love listening to music watching movies and reading.”Chopra hails the lockdown call by the government, “Seeing what is happening around the world, I think this was such a right step to take. As a responsible citizen we should understand the gravity of the situation. Let’s adhere to the lockdown protocols as we need to live first then rest follows.”On work front his hands are full. “I enjoy my job and I don’t do things to get attention! So whatever work I do is to satisfy that actor in me — be it my play ‘Devdas,’ web shows ‘Fourplay,’ or ‘Love, Lust & Confusion.’ I was about to start shoot for the second season of ‘Hello Mini’ series. After wrapping ‘Sanjivani’, I will start taking up more shows but with meaty content and roles,” he says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/we-need-to-live-first-then-rest-follows-gaurav-chopra/story-49tHq4Sw2tGwmPpMTjR1SL.html
03-04-2020||Lucknow||This phase will show us right direction for a better future: Nitish Bharadwaj||What’s keeping us busy in times of lockdown are numerous inspirational videos doing round on social media. One such clip is of Nitish Bharadwaj, who is best remembered as Lord Krishna of the epic Mahabharata.In the clip, Bharadwaj plays Lord Vishnu and talks about how testing these times are and how they could be designed by god for a better tomorrow. HT City talk to the actor to get the context, and how is life in the times of Corona.How are you spending time in the lockdown period?Yoga, meditation (introspection), reading literature, listening to good music by masters, polishing my cinema skills with online masterclasses and cooking.What are the thoughts that are occupying your mind?This lockdown period is a momentary pause, like a momentary recoil of a gun before it fires the bullet. This is an opportunity to go deep within, both as an individual and as a society/nation, and introspect as to which walks of life, we are going wrong in. And, I am not saying ‘going wrong’ only from Covid-19 point of view, but overall. We must also accept our faults, if they spring from this ‘manthan (introspection), and correct them after this period, so that we (while we are live) and our children have a better, safer, healthier and peaceful environment to live in.One of the ancient scriptures, ‘Shikshavalli’, refers to this as ‘Swaadhyaay’ or introspection. This ‘churning’ will show us the right direction for a better future.A very thoughtful and relevant video from a mythological TV show is doing round on social media. Your take.The particular video is from ‘Vishnu Puran’. I remember how Ravi Chopra and I had marathon sessions with the writer Ram Govind about using Lord Vishnu as the narrator, who is above board and comments on everything that we do as humans on earth. Both of us wanted to make the serial relevant for all times. That’s why the dialogues were written like that. I am doing the same thing with my Hindi play ‘Chakravyuh’, which is moving to its 100th show soon.When u look back to your days of doing mythological shows and see them in today’s context how do you relate?Man has not learnt his/her lessons. We are going more and more towards materialism at the cost of ignoring spirituality. We are forgetting the cosmic laws and that the only superpower is Nature. Even a small ‘karvat’ (small turn) by nature can destroy us. There was a time when Dinosaurs went extinct; if man doesn’t learn to respect nature, we don’t have a long enough existence. Catastrophes like COVID-19 should be seen as alarm for the mankind to correct its mistakes of the past and to build a better tomorrow.From you understanding of ‘Gita’ and other scriptures what inferences you draw in today’s context?I would answer this question with Covid-19 perspective. I would quote the very last shloka of the ‘Gita’ “Yatra Yogeshvar: Krishno ….” And say that there are a lot of honest, committed and knowledgeable environmentalists in the world who are warning us to correct ourselves. They are our guides, just like Krishna. All we need to do is to submit to their guidance like Arjun and act positively for a better future. If we do so, man’s existence will be ‘shashvat’ (permanent) and in ‘neeti sangat’ morality. We need to stop ravaging Mother Earth and respect her.After ‘Kedarnath’, what’s happening on acting and theatre front?As an actor I have some scripts for films and web series. Will utilise the lockdown period to read and choose something worthwhile. As a director after the success of my award-winning debut directorial Marathi film with Tanuja ji, titled ‘Pitruroon’, I have locked a screenplay for my Hindi debut. I am in talks with two producers, which will resume soon. I hope to release the said film next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/this-phase-will-show-us-right-direction-for-a-better-future-nitish-bharadwaj/story-a3KsuKYrfyaojU059TSgOJ.html
03-04-2020||Lucknow||I am hardly getting free time: Amit Mishra||Ten years after singer Amit Mishra left Lucknow for greener pastures, has he got an opportunity to stay for such a long time in his hometown. “More than staying home with my parents and cousin, I am happy that my family is relieved that I am in front of them. Else, they would have been very worried,” said the ‘Bulleya’ singer.On the last day of Navratri, they had ‘havan’ at home where his mother recited mantras. “I am here without my workstation so doing whatever is best possible with the given resources. I have my guitar here and repaired our old tabla myself and have started playing it again. So, with the software on my laptop I am making music and songs besides my regular riyaz,” he said.He is using technology to the maximum. “I am learning music production software online. My vocal coaches Jaime Vendera, Marianne D’Cruz and Vinod Prasadji have sent me a session which I am preparing at home. There are assignments from my dance coach Binaisha Deshmukh that I was preparing for my stage shows. My fitness coach too has sent workouts that I am following. So, riyaz, preparing music and my dance-music-fitness training is taking my entire time. I am hardly getting free time,” he said.And there is a new itinerary. “I am doing yog-sadhna with my mother. In such tough times, meditation does wonders. I am really enjoying and doing it with family adds another level to it,” he said.The singer is looking forward to doing a live session on social media. He is also part of digital show ‘Desi Kalakaar’ which he is mentoring with Meet Bros and Akasa Singh.The singer also prepared social awareness videos and audios to contribute his bit to fight coronavirus. “After talks with my friends in New York, Europe and other places, I feel we are better off and safe in India. Hope things get better soon everywhere. It will surely take some time to get back on track. But, till then, we need to be safe and follow government orders and advisories. I am missing the action but right now, I am making the most of what can be done staying at home. And, trust me…there is lots to do!”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/i-am-hardly-getting-free-time-amit-mishra/story-99eSGpJVTzi2gzGUlbJ1mO.html
03-04-2020||Lucknow||Video-streaming the stress-buster!||Video chats on Zoom, WhatsApp, Instagram and other live-streaming applications are doing wonders in connecting near and dear ones during the lockdown, even as it fights loneliness and disconnect.“We are connecting with each other on Zoom. I am talking and reconnecting with some of my friends I have not spoken to for over two years. I am connecting with relatives like never before. We are playing online tambola, Quarantine Ludo and Monopoly. It’s back to childhood games that is a great stress-buster,” says Lucknowite Vani Juneja, who’s into surgical items’ and textile trade.She was chatting with contacts in Jaipur, Delhi, Gurgaon, Mumbai and another in Lucknow. “Due to the surgical trade, days are usually hectic as it’s an essential commodity. But once at home, these video chats are great means to relax and talk to so many people at a go,” she added. Sheeri Siddiqui said that she last connected with her sister, Farhana, in Agra and brother in Kannauj. “I am connecting with my siblings and friends while most of them reside in different parts of the country. So, even though we are away from each other we are connecting through WhatsApp video chats. Our family can see each other during these tough times and know about our well being.”Besides video chats reading books is also a great stress-buster for her. “To combat stress, we talk about childhood memories and try new recipes. I write poems and share them during our chats. We also play online games, which keeps us engaged,” she adds.Amity University psychology professor Manju Agarwal said, “Technology is playing a great part in these tough times. Had it been the 80s or 90s, it would have been very tough. We celebrated our grandson, Rohan’s 7th birthday online. They are in Mumbai, and we, around 25 people, from not just India but abroad too, celebrated his birthday on Zoom application. We had a grand party, we danced, clapped, sang and had a lot of fun.“Those who are positive will look for options. Meeting through video chats, talking on the phone, refreshing memories by looking at old photos, playing with family members, there are so many things one can do. The problem is people with a negative mindset. Depression comes to them as they don’t look for options,” the psychologist said.Agarwal had a suggestion. “Everything is good that makes you feel good. I am a workaholic and never imagined spending so much time at home, but trust me, there is so much to do that I am not finding any free time. I am doing meditation, watching movies, trying new dishes, connecting with relatives more than I ever have. I was hardly on social media but now I am finding time for it and I see it’s also turning very positive.”A US-based journal has also given a similar suggestion. It recommends people reconnect with family members or friends via phone or video-chat during these stressful times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/video-streaming-the-stress-buster/story-97DX14RB19I0bx7gUt6woN.html
03-04-2020||Lucknow||In UP, 889 prisoners released on parole, 7,816 on interim bail||The subordinate courts of Uttar Pradesh have released 889 prisoners on parole and 7,816 prisoners on interim bail as on Thursday.The prisoners are being released as per the Supreme Court directive on checking overcrowding in jails in view of coronavirus outbreak.The state government had formed a high power committee to select the prisoners to be released for the purpose.Ashish Kumar Srivastava, registrar (protocol), Allahabad high court on Friday informed the court that the release of prisoners in the state was still on and the figures of released prisoners was likely to increase in near future.As per the Supreme Court order, dated March 23, the high power committee was to form in each state to determine which class of prisoners can be released on parole or interim bail for such a period as may be appropriate. The High Power Committee was to work in consultation with the State Legal Service Authority for deciding on the release of prisoners. As per the order, prisoners convicted or charged with offenses having jail term of up to seven years were to be given parole.In UP, the high power committee was constituted under the chairmanship of justice PK Jaiswal, senior judge, Lucknow Bench, which decided the modalities for the release of prisoners.Earlier, the committee had resolved that undertrial prisoners of crimes in which the maximum sentence is 7 years will be released on interim bail for eight weeks on furnishing personal bond with the undertaking written on the personal bond that accused shall surrender before the court after expiry of the interim bail period.Further, to avoid overcrowding in courts, it was directed that concerned judges will visit jail, on alternate days to grant interim bails inside jails.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/in-up-889-prisoners-released-on-parole-7-816-on-interim-bail/story-wQ4mPLZxrmpNv4EJ2fHp2N.html
03-04-2020||Mumbai||Submit details of relief measures for migrants during Covid-19 outbreak, Bombay high court tells Maharashtra government||The Bombay high court (HC) on Friday directed the state government to highlight the steps taken by the latter for the benefit of migrants and the marginalised sections in Maharashtra in the wake of the coronavirus (Covid-19) outbreak. The state was also asked to inform the HC about the steps it had taken to provide accommodation and medical facilities to those migrants who have been rendered jobless and lost their shelters owing to the ongoing crisis. The petition filed by a non-governmental organisation (NGO) sought directions to the state towards providing temporary accommodation and medical facilities for migrants who have been stranded due to the lockdown as well as ensure minimum wages for them, as they have no source of income currently.The bench of justice AA Sayyed, while hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by a non-governmental organization (NGO) Sarvahara Jan Andolan through advocate Kranti LC, was informed that following the lockdown imposed owing to the Covid-19 outbreak, the Centre had announced various relief measures, such as providing free ration under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana for three months, for migrants and the marginalised sections. However, the state through two government resolutions (GRs) dated March 29 and 30 had said that the beneficiaries would have to pay a nominal amount for the ration. The petitioners argued that as the GRs were against the provisions under the scheme announced by the Centre, they should be quashed.The PIL also sought directions to the state to set up task forces, which would include government officials and members of the civil society, for overseeing the implementation of both central and state government schemes for migrants and the marginalised sections. These task forces should be set up in all corporations, talukas, zilla parishads and panchayats across the state, the petition said.Additional government pleader informed the court that steps were being taken to take care of migrants and the marginalised sections of the society by providing them free ration and basic medical equipment such as masks and sanitisers to safe guard them from getting infected by the dreaded Covid-19 virus.After hearing the submissions, the court observed that as the Supreme Court was seized of a similar petition, it was not passing any orders but directed the state to provide information of the measures the latter had initiated for the welfare and well-being of the migrants and marginalised sections of the society and posted the PIL for compliance on April 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/submit-details-of-relief-measures-for-migrants-during-covid-19-outbreak-bombay-high-court-tells-maharashtra-government/story-fABzeKXut6DGxZ0ENt99PP.html
03-04-2020||City||With 8 new Covid-19 cases, coronavirus count rises to 43 in Haryana||CHANDIGARH: With eight new cases, the number of Covid-19 patients has gone up to 43 in Haryana on Friday.According to a bulletin of the state health department, Gurugram district, which had 10 cases on Thursday, accounted for the five new cases. Two of the five are from Maharashtra and had visited the Tablighi Jamaat gathering at Nizamuddin in Delhi, while one is from Uttar Pradesh.Three men from Kerala who attended the Tablighi event and were quarantined in Nuh have also tested positive.Faridabad has six positive cases, Panipat and Palwal four each, Sirsa and Ambala three each, Panchkula two and Hisar, Sonepat and Rohtak, one each.The bulletin said that 13 coronavirus patients have been treated and discharged so far, taking the number of active patients in the state to 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-8-new-covid-19-cases-coronavirus-count-rises-to-43-in-haryana/story-iR6zQCboswQONOGGPTmm5L.html
03-04-2020||Lucknow||UP govt clears decks for Noida firm, Maruti to supply 10,000 ventilators||The Uttar Pradesh government has said that it has removed hurdles for a Noida-based firm to manufacture and supply 10,000 ventilators in collaboration with Maruti Suzuki in order to prevent deaths in severe cases of coronavirus.The joint venture will supply the ventilators to the central government in a month, the government added.Additional chief secretary (Home) Awanish Awasthi said: “A Noida-based firm AgVa Healthcare, in conjunction with Maruti Suzuki (automobile giant), in association with several firms, are going to do the job. Chief executive officer (CEO), Noida, has facilitated what all the UP government needs to do.”“Ventilators are vital towards saving the lives of such coronavirus patients, whose illness attains severity. Making 10,000 ventilators, a highly specialised and complicated lifesaving machine, in a month is no mean task. It will be a record of sorts, but more than the record, it will be a swift response to the epidemic,” said a state government official involved in removing hurdles for the company.Infrastructure and industrial development commissioner (IIDC), Uttar Pradesh, Alok Tandon said: “AgVa, a ventilator manufacturer, will supply 10,000 ventilators within one month by staggering supplies in batches through the month. They had been facing problems related to the lockdown and manpower. The government cleared the hurdle by providing 126 passes to manpower for their movement under the lockdown.”“AgVa will use its ventilator manufacturing technology and expertise while Maruti Suzuki would provide manpower and additional space,” a state government spokesman said.“BHEL (Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited) will provide electronic chips for the ventilators,” said Awasthi.Chief executive officer, Noida, Narendra Bhusan has been directed to coordinate with Maruti for the production and supply of ventilators to hospitals established across the state for treatment of Covid-19 patients.The health department required extra ventilators for installation in designated Covid hospitals as well as district hospitals where isolation wards were established, principal secretary, health, Amit Mohan Prasad said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-govt-clears-decks-for-noida-firm-maruti-to-supply-10-000-ventilators/story-M8Vd5EkAaYlpJmuPXMYQ6J.html
03-04-2020||Chandigarh||Complete curfew in Una after three with Tablighi Jamaat link test positive for Covid-19||DHARAMSHALA: Complete curfew has been imposed in Una district of Himachal Pradesh after three members of the Tablighi Jamaat, an Islamic missionary movement, tested positive for Covid-19.“Total curfew under Section 144 of the CrPC has been enforced as an emergency measure in the wake of the imminent risk of the spread of Covid-19 in the district,” said Una deputy commissioner Sandeep Kumar.He said that the there will be no relaxation in the curfew till further orders and people are directed to stay at home.Only emergency services and the industry exempted from the curfew will continue to function as per the guidelines.Earlier, a three-hour relaxation in curfew was allowed.Meanwhile, the district police have isolated Nakroh village of Gagret sub division where the three positive cases were staying in a mosque.“An area of 3km surrounding the village has been sealed,” senior superintendent of police (SSP) Karthikeyan Gokulachandran said.ALERT IN MANDI, GHUMARWINThe authorities in Mandi are also on high alert as the three positive cases are natives of the district.Two of them are residents of Mandi town, while one is from Sundernagar. Deputy commissioner Rugved Milind Thakur said that the three had not been to their homes after returning from Delhi but were staying in Una.However, as a precautionary measure their families have been quarantined.An alert has been sounded in Ghumarwin town of Bilaspur district where some members of the Tablighi Jamaat made a stopover while on their way to Gagret in Una.Sub divisional magistrate (SDM) Sashi Pal Sharma said that three families have been quarantined in Ghumarwin and the primary contacts of the Jamaat members are being traced.Meanwhile, the government has decided to get the samples of all Jamaat members, who have returned to the state since March 1, tested for Covid-19.VOLUNTARY DISCLOSUREHimachal Pradesh Waqf Board chairman Mohmmed Rajbali and chief executive officer Asif Jalal have appealed to members of the Muslim community, who have attended the markaz (religious event at the headquarters in Nizamuddin in Delhi), to voluntarily inform the administration and police of the concerned district. No action will be taken against such people and they will be quarantined.SIX POSITIVE CASES IN STATE SO FARHimachal Pradesh has reported a total of six Covid-19 cases, including one death. One patient has been discharged after being cured and four people are undergoing treatment.A total of 2,088 people have been quarantined in the state.So far, 270 samples have been tested of which 263 came out negative and one sample of a Jamaat member failed. The retest will be done today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/curfew-in-una-after-three-with-tablighi-jamaat-link-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-nYTl1CJtNjXm1yJ52e2d2N.html
03-04-2020||Ranchi||Screening team for Covid-19 face resistance over ‘NPR rumour’ in Ranchi||A section of residents in Ranchi’s Hindpiri locality, where Jharkhand’s first Covid-19 case was reported, resisted the medical teams which went for screening on Thursday, from entering their houses, suspecting that the data to be collected from every household would finally be used for National Population Register (NPR).However, the screening was started in the evening after it was decided that the inspecting team would not move to every household but residents would be checked in certain common places. Chief minister Hemant Soren had also appealed to the Hindpiri residents to go through the screening, terming it for their safety. “A woman was found infected with corona. In such a situation, screening of the people is important. There will be a massive screening of the area. I would request all the residents to cooperate with the administration in the task,” said Soren.The CM added that camps would be set up in the locality so that the health workers do not need to go every home. A Malaysian woman, who was part of a 22-member Muslim group of 17 foreigners and five Indian guides, was tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. The group had been picked by Ranchi police on intervening night of Sunday and Monday from two mosques in Hindipiri.A total of 100 teams — each team comprising a medical staffer, a police and a community volunteer — were sent by district administration on Thursday morning for a massive drive to screen around 8,000 households. However, the teams had to return without doing their assigned tasks due to the protest of a section of the residents in the locality.“There were two major rumours behind the protest by some residents. There was confusion in some people that their details would be taken in the name of screening and would be used in the NPR. Besides, a viral video, which says that people in quarantine are in poor condition. However, confusions and doubts of the people were cleared and they have later agreed to the screening,” said Ibrar Ahmad, president of Anjuman Islamia, Hindpiri.He said on Wednesday night it was said that screening of entire locality would be done. “So, we did not get enough time to convince the people about the importance of the screening,” he said.“There were some issues, including the issue of NPR. We convinced the people with community leaders that NPR has nothing to do with this screening. This initiative is for their safety. Besides, issues related to quarantine was also addressed,” said Lokesh Mishra, Ranchi subdivisional officer.Finally, they agreed to go through the screening. On Thursday evening, 15 static teams were deputed in different areas of the locality, where people would come and their test would be done.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/screening-team-for-covid-19-face-resistance-over-npr-rumour-in-ranchi/story-KV0uXT2MnhW7lFYE6Mi8wN.html
03-04-2020||Patna||3 booked for naming coronavirus patient on social media||The Begusarai police on Thursday lodged an FIR against three people for allegedly revealing the identity of a Covid-19 patient on social media platforms.The police said the case was lodged on the statement of the station house officer (SHO) of Town police station following the directive of superintendent of police (SP) Awakash Kumar. Police said the three were identified as Bhavesh Kumar Bhartiya, Subodh Kumar and Om Prakash Razak. The FIR has been lodged under Section188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) that provides for a month’s imprisonment or ₹1,000 fine or both.The union ministry of health had earlier issued a directive to maintain strict confidentiality on the identity confirmed and suspected cases. As revealing identity violates the right to privacy of the people, an FIR can be lodged against people violating the government order. “The accused had revealed the identity of the patient in separate WhatsApp groups,” the Begusarai SP said. Meanwhile, the district administration also sealed the Noorpur panchayat, with a population of 855, falling under Barauni block, after a youth tested positive. The youth had returned from Dubai via Goa on March 22 and was referred to Patna on Tuesday. The borders of the nearby villages were sealed and movement of the residents within the 3-km radius was banned. The decision to seal off the area came after two suspects died last week. Begusarai district magistrate (DM) Arvind Kumar Verma said as many as 18 family members of the infected person had been put in quarantine at the Begusarai Sadar Hospital. The village was sealed with the support of social workers and surveillance teams have also been sent to identify the infected youth’s close contacts in the village, said the DM.A health department official said 18 samples of the close contacts of the patient had been collected and sent for testing. The department has also started a survey in the village to detect patients, if any.Meanwhile, reports from Siwan said the administration had sealed over 40 villages of Barharia, Darauli and Hasanpur blocks after five residents of the locality tested positive. Barricades have been erected on all entry points of the villages concerned. Police personnel have also been deployed there.Reports of people testing positive and subsequent sealing of the affected villages have also poured in from Gopalganj, Lakhisarai, Munger, Gaya, Patna and Nalanda districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/3-booked-for-naming-coronavirus-patient-on-social-media/story-Vlyvn9t5i6TuKDSYqvwsiL.html
03-04-2020||Chandigarh||Our low-cost ventilator design is different from PGI’s prototype: Mahindra group clarifies||After the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) accused Mahindra and Mahindra of stealing the design of a low-cost ventilator designed by a faculty member, the car manufacturer on Friday said there were differences in the two prototypes.Dr Rajeev Chauhan, an assistant professor at PGIMER’s department of anaesthesia, who designed the prototype had accused Mahindra and Mahindra of intellectual theft, claiming he had been working on the machine for a year and filed a patent for it with the Indian Patent Authority on December 22, 2019. “In Dr Chauhan’s ventilator, the Ambu bag is pressed vertically from both sides with the help of a motor and lead screw mechanism, but in our machine, the Ambu bag is pressed horizontally only from one side. Besides, his machine has microprocessor-based electronic controls, while ours has a motor and ball screw mechanism, with PLC-based electronic controls. All our parts are standard, off-the-shelf ones, used in the engineering industry, while Dr Chauhan claims to have incorporated 3D printed parts in his concept,” said the official spokesperson of Mahindra and Mahindra.The statement added that they were ready and willing for an examination by relevant authorities to establish the independence of their design and technology, and to withdraw the product, if it was established that the firm infringed any intellectual property owned by the claimants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ventilator-row-our-design-is-different-from-pgi-s-prototype-mahindra/story-CR2Vc4OFpGrBAYd00csYoO.html
03-04-2020||Chandigarh||Working in the times of coronavirus pandemic: Safely receiving payments is a challenge, say newspaper vendors||45-year-old Joginder Singh has been working as a newspaper vendor since 1988. However, the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak and subsequent lockdown have brought forth unprecedented challenges before him.Joginder is responsible for distributing newspapers in the 40-50 colonies on Barewal Road. His workday begins at 4am when he and his brother collect the stock of a variety of newspapers from different drop points.Typically, the two of them would have brought the newspapers to their shop where they would bundle them up for hawkers. However, as they can no longer open their shop, the newspapers are sorted on the verandah of their house.His team, involved in the distribution of papers, then rushes to deliver them before 7am. Not a mean task amid the lockdown. “After the outbreak, many people have refused to take newspapers out of fear of getting infected. However, the newspapers are sanitised before distribution. Nonetheless, there has been a 50% drop in business,” he said, adding,”Earlier, we would distribute 4,500 copies daily. Now, the number has reduced to 2,250.”Ask him what propels him to continue deliveries in these challenging times, he says, “If we do not deliver newspapers, people will switch to online reading and the habit of starting the day with a cup of tea and newspaper will become a thing of the past.”“It, certainly, is risky to get out of our homes but we are taking precautionary measures such as wearing masks and gloves, and carrying a sanitiser. The same equipment has been provided to hawkers,” he says.“Our primary challenge is collecting payments from customers. We don’t have the phone numbers of many people and are brainstorming ways of conducting safe transactions,” he said.“We conduct the collection of payments on the first Sunday of every month, but this time people are asking vendors to collect payment and coupons next month. The curfew pass is also only valid from 5 am to 8 am, in which vendors and hawkers distribute the newspapers. However, we do not have time to collect payments,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/working-in-the-times-of-coronavirus-pandemic-safely-receiving-payments-is-a-challenge-say-newspaper-vendors/story-mHiCY4l6tYWDyAOg1Hs9FJ.html
03-04-2020||City||Life in the times of lockdown: I put humanity above all else, says do-gooder Satinder Pal Singh||With most people confined to their homes in the wake of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, a number of organisations and individuals have risen to the occasion and have gone the extra mile to help society.One such extraordinary person is 40-year-old Satinder Pal Singh, a bank employee, who has singularly taken up the task of sanitising different areas of the city.A lone warrior, Singh, a resident of Vishal Nagar leaves home at around 8am in the morning with a vessel of disinfectant on his shoulders and face covered with a handkerchief and disinfects one area of the city everyday.In the last week, Singh has sanitised Jawaddi, Punjab Mata Nagar, New Punjab Mata Nagar and Vishal Nagar.“Upon observing, police officials, NGOs and doctors do their bit to help people, I decided to take up sanitising work on my own,” he says.“A friend of mine told me many areas of the city had not been sanitized, even after the outbreak, so I requested my area councillor Dildar Singh to provide me with disinfectant and equipment so that I could sanitise the localities,” said Satinder, who uses four buckets (20 litre each) of spraying chemical in a day.Singh’s efforts have been lauded by city residents. “People always welcome me with a smile when I spray outside their houses. Some even offer me breakfast and tea,” he says. “I’m not associated with any organisation but I always try helping others as much as I can. I put humanity above anything else,” he said.Singh’s family, especially his children, Ekam and Muskaan, are supportive of him. “My wife, Jaswinder, just asks me to be cautious when I step outside the house, which is why I always wear full sleeve clothes, gloves and cover my face with a handkerchief,” he says adding that his younger brothers, Gurvinder Singh and Arvinder Singh, were also serving society by volunteering Langar Sewa at the gurdwara.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/life-in-the-times-of-lockdown-i-put-humanity-above-all-else-says-do-gooder-satinder-pal-singh/story-8EVR3JJrMwBUlNBpgqxbEO.html
03-04-2020||Chandigarh||Industrialists consider filing petition against PSPCL||BLURB: Amid lockdown, the state government has failed to fulfil their demand of extending the last date for submitting power bills With the state government failing to extend the last dates for submitting electricity bills, members of the Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisation (FICO) are now considering filing a petition against the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL).Amid lockdown in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak, the industrialists have been demanding that the government may extend the last date to submit the bills with no penalty or interest. Further, they have been seeking that the fixed charges be waived off and the bills be generated by the PSPCL on the basis of actual consumption, as the factories are closed.FICO president Gurmeet Singh Kular and senior vice-president Vipan Mittal said the state government has used Force Majeure clause in making payments to the power generators and has asked the Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission (PSERC) to specify a reduced rate of late payment surcharge.“Similarly, the PSPCL should not charge penalty from the state industry as it is closed and reeling under losses due to the lockdown,” Kular said, adding that the state government can stop payment of interest, which is paid to the industry for the security amount, which is then submitted with the PSPCL.“However, nothing in this regard has been announced and so we are considering filing a petition against the PSPCL in court,” Kular added.Mittal said while the states including Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat have already announced relief for the residents, the state government is still in a deep slumber.CICU PRESIDENT SEEKS MAKING PAYMENTS IN INSTALMENTSBesides, Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU) president Upkar Singh Ahuja has also demanded that the state government may allow the industry to make payments in instalments during the financial crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/industrialists-consider-filing-petition-against-pspcl/story-ynzcuHm0WYPYR3YYm9cfwM.html
03-04-2020||Chandigarh||Hospitality industry seeks financial relief from Punjab govt||Facing financial crisis amid lockdown due to the coronavirus outbreak, the Hotels and Restaurant Association of Northern India has demanded a relief package from the state government. Apart from demanding deferment of the last date for making payments, including licence fee payment, the association has also demanded the Goods and Services Tax (GST) and the Value-Added tax (VAT) holiday for a year. Citing a slump in industry in coming years as an after-effect of the lockdown, the association members wrote a letter to chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and the excise and taxation department. They demanded a two-month extension for the renewal of licences in Punjab. They also demanded that the state government should waive-off the excise fee for the next six months. The members further said that the validity of licence fee paid for the 2020-21 be extended till September 30, 2021. They asked the state government to defer the payment of loans and compensate 50 percent of the salaries. In addition to this, they also asked the government to waive-off the fixed electricity charges.Association secretary Amarvir Singh said, “Neighbouring states, including Haryana and Himachal Pradesh, have already announced relief for the hospitality industry. They have also extended the dates for renewal of licences.”Singh said the industry is in deep crisis and it is suspected that it will also have to bear the after-effects of this lockdown in the next few years. “Therefore, to save the industry from further slump, we have sought relief from the state government,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hospitality-industry-seeks-financial-relief-from-state-govt/story-g53myBqbnEO0BcQUMAyp8H.html
03-04-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus outbreak: 84 who attended Bhai Nirmal Singh’s event in Chandigarh quarantined||The municipal corporation’s (MC) contact tracing team on Thursday quarantined 84 people who attended a religious gathering in Sector 27 on March 19 where former Golden Temple hazoori raagi Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa was present.A Padma Shri awardee, 67-year-old Bhai Nirmal Singh was diagnosed with Covid-19 on March 31 after he returned from abroad and complained of breathlessness. He died on Thursday. With his death, Covid-19 deaths in Punjab rose to five.On March 19, Singh was present at a large gathering at the Sector 27 residence of a banquet hall owner, it was learnt. After being alerted by the Amritsar health authorities about the Bhai Nirmal Singh’s presence at the city, the Chandigarh contact tracing team started contacting people who attended the event.“We have quarantined 84 contacts, who attended the religious ceremony, including 14 members of one house in Sector 27 and others in Sectors 18, 33, 36,” said a senior MC official.Four houses in Sector 27-A have been quarantined.A person living near the banquet hall owner’s house said, “On March 19 there was a roka ceremony of the owner’s son. That’s why a kirtan was held and the raagi called.”The owner owns a banquet hall in Mohali and is also an office bearer of the Association of Banquet Halls, Mohali.What health authorities were concerned about was that a number of events had been organised for the wedding. “A ladies sangeet was held a day after the kirtan, which was followed by the wedding. There were numerous functions which a number of people attended. The house and roads were blocked with vehicles,” said another neighbour.After she heard about the raagi’s death another woman living close to the banquet hall owner’s house called up the police to inform them about the wedding. “A former judicial officer residing in their neighbourhood had advised them to postpone the wedding, but as their (home owner’s) children had come from abroad, they couldn’t change plans at the last moment,” the neighbour said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/coronavirus-outbreak-84-who-attended-bhai-nirmal-singh-s-event-in-chandigarh-quarantined/story-PWM7Pohsc8WZaPZzZPOlEM.html
03-04-2020||Chandigarh||Infected Chandigarh NRI couple’s infant daughter, her grandmother positive||The 10-month-old daughter of the NRI couple from Sector 33 also tested positive for coronavirus disease on Thursday. The NRI man’s 59-year-old mother was also confirmed to have contracted the infection, taking the tricity count to 30.The couple had tested positive on March 30. The results of the man’s father are awaited. The husband-wife duo had arrived at their parents’ house in Sector 33 from Canada on March 13 and got admitted to Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, on March 28. On Wednesday, the NRI woman’s 76-year-old mother and the elderly woman’s 10-year-old granddaughter, both residents of Phase 9, Mohali, had tested positive. All six positive patients are undergoing treatment at GMCH. Results of seven other samples from the city are awaited. Meanwhile, the hospital administration took another sample of Chandigarh’s first positive patient after she completed 14 days in quarantine. The 23-year-old Sector 21 resident had tested positive on March 18, three days after she returned from London on March 15.In Mohali, no fresh case was reported on Thursday. Out of the 103 samples taken from Jagatpura and Dhakoli on Wednesday and Thursday, 25 tested negative, while the remaining results are awaited. A 55-year-old man of Jagatpura had tested positive on Wednesday. He was in direct contact with a 22-year-old resident of Sector 30, Chandigarh, who had returned from Dubai on March 11 and had tested positive for coronavirus on March 27.Civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said the reports of samples from Jagatpura and Dhakoli were crucial as both areas were densely populated, with people staying in close proximity. Meanwhile, the administration has sealed Jagatpura and Dhakoli, and restricted the entry to Phase 9, where the elderly woman and her granddaughter tested positive on Wednesday.Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said three health teams were focusing on Jagatpura in Mohali and Dhakoli in Zirakpur. “We have also collected four samples on Wednesday of people who attended Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area. The results are awaited,” he added.In Panchkula, two days after a 36-year-old staff nurse at the Sector 6 civil hospital tested positive, hospital authorities collected samples of 11 other staff members, including nine nurses and two Class-4 employees. Their families are home quarantined in Chandigarh, Zirakpur and Dera Bassi.The nurse’s mother-in-law, father-in-law, two children and two landlords have tested negative. The nurse had attended to Panchkula’s first case, a 38-year-old salon worker, who lives in Kharak Mangoli village near Sector 2. The woman, who tested positive on March 21, had come in contact with Chandigarh’s first coronavirus patient when the latter visited her in a salon on returning from London. Deputy civil surgeon Dr Saroj Aggarwal said till now 85 people had been sampled of which two tested positive, 55 negative and reports of 18 samples were awaited. As many as 10 samples were rejected. Among the 30 cases in tricity, 18 were confirmed in Chandigarh, 10 in Mohali and two in Panchkula.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/infected-chandigarh-nri-couple-s-infant-daughter-her-grandmother-positive/story-NRa5Yjur8ay4YdzEBarF4K.html
03-04-2020||City||Coronavirus outbreak: Villagers in Mohali use logs, tractors to barricade themselves||As the count of cases testing positive for coronavirus in Mohali reached 10 in the last two weeks, a majority of villages in the district have taken it upon themselves to prevent the spread of infection in their areas.From barricading entry points to restricting the entry of outsiders, including vendors, the village elders have deputed youngsters in shifts to keep vigil. Large boards at the entry points, sealed using ropes, carts, even tractor-trolleys, announce entry prohibition.Nobody from the village is allowed to go out either.Sarpanch of Manauli village, Zora Singh, says, “We have fixed the timings of vegetable and milk vendors. For the migrant workers and tenants, we are providing them dry ration, but entry and exit points are completely sealed.”Ajmer Singh, sarpanch of Daun village, says, “We have even banned the entry of vegetable vendors till April 5. But we are facing problems with migrant workers, who do not stay inside despite warnings.”“Besides ration, milk and other essentials, tenants and labourers in the village are also given cooked food arranged by the local gurdwara,” adds Ajmer Singh.The Chilla village, too, has closed its doors to the outside world. Sarpanch Karamjeet Singh Chilla says, “We are taking special care of our village elders. And every third day, the entire village is sanitised.”When contacted, Mohali’s sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Jagdeep Sehgal said, “Most of the villages have banned entry and exit. We had asked the sarpanches to take the lead and they are doing it.”24 VILLAGES IN KHARAR, DERA BASSI SEALEDIn Kharar and Dera Bassi, 24 villages have taken permission from the authorities to seal their entry points.“I have been getting requests from villages seeking permission to seal the entry points. More and more panchayats are coming forward to do so. And we are allowing them,” said Himashu Jain, SDM, Kharar.“So far, the requests we have received are from the panchayats of those villages with higher numbers of people under quarantine. This initiative of the panchayats will help check the spread, especially in villages, but we have given clear instructions that essential services must not be stopped,” said Kuldeep Bawa, SDM Dera Bassi.The residents of Landran village in Mohali, too, have self-quarantined by sealing the entry and exit of the village from all the sides using logs and cars. Gurpreet Singh Gill, a social worker of the village, says, “Residents are not allowed to come out of their houses and they have been advised to remain indoors till April 15. Village volunteers have constituted teams to supply household items at doorstep when required.”NEED TO KEEP FAMILIES SAFE“We have even sealed the internal roads leading to different mohallas to check movement of the residents. If we are to save our families, we have to do this,” said Kulwinder Saini, an engineering graduate of Chhat village.A man from his village, suspected of attending the religious congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin West locality between March 13 to 15, has been kept in an isolation ward, and his family of 15 has been home-quarantined in Chhat. ON THE FLIP SIDERavinder Singh, who works in a hospital in Kharar, says, “The youths at village nakas are bullying and threatening people, and not letting anyone enter even if we have a valid curfew pass issued by the district administration.”“Vegetable sellers and milkmen are also being stopped even though authorities have assured that supply of essential commodities will not be disrupted,” adds Jasbir Singh of Palheri village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/villagers-in-mohali-use-logs-tractors-to-barricade-themselves/story-9jjZbqG9XYHkchjxTg1DPL.html
03-04-2020||Chandigarh||Week on, 161 apply for advance withdrawal of PF savings in Ludhiana||A week after the relaxation of rules by the labour ministry for withdrawing from provident fund (PF) accounts to fight the Covid-19 pandemic, 161 district residents have applied for advance withdrawal from their PF savings with the Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) regional office.At present, the regional office covers around 3 lakh subscribers of the provident fund scheme.Besides health issues, the pandemic has also brought financial troubles for many residents who are confined to their homes amid the lockdown. The government had taken the move in view of more individuals using their savings and borrowing money from their friends and families.EPFO regional commissioner Dheeraj Gupta said “Normally, an EPF withdrawal process takes between one to two weeks. To date, 161 advance claims have been received at the Ludhiana regional office. We are trying to settle these claims on auto mode and send money to the beneficiaries’ accounts within three working days,” adding that the regional office is, however, not receiving any physical claims.“People can only apply online. We are not accepting any physical claims in the wake of coronavirus outbreak. People are advised to use the UMANG app to apply for advance withdrawal of PF. They can also access their passbook and check the balance,” he added.WHAT THE NOTIFICATION SAYSAs per the gazette notification, EPFO subscribers can either withdraw 75% of their savings or up to a maximum of three months’ basic pay and dearness allowance from their PF accounts, whichever is lower. Once a subscriber withdraws the amount, it cannot be replenished after the situation improves.People who are KYC compliant and have seeded their UAN (Universal Account Number) with the Aadhaar card and their bank account can make their request online or through the UMANG app.While applying for the claim online, one needs to select the option of ‘Outbreak of Pandemic (COVID-19)’ from the given options.BOXTAKE NOTEPeople who are KYC compliant and have seeded their UAN (Universal Account Number) with the Aadhaar card and their bank account can make their request online or through the UMANG appNo certificate or documents are to be submitted by the EPF member or by his or her employer for availing the advanceAny member of the EPF Scheme, 1952, employed in any establishment or factory covered under the EPF and MP Act, 1952, and having a UAN, is eligible to apply for the advance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/week-on-161-apply-for-advance-withdrawal-of-pf-savings-in-ludhiana/story-UMv3tg58rCPp2iOOYhvOyH.html
03-04-2020||City||Coronavirus in Mohali, Panchkula: Vegetable vendors give masks, gloves a go-by||/Despite officers of the district administration and police repeatedly asking shopkeepers and vegetable vendors to wear masks and gloves, and ensure social distancing, these directions are not being adhered to.In Mohali, on checking Sectors 76 to 80, it was found that most vegetable vendors are not taking necessary precautions to prevent the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Even buyers are not maintaining distance.A vegetable vendor in Sector 79, Rakesh Kumar, who was not taking requisite precautions, said gloves and masks are not available in chemist shops.Kumar said he always ask people to maintain distance while shopping.On March 27, the district administration allowed 100 vendors to carry essential supplies from Phases 1 to 11 and Sectors 68, 69, and 70 in Mohali. Six teams were deployed for effective supervision.Area councilor of Sector 80, Surinder Singh said, they are instructing vendors to take necessary precautions time and again. But, they will not adhere to directions till strict action is taken, he said.Additional deputy commissioner (ADC), Mohali - Aashika Jain said, “Our teams are already supervising them, but, it is also the duty of residents to take precautions. Teams cannot be present everywhere.”SIMILAR STATE OF AFFAIRS IN PANCHKULAIn Panchkula, the district administration has authorised around 480 vendors for supplying fruits and vegetables. However, there is no check on if precautionary measures are being followed by them.Almost none of the vendors were wearing gloves, blatantly ignoring the administration’s instructions.Markets wore a deserted look, with only chemists and departmental shops being open.Some vendors who setup their stalls near the markets were found without masks or gloves. Most visiting sectors for door-to-door supply did not follow necessary precautionary measures either.Rakesh Aggarwal, a resident of Sector 12 and member, Panchkula Vikas Manch, said, “Vendors on streets are not wearing gloves and masks, and not maintaining distance from buyers. Moreover, people surround them as if everything is normal. There is no check by the administration on if precautionary measures are being followed.”Payal Gupta, a resident of Sector 4 said, “Vendors visiting the locality are not wearing masks or gloves. They don’t use sanitisers either, which increases risk of contracting infection. Authorities should provide them with basic kits.”The Panchkula Marketing Board has issued identity cards to authorised vendors, permitting them to move their tractor-trailers and carts carrying vegetables in the city till April 15.The board’s secretary, Dharamender Pal said, “Instructions were issued to vendors to use sanitisers, gloves and masks. We are receiving several complaints related to them overcharging and not following precautionary measures. We are taking action on basis of complaints. So far, we have cancelled permits of four vendors.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-in-mohali-panchkula-vegetable-vendors-give-masks-gloves-a-go-by/story-ZN5tjqfzrQNtlbJGmj0FmL.html
03-04-2020||Chandigarh||26-year-old Chandigarh woman first to be discharged in tricity||Tired, but in high spirits, this is how a 26-year-old London-based medical practitioner, the first patient to be discharged from hospital in the tricity, described her feelings after walking out of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Institution and Research (PGIMER) late on April 1 (Wednesday) night. Admitted to the isolation ward on March 20, she was discharged after two consecutive negative reports.The Sector-19 resident, however, had shown maturity when she decided to go straight to the hospital from the airport. She recognised the symptoms, as she had been treating people with the disease at the London hospital, where she worked; she had also lost a colleague to the virus.“I had never felt so unwell in my life. It started with high fever, breathlessness and ultimately led to sensory loss of smell and taste,” she says, adding that it was her passion to serve patients that gave her the strength to endure the suffering.“I decided to isolate for me, my family and all others more vulnerable. The disease can hit anyone and we must follow advisories religiously. My family was quarantined at home,” she adds.On the course of treatment, she says, “The schedule was taking a paracetamol and sleeping; after a time, it got exhausting, even as I had my laptop with me. Most days, I slept 18 hours a day.”She adds, “The disease is different from other flus. I had diarrhoea, severe abdomen pain, chest congestion, breathlessness and even headache. At one point of time, I felt I was about to die. However, I sailed through with courage.”She is all praise for health workers, saying that they were making huge sacrifices. “The PGIMER staff was cooperative and always available for help,” she said, adding that the large majority of persons who do contract the disease were not going to die.“One needs to consult and believe verified sources of information. Venture out, only if important. Our parents and grandparents can suffer due to our mistake,” she says, adding that even in her sector there was some panic after she tested positive, but she put it down to people not knowing much about the virus. “There is nothing to panic, but one must be aware that anyone can be impacted.” Even now, at home, she is maintaining some distance from family members and says this is a change that most households must inculcate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/26-year-old-chandigarh-woman-first-to-be-discharged-in-tricity/story-ZbWcDNHFzvqHxJZDZVqsdM.html
03-04-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus in Chandigarh: PGIMER awaits 10,000 PPE||Even as the UT administration has decided to use the extension block of Nehru Hospital of Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) as a dedicated facility for treating coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients, the institute has been struggling to procure good quality personal protection equipment (PPE) amid the country-wide shortage.PPE refers to protective clothing, helmets, gloves, face shields, goggles, face masks and/or respirators or other equipment designed to protect the wearer from injury or the spread of infection or illness.The institute has placed the order for more than 10,000 PPEs in order to deal with the increase in cases. The UT administration on Wednesday had decided that those who test positive will be shifted from the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, and Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, to the PGIMER.Senior UT officials have said that the decision was taken keeping in view the shortage of PPEs and also for judicious use of other equipment.PGIMER director Dr Jagat Ram said that they have placed orders for the good quality PPEs, however due to country wide shortage they have not been able to procure them in large quantity. “Procuring good quality PPEs which are used in the clinical settings, and act as a barrier between infectious materials and skin, mouth, nose, or eyes, is a challenge. We have roped in many suppliers which are approved by the government of India, but so far they haven’t been able to deliver. We have enough budget to buy the equipment but the problem is that there is a country-wide shortage,” he said.FACILITIES AT INSTITUTEThe institute has created a facility of 60 beds in the Nehru Hospital extension block where Covid positive patients from all city hospitals will be shifted and kept under observation.“The third floor of the hospital in which 60 beds have been kept for Covid-19 patients in the initial phase, whereas on the fourth floor, 15 ventilators will be there in the intensive care area. Similarly in the second phase, if the patient number increases, other wards on the second and fourth floors will be opened,” Dr Ashok Kumar, official spokesperson said.DOCTORS WARY OF SHIFTING PATIENTSMeanwhile, Association of Resident Doctors, PGIMER, has said that the transferring of all the stable Covid positive patients at this stage poses the risk of bringing them out of effective isolation with great risk of infection to all those involved in transport, their families and neighbours. To carry out this exercise on a daily basis with the diagnosis of fresh cases increases this risk manifold, they said.Association president Uttam Thakur said, “Once the limited number of beds in the Nehru Extension block are occupied by stable, non-oxygen requiring patients on account of mass transfers, there will be a paucity of beds and manpower for the management of the sick COVID positive patients.”“Feasibility of vacant and almost ready hospitals of UT, like the one in Sector 48, to convert it into a Covid hospital should be considered. The entire medical fraternity with nursing staff can be included for rotational postings,” said Thakur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/coronavirus-in-chandigarh-pgimer-awaits-10-000-ppe/story-FJst9drvFTS64Oz0s1d7bM.html
03-04-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus in Chandigarh: Doctors log online to check up on chronically ill patients needing care||They too are suffering from life-threatening diseases, but people with cancer and heart and kidney disorders have been unable to connect easily with the tricity lockdown restricting movement and hospitals focusing solely on combating the Covid-19 pandemic. Many doctors, most of them in private hospitals, are doing their best to offer online consultations or relying on WhatsApp to check up on follow-up cases.The curfew imposed by the UT administration from March 24 was relaxed later, allowing one member of a family to walk to shops close by to buy groceries, vegetables and medicines. For chronically ill patients, however, no such window other than emergency cases was given to visit a doctor or hospital.“I have multiple health issues, with heart, knee and neurological problems. Some of my tests for heart ailments are pending and I was due for a hospital visit, but it has been put off because of the curfew. Some doctors like my cardiologist are kind enough to offer advice on the phone, but others aren’t,” says Madhukar Verma, a Panchkula resident. REGULAR MEDICAL ATTENTION NECESSARY“Stopping the spread of the Covid-19 is top priority, but patients who are already sick and need medical attention on a regular basis have to consult doctors even though they do not have to be admitted in emergency. A large number of such patients were visiting hospitals before the curfew was imposed. The government has to work out a way for them too,” said Dr Ramneek Singh Bedi, director, Bedi Hospital and advisor, World Medical Association.Many patients had problems reaching hospitals even though they required treatment urgently. One-on-one consultation was necessary for them with doctors, who then decided if immediate treatment was required. “For instance, if a patient has been unable to pass urine, then a doctor has to decide whether emergency treatment is required or not,” said Sandeepan Beri, general manager, Indus Hospitals. “For this, a patient’s medical checkup is necessary. But many of them are not able to reach hospitals because of curfew restrictions,” said Beri.When asked to comment on the matter, Manoj Kumar Parida, UT adviser, said, “Our doctors have been told to go for medical consultation and advice to patients through video calls in non- serious cases during curfew. List of doctors and timing is being finalised.”Bedi, however, insists on physical examinations as “only preliminary advice can be given on phone, but doctors can miss many symptoms.”TELE-MEDICINE, ONLINE CHECKUP AND VIDEO CONSULTATIONSDoctors in the meantime were doing everything possible to stay connected with patients through telephone and online mediums.“I am in touch on phone with follow-up patients and others and giving them advice. Our emergency services are open round the clock,” said Dr Rohit Parti, cardiologist, Alchemist Hospital, Sector 21, Panchkula.Many medicos were relying on WhatsApp to assess the condition of patients. Dr Pradeep Aggarwal, director, orthopedics and joint replacement, Paras Hospitals, Panchkula, said, “Patients can call and share their reports, and older prescriptions on WhatsApp. They are free to call me at a time of their choosing.”Ivy Hospital, Mohali, and Ojas Hospital, Panchkula, were also offering tele-OPD facilities. “We are available online for consultation and only calling patients to hospital in case investigations were absolutely necessary,” said a Fortis spokesperson.“Chemotherapy, radiotherapy, dialysis and obstetric services cannot be stopped and, therefore, are continuing as before. The number of emergency cases such as surgeries, angioplasties, trauma cases, etc has gone up as many hospitals are shut,” he added.A new start-up, Ayu Health, is offering video consultation with its doctors across all medical specialties in the tricity. “Patients can talk to their doctors through a video link without stepping out of their homes,” said, Arjit Gupta, co-founder at Ayu Health.Max Hospital has also started video-consultations with doctors with appointments and payments made online.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/coronavirus-in-chandigarh-doctors-log-online-to-check-up-on-chronically-ill-patients-needing-care/story-bWBfDQRKfvv8MrRX8Dr1RP.html
03-04-2020||Chandigarh||For Chandigarh students, online classes off to a wobbly start||Vineet Sharma, a student in a private school in the city, just began his online non-medical classes for class 11 on Monday. The new experience for him is replete with uncertainty and disorder amid jumping from one online tutorial to another for three main subjects—Physics, Maths and Chemistry. A discouraged Sharma said he was unable to grasp anything.“Today was the fourth day of my online class, but I am unable to understand the concepts they teach. Many times, my teacher has connectivity issues while my network is not great either. It’s chaotic and confusing,” he said. Educational institutions as well as students are still in the process finding their way around the new platform of teaching. Online classes in the tricity are facing snags due to lack of preparedness and proper infrastructure. Almost all city colleges, Panjab University and Chandigarh’s private schools have started online classrooms, but students say the teaching needs to be more methodical and systematic. In the absence of curriculum and methodology, these virtual classrooms are not up to the mark, with insubstantial infrastructure and poor internet connectivity further contribute to its inefficacy.“It is treated as just a stop-gap mechanism, which may be why it isn’t giving the desired result. In our school, not every teacher has to take a class. We have just asked them to revise difficult subjects so students don’t waste this time they have on their hands,” said a principal of a private school in UT. These online classes are being conducted via audio-visual mode through mobile apps like Zoom, Skype, Hangouts, YouTube, Google Classroom and WhatsApp. Many teachers who are unable to use these means are sharing self-created study material in the form of PDFs, documents and PowerPoint presentations, e-mail and digital platforms such as Swayam NPTEl, e-PG Pathshala, eGyankosh and MOOC.org.Sunita Kumari, a student at Post Graduate Government College, Sector 46, said, “When I left for home, I forgot to take my books in the PG facility. Now, I am worried that if we have to take exams when college reopens, what will I do?” “The only hope is online classes, but the study matter is insufficient”, she added.Elaborating on the issues that students are facing, Priya Chadda of Goswami Ganesh Dutta Sanatan Dharma College, said, “Some students staying in the hostel had to leave the city in a hurry, and so left behind many of their books. While others living in remote areas are finding it difficult to use the online (LX) module due to slow internet connection.”ATTENDANCE NOT MANDATORYAjay Kumar, a teacher at PGGC for Girls in Sector 11, said, “Currently, we can’t have a categorical check on attendance because of the digital divide as well as the strength of the internet connection for e-learning.”Pooja Garg, a teacher at PGGC Sector 46, said attendance was not compulsory as not all students had access to the internet. “And yet, the response is pretty good. The only problem is that all students don’t have a connection,” she said.Meanwhile, there are no online classes for government school students, said Alka Mehta, district education officer (DEO).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/for-chandigarh-students-online-classes-off-to-a-wobbly-start/story-UztLP3ngVD1FrjzyvO3XvN.html
03-04-2020||Chandigarh||PU to train 60 teachers from 9 varsities in online teaching techniques from April 4||Panjab University (PU) is all set conduct a seven-day training programme for teachers on online teaching techniques from Saturday amid the coronavirus lockdown.More than 60 teachers from nine universities across the country, including Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU), Amritsar, Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU), Rohtak, Punjabi University, Patiala, and Pune University will take part in the programme.It will be organised through Zoom cloud and teachers will be oriented about the usage of Google Classroom and teaching interactions through Zoom cloud and other related software.PU dean education professor Jatinder Grover, said, “As educational institutes across the country are shut due to the coronavirus outbreak, it is the need of an hour to apprise teachers of the procedures of online teaching. Since majority of the teachers are not fully aware about using online platforms, this online programme is being conducted.”A PU senator said, “Both students and teachers are finding it difficult to switch from classrooms to online mode. Some teachers do not have their teaching materials with them and they are not even familiar with online teaching modes.”During the course, experts from National Institute of Educational Planning and Administration, Ambedkar University, Delhi, Dr BR Ambedkar University, Delhi, and Panjab University, Chandigarh, will speak on usage of online platforms in an effective manner. An expert from the McGill University, Canada, will deliver a special lecture. PU vice-chancellor Raj Kumar said, “The online teaching procedures will be shared during this faculty development programme and it will enhance the professional abilities of the teachers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pu-to-train-60-teachers-from-9-varsities-in-online-teaching-techniques-from-april-4/story-LiP7wGStwnmjHROlZG4ozL.html
03-04-2020||Chandigarh||93 FIRs in 11 days, Ludhiana gives two hoots to curfew||With curfew in Punjab entering the 11th day on Thursday, the Ludhiana police had remained on its toes taking action against those violating the orders. As many as 93 FIR’s were registered against such violators in the last few days. Another 250 violators were locked in open jails and were later let off with a warning on Thursday.From loitering around to standing in groups for no reason or simply sauntering the streets at a time when the novel coronavirus pandemic has claimed one life, the violators, mostly youth, were nabbed for giving two hoots to police’s warning. Only uniformed police personnel, paramilitary forces, health services, government officers, officials on duty, delivery staff and vendors are exempted to move around during the curfew for discharge of their official duties.To deal with the violators of the orders related to the lockdown, four open jails have been set up temporarily in Ludhiana, including New SD School, 33 feet Bahadurke Road, Indoor Stadium on Pakhowal Road, Guru Nanak Stadium and Valmiki Bhawan in Moti Nagar Ludhiana. Agrawal added that four open jails have been set up in Ludhiana city for the violators, and similarly such open jails would also be set up at Khanna and Jagraon.A police official on curfew duty narrated the experience and said that whenever police rounds these youth up, they start making excuses that they are out to buy groceries, vegetables etc.“After it is verified that the person is telling a lie, we lodge them in open jails. Everyone is advised to stay at home and only those who have a purpose to go out, or are on duty can venture out,” said the cop.Agrawal informed that the work related to distribution of essential commodities is going on smoothly in the entire district. He assured that the district administration would assure the supply of essential commodities to everyone at doorstep so that no one suffers.Appeal to doctors denying treatmentTaking serious note of reports that some private hospitals are denying admission to the patients, the deputy commissioner appealed to the doctors to help the patients by offering them treatment. He said that it is not necessary that every sick patient is suffering from COVID 19. So that is why, no private hospital should deny admission to sick patients.Migrants have stopped from going to parent stateAgrawal stated the migration by labourers to their parent state has now stopped now as they have come to know that not only Punjab, but even Haryana, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh have sealed their borders. He informed that shelter homes have been set up by the district administration, where such persons are provided shelter, food and medical aid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/93-firs-in-11-days-ludhiana-gives-two-hoots-to-curfew/story-WKAnHnXijJWQWo04dBP8SI.html
03-04-2020||Chandigarh||12 lakh farmers in Haryana to get loan moratorium benefit||About 12 lakh farmers from Haryana will benefit from the three-month deferment of the date to pay farm loan interest or instalments. This would be applicable to farmers who took loans from co-operative or commercial banks.Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Wednesday announced to extend the date for repayment of crop loans by farmers to June 30. The decision was taken in accordance with the directions of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to mitigate the burden of debt servicing brought about by disruptions on account of coronavirus crisis.Haryana agriculture department officials said there were about 25 lakh beneficiaries of the farm loans availed from the co-operative and commercial bank in the state.About 12.37 lakh farmers who took a loan from primary agricultural societies (PACS) will not get the benefit of deferred loan payment as February 29 was the last date of payment, officials said.Those who would qualify for the benefit include about 11 lakh farmers who took loans from commercial banks under the Kisan Credit Card (KCC) scheme. They would get an extension till June and can avail three% interest subvention if they repay within the stipulated period of three months from the due date, officials said.In addition, there are 85,000 farmers who had taken loans of about ₹2,900 crore from the district central co-operative banks. They would get an extension until September.Officials said the matter of deferring loan payment for about 7,000 farmers who have taken loans worth ₹45 crore from Land Development Bank is also being considered by the state government.The RBI on March 27 had communicated to the banks and financial institutions that in respect of all term loans (including agricultural term loans, retail and crop loans), all commercial banks including regional rural banks, small finance banks and local area banks, co-operative banks, all-India financial institutions, and NBFCs including housing finance companies are permitted to grant a three-month moratorium on payment of all installments due between March 1 and May 31.The RBI also said that the repayment schedule for such loans as also the residual tenor (the length of time until the loan is due), will be shifted across the board by three months after the moratorium period. However, interest will continue to accrue on the outstanding portion of the term loans during the moratorium period, the RBI communication said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/12-lakh-farmers-in-haryana-to-get-loan-moratorium-benefit/story-hhnCwKAvzNifKau6pUWULL.html
03-04-2020||City||Covid effect: Up to 50% dip in veggie prices worries Haryana farmers||Within a week, the lockdown has hit the business of Haryana vegetable growers and dairy farmers by almost snapping the supply chain. Though the government has made it clear that there will be no restriction on the supply of essential items, especially vegetables, ration and milk, while fixing the time for vegetable markets to operate — 4.30am to 9.30am — daily, farmers are alleging that due to the lockdown, wholesale prices of most of the vegetables have crashed up to 50%. As per farmers, people are unable to buy directly from them and they have to sell their produce to limited number of vendors, which they say has led to fall in prices. Sushil Kumar, a farmer from Radaur in Yamunanagar, said, “Nowadays, price of cauliflower is Rs 10/kg and it is being sold at Rs 18/kg against Rs 24-27 per kg before the lockdown.”Another farmer Jasvinder Singh from Kheri Dabdlan in Kurukshetra said, “Due to restrictions in vegetable markets, prices have crashed. We had to sell cucumber at Rs 14/kg on Thursday, which fetched up to Rs 30/kg before the lockdown.” Meanwhile, officials of the state agriculture marketing board said there was no impact of the lockdown on the wholesale prices of vegetables as farmers were allowed to sell their produce through commission agents.“The produce of local farmers is procured in open auction and the prices of vegetables depend on the quantity and quality,” said Jasbir Singh, mandi secretary of Kurukshetra district. DAIRY FARMERS STARE AT LOSSESAs procurement agencies have also reduced the prices of milk, dairy farmers are staring at losses with the wholesale rate of milk dropping up to Rs 10 per litre. “The government procurement agency, Vita, has reduced its prices for the third time since March 21 and now it has come down to Rs 63/l for 100% fat milk from Rs 70, besides Rs 5 bonus per litre,” said a dairy farmer in Yamunanagar, Prem Chand. Ranjit Singh, a procurement manager at Haryana dairy development cooperative federation (Vita), said, “The demand has dropped as we are able to sell only 5,000 litre per day against 20,000 litre before the lockdown. We don’t even have enough containers to keep the remaining 95,000 liters of milk we procure daily as there is almost no demand of milk products like khoya, cheese, curd and kheer.”POTATO GROWERS’ GAINHowever, potato growers are happy as they claimed that the lockdown did not cast any major impact on the prices, but increased the demand of potatoes. “Traders bought our produce even from the field at Rs 12/kg against the previous Rs 15/kg. But this deal cut our transportation cost and the payment was made on the spot,” said Darsan Lal, a potato grower from Ladwa in Kurukshetra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-effect-up-to-50-dip-in-veggie-prices-worries-haryana-farmers/story-LgaN6c0gHbGvCBeqXX4rJK.html
03-04-2020||Chandigarh||Death of 2 women sends alarm bells ringing in Ludhiana, test negative for Covid-19||Deaths of two women admitted in the Corona ICU of Christian Medical College and Hospital on Thursday sent alarm bells ringing in the health department with officials suspecting that they had died of the novel coronavirus. However, later in the evening, the civil surgeon clarified that the women had tested negative for the virus.The deceased were identified as Nisha, 27, and Sudama, 46.While Nisha was a resident of Harkrishan Vihar in Meharban area, Sudama was residing in Bazigar Mohalla at Rohoan road. According to the health department, both patients were rushed to the civil hospital on Wednesday morning and admitted in the isolation ward of the hospital. Their health deteriorated in the afternoon and were rushed to CMCH but they died during treatment.Confirming the death of two women civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said both patients who died in CMC&H have tested negative for COVID-19.Nisha was suffering from cold fever and breathlessness for past three days, while Sudama, a diabetic, was also facing similar symptoms when she was admitted in the civil hospital.CITY’S FIRST COVID CASUALTY’S SONS TEST NEGATIVEMeanwhile, the two sons of Puja, the first Covid- 19 casualty of the city, have also tested negative.Confirming this, district epidemiologist Dr Divjot Singh said that both sons of Puja were tested negative.On Wednesday, Puja’s daughter and relatives, including her sisters, were tested negative of Covid-19.Puja’s sons had accompanied her on Sunday to the civil hospital and thereafter they had taken their mother to ESI and then Rajindra Hospital Patiala. Both of them had been quarantined at the isolation ward and even made a failed attempt to escape on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/death-of-2-women-sends-alarm-bells-ringing-in-ludhiana-test-negative-for-covid-19/story-OoVZpOwHp3Ek30x8xDCB6N.html
03-04-2020||Delhi||Shortage at some of Delhi’s food camps, excess at others||The free lunch and dinner programme that is being run by the Delhi government for nearly a week now, has grown to 2800 centres across the city. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on (Wednesday), that the Delhi government served lunch to 5,85,386 and dinner to 5,79,162 people at around 1,423 centres.“We are feeding 3.5 lakh-4 lakh people daily until now, and we will start feeding 10-12 lakh people from tomorrow. We found out that people were crowding at the food centres. So we decided to create more centres,” he added in a videoconference. Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicOn Thursday, Hindustan Times reporters visited about a dozen of the centres set up by the Delhi government and found that a few facilities were out of food. And that some remain crowded. Some of the centres are in shelters run by the state. Others are in schools. According to Sujit Kumar, caretaker of one of the bigger shelters run by the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) in Sarai Kale Khan, lunch and dinner are prepared for around 500 persons twice a day, but on Thursday 600-700 people turned up for lunch. “There are two more centres in the nearby colonies, both of which are within walking distance and have fewer takers. But because this centre falls along the main road, a lot of people turn up.We have asked for an increase in our supplies, “ he added.Similarly, the Kalindi Kunj centre, which again doubles up as a shelter cooks for around 50 people a day, but in the last 3-4 days, 60-70 persons have started turning up for each meal. “Some have to return hungry,” said Afzal Khan, caretaker.But, at other centres in Ghazipur, Patparganj and Mayur Vihar Phase 2, there was excess food. “We do not use the same meal for dinner since it is getting warm . So we ask our civil defence volunteers to go and distribute the left over food in the nearby colonies. Today also we have a lot of Rajma and rice left,” said Ravi Chandran, an official from the Delhi government’s education department who is overseeing the arrangements in a school in Ghazipur which has been turned into a centre. The hunger relief centre in Vasant Vihar’s C block is in a school in a quiet residential lane inside a colony were most gates have been closed because there are no guards to man them, although the school itself is in a part of the block that doesn’t have access gates. Like in some of the other hunger camps, there have been complaints of social distancing norms not being maintained in this camp. A park in front of the school has also become a place for those who come to the camp to hang out, before or after meals. The government has set up two more centres at Kusum Pahari and Bhawar Singh Camp to cater to the poor in Vasant Vihar. In Mayur Vihar Phase 1, the food centre at Janki Devi SKV school in the area no longer serves as one because it is located in a gated residential area. School authorities said the food was transferred to another government school in the nearby Chilla village.At the centres at AIIMS, and the one at Yamna Pushta, there was no shortage. Both are in shelters and at the latter, close to 1,000 people are served two meals a day. Vinay K Stephen, chief functionary, Sadik Masih Medical Social Servant Society (SMMSSS), which manages some of the shelters said, “After the government has opened new centres to provide food too migrant and poor people, there is not much pressure on the shelter homes now. We are providing food to close to 3000 people daily. We are just hoping that the government will release the payment soon, as we are running out of funds.” Nearly 2,500 schools and 250-night shelters have started distributing food to 500 people a day, each bringing the total number of distribution centres to nearly 2,800. In central Delhi’s Rajendra Nagar, Ramesh Yadav, 43 who was brought to a shelter by the police four days ago, said that he doesn’t mind staying there as long as he gets more to eat. “We are labourers and are used to eating three meals a day. Here there is nothing in the morning. The first meal comes around mid-day a small bowl of khichdi or dal-rice. The quantity is too less. Another meal comes at 7 pm, which again is not enough,” said Yadav, who is one of the 41people staying in this Delhi government school that has been converted into a shelter.He added that the policemen picked him up when he was walking back to his rented accommodation in Paharganj from the Anand Vihar ISBT, after failing to catch a bus to go back to his village in Uttar Pradesh. “There are eight of us here from the same area. I just want to request the authorities to let us go back to the room where we can cook and feed ourselves or give us enough to eat,” said Yadav, who stitches bags at a workshop in Paharganj for a living.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shortage-at-some-of-delhi-s-food-camps-excess-at-others/story-3q2Q3GIff9vxeAkpbheC2K.html
03-04-2020||Mumbai||Seven deaths, 88 more cases in Maha; count rises to 423||Maharashtra recorded 88 coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases on Thursday and seven deaths, the highest in a day, as the state revved up its machinery to combat the pandemic, including sealing off high-risk areas and aggressively applying the 3-T formula (trace, test and treat) for suspected cases.As of Thursday, Maharashtra’s coronavirus case tally stood at 423, the highest in the country. Of the new cases, 54 are in Mumbai, 11 in Pune, 9 in Ahmednagar, 9 in MMR (excluding Mumbai), two in Aurangabad, one each in Satara, Osmanabad and Buldhana. The state health department, however, said the number includes cases diagnosed by private laboratories over the past few days and which were confirmed by the state on Thursday. Of the state’s 20 deaths, 17 are in Mumbai, while Pune, Buldhana and MMR (excluding Mumbai) reported a death each. “The total new cases in Mumbai today are 17, while the remaining were from the past few days. Most of them are from private aboratories. State authorities have confirmed them today,” said an official from the state health department.Of the deaths, one was of a 61-year-old male at Nair hospital with underlying illness of blood cancer. Another 58-year-old male patient, who died in Sion hospital, had high blood pressure and was admitted to the hospital on March 29. Another 58-year male patient died in a private hospital. A 63-year male patient died in Kasturba hospital.The spike in cases, which has been attributed majorly to the Tablighi Jamaat programme, has forced the state government to press the alarm button. The state government has asked local authorities — district collectors and municipal commissioners — to identify areas where there is a high risk for Covid-19 spread and contain them. Tope said the state government has identified 1,300 of the 1,400 people linked to the programme and they have been kept in isolation. “We have traced them to their respective districts after we received a list from the Centre. We have all details about them and the people who came in contact with them,” he said.During a video conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray apprised him about the major decisions being taken by the state government. Modi hinted at not extending the 21-day lockdown period beyond April 14. When Thackeray asked about how the states should maintain the situation after the 21-day lockdown, Modi said that the state government should not lift the lockdown immediately from April 15, but it should happen in phases and depending on the severity of the outbreak in the state.The Prime Minister also advised states to desist from announcing relief packages to gain publicity. “Don’t announce the packages to gain publicity. This is a serious fight and there should be co-ordination among all states. It may be given publicity in newspapers for few days, but the corona crisis is much bigger in reality,” said the PM. Apart from chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, the video conference was attended by Tope, home minister Anil Deshmukh, environment and tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray and state government officials.Tope added that the Prime Minister has also asked the state to focus more on tracing, tracking, testing, and treatment. “The PM has asked us to use drones, GPS or any other technology to track the movement of quarantined people to prevent the spread of coronavirus,” said Tope, adding that the PM has asked the state to observe strict curfew in containment areas without any lapse.Thursday saw 648 more people admitted with the coronvirus symptoms. Until Thursday, 10,873 tests have been conducted in various laboratories, of which, 10,280 have tested negative, while 423 are positive. 42 patients have been discharged from the hospitals, while 38,244 are home quarantined. 2,138 are in institutional quarantine.Of the 1,062 people who had links with the Tablighi Jamaat programme organised in a masjid in Nizamuddin in Delhi, 890 have been identified and 576 from them have been admitted in isolation wards. Four of them — two each from Pimpri-Chinchwad and Ahmednagar — have tested positive. Meanwhile, Maharashtra has set up 30 new hospitals dedicated to treating Covid-19 patients, with a total bed capacity of 2,305. Tope said the total capacity of the sample tests for coronavirus has increased to 5,000 a day. The Central government has also been requested for an adequate supply of equipment required for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. According to officials from the health department, the Central government is not supplying Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits, N-95 masks in adequate numbers. Against the demand of one lakh masks and PPEs, the Maharashtra got only about 2,000, a couple of days ago.The minister said, “We have sought availability of PPE kits, N-95 masks, ventilators as quality equipment were not available in the market. We will not play with the safety of our healthcare workers, therefore, we will need to augment the capacity of the manufacturing of these machines and devices or give encouragement to the manufacturer to set up [units] at a new place,” Tope said.Despite repeated appeals, people are flocking to vegetable markets and grocery shops, for which the state government is expected to take drastic steps. After shutting down vegetable markets that saw crowding in the past few days, the state government is expected to tweak its policy for grocery shops and departmental stores. State health minister Tope hinted that the state is considering keeping the markets and shops open on alternate days, so as to reduce the crowds at these places.The state government has once again appealed to migrant workers to not attempt to travel to their respective states and assured to take care of their stay, meals and health services. There are about 3.25 lakh migrants, including workers, employees and students, put up in 3,000 shelters that have been set up across the state.On Thursday, five new cases of Covid-19 were reported from Kalyan and Dombivli, taking the total number of positive cases to 19 in the twin cities.Of the five, three attended the wedding in Dombivli on March 19. One from Dombivli (East) was infected after coming in contact with them. Kalyan has reported one case.The four people from Dombivli are at Kasturba Hospital in Mumbai and the one from Kalyan has been admitted to a private hospital.Out of the 19 cases, seven have been traced to the wedding in Dombivli, which was attended by a 25-year-old infected man who had come from Turkey.Kalyan has three positive cases till now and one has recovered after treatment, said civic officials.The Dombivli police have prepared a list of those who attended the wedding and have asked the civic body to trace them.“Most parts of Dombivli (East) have been sealed. We have also stopped the entry and exit of private vehicles. We are continuously surveying all buildings in which people tested positive were found and also sending those suspected for testing,” said a civic official.Thane reported two Covid-19 positive cases on Thursday.The 48-year-old general practitioner who tested positive does not have any travel history and Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) suspects he might have contracted it from a patient. The civic body is tracing all patients he has come in contact with.The doctor has been admitted to Thane civil hospital, which has a separate isolation ward. An official from TMC said, “The doctor has a clinic in Kajuvadi and must have come in contact with more than 100 patients in the past four days. His wife and son are home quarantined.”A total of 13 people from Thane have tested positive for coronavirus till now.The official added, “We were trying to shift the doctor to Kasturba Hospital in Mumbai or any big hospital in Mumbai but, there was no bed available.”The other case, 59-year-old man, is from Kalwa. TMC said he does not have any travel history.As many as 40 medical staffers from Shatabdi hospital, Kandivli, have been quarantined at ESIC hospital after they unknowingly came in a direct contact with a COVID-19 patient. “The patient was admitted for some other ailment but later, after getting discharged, got diagnosed with coronavirus. So, we have quarantined the people who were in direct contact with him,” said Dr Pramod Nagarkar, medical superintendent of the hospital.Currently, four coronavirus patients are undergoing treatment at the hospital where BMC has constructed a 90 bed Covid-19 isolation facility. The non-emergency and OPD at the hospital has been closed down for 14 days.Also, a 57-year-old head constable from Worli has tested positive for COVID-19. A senior IPS officer from city police confirmed with HT that on Thursday the police were informed by the civic authority about the head constable testing positive. The policeman along with his wife and two kids have now been kept in isolation. On March 19, the head constable’s brother admitted at the Sion hospital for some ailment. “The policeman had been visiting his brother at this hospital, where most of the COVID-19 suspects from Dharavi area are rushing to,” an officer said.(with inputs from Sajana Nambiar, Megha Pol and Vijay Kumar Yadav)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/seven-deaths-88-more-cases-in-maha-count-rises-to-423/story-cQ7PKwOJYd3OZUBHQhbMSK.html
03-04-2020||Gurugram||9-month pregnant wife of AIIMS doctor also tests positive for Covid-19||Hours after a doctor from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday, his nine-month pregnant wife, too tested positive for the infection.The AIIMS doctor’s wife is the first pregnant woman in the city to have tested positive for the virus.So far, the health ministry has no guidelines for managing Covid-19 during pregnancy. The World Health Organisation says that there is limited data on the impact of Covid-19 on pregnant woman, but so far there is no evidence of higher risk of severe illness.The 28-year-old doctor from AIIMS worked in the physiology department of the hospital and had not come in direct contact with any Covid-19 patient being treated there. He has been admitted to an isolation facility with his wife. Their three year old daughter has also been admitted to the hospital as a suspected Covid-19 case. They did not have a history of foreign travel.“We have not been able to establish where he got the virus from as he has no history of international travel and he was not involved in treating patients with Covid-19. The only history that we have come to know is that he had gone to a mosque, but we are not sure whether he got the infection there,” said Dr DK Sharma, medical superintendent of AIIMS.It is unclear which mosque the doctor had visited in the city.At least five other doctors have tested positive for Covid-19 in the past one week, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/9-month-pregnant-wife-of-aiims-doctor-also-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-6pWMNRzT2hwWP8Vsv8pHWJ.html
03-04-2020||Delhi||Capital catching up to handle inevitable spike of coronavirus cases||Across ministries in the Delhi government, in hospitals treating Covid-19 patients, and among health experts closely tracking the pandemic and its spread, there is a degree of unanimity — Delhi is about to see a rise in cases. But if this is the hypothesis, is Delhi ready? Interviews with five key officials across the city government and in hospitals presents a mixed picture. Delhi is not testing enough people to have a full sense of the spread of the disease. It is also suffering from a shortage of personal protective equipment (PPEs), which has directly put health care workers in the line of danger. But it is ramping up with its hospital infrastructure to treat Covid-19 patients, putting in place isolation facilities, and maintaining a reserve of ventilators for severe cases. This means, experts advising the government suggest, that if there are 100 new cases every day, Delhi will be able to handle it. The numbers As of Thursday evening, 219 people have tested positive in the city and four have died — a 68-year-old woman from Janakpuri and a 62-year-old Yemeni man. A 73-year-old resident of Nizamuddin and another 30-year-old man from the Markaz complex have also died. Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicOf the 219, 108 cases are among people from the Nizamuddin Markaz. The numbers are likely to rise further, with reports of most of the 536 people in hospital isolation yet to come back. The number of infected cases could also rise because all those who have flown in from international destinations are not yet out of the danger zone. It could rise because of the huge congregations of migrant workers Delhi saw in the aftermath of the announcement of the lockdown. It could rise because those who are at the forefront of battling the disease — the health workers — themselves are getting infected. It could rise because one person — any one person — may emerge as a “super spreader”. Or it could rise just because India may be at the stage of community transmission — where the source of the infection cannot be located — despite the government emphasising that this is not yet the case. The government believes it is ready to deal with this spike — but up to a point.S K Sarin, director of the Institute of Liberty and Biliary Science, is the head of a medical committee which is advising chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Covid-19. In its report, the committee has said that Delhi is prepared to deal with 100 cases daily. Also Read: In 4 years, India put 4,200 foreigners on visa blacklist for Tablighi activities“The committee will reassess the needs again and prepare a blueprint of what we have and what is needed in the next three to four days. The committee is working closely with government in preparing for an increase in the number of cases,” said Sarin. The PPE challengeAt the moment, Delhi’s biggest challenge is a shortage of PPEs, which are essential to prevent infection among the medical staff who interact with Covid-19 patients. Eight doctors in the city have already got infected with the virus, and there are reports of medical staff in hospitals contemplating resignations. When cases surge, the shortage will create a deeper crisis. “We are ensuring that the PPE get used rationally — everybody who enters the ward, including the sanitation staff, has to put on the protective gear. We have enough at the moment, but there can be a scarcity in the future as we are expecting the number of Covid-19 cases to rise,” said a doctor from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS).The Delhi CM on Wednesday appealed to the Centre to ensure the availability of more PPEs, which are in short supply across the country.“I want to assure the doctors that the government is with you. I am personally pursuing the supply of sufficient PPE for the doctors. I am in touch with suppliers, manufacturers. I have also requested industrialists to donate PPEs for the doctors, instead of the donation in the CM relief fund,” Kejriwal said.Sarin — the head of the medical committee — suggested that people with businesses overseas should donate PPE kits to manage the disease. “Many people are donating food to the poor, but the government is already making arrangements for that. What we really need are PPE kits and I would suggest all those who have businesses overseas buy the kits there and ship it to government here as a goodwill gesture,” said Sarin.Hospital infrastructure On the positive side of planning, however, the Delhi government has ramped up its health infrastructure dedicated to Covid-19 cases.It has declared five of its tertiary care hospitals — Lok Nayak hospital, Rajiv Gandhi Superspeciality hospital, Baba Saheb Ambedkar hospital, Deen Dayal Upadhyay hospital, and Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital — as dedicated Covid-19 facilities. This will earmark at least 5,850 beds for the management of Covid-19 patients in Delhi, officials said. These hospitals are working on moving their non-Covid-19 patients to secluded building or other facilities. The AIIMS trauma centre, with 250 beds and around 100 ventilators, has also been dedicated for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. All the trauma cases are now being redirected to the main AIIMS campus.The Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality hospital in Tahirpur already has 400 beds for Covid-19 patients and is adding another 100 in the next few days. There are 25 ventilators in the hospital. “We had stopped our elective procedure and started discharging people who were getting better. Now, we have very few non-Covid-19 cases in the hospital and they will be discharged soon too,” said an official from the hospital administration.The Lok Nayak hospital has shifted its out-patient clinics to a separate orthopaedics block, the medical emergency facilities to a separate new emergency block, and surgical emergency facilities to its Sushruta Trauma Centre in Civil Lines. “The hospital has dedicated 35 ventilators for Covid-19 patients currently; we need ventilators for our emergency cases too. There are about 88 ventilators at GB Pant hospital that can also be used later on when the numbers go up,” said Dr JC Passey, medical director of the Lok Nayak campus.Countries across the world, where cases have spiked, have struggled with providing ventilators for those with severe symptoms. But the medical committee advising the government believes that there are enough ventilators in the city for now.“We had estimated that around 32 ventilators will be needed when Delhi starts getting 100 cases a day. Right now, Delhi has over 100 cases but only two people are on ventilators. There are 306 ventilators in government facilities and 800 in private facilities, even if some are reserved for routine and emergency procedures, we have enough,” said Sarin.In terms of personnel, hospitals have made arrangements for the stay of their Covid-19 staff, with healthcare workers from Lok Nayak getting accommodation at Lalit hotel and staff of GTB hospital at Leela hotel. For effective utilisation of staff and PPEs, the government has started a 14-day shift system — healthcare staff will work for 10 and 14-hour shifts for 14 days before quarantining in the hospital allocated isolation facilities.Testing capabilityBut even if the infrastructure for a limited number of cases is slowly being put in place, there remains uncertainty over how many people in the city actually have the infection — and that is because of the low rates of testing. Kejriwal has requested the central government for more test kits. The Centre, for its part, has maintained that only 36% of its testing capabilities are being used currently.There is also a lag of two to three days in receiving reports. In Delhi, where authorities began screening people from Nizamuddin Markaz around March 26, the first six cases were officially reported on March 29. The next 18 tested positive a day later. According to Delhi government’s health bulletin, the reports of 441 samples were pending on March 28, 369 on March 29, and 332 on March 30. On Thursday, reports of 375 samples were awaited, many of which were from the symptomatic people taken out of the Markaz.“Right now we are testing about 4,000 to 5,000 people a day across the country. This is a very small number. My feeling is that Delhi alone should test about 3,000 people a day. Now that we have kits that can be manufactured indigenously, we should be more liberal with testing,” said S K Sarin.He added, somewhat ominously, “I think, by nature’s design, community transmission must have started — I would be very surprised if it hasn’t. The number of cases are likely to surge by next week.” Delhi and its citizens will be on test.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/capital-catching-up-to-handle-inevitable-spike/story-RLQo7uhY1rSj24s6DByyZJ.html
03-04-2020||Delhi||At Delhi coronavirus tracking hub, Markaz takes centre stage||“No entry from this gate due to Covid-19”. This note is stuck on the door of the four-room office in a Delhi government building in Laxmi Nagar. The door opens to the hub from where all coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the city are tracked and containment plans are charted for the infected.So far, Covid-19 has infected 293 people in Delhi, of which four have died. An alarming 182 of these cases, including two deaths, are linked to the Tablighi Jamaat headquarters at the Markaz building in Nizamuddin Basti, which has emerged as the biggest coronavirus hot spot in the country over the past three days.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicWith staff from other offices assisting the Covid-19 team as numbers swell, there are around 20 people here at any given time. They type out letters, official orders, and guidelines to be sent to health authorities; they call nodal officers in Covid-19 hospitals and quarantine facilities for an update on the number of vacant beds; and they make arrangements for resources that may be needed in the wake of a possible rise in cases.This is also where the lists of positive cases and the people they might have come in contact is generated. These lists are then sent to teams in all the 11 districts of Delhi over e-mail and WhatsApp to arrange home visits and calls or what is referred to as “community surveillance”. If the contacts have developed symptoms, they are transported to isolation facilities in dedicated Covid-19 ambulances for testing. There are five computers in the office, several files and lists are arranged in piles, and geospatial maps of all cases are pinned up on walls to aid the officers.The biggest task the authorities have at the moment is finding the people who might have left the Nizamuddin Markaz building before they started testing people there on March 25. “We did not get a list of all those who had been in the Markaz but left before the operations to vacate the premises started. However, our teams are going to mosques around the city to check whether they have anyone who had been at the Markaz living with them,” said an official from Delhi’s health department who asked not to be named.The surveillance teams also keep an eye on the amount of food being prepared at these establishment to see whether there may be several people living in the same compound.The district surveillance officer takes down a detailed travel history of anyone infected, trying to figure out if the source was someone they came in contact with, or if they passed on the infection to someone else. The teams – comprising of staff from dispensaries -- then visit houses in the vicinity of the patients to see if any of their contacts are showing symptoms. All the contacts are asked to self-quarantine at home, and are placed on community surveillance.Officials from the district magistrate’s office have now been roped in for surveillance. “If we find that the address provided is wrong or the people no longer live there, then we send the list of the people to the district magistrate’s office. They take the help of the police to find these people and bring them to quarantine facilities if need be,” said a second official from Delhi’s health department. The officials also keep in touch with their counterparts from other states for tip-offs on Delhi residents who might have come in contact with positive patients from other states. Alerts from Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Jammu & Kashmir and Andoman & Nicobar are what prompted the state authorities to first inspect the Markaz building last week.All the hospitals in the city with isolation facilities for Covid-19 patients also have a nodal officer who sends updates to the office in Laxmi Nagar as soon as someone tests positive. The Delhi government has declared five of its hospitals -- Lok Nayak, Deen Dayal Upadhyay, Baba Saheb Ambedkar, Guru Teg Bahadur, and Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality – as designated Covid-19 centres. The five hospitals, when fully converted to Covid-19 centres, will have at least 5,850 beds for the patients.There are also 75 isolation beds in Safdarjung Hospital, at least 32 beds at Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, and over 100 beds in the AIl India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Jhajjar campus for Covid-19 cases. The AIIMS trauma centre, with 250 beds and 100 ventilators, has been converted into a dedicated Covid-19 facility. Another key area the Laxmi Nagar office tracks is testing. It receives real-time updates from government centres and, most importantly, eight private labs across the city authorised to test Covid-19 patients. “Since these are patients who are not under our surveillance, our team is immediately sent to their home to take history and start contact tracing,” according to a third official. The data is shared with the state health minister and the chief minister every day. The officials from the hospitals, the integrated disease surveillance programme (IDSP), and other government departments, also have regular meetings with the ministers to track the number of infections and preparedness measures.The ministers and health secretary, in turn, are in touch with the central government for requirements such as PPE kits, testing kits, and viral transport medium needed to collect samples.As of now, the health department, and by extension the Laxmi Nagar anti-Covid hub, is on high alert to track people people across the city who might have come in contact with those from the Nizamuddin Markaz building. “Many more will test positive,” says a fourth official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/at-delhi-virus-tracking-hub-markaz-takes-centre-stage/story-V5yOx7oW2uHJ0dLIc1MkSI.html
03-04-2020||Noida||Covid-19: Greater Noida authority intensifies sanitisation drives in villages||The Greater Noida authority on Thursday said it has intensified sanitisation drives in villages after a woman tested positive for Covid-19 in Patwari village on Wednesday. The authority has been disinfecting public places such as markets, government offices including its administrative building (in Sector Knowledge Park 4), hotels, footpaths and other common areas in group housings and urban areas since March 17. It had earlier disinfected some villages adjoining urban areas but has now intensified sanitisation drives in all public spaces in villages after a woman was detected positive for the infection in Patwari village in Greater Noida West. “We are disinfecting all public spaces such as banks, markets, and other spaces. The motive is to ensure that Covid-19 does not spread further is and contained properly,” Narendra Bhooshan, chief executive officer, Greater Noida authority said.A 30-year-old woman who worked as a domestic help in Greater Noida’s Sector 2 group housing tested positive for Covid-19. She contracted the infection from a Covid-19 positive patient whose house she worked at. This is the first case detected in a village, officials said. As of Thursday evening, Gautam Budh Nagar district has 48 confirmed cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) out of which 6 persons have recovered and discharged. The officials fear that if Covid -19 spreads in rural areas then containing it will not be easy in comparison to urban areas, where people live in nuclear families, said officials. In villages, people live in joint families and every village is densely populated and an outbreak will throw a lot of challenges before the authorities, they added.The authority has so far disinfected villages such as Patwari, Kanarsi, Bal Ki Madiyan, Visayach, Patla, Haibatpur, Gharbara, Kulipura, Malakpur, Chhachula, Shahberi, Sadopur, Manikpur, Jaitpur, and Milak. There are a total 124 villages in Greater Noida’s jurisdiction and the authority wants to disinfect all of them at the earliest, said officials.“We are mixing sodium hypochlorite in water, filling it in fire tenders, and then sprinkling it at public spaces. Earlier we were using only water tankers. But now we have started using fire tenders to finish the job in less time,” a Greater Noida authority official said.The Greater Noida authority has also appealed to people to come together to distribute essential services to those lost access to food and essential supplies amid the lockdown and are living at construction sites, slums.To provide food to daily-wage labourers and construction workers, the authority has already started a “hunger line” at 8595567809. Any construction labourer or dependent who is living in the city and does not have access to food can call the helpline and seek help.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/greater-noida-authority-intensifies-sanitisation-drives-in-villages/story-vqCB3X69nqqLyua9WXzvDI.html
03-04-2020||Delhi||Firefighters sanitise Tablighi Jamaat headquarters, nearby areas in Nizamuddin||Firefighters on Thursday sprayed thousands of gallons of disinfectant in south Delhi’s Nizamuddin and adjoining areas, which has emerged as the single-largest source of the Covid-19 across India. A six-storey building — the Tablighi Jamaat headquarters — has emerged as the biggest Covid-19 hot spot in India so far, with at least 182 people from there testing positive for Covid-19 in the Capital alone, and more than 500 in hospital for showing Covid-like symptoms. More than 1,800 people who attended the congregation have been placed in quarantine in the city.Senior officers from the fire department said that Nizamuddin is the first hotspot that they were tasked to sanitise and the exercise will be carried out in other parts of the city as well, if required.Atul Garg, director, Delhi Fire Service (DFS), said on Thursday that his team had sanitised the building (markaz) in Nizamuddin, the lanes surrounding the building and other adjoining residential areas. “We sprayed at least two fire trucks full of disinfectants. One fire tender usually carries around 10,000 litres of water mixed with sodium hypochlorite. On Thursday, we sprayed at least 5,000 gallons of disinfectants,” he said.Garg added that they even sprayed disinfectant on the shutters of shut shops, footpaths, walls, parked vehicles and other buildings in the vicinity. On Wednesday, in a meeting with the chief secretary and top bureaucrats in Delhi, lieutenant governor Anil Baijal had directed that the fire department be used in carrying out a disinfection drive in Covid-19 hotspot clusters, quarantine centres and vulnerable public places in the city.Garg said that even though their department is handling such a situation for the first time, they are fully prepared. “We were tasked with disinfecting large localities as we are better equipped to do so. We have never faced such a situation before, but we are prepared to deal with it. Everyday, we will be tasked with sanitising such hotspots until the situation is brought under control. At present we have four dedicated teams, each having one fire tender. If need be, more teams will be pressed into action. Also, since we use heavy pressure to sprinkle disinfectants, we can do it while maintaining a safe distance,” Garg said, adding that his men have been provided with adequate safety gears.The Tablighi Jamaat headquarters in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area, and two lanes leading to it, had been sealed earlier, after 2,346 people were evacuated from there in India’s biggest coronavirus (Covid-19)-related rescue operation that lasted 36 hours.The evacuees were sent to quarantine centres and hospitals, even as officials across the country scrambled to identify, trace and isolate people who attended a congregation at the headquarters, which was held last month.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has said that more than 500 symptomatic persons evacuated from the building have been admitted to hospitals. Besides, 1,810 asymptomatic people have been put in quarantine facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/firefighters-sanitise-tablighi-jamaat-headquarters-nearby-areas-in-nizamuddin/story-Xe0StaFlZvUSdYDdp8FOJM.html
03-04-2020||Delhi||Sanitation workers raise concern over safety, demand screenings||With Nizamuddin and Dilshad Garden emerging as the Covid-19 hot spots in Delhi, and more quarantine facilities being developed across the city, sanitation workers have raised concerns about their safety.The Akhil Bhartiya Safai Majdoor Sangh, an association of sanitation workers, has demanded they be provided more effective protective gear, along with regular screenings of sanitation workers and their families.On Thursday, the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) said it will start screening staff deployed in Nizamuddin, home to the Tablighi Jammat’s headquarters. As many as 182 who had attended an event in the Muslim missionary organisations headquarters or visited the markaz, have tested positive in Delhi.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicWith close around 40-50 sanitation workers deployed in Nizamuddin and a similar number in Dilshad Garden, Sanjay Gehlot, president Akhil Bhartiya Safai Majdoor Sangh, said sanitation employees work at the forefront and, as a result, are prone to be infected with the highly contagious virus.“The civic bodies should check the roster and identify those who have worked in hot spot zones. Such employees and their families should immediately be screened for the coronavirus to prevent it spreading. Though no symptoms of coronavirus have been seen in sanitation employees or other ground staff working in hot spots, we should not wait for a disaster to take preventive measures,” Gehlot said.A senior SDMC official said the civic body was “concerned” about its workers and all necessary steps would be taken.“So far, no symptoms of Covid-19 have been observed in sanitation workers. We will screen these workers in two or three days,” the official said.Also Read: 17 companies asked to help meet 38mn unit PPE shortfallWith the markaz evacuated, the SDMC on Thursday started an extensive drive to sanitise neighbouring areas. It used drones to spray disinfectants (sodium hypochlorite solution) in Nizamuddin East, Nizamuddin Basti and surrounding areas. The drones conducted 18 rounds, of 20 minutes each, of disinfecting operations, an official said. Apart from this, 40 teams of public health workers deployed for cleaning and sprinkling disinfectants to sanitise the whole area. Nearly 10,000 litre disinfectant was used in the drive on Thursday.With the Delhi government setting up more quarantine facilities in the city to cater to the increasing number of suspected and confirmed cases, the three civic agencies are deploying their staff at these centres.But sanitation workers said they are not being provided proper protective gear. Gehlot said everyday 25 sanitation employees are sent to work in quarantine facility developed at Mandoli Jail Complex in Nand Nagri but many of them were discharging their duties in the absence of personal protective equipments (PPE). “In the name of protective gears the sanitation employees have been given substandard quality of masks and gloves and many of the worker lack even these materials. I have convened several meetings with the authorities of the three municipalities but to no avail,” he said.There are around 71,345 sanitation workers engaged with three municipal corporations — North Delhi Municipal Corporation, EDMC and SDMC. North Delhi Municipal Corporation has 31,332 sanitation workers, EDMC has 15,023 sanitation employees while there are 25,00 sanitation employees working with the SDMC.Lokesh Kumar, a sanitation employee working in Dilshad Garden hotspot area, which comes under East Delhi Municipal Corporation, said that the authorities have not yet provided him with PPE kit. “In the name of protective gears we have been given low quality masks and gloves. These masks become useless only after two hours of work. So I is like working without any protection amid the pandemic,” Kumar said.The EDMC spokesperson said that as per standard guidelines testing for COVID-19 would be done only when the symptoms are seen in any person. “None of our sanitation staff has shown symptoms so till now there is no need to conduct COVID-19 tests. Forceful screening for COVID-19 will only create extra burden on already scarce system,” he said. The official added that PPE kits were primarily meant for the doctors, paramedic staff other workers engaged in hospitals treating COVID- 19. The sanitation staff has already been provided with essential items such as gloves and masks along with special training to perform their duties in affected areas without getting infected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sanitation-workers-raise-concern-over-safety-demand-screenings/story-h3sr4jiXjTNl7ytyMXRWgK.html
03-04-2020||Noida||Uber ties up with Big Basket for deliveries in Noida, Greater Noida||Private cab aggregator, Uber, has tied up with e-tailer Big Basket to provide a last-mile delivery option of essential services to residents of Noida and Greater Noida, among other Indian cities.The Gautam Budh Nagar administration had allowed several online service providers to continue working during the ongoing nationwide lockdown.Uber will now provide several of its vehicles to help Big Basket make deliveries of essential items to consumers.“This last-mile delivery service provides multiple wins. It supports authorities in containing Covid-19, delivers essential supplies in a timely manner and creates an earning opportunity for drivers. We will not charge any commission for our efforts and are pleased to partner with Big Basket to support the nation in its hour of need. We stand ready to support all other private and public sector efforts in keeping vital supply chains open and to ensure last-mile delivery of everyday supplies, during this current nationwide lockdown,” Prabhjeet Singh, director, operations and head of cities, Uber India & South Asia, said.The service will function in both Noida as well as Greater Noida as well as other Indian cities such as Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Chandigarh.In compliance with all government guidelines, drivers working on this project have been provided training to ensure best hygiene practises. They have also been provided with gloves, masks and sanitisers.“The ongoing nationwide lockdown has led to a disruption of the supply of essential goods, primarily due to a shortage of personnel and delivery vehicles. We are very happy to partner with Uber India for this initiative and we will be utilizing a portion of their huge fleet of cars, bikes as well as personnel to help make deliveries,” Lalita Aggarwal, National Process Head, Last Mile, Big Basket, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/uber-ties-up-with-big-basket-for-deliveries-in-noida-greater-noida/story-hfkVuqZlL8ZC7Sm7xGXNzN.html
03-04-2020||City||One more tests positive for Covid-19 in Ghaziabad; 136 attendees of religious congregations quarantined||The district health department has, so far, been able to trace 136 persons known to have attended different religious congregations, including the one organised at the Tablighi Jamaat headquarters on March 18 in Delhi. Of these, one tested positive Thursday, taking the total of number of Covid-19 cases n Ghaziabad to 10. The officials said that 11 of the 136 were admitted to the isolation ward at MMG District Hospital, while the rest were sent to quarantine facilities set at two private hospitals in Masuri and Muradnagar.Roughly, 9,000 members of the Jamaat, who had attended a three-day religious meet at the Tablighi Jamaat headquarters in Nizamuddin, are being traced by Indian authorities after it emerged that several of them were infected with coronavirus and could spread the disease further in the local communities in different states. The congregation is being called the single largest source of infections in the country, as of now and efforts are on to trace, test and quarantine its members.“In Ghaziabad, we have identified and quarantined 136 persons who attended different religious congregations, including the one in Delhi. A search is on for others. Eleven of them have been admitted to the isolation ward, while 125 have been sent to quarantine facilities that have been set up at two private medical colleges in Masuri and Muradnagar. Their swab samples were collected on Thursday,” chief medical officer Dr NK Gupta said. Meanwhile, the total number of persons from Uttar Pradesh who attended the March 18 congregation rose to 1,172 on Thursday. Some 884 were sent to quarantine facilities, government officials said. “Samples of 429 people attendees have been taken so far,” said Amit Mohan Prasad principal secretary (health).During a press briefing in Lucknow, UP additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi said, “The chief minister has also directed for cautious and swift action against foreigners under the Epidemic Act and the Disaster Management Act. At present, there are 287 foreign nationals in UP who came for religious congregations and have been quarantined. FIRs have been filed against them in 13 districts. Passports of 211 have been seized as they had arrived on tourist visas instead of the mandatory missionary category.”The officials said that most of the foreign national were from Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand, Kenya, Iran and Bangaldesh, among others. Late Thursday night chief medical officer (CMO) Dr NK Gupta said total number of coronavirus cases in Ghaziabad rose to ten as one more person tested positive for Covid-19. “The man who tested positive Thursday is one of six lodged in the isolation ward of MMG District Hospital. We have come to know that he was at the event at Delhi’s Nizamuddin,” Dr Gupta added.“The 29-year-old woman is an employee of the Noida-based fire safety company Ceasefire. She stays with her sister stay in Vasundhara. The woman carpooled with another 30-year-old employee who stays in Shalimar Garden and is also Covid-19 positive. The woman was asymptomatic but tested positive while her sister who had shown symptoms was found negative,” the CMO said, adding that of the district’s nine Covid-19 patients, three are employees of the Noida company and another three were their contacts.Two of the nine patients have recovered and been sent home to complete another 14 days in quarantine. Across the state, total Covid-19 patients stood at 121 on Thursday afternoon and 17 had recovered and been discharged from hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/136-attendees-of-religious-congregations-quarantined-in-ghaziabad-up-s-figure-rise-to-1172/story-uI5nD1tobTbN8e1TzOqCPK.html
03-04-2020||Mumbai||Is your body fighting Covid-19 symptoms? Blood test to tell in 5 mins||With Covid-19 positive cases continuing to soar in Maharashtra, the state government plans to start “rapid” blood tests to ascertain in less than five minutes if you have the antibodies that are fighting the Sars-Cov-2, even if you are asymptomatic. State health minister Rajesh Tope on Thursday said they will soon start random “mass testing” to ascertain the number of people infected with the virus. It is not officially a test for Covid-19, which detects the virus based on its genetic material, as a person who tests positive will have to undergo the swab test and be quarantined.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Besides the government testing facilities in Maharashtra, seven private laboratories are allowed to test for Covid-19. Now with the antibody test, the state government aims to get an indicative figure of the number of people attacked by the virus, even if they are not showing symptoms.Tope said the state got a go-ahead from the Centre to start the “rapid” antibody tests on Thursday and agencies will be given the task to carry out the tests. “Rapid test is an important decision taken today. Through the test, we will get a primary report or will be able to screen a person in less than five minutes. It is an important step for mass screening. If we get to know the total number through these rapid tests, we will quarantine or keep the people in isolation and start further treatment,” Tope said.The immune system fights a virus by making antibodies also known as immunoglobulins. It combats the infection by preventing the virus from entering the cells. They remain in the bloodstream even if a particular virus is cleared. This is to protect the person to encounter the same virus again. As antibodies are specific to a particular virus, the antibody test will help the state identify such people, said a senior health official.Dr Tatyarao Lahane, director, Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER), said, “The antibody test will be conducted to see IgG and IgM levels in the body. We will start it from those being quarantined and exposed to coronavirus patients.” It has become necessary as more than 80% of the positive patients were found asymptomatic, which means they were showing no symptoms despite being infected, officials pointed out.A senior Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation official, however, said they could take up the testing on a “pilot” level with a group of around 100 to 200 people.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage  “We will not use the test with patients or high-risk contacts of the positive. This is just to check the resistance power of the person against the infection,” the official said.“Once the antibody test is positive, the person is corona positive. Swab test, which is precise and a confirmatory test, will be done simultaneously along with the treatment,” said Dr Anup Kumar Yadav, director of National Health Mission (NHM).Tope said the cost of the test could be around ₹300-₹400. He further said that the rapid tests can be conducted by the government and private agencies who have the permission of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). “We can also partner with some companies that conduct rapid testing. The government may also appoint some agencies, which has the permission of ICMR, for conducting rapid tests,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/is-your-body-fighting-sars-cov-2-sans-symptoms-blood-test-to-tell-in-5-mins/story-La5GwhObiW75EZ2hsgsUSL.html
03-04-2020||Mumbai||There was shortage of safety gear, says doctor who tested positive; recovers||Of the 10 confirmed cases of Sars-Cov-2 in Gurugram city, nine have recovered. One among them is 35-year-old Dr Sheenam, a resident of Sector 9 who is also the nodal officer at the Covid-19 sample collection lab at Sector 10 Civil Hospital, who tested positive on March 20 after she began handling a series of suspected cases from the first week of March.“I had to be admitted to a private hospital on March 21 after testing positive for Covid-19. Leaving my eight-month-old son and husband behind was not easy,” said Sheenam, who was disheartened to see her family disturbed. “They were tested too. Thankfully, they were found negative and are under home quarantine,” she said.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicSheenam’s role was to ensure proper collection of samples, sealing them and sending them to the lab for testing. According to her, she ensured she maintained social distancing while coordinating with the suspected cases and the physicians who took samples. She is, however, believed to have contracted the virus while interacting with a Covid-19 patient in the isolation ward of the civil hospital, in the absence of protective gear. “I had to meet a Covid-19 positive patient who was admitted to the isolation ward of the civil hospital. The patient was a bit disturbed. At that time, I was wearing a mask, gloves, and an apron. We did not have sufficient stock of PPE (Personal Protective Equipment). There was an inadequate supply of safety kits. It was a risk and my bad luck that I too got the virus,” she said, adding that the issue of safety kits for the health staff has been resolved now.Also Read:17 companies asked to help meet 38mn unit PPE shortfallIt was two days after addressing the patient that Sheenam started showing symptoms such as fever and diarrhea. She thought it was due to the food she had eaten at a meeting some time back. “Knowing the symptoms of Covid-19, I consulted another doctor who asked me to get tested for coronavirus,” she said.On March 19, Sheenam gave her samples and on the night of March 20, the test result declared her Covid-19 positive.She says she shifted to a different room of the house the moment she got to know of the result. Her husband changed the bed sheet, wiped the floor and took every precautionary step, keeping in mind the safety of their infant son.Also Read: Sanitation workers raise concern over safety, demand screenings“The next morning, I left for the hospital to get admitted in the isolation ward,” she said. Meanwhile, the health department took samples of the 12-15 staff members who had worked with her, all of whom tested negative.For Sheenam and her husband, a bigger challenge – taking care of the baby who was still breastfeeding – awaited. Most of Sheenam’s time was spent talking to her husband who was single-handedly taking care of the toddler.“For my husband, it was difficult to understand why the baby was cranky. During the video calls with him, I told him how to prepare the baby food, prepared a daily routine as to when the baby had to be fed and his sleeping hours,” said Sheenam, praising her husband for doing a commendable job during his home quarantine.Her neighbours too stood for support by providing her husband with meals every day. “My husband does not know how to cook. So, my neighbours used to provide meals,” she said.However, the attitude of many in her locality was discouraging, too. “Society people were writing to our neighbours asking them not to help us lest they contract the virus. People started harassing my husband who was under home quarantine,” she said. The family had to call the police to counsel people in the society after facing ill-treatment.“It is surprising to see that these people, who were once negative, are appreciating us now that I am discharged from the hospital. I don’t know how honest their reactions are,” said Dr Sheenam, who was discharged on Wednesday and is under 14-day home quarantine before she takes over the charge of the lab again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/risks-in-absence-of-safety-kits-gurugram-doc-who-recovered-recalls-experience/story-JHKLMRV1tKduf5GtlMNH5H.html
03-04-2020||Delhi||Management of gurdwara in Majnu Ka Tila booked||Police on Thursday registered a case against the management of the gurdwara in Majnu Ka Tila for violating prohibitory orders and the 21-day lockdown norms, after 227 persons from Punjab were evacuated from there on Wednesday to prevent the spread of the Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes Covid-19. They were later shifted to two quarantine centres in the city.On Tuesday night, the police had received information regarding a gathering of around 300 people at the gurdwara in Majnu ka Tila. Upon confirming the information, the Delhi government was intimated and 227 migrants, who were from Punjab, but working in Delhi-NCR, were evacuated on Wednesday.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicPolice said the first information report (FIR) has been registered under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease danger­ous to life), and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code.“The FIR was registered following the instructions of the Delhi government since the gurdwara committee did not inform the police or the concerned subdivisional magistrate about the mass gathering of people at the gurdwara. The management officials violated the government orders that banned the gathering of five or more people in any place to avoid the spread of the coronavirus,” a senior police officer, on condition of anonymity, said.The officer said none of the 227 rescued persons showed symptoms of the Covid-19 infection when tested by doctors at the gurdwara. A Delhi government official said all evacuees are being made to undergo a screening and their samples are being collected for coronavirus testing.“There were chances of people getting infected, as maintaining social distancing was not possible at the religious place. The management committee should have informed the police or government authorities and got the migrants staying at the gurdwara isolated,” the officer added.Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) president, Manjinder Singh Sirsa, said, “This is a desperate attempt to malign the services done by Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committe and the Sikhs across India and the world. What was our fault? We did not organise any religious gathering or congregation at the gurdwara. Those staying there were all stranded migrants.” “Through tweets and videos I had requested the Punjab and Delhi government to help those migrants. Blame us if we were doing anything illegal. Moreover, it is the same gurdwara, which we had offered to the Delhi goverment a fortnight ago to use it as a quarantine centre to fight coronavirus outbreak. Instead of shifting 200 plus migrants to schools, they should have been isolated in the bigger halls at the gurdwara itself,” Sirsa said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/fir-against-majnu-ka-tila-gurdwara-mgmt-for-housing-227-persons-in-violation-of-prohibitory-order/story-9VKCAud4OdU6eg5YkmOBkI.html
03-04-2020||Pune||Pune reports second Covid-19 death; 7 jamaat returnees tested positive||A 50-year-old woman died of Covid-19 at Sassoon General Hospital on Thursday, taking the number of coronavirus deaths in the city to two.According to the health department, the victim did not have any travel history or had come in contact with any positive patient. She died while undergoing treatment for respiratory issues and her source of infection is being traced.Dr Ajay Chandanwale, dean, Sassoon General Hospital, said, “She was admitted yesterday [Wednesday] and put on ventilator for respiratory support and declared dead at around 8 pm. She appears to be a case of community transmission since she did not have any foreign travel history or known to have come in contact with any positive patient.”The number of Covid-19 positive cases reported in Pune on Thursday was seven, taking the tally to 46.Shekhar Gaikwad, Pune municipal commissioner, said, “Out of the seven new patients tested positive in Pune on Thursday, three had gone to New Delhi to attend the Tablighi Jamaat congregation and other four are the first contacts of the former.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-reports-second-covid-19-death-7-jamaat-returnees-tested-positive/story-qlCj6jFh3QkV3H7ksDBCjK.html
03-04-2020||Mumbai||AI crew who operated international flight tests positive for Covid-19||A member of the Air India cabin crew, who recently operated an evacuation flights, has tested positive for Covid-19. According to sources, the staff member, who had operated the Newark- Mumbai flight on March 20, is a resident of Vasai-Virar and has been admitted to Kasturba Gandhi Hospital. The national carrier has operated special flights to China, Germany, Iran, Israel and is expected to operate flights to the US, UK and Canada.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ai-crew-who-operated-international-flight-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-SCTOTYEqiSXuTYh87iIfFK.html
03-04-2020||Pune||At least 15,800 construction labourers provided with food in Pune at work sites||Additional labour commissioner, Pune division, Shailendra B Pol, has said that mid-day meals were being delivered by the government to about 15,850 workers at 95 construction sites in the city. At many work sites, dinner was being taken care of by the member builders of Confederation of Real Estate Developers of India (Credai, Pune chapter). For almost a week, the workers were being provided with their meals and asked not to rush back to their villages, Credai, Pune said. Badri Alam Khan 23, a native of Jharkhand who is working as a fitter at the Kohinooor Sapphire site, said, “I could not go back to my village because of this lockdown but it’s OK. We get food from the builder and the ‘thekedaar’ has given me Rs 1,000 per week for small expenses and essentials that I may need.” Sangita Dhruv from Chhattisgarh who waters the slabs with her husband Krishna and 18-year-old daughter Choti, said, “I have two younger daughters back home and I worry about them. We get food here and our needs are looked after. But what about my girls? I asked the contractor for some money to send home to my other two children. He gave me Rs 3,000 and I have sent it home.”Suhas Merchant, president, Credai Pune said, “When the 21-day lockdown was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 24, many migrant workers started fleeing the city, overcrowding the railway stations and bus stops. But we made an attempt to stop that.”While he estimated that about 50,000 workers had stayed back in the city, Pol said, the labour commissionerate’s estimate was about 15,800. Satish Magar, former president, Credai and managing director, Magarpatta, said while it was good that the government was providing mid-day meals to labourers, no provision had been made for dinner.“We have been supplying food from day 1 to all our workers and their family members. Which is why none of them have left for their villages,” he said. JP Shroff who heads Credai’s labour committee said, “The government used to provide mid-day meals to about 10,000 workers before the lockdown was announced. However soon after the lockdown was announced it was temporarily shut down. We decided that our people could not be left to starve.”Over the eight days of the lockdown, Credai managed to procure rice, dal (lentils), atta (flour), oil, masalas (spices) from the wholesale market and delivered it to about 20,000 workers and their families at 100 sites. “The task of delivery was a huge challenge since there was no transport available. No trucks to carry food to our labourers on these sites,” Merchant said. Member-builders of Credai were roped in to provide their on-site trucks, tempos and drivers. “We also asked some transporters to assist us with drivers. Only then were we able to deliver food packets to the 100 odd sites,” he said. To manage the logistics of this initiative, some of the builders sent their staffers to certain central points like Hinjewadi and Ahmednagar road from where the food packets could be collected and delivered to individual member sites. “Over seven days, Credai spent approximately Rs 25 lakh on food,” Merchant said. A week later, the government announced that it would provide mid-day meals to construction workers. Additional labour commissioner Pol said Credai was asked to provide the number of labourers at various sites. “They gave us a number of 50,000 workers in Pune. But on day 1 when we went with the food packets, we saw that where they said there were 150 workers, there were only 40 to 50. I appeal to all builders to please report the correct numbers to us so that food does not get wasted,” he said.On Thursday, the labour commissionerate delivered 15,836 packets at 95 sites. Atul Goel of Goel Ganga Group, said his estimate was that there were about 470 workers on his project sites along with family members, which meant, additional 250 to 300 more. “We have been supplying them with food and sanitation material on a weekly basis. We already have brought stock for 25 days and will continue to do so,” he said. At builder Vineet Goyal’s sites, (Kohinoor Group) about 1,200 of the 2,000 workers had left for their villages before the lockdown. “Another 200 moved in with their relatives in-and-around the city. As a result, we now have 600 workers, which includes family members at our three live sites. We are providing them food grains on a weekly basis and making their payments every fortnight. In fact, the contractor told me not to pay them monthly as they would probably spend the money given the time they have on their hands. However, given the situation, we have released payment to the contractor in advance for them to take care of his labour.” Raj Bhansali of Clover Builders said he has tied up with a local grocery store near his projects at Kharadi and Undri. “These stores deliver to the labourers what they need to them and we pay for it. Their salaries are paid on the fifth of every month and they will be paid on the fifth,” he said. Credai appeals for police pass to visit labour campsCredai has appealed to the police commissioner to give each member a pass to visit their sites where the workers are living. Suhas Merchant, president, Credai, said, “Our workers are going through a trying time. It is important that someone from our office is there to look after their needs, besides counsel them on safety and hygiene. Currently, it is very difficult for our supervisors to visit various sites.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/about-15-800-construction-labour-provided-with-food-in-pune-at-work-sites/story-EInWNtQ8EcbbzowVrTzX8K.html
03-04-2020||Pune||Gas agency owner in Pune booked for hiking cylinder charges||The Pune police on Wednesday booked the owner of a gas agency for selling gas cylinders at a hiked price in Chandannagar.The man has been identified as Amit Sigandhchand Goyal, 30, a resident of Pittie Kourtyard, Chandannagar. He is the owner of Amit Gas Agency located at Sagar Park, Wadgaonsheri, said police.On Wednesday, the officers of Unit 4 of Crime branch and officials of Chandannagar police station carried out a raid at Wadgaonsheri, where Goyal was found with 16 filled and two empty cylinders, said police.Police sub-inspector Vijay Zanjad and assistant police inspector Abdulkareem Sayyed received information that a gas agency was selling cylinders at Rs 1,000 instead of the actual price which is Rs 796. The consumer cards of 48 people were also found by the police in the gas agency. Among the 18 cylinders, four cylinders were of BharatGas Company, five of HP and nine of Indane company, according to the police.The total recovery was estimated to worth around Rs 33,736. The gas cylinders were sold at an escalated price due to the nation-wide lockdown in wake of Covid-19, according to a statement issued by the Pune police.A case under Section 188, 268 of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 3 and 7 of Essential Commodities Act has been registered at Chandannagar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/gas-agency-owner-booked-for-hiking-cylinder-charges/story-fUnP14MRPXq2PLl9xXs7KP.html
03-04-2020||Mumbai||Head constable tests positive for Covid-19, family quarantined||A 57-year-old head constable from Worli has tested positive for Covid-19., said a senior IPS officer from city police. He said the civic authority informed the police about this on Thursday. However, the civic authorities have not responded to HT. The constable along with his wife and two kids have been kept in isolation. A police inspector said preliminary probe revealed the constable had visited Lonavala on March 18 along with a friend and returned on March 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/head-constable-tests-positive-for-covid-19-family-quarantined/story-m8hnioAV7oDpsy0MeyBqGJ.html
03-04-2020||Pune||Residents turn Katraj ghat road into garbage dumping ground amid lockdown due to Covid-19||While sanitation workers and waste pickers are risking their lives daily and keeping the city clean despite the Covid-19 pandemic, residents are dumping garbage on the Katraj ghat road. The stretch on the Pune-Satara highway has turned into garbage dumping zone since the last few days. With the country under lockdown, people are spending time at home, but residents of Katraj are dumping garbage near the road. “Since the last one week, most of the ghat section has been stinking due to the garbage thrown on both sides of the road. I have seen people from nearby areas and Katraj throw garbage while passing through the ghat. As the ghat section doesn’t comes under the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) jurisdiction, many people go and throw their garbage there,” said Rakesh Pangare, a resident of Katraj.When HT visited the ghat section it was found that the space was littered with not only household garbage, but also construction debris, thermocol waste, plastic materials, liquor bottles, among others. When contacted Dnyaneshwar Molak, Pune Municipal Corporation, solid waste management department head, said, “Though the Katraj ghat section doesn’t comes under our jurisdiction, residents living in PMC limits should not throw garbage while passing the ghat section. Our PMC cleanliness workers are working round the clock to keep the city clean, and Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) under whose jurisdiction the ghat section comes, have the responsibility of cleaning the garbage. They have plans to start a garbage processing plant for villages in that area which needs to be done.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/residents-turn-katraj-ghat-road-into-garbage-dumping-ground/story-yDjfh8c04445UrkutcFLAJ.html
03-04-2020||Pune||Covid-19: Helpline for people from Northeast set up in Pune||A helpline for people from the northeastern states studying and working in Pune has been set up by two social organisations to provide them assistance during the ongoing national lockdown on account of the Covid-19 pandemic. The helpline numbers 989079803/ 9921693175 have been set up by social organisations Sarhad Foundation in association with Vande Mataram Sanghatana.Sanjay Nahar, founder of Sarhad, a social organisation working for stronger bonds with people in conflict-affected border states, said the request for the helpline came from students from the northeast studying at Sarhad’s educational institutes. While 35 students from the northeast study at Sarhad’s school and college, there are an estimated 9,000 people from the northeastern states studying and working in Pune, Nahar said. Souriio Hilter, advisor to the North East Community Organisation of Pune, said,“Most of the people are stranded in their hostels. They need essential supplies as they are running out of money. Most banks in the North East have closed and their parents are finding it difficult to send money. Some students may have to vacate their premises. This helpline will be a definitely help them a lot during the period of the lockdown,” he said.Hilter estimated that there were almost 10,000 students and working professionals from the north east in Pune; 80 per cent being students. Apart from studying in various institutes in Pune, people from the northeast are also employed in restaurants and as security staff, among other professions. Nahar said outstation students and others were facing problems with access to food and essentials. Seeing their plight, Sarhaad Foundation had opened up a dedicated helpline with the help of NGO Vande Mataram Sanghtana.“Most of the students relied on their dining mess for food. However, after those got closed, it has become difficult for them to get food. A few students said that even some of the colleges where they were studying were unable to help them with food,” Nahar said. The students were being provided with food and other esseintials, said Sachin Jamge of Vande Mataram Sanghtana.The social organisations plan to open 15 to 20 centres in the city to provide assistance, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/covid-19-helpline-for-people-from-northeast-set-up-in-pune/story-6PZov70NmSsOLxDXI4DhZK.html
03-04-2020||Pune||Two Tablighis test positive in Pimpri-Chinchwad; 46 samples negative in Pune||PUNE: Two of the 25 samples of those who returned from Markaz Nizamuddin to Pimpri-Chinchwad area have tested positive for Covid-19, while all the 46 samples of those who returned to Pune have tested negative, district officials confirmed on Thursday.The state administration has traced as many as 106 of the 182 persons in western Maharashtra’s five districts who had either been or came in contact with those who attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in New Delhi.Deepak Mhaisekar, Pune divisional commissioner, said that the police and administration have tracked down those who had visited the Capital and find out if they were in contact with others.“We are doing contact tracing, interviews and using other sources of information. So far, two are positive and 23 negative in Pimpri-Chinchwad and 46 are negative in Pune,” said Mhaisekar.According to Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) additional commissioner Rubal Agarwal, 14 samples had come negative on Wednesday night while results of the rest were reported on Thursday.The Tablighi Jamaat’s headquarter in Delhi has emerged as a hotspot of Covid-19 suspects recently where a number of foreign nationals were found in the districts and taluka places doing missionary activity in the area. The worldwide Islamic missionary group is also known as Allah’s police in the local population of Maharashtra.The state administration had earlier claimed that Pune revenue region’s five districts – Pune, Satara, Sangli, Kolhapur and Solapur – had started collecting swabs of 94 persons quarantined so far. The officials and police have also launched a search for those who have not been traced by tracking their call detail records (CDR).6 found positive in AhmednagarTwo foreign national Tablighi preachers who had participated in Nizamuddin event in Delhi earlier this month and four locals who came in contact with these persons have also tested positive for Covid-19 in Ahmednagar district of western Maharashtra on Thursday. With this, the total number of Covid-19 positive patients from Ahmednagar has reached 14, said officials from local administration. Earlier last month, a French and Ivory Cost national had tested positive for the virus in Ahmednagar district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-tablighis-test-positive-in-pimpri-chinchwad-46-samples-negative-in-pune/story-Ipp8gTvVTWTGtJaWH4cmjK.html
03-04-2020||Pune||Families of 300 construction workers wait for food at Undri, Kondwa||Almost 250 families at Shivnerinagar in Kondhwa and 50 families at a construction site in Undri were found to be facing severe food shortage and paucity of other essentials due to the lockdown. A visit to the spot revealed that the construction workers were living in near penury without any rations. Najmul Hasan who hails from Uttar Pradesh and worked at the Undri construction site said, “We are not getting food and our families are hungry. We need rations for at least a month if we are to survive in these dangerous times. We got food from the contractor only once and the rest is the minimum ration that we have bought on our own,” he said .Navnath Kamble, another worker said, “We have neither money nor work. There is very less to eat and none of the government servants have bothered to visit us.” The labour camp of 250 families in Shivnerinagar in Kondhwa gave an impression of neglect and apathy. Social worker Saleem Mulla said, “The people here don’t have anything to eat so we have approached the public and social organisations to donate. For the past four days, nearly 750 persons are being fed per day and our rations won’t last long. We have given a written request to the administration some three days ago but there has been no response.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/families-of-300-construction-workers-wait-for-food-at-undri-kondwa/story-WL67AcVXf0lOMKuILSNvrO.html
03-04-2020||Pune||Judge passes sentence on 3 violating lockdown: jail or Rs 500 fine||A court in Baramati has sentenced three persons to three-day imprisonment, or a fine of Rs 500, after they were found guilty of violating the lockdown imposed by the government to contain the spread of Covid-19.Judge J J Bachulkar, on Wednesday, ordered that the accused - Afzal Attar (39), Chandrakumar Shah (38) and Akshay Shah (32) - serve three-day imprisonment or pay a fine of Rs 500 each.“The three accused were booked under IPC Section 188 after they were found roaming in Baramati city of Pune district without any reason, thus violating the lockdown and orders imposed under Section 144 of the CrPC,” Baramati’s deputy superintendent of police Narayan Shirgaonkar said.This is, perhaps, the first case of conviction for violating the lockdown order, Shirgaonkar said.“Though the punishment is mild in nature, it will impact their ability to obtain a passport and other licenses in future,” he said.In rural parts of Pune, the district police have so far booked at least 250 people for breaking the rules during the lockdown. “The conviction will send a stern message among people who are still not adhering to the orders and venturing out on the road unnecessarily,” said Shirgaonkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/judge-passes-sentence-on-3-violating-lockdown-jail-or-rs-500-fine/story-bUyItrWdz4Ntr3pH6o8LxJ.html
03-04-2020||Pune||One thief on multiple-break-in route targets Chinchwad medical stores||Multiple medical stores were broken into by, what police believe to be one man, who managed to make off with cash from one of the stores in Chinchwad.The incidents were reported in the intermediate night of Tuesday and Wednesday. The police have identified one suspect in the case, said officials.According to police, the man tried to break into multiple medical stores in Chinchwad. He did manage to flee with Rs 4,000 from Sanmati Medical Store located near Power House. The main shutter of the shop was broken through.The other stores where similar incidents were reported were Mahavir Medical located next to Sanmati store, Venkatesh Medical and Rivav Medico on Kalewadi road in Chinchwad. The shutters of the first store were damaged while marks of failed attempts were left of the shutters of the three other stores, said police.“There is a CCTV inside the shop Sanmati Medical Store. The middle part of the shutter was pulled up (even as the ends remained locked down) and the person slid inside from the little gap that was formed. There is one suspect and we think it is the same person who broke into the other shops as well,” said assistant police inspector Abhijeet Jadhav of Chinchwad police station who is investigating the case.A case under Sections 457 (lurking house-trespass or house-breaking by night in order to commit offence punishable with imprisonment), 380 (theft in dwelling house), 511 of Indian Penal Code has been registered at Chinchwad police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/one-thief-on-multiple-break-in-route-targets-chinchwad-medical-stores/story-ZFPAo5EEqKRN2sRnM9qtaL.html
03-04-2020||Pune||Covid-19: 10 lakh metric tonnes standing cane crop hit by shortage of workers||The 21-day nation-wide lockdown has hit the sugar industry adversely in Maharashtra with an inordinate delay in the harvesting of almost 10 lakh metric tonnes of sugarcane. This has jeopardised the production of more than one lakh metric tonnes of sugar, state sugar commissioner Saurabh Rao said. According to the commissionerate, Maharashtra has a total of 173 sugar factories with the annual crushing of 518 lakh metric tonnes of cane and sugar production of 8 lakh tonnes.At village Avasari Budruk, cane farmers from Manchar in Pune have been unable to send their harvest to the Bhimashankar Co-operative sugar factory due to the absence of farm labour.Farmer Baban Hinge said in a telephonic interview, “Our sugarcane usually goes to factory in 14 or 15 months, but this time, the crop has not been harvested even after almost 16 months. The factory said they are unable to send to send farm labour for harvesting.”Another farmer, Sambhaji Hinge said the delay in harvesting would adversely affect the sugar recovery by almost 30 to 40 percent. “This is a direct loss to us,” he said, adding that the crop had begun to deteriorate.Ambegaon (Pune district)-based , Bhimashankar Co-operative sugar factory’s chairman Balasaheb Bende said, “Almost 35,000 metric tonnes of sugarcane was waiting to be cut. We have announced incentives to the labourers to cut the sugarcane under this panic situation. A section of the labourers went home just before the lockdown was announced.” Maharashtra Sugar Commissioner Saurabh Rao said that 10 lakh metric tonnes sugarcane was standing in the fields and 18 sugar factories were yet to complete their cane crushing operations for the season. “We are putting in all efforts to ensure that this sugarcane would get cut as soon as possible and sent to the sugar factories.”He said that a sizeable section of the cane harvesting labour fled to their villages due to the panic caused by the Covid-19 pandemic affecting cane harvesting. In view of the lockdown, factories have been advised not to allow labourers to leave their locations and make the necessary arrangements for food and shelter. “If this 10 lakh metric tonnes of sugarcane is crushed, more 1 lakh metric tonnes sugar would be produced,” he said. Action against sugar factories for not taking care of farm labourMaharashtra sugar commissioner Saurabh Rao said that all sugar factories in the state have been asked to take care of the cane harvesting labour and not allow them to return to their villages during the lockdown period.“Only 18 factories are working as of now. The labourers are trying to return to their homes but the police and local authorities are requesting them to stay at the factory where they would be provided with food and shelter. Rao said that police complaints are in the process of being filed against two factories in Karad and Kolhapur for allowing their labour to return home and not making arrangements for their extended stay during the lockdown period. “The labourers themselves want to leave as they feel that home is safer,” he said. Bhimashankar Co-operative sugar factory’s chairman Balasabheb Bende said that although they have made all the necessary arrangements for their labour, “we are helpless if they try and run away at night.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-crushing-of-10-lakh-tonnes-of-cane-hit-due-to-absence-of-farm-labour/story-cxS5YJLWadnLZb3CVz9j9O.html
03-04-2020||Pune||With swimming sessions on hold, Khelo India star Sadhvi Dhuri has a watertight plan for studies||Savitribai Phule Pune University managed to clinch the girls swimming team championship at the February Khelo India University Games- all because of city swimmer- Sadhvi Dhuri’s five gold and one silver knock. During the lockdown, Dhuri is making sure that her fitness does not suffer and is devoting much of her time to studies. Dhuri who stays at Nanded City on Sinhgad road describes her daily routine.Morning session I maintain my habit of waking up early in the morning at 6am, then, I have milk and exercise for 1 hour and 30 minutes. It starts with warm-up exercises then squats, lunges, burpees, push-ups, pull-ups, jumping jacks and even suryanamaskar at home. Usually after this, my action shifts to the pool at Harmony Health Club, Kothrud, but due to the lockdown, pools are shut, so, I prefer to help my mother with household chores – cleaning and sweeping. I miss my swimming sessions and teammates a lot.Afternoon sessionOnce the lunch is done, I take a nap for 30 minutes and then, it is study time. I am currently a second year Bachelor of commerce student at the Marathwada Mitramandal College of Commerce and as my exams have been postponed, I am devoting a lot of time for studies. What I have planned is that swimming practice is off, my focus is on studies and once, my normal routine starts, I can focus more on swimming, rather than been stressed about the exams.Evening sessionIn the evening, I train and do exercises on the elastic bands. Once all the exercises are done, I sketch, paint or spend my time watching something on Netflix. Once dinner is done, we play ludo or cards as everyone is at home. Usually we don’t get to spend time together and play games, so we are using this lockdown time for our daily get together. I am enjoying the family time a lot. Workout at home As the gyms are closed I workout at home. I focus on core strengthening exercises and some stretching exercises. Hobby:I love to sketch and paint and daily, I spare a little time for my hobbies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/with-swimming-sessions-on-hold-due-to-lockdown-this-khelo-india-star-and-sppu-student-has-a-watertight-plan-for-studies/story-yf9dxcHYTytDTCUm2CTlJI.html
03-04-2020||City||Bihar reports its first corona death||PATNAA 38-year-old Bihar man, who came back from Qatar, has died after contracting the coronavirus in the first known fatality in the state linked to the Covid-19 disease, officials said on Sunday while also announcing the first two cases of the fast-spreading contagion.The resident of Munger was admitted at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Patna on March 20 and died on March 21. He is the sixth Indian to die of the respiratory disease in the country so far and the youngest as well.“The deceased was a patient of kidney disease and died on Saturday morning before his report came positive for coronavirus late in the evening,” Sanjay Kumar, Bihar’s principal secretary (health), said.The senior official said that the man had flown from Qatar to Kolkata and travelled by train to Bihar 15 days ago. He added that he had developed some kidney problem and was admitted to a private hospital in Munger. He came to Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) and was admitted to AIIMS-P later.Kumar confirmed that another woman, a 45-year-old resident of Patna whose son had travelled to Italy, has also tested positive for Sar-Cov-2, as the new coronavirus has been named.“There was some misinformation in the morning. The woman who has tested positive has no travel history but her son had returned from Italy earlier this month,” said Kumar.“He was put in quarantine and his sample had tested negative. We will test his sample again since his mother has tested positive for Covid-19,” he said.Kumar said the woman had been admitted to the AIIMS, Patna and was put in isolation. “We expect to get by evening the test report of another Covid-19 suspect, who returned from Scotland, and has been put in isolation at the Nalanda Medical College Hospital (NMCH),” added Kumar.These are the first positive cases from Bihar, which had not reported a single patient so far.“We have so far received 129 samples and tested 88 of which two have turned positive of Covid-19,” Dr Pradeep Das, director of the Rajendra Memorial Research Institute of Medical Sciences (RMRIMS), said.RMRIMS is the only institute approved by the Centre for testing samples for Sar-Cov-2 in Bihar.India has reported that 341 people have been infected with the virus so far.The first victim to die of coronavirus was a 76-year-old man from Karnataka’s Kalburgi who succumbed on March 11 while being transported from one hospital to another. His samples tested positive for Sars-Cov-2 on March 13.It was followed by the death of a 68-year-old woman from Delhi. She had contracted the infection from her son who had returned from abroad and the third death was reported from Mumbai on March 17, when a 64-year old succumbed to the disease at Kasturba Hospital in the city.The fourth victim was a 70-year-old man who had arrived from Germany via Italy at Delhi airport on March 7 before heading to Punjab on the same day. He was a patient of diabetes and hypertension and was confirmed as Sars-Cov-2 positive just a day before his death on March 19.The fifth Indian to die due to Covid-19 was a 63-year-old man in Mumbai, who also had diabetes, high blood pressure and heart disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/first-death-due-to-covid-19-in-bihar-two-test-positive/story-K3qI8Ya84BA9YxEhMUxd1K.html
03-04-2020||Ranchi||Two months on, Ranchi’s ‘Shaheen Bagh’ stir suspended till April 5||The two-month long Ranchi’s Shaheen Bagh-like protest at Kadru area was suspended on Saturday till April 5 in view of the spreading coronavirus scare across the country. The women protesters took the decision following a meeting with three Jharkhand ministers on Friday evening.Parliamentary affairs minister Alamgir Alam, finance minister Ramehswar Oraon and agriculture minister Badal Patralekh had called a delegation of protesting women on Friday evening at Alam’s office.Saheen Parween, a member of the delegation, said, “We have decided to suspend the ongoing dharna at Kadru till April 5 on request of the ministers.”“The ministers said Corona virus is spreading in India. In coming days, it might be declared as national or state disaster. They urged us to postpone the movement in interest of country as well as state so that people do not gather in large number in one place and coronavirus could be prevented from growing,” she said.Parween said they placed their demand before the Jharkhand ministers to pass a resolution in the ongoing assembly session against the National Population Register (NPR). “The ministers assured that the draft of the resolution is ready and it will be passed soon,” Parween said.She further said, “We will hold a meeting on April 5 to decide future course of action of our agitation. The protest will continue till it goes on in Delhi’s Shaheen Bagh.”The women-led indefinite sit-in against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), National Register of Citizens (NRC) and NPR had started at Ranchi’s Kadru area, near Haj House, from January 20. The sit-in is inspired by the protest spearheaded by women at Delhi’s Shaheen Bagh, a Muslim neighbourhood near Jamia Millia Islamia, which has been continuing since December 15, 2019. In another development, all church related gatherings and liturgical services have been suspended by the Ranchi Catholic Archdiocese in view of the Corona virus threat.Auxiliary bishop of Ranchi Theodore Mascarenhas said that Holy Mass would continue to be celebrated in churches but the faithful were exempted from Sunday obligation during this period.He said that the temporary measures would come into effect from March 22 and would be in force till March 31.Meanwhile, Ranchi administration on Saturday has put an embargo on visit to Pahadi Temple, city’s one of the most visited religious place, for visitors with immediate effect. Pahadi temple is located on the 250-foot-high Pahadi Hill in the heart of Ranchi and was earlier known as Phansi Tongri, a place where freedom fighters were hung by the British.Ranchi deputy commissioner Rai Mahimapat Ray, who is also the president of Ranchi Pahadi Mandir Vikas Samiti, has issued an order in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-months-on-ranchi-s-saheen-bagh-stir-suspended-till-april-5/story-iySb1fqguqmnKCgE4dUtgJ.html
03-04-2020||Ranchi||Health dept opens three masks sale centres in Dhanbad||In the wake of mask and hand sanitiser crisis, the health department has decided to open three centres in Dhanbad for easy availability of commodities to people as per requirement.Subdivisional Magistrate (SDM) Raj Maheshwarm on Monday informed that to ensure availability of masks and hands sanitisers to people at market price, three centres — at Sadar Hospital, Jharia CHC and Chirkunda/Nirsa — will be opened soon to deal with the prevailing shortage and black marketing of commodities.If all goes as per plan, the health department centres would begin selling masks and hands sanitisers from Wednesday. The SDM has directed to kick start the centres with the available stock.“Besides, a doctor would be also available at each centre to advise a buyer whether his health condition requires a mask or not,” said the SDM, adding, these doctors at the centres would also inform the people how much a mask is essential, when one should wear it and for how long.Earlier in the day, the SDM held a marathon meeting with druggists association office bearers and stockists of districts to ensure availability of masks at the selected centres. Dhanbad civil surgeon Dr Gopal Das, superintendent of Patliputra Medical College Hospital (PMCH) Dr Arun Kumar Chaudhary and senior medical officer Dr Alok Viswakarma also attended the meeting.Dr Viswakarma said without mask it “does not mean we are exposed to the virus”. In fact, a mask is essential only for a coronavirus-positive patient and the doctor who treats him. However, it is also essential for people who live at crowded places.“Hand sanitiser is the major protection from coronavirus than a mask. Washing hands six times a day is the most common way to prevent a person from getting infected and stay safe,” said Dr Viswakarma.Sources said the plan earlier was to open a similar centre at PMCH also but due to heavy presence of patients, it has been cancelled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/health-dept-opens-three-masks-sale-centres-in-dhanbad/story-OLZXc1It2AlG4sVi5o3ayH.html
