05-04-2020||City||Covid-19 outbreak: 4 more test positive in Punjab||Four fresh cases of the coronavirus were reported in Punjab on Sunday, taking the total number of those infected by the disease to 69. In Amritsar, two persons were tested positive with the city witnessing more community spread cases, said civil surgeon Dr Prabhdeep Kaur Johal. “The wife of a 67-year-old man of Krishna Nagar, who was tested positive for the Covid-19 on Friday, was also found infected on Sunday. The couple is admitted to the isolation ward of the Guru Nanak Dev Hospital (GNDH). Both are stable. Their two sons, a daughter-in-law and an eight-month-old granddaughter, who were also isolated at GNDH, were tested negative,” said Dr Johal. “Also, a male resident of Chatiwind Gate was tested positive for the virus. He visited the Fortis Hospital Amritsar with breathlessness, fever and cough and was admitted to the isolation ward. He was tested positive at Fortis’s SRL laboratory. This is another case of community spread. The health department has sanitised his house,” she said.In Ludhiana, a 26- year- old man from Rajgarh village in the district tested positive for the disease, becoming the sixth person to be infected by the virus in the district. The man is among 26 persons who allegedly attended the Tablighi Jamaat in the Nizamuddin area in Delhi and was quarantined at the civil hospital.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the patient reached Vijaywara in Andhra Pradesh on March 18. “Due to the lockdown, he boarded a flight from Hyderabad and reached Delhi on March 23. It is not yet known where he stayed on March 24 night. In the morning, he took a flight from Delhi to Sahnewal.”But the patient, who runs a dairy with his family on the outskirts of the village, claimed he did not attend the Tablighi Jamaat.The health department put eight of his family members, including his wife, children and parents, in quarantine at the civil hospital. In Barnala, a 44-year-old woman was tested positive for the coronavirus on Sunday, becoming the first case of infection in the district. The woman, who has no foreign travel history, was admitted to the civil hospital on April 1 with fever, cough and difficulty in breathing.The street in the Sekha Road locality where the victim lives was sealed as a precautionary measure.The patient’s husband works in a paper mill at Dhaula village. The factory management said he did not visited the unit after March 22 when Prime Minister Narendra Modi gave a call for Janta Curfew and curfew was imposed the next day.Civil surgeon Dr Gurinderbir Singh said, “Of 25 samples in the district, 24 were found negative. Eleven samples, including two of the patient’s family members, four of his landlord’s family and 5 of medical staff, were sent for testing on Sunday.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-outbreak-4-more-test-positive-in-punjab/story-hVLr6q8vLup5N4u0kAZbDM.html
05-04-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: HP police warn Tablighi workers to disclose travel history or face action||The Himachal Pradesh Police on Sunday set a deadline for Tablighi workers to disclose their travel history or face action under the State Disaster Management Act. The police said sections including murder and attempt to murder will also be added if details are not revealed.The move comes after six Tablighi workers were found positive for coronavirus in Una and Nalagarh. They have been admitted to IGMC, Shimla and RPMC Tanda in Kangra district. The district administration has also sought assistance from district heads of Tablighi Jamaat to either disclose details of all those who attended the event in Delhi last month by Sunday 5 pm or face action.DGP Sita Ram Mardi said, “If we come to know after Sunday 5pm that they deliberately hid the information, FIRs for the charge of attempt to murder will be registered against them under section 307 of IPC, besides the Disaster Management Act.”Seventeen FIRs have already been registered against 85 Jamaat members for deliberately hiding the information and violating curfew in the last five days, the DGP said.“The state has witnessed an increase in Covid-19 cases. We had sent 54 samples for testing in IGMC and reports of three persons from the Nalagarh mosque were also tested positive for coronavirus. The government has urged the Tablighi Jamaat workers to come forward and disclose their travel history. If they fail to voluntarily disclose their travel history, stern action will be taken against them,” said chief minister Jai Ram Thakur in a video message which was widely circulated.The police also booked state head of Tablighi Jamaat Hukumudin, a retired head constable for concealing the information of a Tablighi member who attended the religious congregation in Delhi. A case against Hukumudin has been registered Sections 188, 269 and 270 of the Indian Penal Code at Majra police station. (with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-hp-police-warn-tablighi-workers-to-disclose-travel-history-or-face-action/story-nQpirBngCyXQjOHe3NpbTN.html
05-04-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: 8 more test positive in Himachal, tally rises to 14||The state has witnessed a sudden spurt in coronavirus cases as seven people tested positive on Sunday, taking the total number of cases in the state to 13, officials said.Three Tablighi workers from Nalagarh who were tested positive have been admitted to the isolation ward in IGMC. Four persons who had come in contact with Covid-19 positive woman who died in PGMIER, Chandigarh due to the disease were also tested positive and have been admitted to Medanta hospital.A Tablighi worker has also tested positive for Covid-19 in Kangra district. Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said that the Tablighi returnee, who hails from Indora sub-division, was admitted at an isolation centre in Zonal Hospital Dharamshala.So far, samples of 381 persons have been tested in IGMC, Shimla and Dr Rajendra Prasad Medical College, Tanda in Kangra district. Of the total, 335 had tested negative. The government had identified 4,286 people with travel history to Covid-19 affected countries, of which 2,159 people were home quarantined.Meanwhile, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur has sanctioned ₹1.5 crore from State Disaster Response Fund to the police department to purchase high-risk personal protective equipment (PPE) kits and N-95 masks.He also directed the state drug authorities to ensure an adequate supply of essential medicines in the state. Thakur said that citizens requiring medicines can call on helpline numbers 0177-2626076 and 0177-2626077 or toll-free 1070.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-8-more-test-positive-in-himachal-tally-rises-to-14/story-bCBQLTUPmr94jWvhyWw1oM.html
05-04-2020||City||Team of scientists bust Covid-19 myths||Have you been receiving messages such as, “Indians have better immunity to fight coronavirus”, or “Home remedies can offer protection against the infection?” A group of scientists have taken the onus to falsify such myths which have been doing the rounds on social media.Less than 10 days after their first meeting, the hoax-buster team of the Indian Scientists’ Response to Covid19 (ISRC) has released “hoax-busting messages” in English and 14 Indian languages on https://indscicov.in/busting-hoaxes/ that can be downloaded and shared.A volunteer team comprising scientists, graphic designers and translators from across the country have countered hoaxes, myths and superstitions using short and simple social media messages accompanied by detailed responses with additional references to scientific evidence and technical manuscripts. You can report a hoax or any unverified claim at hoaxbusters.isrc@gmail.com“Some misinformation takes off and some do not. When some misinformation finds resonance and reinforces previously held beliefs, a critical number of people share or retweet it,” said Dibyendu Nandi, astrophysicist, Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Kolkata, who helped assimilate many of the hoaxes and superstitions in to specific scientific questions for effective science communication.With several astrologers and spiritual masters claiming that the calendar followed by the spread of coronavirus follows a certain pattern that can be predicted by astrology, the hoax-busters have clarified that the motion of planets do not impact human bodies and tiny microorganisms and there is no connection between astrological beliefs and the spread of epidemics.“A nanometre sized virus has brought the world to its heels. For the person on the street, this is hard to fathom,” said R Ramanujam, theoretical computer scientist at the Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai, and coordinator of the ISRC. “Our group not only tries to debunk the hoaxes that are going viral but is also spreading general scientific awareness by various other means. This is critical since the success of measures coming from the government depends on citizens playing their role rationally.” Aniket Sule, astrophysicist and science educator at the Homi Bhabha Centre for Science Education, who played an important role in coordinating translations, said scientists, including astronomers from IUCAA-Pune and IIT-Bombay worked to automate the process of generation of images in all languages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/team-of-scientists-bust-covid-19-myths/story-0zv2O1TadvunjREdQT3q6J.html
05-04-2020||City||71% coronavirus positive patients in Maharashtra asymptomatic, says government||Mumbai: Seventy-one confirmed coronavirus patients in the state between March 29 and April 5 have not showed any symptom associated with the infection, a report released by the state’s medical education and drugs department (MEDD) has revealed. The report released on Sunday has revealed that this is a surge from the 66% asymptomatic cases recorded till the last week of March from the time the first set of cases emerged. Dr Sanjay Mukherjee, secretary, MEDD, said that the asymptomatic cases have surged as the government has begun to trace and test all the contacts also of those who have been tested positive. The data has also revealed that there is a spike in the number of cases in Maharashtra from March 23. The data also reveals that the fatality rate in Maharashtra is at par with the world at 5%, compared to the fatality rate in the rest of the country, which stands at 2% as on April 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/71-coronavirus-positive-patients-in-maharashtra-asymptomatic-says-government/story-aQogm1xyzhteJF4u7GRVfK.html
05-04-2020||Gurugram||Unidentified men open fire at Gurugram mosque, FIR filed||A group of unidentified men opened fire at a mosque in Dhankot village on Saturday night, the police said, adding that nobody was injured in the incident. According to the police, an FIR was registered on Sunday against unidentified men on the basis of the complaint by the Imam of the mosque, who was sleeping on the terrace of the building when the incident took place. However, he did not hear the sound of the gunshots, the Imam said in the complaint. The police said that they found at least one ejected shell casing near the gate of the mosque. Although the motive behind the firing is yet to be established, the police have denied any communal angle to it.In the police complaint, the Imam, who is a resident of Nuh, said, “I have been working as Imam in Kherki Majra. On Friday, the Imam of Jama Masjid, Dhankot, asked me to take care of the premises as he was going out of station. On Sunday around 6.44am, I received a phone call from him. He informed me that the residents of the village have told him that gunshots were fired in front of the mosque. I was sleeping on the first floor during the night and did not hear the gunshots.”The Imam further said that when he went downstairs, he saw a crowd in front of the mosque. The residents allegedly told him that they heard sounds of gunshots being fired around 12 am. After inspecting the area near the mosque, the Imam allegedly found an ejected shell casing and saw a bullet hole on the gate of the mosque, the police said.“Residents told me that they heard at least three gunshots. I do not know the people who fired them. But I believe that there are some people who want to destroy the harmony and brotherhood in the area,” the Imam, requesting anonymity, said.Pankaj Kumar, station house officer, Rajendra Park police station, said that the suspects are yet to be identified. “We are investigating the case. An ejected shell casing was found near the spot. There is no communal angle to the incident,” he said.A police official privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said preliminary probe suggested that there were at least three men who came at the spot in a car and fried the gunshots.A case was registered against the suspects under Section 285 (negligent conduct with respect to fire or combustible matter) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Arms Act at Rajendra Park police station on Sunday, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/unidentified-men-open-fire-at-gurugram-mosque-fir-filed/story-IHGDCq6R4R0mzGHieBlr9N.html
05-04-2020||Gurugram||Homeless migrants for whom Gurugram footpaths are home say situation worse than demonetisation||Migrants from Rajasthan, who have been living on city’s footpaths for years and earning their livelihood by selling earthenware and hand carved agricultural tools such as sickles, chisels and the like, have been hit particularly hard by the nationwide lockdown, imposed to curb the outbreak of Sars-Cov-2. Living on the margins, many of these men and women, some of whom have spent about three-four decades in the city, agree that they have never seen such bad times in the past. Even during demonetisation, they recall, they had managed to earn something every day, but the impact of the nationwide lockdown is such that they have not been able to earn a single rupee in the last 15 days, they say.There are around 40 tents at Hanuman Chowk in Dundahera in which more than 150 migrant families live. These migrants hail from Chittor in Rajasthan and belong to the ‘Lohar’ community, but being nomadic in nature till a few decades back, they own no property.“We don’t have permanent homes and these tenements are our only abode. Due to the lockdown, our shops are closed and there are no buyers but we have mouths to feed. There are around 600-700 people who need help in terms of groceries and essential items,” says Maina, a 60-year old woman.The families staying at Hanuman Chowk say the local councillor had brought help to them a week back and given them rice, flour, oil and other essentials. “We have no money right now and the children need milk and food. We used to earn ₹500-₹600 every day but now there is no income,” said Kamlesh, another resident of the area. While these migrants are facing shortages of food, those staying at the Palam Vihar road near Rezangla chowk say they are troubled as the community washrooms and toilets located nearby have been closed due to the lockdown. “There are 40 people living here. The women are facing trouble as they are forced to go in the open to relieve themselves. We have to fetch water from around 1km afar,” says Machhar Singh, who has been living in the area for over four decades. The migrants insist that they should be given dry ration instead of cooked meals as they are worried about the quality of the food. “We don’t accept cooked meals. What we want is some rations that can sustain us during the lockdown,” says Anguri Devi, adding that the sources of income have dried up and her savings are also gone.When asked about the matter, Rakesh Daultabad, MLA Badshahpur assured that help will reach these people at the earliest. “Our teams are working hard to reach out to the distressed persons. Whatever is needed will be given by Monday morning,” he said.Sudhir Singla, BJP MLA from Gurugram, also assured that he will ask officials to reach out to all such people and help will be given on priority. “I have just come to know about their problems and I assure that no one in the city will remain hungry. Help will reach them soon,” he asserted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/homeless-migrants-for-whom-gurugram-footpaths-are-home-say-situation-worse-than-demonetisation/story-vUzvlQTRoStJTbmVZLtDtJ.html
05-04-2020||Mumbai||Urban designer marks Mumbai’s containment zones on Google Maps||With a growing number of containment zones in the city to tackle the coronavirus pandemic, a city-based urban designer and professor has spatialised the zones and areas on Google maps. The easy-to-access map shows users the zones near their locality. You can access the map on your mobile via shorturl.at/tWX29.According to the plan, a containment zone means at least one person from the area has tested positive for Covid-19. The patient’s family and the building are identified as a cluster zone, and at least four to five adjoining buildings on all sides are mapped in the containment zone, depending on the area’s population density. The greater the population density, the wider the radius of containment zone.In addition, the disaster management team of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) gets an alert in case of any movement in the containment zone through video analytics. BMC has identified 241 containment zones in the city as of Friday. Mumbai is the worst-affected in the state with an increasing number of cases.“The idea was to make an easy-to-access map which citizens can also access on their phones to know which are the no-go zones. This is also user-friendly and can be accessed on mobile phones,” said Abhijit Ekbote, a city-based urban designer and secretary of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region – Environment Improvement Society (MMR-EIS). Ekbote has been updating the map based on data released by BMC.Apart from Mumbai, Ekbote has also updated some containment zones in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region. The map has had more than 3,000 views till Sunday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/urban-designer-marks-mumbai-s-containment-zones-on-google-maps/story-XaA5TTuSgZGXWIBEhrnPcP.html
05-04-2020||Noida||Builders provide free food, medicines to halt exodus of migrants||A number of Noida-based real estate developers have been successful in convincing migrant construction workers not to leave their construction sites and head back to their home towns during the ongoing nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19. As the nationwide lockdown was announced on March 24 by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, these developers reached out to the labourers and convinced them that they and their families will remain safe, healthy and have access to adequate food and medicine at their respective construction sites. Several prominent builders such as ATS Infrastructure, ACE Group, Jaypee Group, Wave Group, Supertech Limited and others decided to provide all essential services right at the construction sites.“Our construction workers are like an extended family to us because they are the ones who build housing projects. It was not safe for them to go back to home towns in groups. Therefore, we have started giving them free food and medicine to around 1,700 labourers at our all sites in Noida and Greater Noida since lockdown was put into effect,” said Ajay Kumar, chairman and managing director, ACE Group.Jaypee Group, for instance, has provided food to the families of nearly 1,000 migrant construction workers. Similarly, ATS Group has done the same for almost 2,000 migrant workers. Supertech Limited has also provided food to around 2,500 workers, while Wave Group has supplied food to around 2,200 construction workers and their families. Jaypee Group, who is also into health care, has given up its properties to be converted into quarantine facilities, where migrant workers are being kept in isolation. Apart from providing food to construction labourers, the Jaypee Group has also made quarantine facilities at its multiple properties including a hospital in Noida and two hospitals in Bulandshahr.“Our group is committed to extending full support to UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath to fight Covid-19. We have reserved a 20-bed ward for quarantining in a Noida hospital and have given up a full hospital in Chitta and another one in Anupshahr in the neighbouring district of Bulandshahr. Our effort is to fight this pandemic together and provide relief to the needy during this time of crisis,” said Sunny Gaur managing director of Jaypee Healthcare.“Our volunteers have also shown our labourers how to stay safe by washing hands, maintaining social distance and staying inside their living quarters at sites. And since we have provided food and counselling regularly, they have stayed back,” said Getambar Anand, CMD, ATS Infrastructure.These builders have also started sanitisation work at the sites, where construction workers are staying.“As we adopted 2,200 labourers and have taken care of all of their family members. We have assured them of medical help and free food for the 21 days of lockdown,” said Manpreet Singh Chadha, chairman, Wave Group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/builders-provide-free-food-medicines-to-halt-exodus-of-migrants/story-OWQBezeK18FGtPrx5jSgBL.html
05-04-2020||Noida||Noida industrialists, entrepreneurs seek relief package amid lockdown||Noida-based entrepreneurs and industrialists have demanded a relief package from the Uttar Pradesh (UP) government and the Centre, amid the ongoing 21-day nationwide lockdown due to the outbreak of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.They said although their operations are shut, they are required to pay the salaries of their staff members as per the government order. Noida Entrepreneurs Association (NEA), which has at least 10,000 industrial unit owners as its members, has written to the UP government and the Centre about their plight. These 10,000 industrial units collectively employ at least 5 lakh workers directly. Further, at least 2 lakh more people get indirect employment from these industrial units, said NEA. Small, micro, medium and large-scale industrial units manufacture a variety of products, such as electronic goods, electrical equipment, automobile parts, garments, etc. They said that they were already suffering due to the economic slowdown and now the shutdown of units amid the nationwide lockdown has virtually brought their businesses to a standstill.“The biggest worry is that the government has directed us to pay the salaries of all employees during the phase when units are shut and workers are not reporting for work. We have happily paid the salaries to our employees but the problem is that the government has not provided us with a relief package yet. They should not charge any interest on loan installments for at least three months, as the Reserve Bank of India has put a moratorium on all loan payments. If there is no work happening, then why we should pay interest on our businesses or other loans?” asked Vipin Malhan, president of NEA.The association has written letters to the UP chief minister and the ministry of finance for a relief package amid the existing scenario when the industry owners have completely shut down their business operations and are staying at home. They said that the Noida Authority has refused to waive off water or sewer charges and there has been no relief from rental charges for their industrial units and other taxes during this period.“The government must take into consideration our plight because the government should stop taking electricity bills during the period when operations have been shut down. Other taxes from all departments should also be put on hold during this crisis period,” said Sudhir Shrivastava, spokesperson of NEA.The association also demanded that commercial and transport taxes for their vehicles should also be exempted.“The government should provide business loans at 6% interest rate in order to give a boost to industrial units on the lines of reliefs given to other sections. We employ at least 5-7 lakh people in Noida. If the government will encourage our business instead of imposing unwanted taxes then it will benefit all our employees and the local economy,” said Shrivastava.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-industrialists-entrepreneurs-seek-relief-package-amid-lockdown/story-mknUoyOab6fPgRXIi8obfK.html
05-04-2020||Noida||Man arrested for rape, murder of cousin||A 19-year-old man was arrested Sunday on charges of raping and murdering his eight-year-old cousin on Saturday night, the police said.The incident was reported around 10pm on Saturday when the girl’s body was found in a hut near her house in an area that comes under the Sector 49 police jurisdiction. The body has been sent for an autopsy, the police said. According to the victim’s parents, she had gone missing around 6pm.“We had seen her going with her cousin in the evening and we suspected his role in her death,” said the girl’s father in his police complaint.Police said that a call was made to the police helpline around 10pm when the family found the body after which a team was rushed to the spot.“The body was sent for an autopsy, and based on the family’s complaint, the suspect was nabbed. Upon questioning, he confessed to the crime,” said Dharmendra Kumar Sharma, station house officer, Sector 49 police station.Sharma said that the suspect lived in a separate hut. The girl’s parents work as daily wage earners, he said.According to the police, preliminary investigation suggests that the suspect first raped her and when she started to raise the alarm, he suffocated her to death with a blanket. However, the autopsy report is awaited, they said. The girl’s body was handed over to the family on Sunday, the police said.The suspect was booked under sections 302 (punishment for murder), and 376 (1) (punishment for rape) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.“The suspect was arrested for the rape of his cousin. Necessary legal proceedings are being done,” said Akhilesh Kumar, additional commissioner of police.The suspect was produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/man-arrested-for-rape-murder-of-cousin/story-iyzCgBHGZjJ7kVO3PXEqpK.html
05-04-2020||Noida||Call on extending prohibitory orders in Noida will be taken on April 14||The Gautam Budh Nagar police commissionerate on Sunday said that it would decide whether on not to extend the imposition of Section 144 in the district on April 14, the last day of the lockdown.Confusion prevailed over the extension of Section 144 when the police department on Sunday issued a press note stating that the prohibitory orders will be extended from the previous date of April 5 to April 30, during which time all guidelines of the lockdown will be followed.However, senior officials denied the information.“Section 144 is in place till April 14. We will then take a call on extending it further depending on the situation,” Akhilesh Kumar, additional commissioner of police, law and order, saidThe commissionerate had, for the first time this year, imposed Section 144 on February 15, which was to last till March 15 (during the festival and examination season). However, as the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic spread across the country, the imposition was extended till April 5.The press note released by the Gautam Budh Nagar police had stated: “The nationwide lockdown will continue till April 14. For protection from the virus and safety of the public, Section 144 of the CrPC had been imposed till April 5, which is now being extended till April 30, 2020.” The police notice was signed by Ashutosh Dwivedi, additional deputy commissioner of police, law and order.In case the date is extended, all the regulations of the lockdown will continue for the extended time as well.“Even when the lockdown ends, any political, cultural, religious, or sports-related demonstration or rally or any other programme will not be allowed. Necessary legal action will be taken against any person found in violation of these guidelines,” the police notice stated. However, the Noida police sent out another press note in the evening, stating that the extension is only till April 15.Before the commissionerate system came into place in January, the power to impose Section 144 resided with the district administration. The section empowers an executive magistrate to issue orders in urgent cases of nuisance or apprehended danger. It is often used to prohibit an assembly of five or more persons when unrest is anticipated but does not apply to examinees, wedding processions, etc.Ever since the lockdown started on March 24, the Gautam Budh Nagar police have registered 513 FIRs against offenders under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code, which is levied in violation of Section 144, while 304 people have been apprehended for the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/call-on-extending-prohibitory-orders-in-noida-will-be-taken-on-april-14/story-BpngMRjeYKYgHRNlsr93UJ.html
05-04-2020||Mumbai||Government makes mask mandatory to enter Mantralaya||Changing its protocol, the state government has decided to make mask compulsory for all the visitors to Mantralaya. In a statement issued on Sunday, the government said wearing mask is mandatory for entry at the state headquarters till further notice. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday said that like few other countries, India too needs to make masks mandatory at public places. Earlier, the government had been asserting that masks were not needed for people other than health workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/government-makes-mask-mandatory-to-enter-mantralaya/story-N1Aza4sQVMtCv6ynQgaDfM.html
05-04-2020||Mumbai||Transgender community writes to authorities for help||Over the past one week, members of transgender community have written to authorities requesting help in getting essential commodities citing that community members do not have source of income due to the lockdown. Priya Patil, an activist, said, “When the government spoke about marginalised communities and those in need of help, there was no mention of transgenders. Even after the NALSA judgement, are we not considered citizens of the country?” She said most community members earn money on a daily basis by means such as begging which is not possible due to the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/transgender-community-writes-to-authorities-for-help/story-rCvfMK0OlvGZiBmVhcc5vJ.html
05-04-2020||Mumbai||Volunteers unite to map Mumbai’s hunger amid lockdown||Even as various groups reach out to needy across the city providing them with basic essentials, a group of young volunteers have launched an initiative — Khaana Chahiye — to bring all efforts under one roof and reach out to the less privileged and marginalised sections by mapping them across the city.Shishir Joshi, the founder of Project Mumbai and one of the founders of Khaana Chahiye, said every day around 20,000 people comprising migrants and homeless across Mumbai are provided with khichdi or pulao in their lunch and dinner food packets. Around a week back, the group launched a website — www.khaanachahiye.com where volunteers and those who know of a needy family can supply details such as address, number of people, category of needy and kind of help required. Elsa D’Silva, who co-ordinates distribution of food packets on the Eastern Express Highway, said some families along were in need of dry ration which was provided to them following which they now distribute 550 packets at Kurla, Wadala and Chembur.The group, however, said they were in need of more volunteers. “We are helping out with food. But will also need a group of volunteers who can provide them with water,” said D’Silva. Currently, around 60 volunteers have joined hands for this project who provide monetary help and services, while some restaurants and kitchens have opened their space and manpower to cook meals.“The site was basically launched to provide a hunger map of the city because we do not want any duplication of efforts. It’s to understand the demand and accordingly supply food,” said Ruben Mascarenhas, co-founder of Khaana Chahiye.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/volunteers-unite-to-map-city-s-hunger-amid-lockdown/story-ouNklF42wgAwqaRdWIAmsL.html
05-04-2020||City||Hoteliers open door to ones in need||A hotelier from Nashik Highway has given shelter to poor daily wage workers as they stay far away from the city. The hotel owner, Hafisi Dukka, said he will continue to provide all necessary things to them till the lockdown is lifted. Another such hotel in Shahpur on Mumbai-Nashik Highway has also started the same thing for truck drivers who are travelling to provide essential goods to Mumbai and Thane as well as some daily wage workers who left work after lockdown and are walking towards their home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hoteliers-open-door-to-ones-in-need/story-5nKtwSbS7WoDz56xlbzgjP.html
05-04-2020||City||NMMC launches radio to filter out misinformation||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has started internet radio to generate awareness and filter out misinformation about Covid-19. The internet radio would be streamed twice a day at 12 noon and 6pm, starting Monday. During the 30-minute programme, presenters will talk about coronavirus, what needs to be followed during the lockdown and what needs to be done to keep the disease at bay. People can download the link ‘NMMC Swacch Radio Navi Mumbai’ from the website www.swachhradionavimumbai.com.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nmmc-launches-radio-to-filter-out-misinformation/story-hJJpYmM2Te5lRdGopXM16M.html
05-04-2020||City||700 Dahanu fishermen stranded in Gujarat waters||Around 700 fishermen from Dahanu and Talasari in Palghar are stranded in Gujarat coast due to the lockdown. They were first denied entry in Umbergaon, but have later been allowed to enter Nargol coast near Vapi and stay there till further notice. The fishermen had gone to Porbander, Verawal and Saurashtra coast to work on trawlers during Holi and have not returned home since, said Ramkrishna Tandel, secretary, Maharashtra Machimaar Kriti Samiti. He added that due to lack of potable water and proper sanitation facilities onboard the trawlers may lead to some other disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/700-dahanu-fishermen-stranded-in-gujarat-waters/story-dLfPARlU77PeNoqVQNBCkL.html
05-04-2020||Mumbai||Prisoners better be inside amid lockdown: HC||The Bombay high court (HC) has said it is better that prisoners are behind bars during the nationwide lockdown amid the coronavirus outbreak as boundaries of almost all districts have been sealed to enforce the lockdown. “So far as Mumbai is concerned, it is reported that several areas are also sealed,” said the judge, adding, “As such, even if a prisoner is released on bail, it may not be possible for him to reach to his destination without risking his life due to outbreak of Covid-19.” He added, given the situation, prisoners will help save lives of many others - like court staff - by remaining inside jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/prisoners-better-be-inside-amid-lockdown-hc/story-hjSbUtF4TYVcRXsklmusPJ.html
05-04-2020||City||Over 300 senior citizens call on NMMC’ helpline||Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation had recently launched a helpline number for the senior citizens. So far, more than 300 have reached out on helpline numbers 180022309 and 180022310 and asked about the necessary help.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/over-300-senior-citizens-call-on-nmmc-helpline/story-ehVeZORFg0TXygYRxLy9dL.html
05-04-2020||City||10 foreigners who stayed in Vashi mosque after attending Tablighi Jamaat event booked||Vashi police on Sunday have booked 10 Filipinos for allegedly staying in a mosque in Vashi after attending the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi between March 10 and 16 without informing the police and for flouting self-isolation norms. The incident came to light after a 68-year-old man from the group started developing symptoms of coronavirus. “The 68-year-old man was sent to Kasturba Hospital in Mumbai. After he was tested positive, the other nine from the group were also tested and two of them were also tested positive. Meanwhile, the 68-year-old man developed complications and was shifted to a Powai hospital, where he died on March 23. On inquiring with the men, we learnt that they had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi,” said an officer from Vashi police station.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), however, has claimed that the 68-year-old died of another infection and did not attribute his death to coronavirus, as he was first tested positive but later his report came negative.Meanwhile, two men who have been tested positive have recovered and are in quarantine at Nagpada. Despite being asked to self-isolate, the seven others who were tested negative have fled to Delhi, the police have said. As per the suo motu first information report (FIR) registered at Vashi police station, the men violated the conditions pertaining to their immigration and came in contact with Indians, causing the spread of the disease. Officers at Vashi police station said the 68-year-old man had come to India on a 40-day tourist visa and had exceeded his stay in the country.All the 10 have been booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for violating orders and spreading infectious disease; for remaining in India beyond their visa permit under the Foreigner’s Act; and sections of Epidemic Diseases Act as well as the Maharashtra Covid-19 Regulations, 2020.“The men did not inform authorities in the city that they had arrived from Delhi. Despite having symptoms, they continued to maintain proximity with others in the country amid the outbreak,” said Ravindra Daundkar, inspector, Vashi police station.The police also said they will verify with the airport authorities if the 68-year-old was screened at the international and the domestic airports in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/10-foreigners-who-stayed-in-vashi-mosque-after-attending-tablighi-jamaat-event-booked/story-kbLAMOFNaqE6l4ZAiU9iSK.html
05-04-2020||Mumbai||54,000 face masks seized, two arrested||Mumbai Police’s crime branch arrested two accused in two separate cases from Nagpada and Dharavi and seized 54,000 three-ply masks worth ₹14 lakh. During inquiry, police learnt that the accused, both of whom generally stitch leather bags, started manufacturing three-ply masks illegally and selling them in the black market after seeing the demand for the same rising in view of coronavirus outbreak.According to the police, crime branch’s unit 2 got tip-off that one Mohammad Meraj Shamshul Alam Siddhique, 36, was illegally storing and selling three-ply masks, following which a team led by inspector Sanjay Nikumbhe raided his shop in Nagpada and seized 30,300 masks worth ₹7.57 lakh. A case was registered with Agripada police and Siddhique was handed over for further legal action.The second raid was conducted by crime branch’s unit 5 wherein the police team led by Yogesh Chavan seized 24,000 three-ply masks from Dharavi and arrested Faiz Ali Hyderali Shaikh, 21.The government has included hand sanitisers and masks in the list of essential products. The crime branch officers have been conducting raids on illegal mask suppliers in the city. Raids so far:March 31: Crime Branch’s unit 7 raided a factory at Sakinaka which was manufacturing hand sanitisers without valid license. Police seized hand sanitisers and other chemicals worth ₹22.13 lakh and arrested Dilip Gokul Chamaria, 32. March 24: Unit 9 seized around 25 lakh masks worth ₹15 crore and arrested four.March 27: Unit 8, unit 10 and unit 11 conducted raids in Govandi and Mahim, and seized hand sanitisers and face masks worth ₹1.5 crore. April 2: Unit 2 raided in Mahalaxmi and seized three-ply masks worth ₹8.25 lakh and arrested Abdulsamad Subroti Ansari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/54-000-face-masks-seized-two-arrested/story-roGly8o79q2FYSE5pTYmMM.html
05-04-2020||City||Eight Malaysians linked to Tablighi Jamaat caught boarding flight at Delhi airport||New Delhi Eight Malaysian nationals were intercepted by immigration authorities and deboarded from a flight to Kuala Lumpur after they were identified as Tablighi Jamaat members, said officials.A Malindo Air Flight from Delhi to Kuala Lumpur via Mumbai was to depart with 30 Malaysians as part of an evacuation exercise at around 12.30pm when the suspects were asked to deboard.The eight men are Helmi Bin Zakaria, Mohammed Lukman Hakim Bin Hasim, Mohammed Zakri Bin Kamluddin, Mohammed Zaki Bin Abdul Malik, Mohammed Rafiq Bin Hussain, Mohammed Syafiq Bin Nordin, Hariz Adam Bin Hussain and Mohammed Syurabil Ehsan.“All of them are aged between 25 and 32 years. We had information about them and they were intercepted soon as they headed for immigration clearance. We had lookout notices against several foreigners who are believed to have attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation at its Nizamuddin headquarters in March in violation of their visa conditions. They were handed over to the Delhi police for further action,” said an officer from the airport, who did not wish to be named. Their travel history showed that all of them had arrived in India in the first week of March, on different dates, to attend the congregation, the officer added.The ministry of health and family welfare was also alerted about the development. Deputy commissioner of police (IGI airport) said that the men were handed over to the crime branch.A police officer who did not wish to be named, said these men underwent basic medical screening at the airport by the APHO (Airport Health Organization) staff. “Their detailed medical reports are awaited. They were taken away and will be kept under quarantine. They are yet to be questioned about where had they been hiding since the Nizamuddin Markaz gathering came to light. Their background is also under verification,” the officer said. The government has already blacklisted over 900 such foreigners and invoked provisions of the Disaster Management Act and the Foreign Management Act against them.Over 2,000 Tablighi Jamaat activists were evacuated from the Nizamuddin building last week and several hundreds of them spread out to at least 17 states. The health ministry has linked close to one-third of all Covid-19 infections in the country to Jaamat members and their contacts. A home ministry release that announced the blacklisting of 960 foreigners for attending the congregation in violation of the visa rules said most were from Indonesia (379), Bangladesh (110), Kyrgyzstan (77), Myanmar (63) and Thailand (65). Many foreign nationals who attended the religious gathering, among other Indians, have tested positive for Covid-19 and nearly 22,000 Tablighi Jamaat members and their contacts have been quarantined across the country so far, a home ministry official said on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/eight-malaysians-linked-to-tablighi-jamaat-caught-boarding-flight-at-delhi-airport/story-v0vzAWzeaSxoyMUWMvyVwO.html
05-04-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19 cases in Mumbai tripled in five days||A review of the progression of Covid-19 cases in Mumbai has revealed that the number of positive patients has been increasing much faster over the last five days after the city breached its 100-patient mark.On April 5, the city touched a toll of 458, with 81 positive patients identified in a single day. It took Mumbai 15 days to breach the 100-patient mark after the first two patients – an Andheri-based couple – were identified on March 11. On March 31, the city crossed the 100-patient mark, taking the toll to 151. Since then, the virus has been multiplying faster as cases have tripled in just five days.The city crossed its 200-patient mark (235 cases) on April 2. By April 4, another 100 positive cases were reported, taking the tally to 377. On Sunday (April 5), 81 more cases were confirmed within 24 hours.Similarly, the death count due to the virus has also been increasing. To date the city has registered 30 deaths; Mumbai’s first death linked to the virus was reported on March 17, after a 64-year-old man died at Kasturba Hospital. It then took 13 days to register 10 new deaths, however, the death ratio later tripled, taking the death tally of the city to 30 on April 5.State disease surveillance officer Dr Pradip Awate said, “It is true that the number of positive cases is increasing day by day as we have improved our testing from merely 1,000 samples to 5,500 samples in a day.”The Maharashtra government is currently testing 5,500 samples for the Sars-Cov-2 virus daily at 13 government and eight private labs. Awate said that considering overcrowding and large population density in Mumbai, the civic body has already identified containment zones to avoid further spread of the virus.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided to start 10 Covid-19 screening clinics in all containment zones and densely-populated areas where the focal outbreak is observed.The spike in cases, including that on Sunday, includes confirmation of cases tested earlier by private labs, pointed out another civic health official. He said that such a trend was likely to continue till April 15 due to increased testing. However, some experts said that even now, enough testing is not being done to gauge the actual spread of the virus.Dr Shashikant Ahankari, a community health specialist, and president of the Halo Medical Foundation, said, “To deal with the situation, the state government should opt for random testing at least in infected areas like Worli Koliwada, from where a many cases are being identified.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-cases-in-city-tripled-in-five-days/story-UjxjWEQrM2XxTK9DtWRrUM.html
05-04-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: One isolation bed for 5,246 Mumbai residents||The city has one isolation bed per 5,246 residents – that is 3,500 beds for a population of 1.84 crore as per the 2011 census. While the civic body plans to double this figure, health experts expressed scepticism over its adequacy, given the rising number of Covid cases and density of the city.Documents accessed by HT show that Mumbai currently has 2,107 isolation beds across different hospitals. By the end of next week, this number is set to increase to 3,507 after Seven Hills Hospital, Marol converts the entire hospital into the biggest isolation facility in India with a capacity of 1,500 beds. At present, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has started 100 isolation beds and will add 20 intensive care units (ICU) at the hospital. “The current capacity, although less for a city like Mumbai, seems adequate for now. But it will not be enough to isolate patients if community transmission starts,” said Dr Abhijit More, activist, Jan Swasth Abhiyan. “In addition to beds, the BMC should also request retired doctors and medical staffers to join the force to attend to patients. A backup plan should be prepared.”As per the data compiled by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, Japan and Korea have more than 10 isolation beds per 1,000 citizens. Countries such as Russia, Germany, Poland and France have over five isolation beds per 1,000 people.Dr Manohar Kamath, general secretary of Consumer Guidance Society of India (CGSI), said while the number of isolation beds is less, it won’t be reasonable to expect a sudden rise. “The number of Covid cases will rise as we are in the borderline of contact and community transmission. The government will, however, require time to set up isolation beds, as we didn’t have the inbuilt infrastructure, which didn’t exist even in the US,” said Kamath. “It is a gradual process, which the government is working on.”A back-up plan is ready if the novel coronavirus spreads further, said civic officials, with an additional 3,000 isolation beds on stand-by mode across various civic-run hospitals. “Hundreds of isolation beds are lying unused, as non-emergency services at all civic-run hospitals have stopped, which has led to a decrease in the number of patients. If we add those in emergency, the figure will be double,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, health, BMC.Kakani said the BMC has divided beds under the category of ‘peripheral and speciality hospitals’ into two phases. Phase one includes Kasturba Hospital with 125 beds, Rajawadi Hospital (100), KB Bhabha Hospital in Kurla (100), HBT Trauma Hospital (100) and KB Bhabha Hospital in Bandra (50). According to data provided by the BMC, 176 of 475 beds were occupied till Tuesday. In the second phase, the BMC has enlisted another 13 hospitals, including Eye Hospital, Surya Maternity Hospital, Bhagwati Hospital, Maa Hospital, etc. with a total of 555 isolation bed facilities.“We have kept the second phase as an extension of the first phase. If we run out of beds in the first five civic-hospitals, we will focus on isolating patients in the latter,” added Kakani.In addition to civic-run hospitals, there are 685 isolation beds with 50 Intensive Care Units (ICU) at the government-run Sir JJ Group of hospitals. Two railway hospitals – central railway hospital have kept 30 beds for isolation and Jagjeevan Ram Hospital under western railway has 10 beds. The Mumbai Port Trust has created a facility for 50 isolation beds. In March, the BMC released a list of 10 private hospitals (89 beds), which agreed to treat patients in their isolation wards. That number has risen to 22, including trust-run and private hospitals, taking the total number of isolation beds to 197. This new list includes Saboo Siddiqui (6), Saifee Hospital (1), Bhatia (10), Wockhardt Hospital (9), Global (10), BJ Wadia (20), Shushrusha (10), Holy Family (1), SRV (15), Hindu Sabha (9), LH Hiranandani (4) and Nanavati (4). Health officials said at present almost 80% beds are lying vacant which highlights that the outbreak of coronavirus hasn’t yet flared up in Mumbai. From January 1, 2020, 2,523 suspected patients with risk factors have been admitted in hospitals and 330 have been identified with COVID-19 in the city till April 4. “We are also hunting for abandoned hospitals and places to start isolation facilities,” said Kakani.Anant Bhant, global health researcher, said China, with more population than India, has reserved 4.3 beds per 1,000 humans; India has only 0.5 beds for 1,000 people and the US is struggling to find isolation beds.“Isolation is a process to keep the patients separated, and therefore any place can been converted into an isolation ward. More than isolation beds, we need to be prepared with essential medicinal material like oxygen cylinders, protective kits to treat patients in isolation,” said Bhant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-one-isolation-bed-for-5-246-city-residents/story-qQY0Zi2QyuNgYBAzHDfyaP.html
05-04-2020||Mumbai||Lockdown violations continue: 22, 212 FIRs filed across Maharashtra||The Maharashtra Police, till Sunday, registered 22,212 FIRs against thousands of people across the state for violating the lockdown orders and seized as many as 6,765 vehicles.On Saturday, a total of 88 FIRs were registered in Mumbai, in which a majority of 68 were for gathering in one place. In Mumbai, since March 20, a total of 976 FIRs were registered against 1,838 people. In the 976 FIRs, a majority of 518 FIRs are against people for gathering in one place and 325 against illegal use of vehicles.Milind Bharambe, special inspector general of police (law and order), Maharashtra, said, “We have registered a total of 22,212 people for violating the lockdown orders till Sunday. Most FIRs are against people for gathering in one place. We have also lodged 719 FIRs for illegal transport violating the lockdown order and arrested 1,315 people for it. We have so far seized 6,765 vehicles being used for unnecessary reasons during the lockdown.”The entire traffic police in Mumbai is on the streets to manage the smooth flow of essential services coming from other districts, like cylinders, vegetables, medicine, groceries etc. “We have nakabandis at several points to stop vehicles from plying unnecessarily. Also, the waiting time at traffic signals has been reduced for facilitating the smooth flow of vehicles used for essential services,” said Pravin Padwal, additional commissioner of traffic police.The Mumbai Police on Sunday received several tweets complaining about people playing cricket and gathering in one place. Rest of the tweets were for medical emergencies. Pranaya Ashok, deputy commissioner of police (ops) and spokesperson for Mumbai Police said, “We receive 7,000 calls on 100 number. Most had queries relates to lockdown and other complaints about crowding. Same issues and queries are received on Twitter. We have asked the local police to take appropriate action on those defying the lockdown.”When asked if there are any more cases of police assault and any cases of police testing positive for Covid-19 were reported on Sunday, Ashok replied in the negative. However, he added that State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) and local arms may be used at 200 odd containment zones in the city.Divakar Shelke, senior police inspector, Dadar police station said, “Our team is deployed at Worli Koliwada and Adarsh Nagar’s entry and exit points. Daily one or two suspected patients for Covid-19 are being found. We are following the lockdown order and are making regular announcements using recorded messages.”Dayanand Bangar, a senior inspector of Oshiwara police station, said, “There are two containment zones in my jurisdiction where we have deployed a total of four police constables round the clock.”FIRs registered for hate speech On the other hand, a lot of hate messages, rumours and misinformation is being spread regarding coronavirus on social media platforms.Home minister Anil Deshmukh and chief minister Udhav Thackeray have warned to take strict action against those involved. “We have registered a total of 20 odd FIRs in Maharashtra and arrested 11 people in past few days for making hate speeches and communal posts on social media platforms. Our operation is on and more are likely to be arrested. We are monitoring all social media platforms and warn people to refrain from indulging in such activities. In all 85 FIRs have been lodged till today across the state for spreading misinformation, rumours and hate speech regarding Covid-19. Many fraudulent links on PM cares relief fund are being circulated on social media. We are taking action against them,” said Balsing Rajput, SP, Maharashtra cyber-crime.(Inputs from Faisal Tandel, Suraj Ojha)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/lockdown-violations-continue-22-212-firs-filed-across-state/story-qMmGIriraynR0VnA6YrQ8I.html
05-04-2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus lockdown: Cops to get a day off after working 2 days at a stretch||The Mumbai Police, which has been on the front line since the lockdown started in Maharashtra, is in for relief as it was recently decided that junior officers and personnel will get a day off after working for two consecutive days.“It is necessary to ensure that our men are physically and mentally fit to carry out all the necessary work during these testing times. All additional commissioners have been instructed to manage their staff carefully according to their strength,” said Mumbai Police commissioner, Parambir Singh.Vinoy Kumar Choubey, joint commissioner of police (law and order), said, “To provide physical and mental rest to police officers, we have temporarily changed their duty schedule and are giving them a day off after every shift. This has been started from zone 8.”For example, if a constable is on duty from 7am to 7pm on Monday and Tuesday, he will get a day off on Wednesday.Dr Manoj Kumar Sharma, additional commissioner of police (west region), said, “We have changed the duty pattern during the lockdown for all police stations of zones 8, 9, and 10 so that police officers and other personnel get adequate rest.”Dilip Sawant additional commissioner of police (north region), said, “I have strictly asked senior officers at each police station to rotate the staff deployed at check posts every three hours.”To ensure the safety of police personnel and their families, senior officers have decided to provide essential commodities exclusively for police lines. “We have invited vegetable vendors and also tied up with grocery shops that will bring the essentials to police colonies. This has been done to ensure that the officers and their families are safe,” said Sawant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/coronavirus-lockdown-cops-to-get-a-day-off-after-working-2-days-at-a-stretch/story-Lu9pFGAhRtD9MJUD93WfNI.html
05-04-2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus lockdown: Online fest keeps society connected||More than 1,500 enthusiastic residents of a complex in Kandivli participated in a day-long online singing competition on Saturday. The competition was part of ‘Go Corona Fest’, a series of online events held during the Covid-19 shutdown, to keep residents of Orchid Suburbia CHS entertained and connected.Since the lockdown was imposed, the entire society has been participating in daily online competitions and events using a common social media platform to upload their entries.From essay writing, poetry, painting, mask making, science projects, spelling bee to cooking with family, almost 2,500 residents across 685 flats of the housing society have participated in the fest. Awards in the form of coupons and prizes are given to daily winners. “The lockdown is a stressful period for everyone, especially children. The idea is to not only reduce panic but also develop a strong sense of community involvement,” said P Patwardhan, chairman of the society. Additionally, residents gather at their balconies every day between 6.30pm and 6.45pm to ring bells, chant mantras and clap their hands, wishing good health for each other. A section of residents is also using the social media platform to organise community yoga and Zumba classes.Alongside community entertainment, the society has taken numerous measures to keep residents safe and curb the spread of Covid-19. Residents use matchsticks for lift operations and have been carrying out weekly cleaning using disinfectants across all common areas. “All common surfaces are cleaned using a disinfectant solution,” said Mahesh Binani, a resident.Volunteers provide essentials for residents, and cater to any requirements for senior citizens since entry for domestic help has been restricted. “Security staff are provided sanitisers, masks, and daily essentials,” said Binani. “Maids and cooks are only allowed for houses with senior citizens and pregnant women.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/coronavirus-lockdown-online-fest-keeps-society-connected/story-VJIXGHzeXoL5Nb8xRh179M.html
05-04-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Women from rural Maharashtra make 6L masks worth Rs 75 lakh||At a time when job-cuts are happening as a result of economic slowdown due to the coronavirus lockdown, around 6,000 women from rural Maharashtra have got an opportunity to earn money by producing masks. As the demand for masks has increased by 400%, the State Women Development Corporation (SWDC), along with the Maharashtra State Rural Livelihood Mission (MSRLM) have trained the women in making masks following the guidelines of the Union health ministry.In the last 15 days, the women have produced over 6 lakh masks worth Rs 75 lakh. Depending on the type of mask, a woman earns Rs 3-4 per unit. One woman makes about 150 masks per day. Three types of masks are produced-- one, two and three-layer-- which are sold at Rs 10, 15 and 20, respectively. Forty-six-year-old Martha Ratwani earned Rs 7,000 last week for making masks. Her husband recently lost his job as a daily labourer in a wielding factory due to the lockdown. “After my husband lost his job, I was apprehensive as I have two children to feed. But thanks to the government for providing us with an alternative mode of income,” said Ratwani from rural Mumbai. The SWDC has procured around 3,20,000 masks worth Rs 35 lakh from the women. “Officials from the state health department have trained them in manufacturing the masks following hygiene and safety guidelines. Major part of this training was given through digital platforms,” said Shraddha Joshi Sharma, director,SWDC.“As most of these women know how to stitch, they have learned quickly. We also do quality checks of the mask,” said she added.The women were also given gloves and hand sanitizers for manufacturing the masks. As they cannot go out to buy raw materials, the state is supplying them at their doorsteps. “We procure the raw materials from the government accredited vendors. They give us the list of requirements and according on a weekly basis, we give them the materials,” said R Vimala, CEO of MSRLM. Under their scheme, over 3,20,000 masks have been manufactured incurring a sale worth Rs 40 lakh. But procuring raw material has become a challenge during the lockdown which is also increasing the price of the masks. Though Bhiwandi is considered a textile hub, officers there are also struggling to procure raw materials. “Due to the rise in the demand of raw materials at some places, the masks are being sold at a higher price,” added Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-women-from-rural-maharashtra-make-6l-masks/story-f2E53swv85F90rFBfcqO5H.html
05-04-2020||Noida||Suspected patients can opt for comfy hotels to get quarantined||Those suspected of having Covid-19, who need to be quarantined, can now opt to stay in comfortable hotels for tariffs ranging from ₹800 to ₹2,500 in Gautan Budh Nagar. The district administration has taken over around 785 rooms in 10 hotels in Noida and Greater Noida for the purpose.Hotels which have been taken over by the administration are Jaypee Resort in Greater Noida, Grand Heritage Resort in Greater Noida, Hotel Ginger in Noida, Radisson Blue in Greater Noida and Noida, Gold View in Noida, Mozaic in Noida, The Stellar Gymkhana in Greater Noida, SAA Hospitality PVT Limited in Greater Noida and Savoy Suites in Greater Noida. The district administration has also started a call centre from Saturday to address various issues of the public related to the Covid-19 outbreak. It received over 500 calls by Sunday evening. The integrated control centre has been set up by HCL Technologies at one of its facilities in Noida, with the support of the district administration, the police, the health department and the Noida and Greater Noida authorities. By calling on the helpline number -- 1800 419 2211-- people can get in touch with a team of doctors and if they have any symptoms, then they can opt to remain quarantined at any of the 10 hotels. A person can choose a five-star room for ₹2,500, a four-star one for ₹2,000, three-star facility for ₹1,500 and a budget stay for ₹800.According to officials, there are many who are not comfortable with staying at the government quarantine facilities and refer to remain in home quarantine. Such persons might come in contact with others, which can lead to a further spread of the virus. So officials are expecting that people will now opt to pay for a comfortable stay, without risking the health of others around them.The district administration has free quarantine centres at the Dr Bhim Rao Ambedkar hostel in Greater Noida and the new district hospital building in Sector 39.“We have taken over certain parts of a few hotels in Noida and Greater Noida. Tariff for the hotel quarantine facilities has been fixed. There will be a fixed menu for three meals daily, plus evening tea and snack. The cost will include all expanses such as GST, services and food. We are hoping that people will be encouraged to stay in hotel quarantine,” Suhas LY, district magistrate, said.The toll-free call centre, apart from having doctors to address queries, also has the option to help those in need of food or rations. There is also an option to provide information about people suspected of having the disease and needing medical attention. The call centre is also linked with the police in case anyone requires police assistance.Of the 500 calls received till Sunday evening, over 50% were related to food issues. “A majority of callers want food or rations. We are getting these delivered with the help of government network, private organisations and local volunteers. A lot of people have been calling to inform us about persons whom they think have symptoms of the infection. People have been confusing a regular cold or cough with Covid-19. Our team of doctors is helping all such persons,” Rajiv Rai, subdivisional magistrate, Dadri, said.The health department is also going to make people in quarantine install a mobile app through which officials can keep a tab on their movement. Officials have also given an order to start stamping those in quarantine..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/suspected-patients-can-opt-for-comfy-hotels-to-get-quarantined/story-SZ0e9sbcXAAZ9tBkN3lX4H.html
05-04-2020||City||Coronavirus lockdown: Traffic policemen convert chowky into kitchen to feed labourers||Bhiwandi traffic police chowky near Kalyan naka has been converted into a small kitchen. The food being prepared there feeds over 500 daily wage workers and labourers. The policemen are providing for food on daily basis by contributing their own money. Traffic police senior police inspector of Kalyan naka area Rajendra Mayne said, “Initially we had asked a cook to provide us food, but now we have made that facility in our chowky, arranged gas and all necessary things, along with a cook. We are also on-duty to manage the traffic, as per the instructions. Our volunteers call 10 members from each section and handover food packets to them which includes dal, rice and vegetables.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-lockdown-traffic-policemen-convert-chowky-into-kitchen-to-feed-labourers/story-Uzx3olrnRLkyBRwMpf37PJ.html
05-04-2020||City||Covid-19: Four new cases in Kalyan-Dombivli, 67-year-old Dombivli woman dies||Four more cases of Covid-19 reported in Kalyan-Dombivli on Sunday, taking the toll to 28 cases. A 67-year-old woman from Dombivli who was infected, died on Saturday night at Kasturba Hospital. “The total number of cases has reached 28 now. All those living in the buildings are being surveyed and asked to be home quarantined. The woman who died does not have a travel history and also did not come into contact of any infected person. Four others from her family has been tested positive and are at Kasturba hospital,” said Madhavi Pophale, public relations officer, KDMC.Meanwhile, a 17-year-boy who was quarantined at the Shastrinagar Hospital, ran out of the hospital on Saturday night. The boy managed to run away from the window of the toilet. The Dombivli police are looking out for him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-four-new-cases-in-kalyan-dombivli-67-year-old-dombivli-woman-dies/story-iaTORSkl7dSReY4R040v6M.html
05-04-2020||Pune||Within 24 hours, Pune city records three deaths; toll rises to five||A man and two female senior citizens were declared dead on Saturday late night and Sunday noon in Pune due to Covid-19 (coronavirus) infection, taking the death toll in the city to five. While in one of the cases, the deceased has been a close contact of a Covid-19 positive case, the cause of infection in the other two cases is not known.The death of the 52-year-old-man with co-morbid conditions was reported in the afternoon on Saturday and the 60-year-old woman, who had earlier tested negative, was brought dead to the Sassoon General Hospital the same day. She later tested positive for the coronavirus infection. In the third case, a 77-year-old woman who had recently undergone a gall bladder operation was declared dead on Sunday noon at the Aundh district hospital.“The 52-year-old man who lived at Kashiwadi had diabetes and hypertension and was declared dead at Sassoon on Saturday noon. However, his test reports came in late on Saturday night in which his swab samples were found to be positive,” Dr Ajay Chandanwale, the dean of BJ Medical College, said. The deceased did not have any foreign travel history.“The 60-year-old woman was earlier admitted to the Naidu Hospital and had tested negative for the infection. She was brought dead to Sassoon, we took her swab samples to find out the cause of death and she tested positive for Covid-19 infection,” Dr Chandanwale added. The deceased was the first contact of a Covid-19 positive patient. She was a resident of Laxminagar, Yerawada.A senior official from the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) said, “The detection of virus depends on the viral load at the time of collecting the swab. It is possible that the viral load at the time of testing the woman on April 1 was nominal that it went undetected or it could also be possible that she was exposed to the virus later after she got discharged from here.”The third case is that of a 77-year-old woman residing at Gultekdi who had a post-operative infection and also tested positive for Covid-19 infection. Dr Ashok Nandapurkar, civil surgeon at Aundh district hospital, said, “The woman underwent an operation at a private hospital for gall bladder on March 31 after which she reported of stomach ache and fever. After the operation, it was found out that she developed post-operative infection and so she was referred to the Naidu Hospital from where she was brought to Aundh hospital on April 2 at around midnight. She was supplied oxygen through oxygen mask, but as her condition deteriorated we shifted her on ventilator on Sunday morning and within 2-3 hours she was declared dead. Her death is associated to Covid-19 along with other causes.”The first Covid-19 related death in the city was reported after a 52-year-old businessman died at the Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital on March 30 and a 50-year-old woman passed away on April 2 at Sassoon General Hospital. With these fresh deaths, the final toll in the city due to Covid-19 rises to five as of Sunday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/within-24-hours-pune-city-records-three-deaths-toll-rises-to-five/story-8EZbrzCvGzMLWxf6NMEZkM.html
05-04-2020||City||Fatehpur Sikri cops shave heads to support battle against Covid-19||AGRA About seventy cops at Fatehpur Sikri police station in Agra district got their heads shaved to express their commitment in the fight against coronavirus.The list included the station house officer (SHO) who propagated the idea and believed that this would also minimise chances of infection.“With hair gone, we are less susceptible to infection now,” stated Bhupendra Singh Baliyan, SHO, Fatehpur Sikri.“We are committed to the fight against coronavirus and have to stand united. To maintain solidarity and uniformity in this commitment, we all policemen including inspector crime, nine sub-inspectors and all constables at the police station got their heads shaved,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fatehpur-sikri-cops-shave-heads-to-support-battle-against-covid-19/story-mTY09cxi57NNNGVjuZPo2K.html
05-04-2020||Mumbai||3 new coronavirus cases in Thane, number rises to 19||Three new cases of coronavirus were found in Thane city on Sunday, these includes one from Kalwa and Mumbra each while the third case is from Kajuvadi. The number of positive cases in Thane has increased to 19 with these three cases.A second case of coronavirus in Mumbra came to light after a 57-year-old man died in KEM hospital in Mumbai, on Saturday. Meanwhile, the Thane Municipal Corporation has decided to keep the markets in Mumbra closed for four days. The decision was taken after the crowd in Mumbra markets refused to lessen despite additional police force. The markets here will be closed from Tuesday to Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-new-coronavirus-cases-in-thane-number-rises-to-19/story-YnGXjgyCS04WQ9g3J6YzvN.html
05-04-2020||Pune||Labourer found trespassing on Dehu road ammunition factory premises sent to relief camp||While the city is on lockdown, a man was caught trespassing on the ammunition factory premises located at Dehu road on Saturday.The man has been identified as Nitibhar Pataj, 31, a resident of Dongra, Madhya Pradesh. According to the police, he was a labourer working at a construction site in Wagholi.The guard at post seven of the ammunition factory found the man entering the company premises by crossing a wire fence, according to a complaint lodged by the guard.The factory authorities were informed and the man was found in the area covered in dirt, said police.“The place where he was found is inside the limits of the land owned by the factory. The labourer told us that he started walking from some place in Pune and took two days to reach here,” said senior police inspector Manish Kalyankar of Dehuroad police station.Based on the complaint, the police booked him under Section 447 and 427 of Indian Penal Code registered at Dehu road police station for trespassing.“The labourer also told us that he was with four other people. We are now looking for others. He also said that they spent the night under a bridge in Akurdi. After a preliminary health check-up, we are taking him to one of the relief camps,” said PI Kalyankar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/labourer-found-trespassing-on-dehu-road-ammunition-factory-premises-sent-to-relief-camp/story-apuEpTdIK6bdfkeribcUzN.html
05-04-2020||Mumbai||CSMIA operates two evacuation flights on Sunday||Two repatriate flights were operated from city’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CMSIA) on Sunday. The two flights were operated to Malaysia’S Kuala Lumpur and the United States’’ Atlanta. Mumbai airport sources said that Malindo Air’s OD 208 to Kuala Lumpur with 55 passengers took off from CSMIA at 3:15 pm.“The flight to Atlanta will be operated by US-based Delta Airlines at 10pm,” said an airport official. “In all 260 US nationals will be flown back in this flight,” the official added. Air India and Delta operated flights to Paris and Atlanta respectively on Saturday. Air India chairman and managing director (CMD) Rajiv Bansal announced the national carrier will be operating 18 charter flights to fly back French, German, Irish and Canadian nationals during this lockdown period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/csmia-operates-two-evacuation-flights-on-sunday/story-qUIrNcW0kNdZz9ulL9OMxM.html
05-04-2020||City||Police home-deliver medicines, earn septuagenarian, family’s blessings||Lucknow: It’s not every day that you see a police vehicle drive up to a house to pick up prescription papers, drive away and then return with medicines.AK Bose, 76, a diabetic with severe osteoporosis, heaved a sigh of relief on Friday, when Lucknow police home-delivered a month’s stock of his medicines at his Indira Nagar house. Responding to the gesture, Bose’s 40-year-old son, Angshuman, tweeted: “I am indebted to the police for the whole of my life. They took my ‘Baba’s’ prescription, went around 10 km, got the full month’s medicines to our home. Thank you is a small word.” UP police re-tweeted it.Bose and his wife live near Aurobindo Park in Indira Nagar. He retired as deputy general manager from State Bank of India, is a pensioner, and under his pension benefits gets his medicines. He receives the medication free of cost, but from an assigned shop in Hazratganj. “I work in Noida but had come to Lucknow before the lockdown. Under the lockdown rules, travelling to a locality outside one’s own is prohibited. And I had no pass to go beyond,” said Angshuman Bose, adding: “My mother called UP112 at 9.30 am. They responded, but at the time the medicine shop couldn’t have been open. At 11.45 the 112 patrol car came. They took the prescription book, delivered the medicines, and left.”Earlier, on March 27, on a distress call from Vivekananda Hospital, four Lucknow police constables rushed and gave a unit each of their blood for a critically ill 68-year-old patient on dialysis and saved his life.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/police-home-deliver-medicines-earn-septuagenarian-family-s-blessings/story-yACUCJ294iDzJeC4lYPmMO.html
05-04-2020||Mumbai||Dombivli broker held for circulating fake video on coronavirus||A 37-year-old Dombivli-based broker was arrested on Saturday for making and circulating a video on WhatsApp, terming a certain community as ‘coronavirus spreaders’. The administrator of the WhatsApp group on which the video was shared was also booked for not informing police about the clip. The is the first such arrest in the city after Navi Mumbai police instructed all WhatsApp group members to not spread fake messages on coronavirus.Police said the accused was traced to Dombivli and arrested on Saturday. He was booked under sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Information Technology Act. “We have arrested the accused and have informed members of WhatsApp groups to ensure fake messages are not spread,” said Sanjay Kumar, commissioner, Navi Mumbai police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dombivli-broker-held-for-circulating-fake-video-on-coronavirus/story-B3clD36HTkom06P2TDm6OJ.html
05-04-2020||City||Thane Civil Hospital to treat only Covid-19 patients soon||The 350-bedded Thane Civil Hospital will soon be converted into a dedicated Covid-19 hospital to treat the coronavirus cases in the district, while the hospital will not treat any other patient. With the increasing number of cases in Thane, the district authorities were alarmed as most of the patients who were tested positive had earlier visited private hospitals for treatment. To avoid the suspected coronavirus patients and the regular patient being treated at one place, the district authorities decided on Saturday to dedicate the Thane Civil Hospital to treat Coronavirus cases.All the existing patients from the hospital will be shifted to Thane Municipal Corporation-run Chhatrapati Shivaji Hospital in Kalwa. In the next few months, the city-based and rural patients from the district will have to go to Kalwa hospital for any ailment apart from coronavirus.Meanwhile, Thane civic commissioner Vijay Singhal agreed to free Kalwa hospital to accommodate additional patients from civil hospital.Dr Kailash Pawar, surgeon at Thane Civil Hospital said, “We have decided to treat only coronavirus cases in Thane Civil Hospital. We have closed all the other departments. We will display a message board on the hospital premises to inform people with other ailments to go to Kalwa Hospital.”The swab test was started in Thane Civil Hospital a few days ago to ease the pressure on Mumbai Hospitals. The Civil Hospital has four buildings and 19 departments.Thane civic commissioner, Singhal said, “We have taken this decision to ease the burden on the Mumbai hospitals. If need be we will even use the private hospitals to accommodate patients. The private hospitals are made aware of it. The 100-bedded Horizon Hospital too will be made a Covid-19 hospital.”Meanwhile, the TMC-run Wadia Hospital will soon begin the testing for coronavirus so that patient from Thane and nearby cities will not have to commute all the way to Kasturba or Mumbai labs for testing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-civil-hospital-to-treat-only-covid-19-patients-soon/story-Eh0VhrllpSZwdOhU9Qb3GM.html
05-04-2020||City||KDMC uses drone cameras to monitor lockdown||The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) started using drone cameras from Sunday to ensure social distancing is followed during the Covid-19 lockdown. Two drone cameras have been purchased to monitor crowding and vehicular movement in the city. “Drone cameras are being used in all municipal wards from Sunday. We will monitor crowding and use of vehicles by people, track them and take necessary steps,” said a KDMC officer on condition of anonymity.Meanwhile, a public address system will be installed at the KDMC headquarters in Kalyan through which the civic body will be able to address the public in all wards without delay.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kdmc-uses-drone-cameras-to-monitor-lockdown/story-TUwS3PPJ7QyYianQAA76dM.html
05-04-2020||Pune||2 booked for sending mssgs against minority community traders||The Pimpri-Chinchwad police on Sunday booked two persons for spreading messages via WhatsApp against traders of a minority community.The two people have been identified as Sushilkumar Simruram Khairaliya, 54, and Amit Manoj Bhalerao, 33, both residents of Ota scheme, Nigdi, according to police.Khairaliya was spreading messages that urged people to not buy essential goods like vegetables, groceries, and milk from shopkeepers who belong to the minority community. Bhalerao is the administrator of the group called ‘Amit Bhalerao Mitra Parivar’, through which Khairaliya was spreading the message, according to the police.“We have seized their phones. We consulted with our seniors and have booked the group admin as well. This message was forwarded by Khairaliya on the group of which the Bhalerao is the admin. An investigation will be conducted to find out where the message originated from,” said police sub inspector (PSI) Sandeep Ohol of Nigdi police station who is investigating the case.A case under Section 153(a)(b) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Nigdi police station. This was a suo motu action by the Pimpri-Chinchwad police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/2-booked-for-sending-mssgs-against-minority-community-traders/story-jIkh3p6hkTfC7PqaZgWXKN.html
05-04-2020||Mumbai||Thane Municipal Corporation asks private hospitals to set up special OPD||The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has given directives to some private hospitals in the city to start a special out-patient department (OPD) cell to check patients with fever and other symptoms similar to Covid-19. The directives were issues by civic commissioner Vijay Singhal who also asked private hospitals to categorise the patients according to risk factor.With the increasing number of cases of coronavirus in the city, the civic body has asked private hospitals to screen patients with fever and flu-like symptoms to ease the pressure on government hospitals. As a number of patients visit private clinics that do not have separate arrangements for Covid-19 patients, a dedicated OPD will ensure the hospital and existing patients are not exposed to the outbreak.Deputy municipal commissioner Sandeep Malvi said, “The patients are supposed to be categorised in three categories. The first category will include patients who have returned from foreign countries in the last 28 days. In the second category, hospitals will categorise close contacts of the travellers who had returned from a foreign trip, which will mainly include their family members and people who visited them.”The third category will include people who are experiencing symptoms like fever, sore throat, cough, cold or breathlessness.Malvi added, “We are checking all low-risk and high-risk contacts of the people who have tested positive for Covid-19. The hospitals who examine patients belonging any of the three categories or those showing symptoms should ensure that patients maintain a distance of one or two metre between each other. The hospitals will also guide suspected patients to government-approved testing centres for confirmation. They are also supposed to send the names of suspected or confirmed patients to the civic body.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tmc-asks-private-hospitals-to-set-up-special-opd/story-vopXqsWTQonH68KieWcE7J.html
05-04-2020||Delhi||CISF to provide enhanced protective gear to troops when airports, Delhi Metro resume ops: Report||The CISF is “augmenting” COVID-19 protective gear and healthcare paraphernalia for its over 40,000 personnel who will begin having close physical interaction with lakhs of passengers once airports and the Delhi Metro re-start operations, a top official said. The force has “spruced up” measures on anti-coronavirus protection for its troops after 11 of them in Mumbai tested positive for the viral infection that has claimed thousands of lives and infected about 10 lakh people globally. These personnel are understood to have picked the pandemic infection from a trooper who was on duty of physical frisking and baggage screening at the Mumbai international airport.“We are augmenting our resources in terms of better masks, gloves and sanitisation facilities. Security desks are being re-done to ensure proper distance between passengers and personnel without security protocols being compromised. “We will have more robust logistics in place during the next round of operations at airports and Delhi Metro, whenever they begin,” CISF Director General (DG) Rajesh Ranjan told PTI. The CISF has 63 civil airports of the country under its security cover at present along with the Delhi Metro and they witness lakhs of passenger footfalls every day. “We are confident that we will have much better equipment to handle the situation (in the coming days) at these two large public transport facilities where our personnel have a close physical interaction with passengers as well as other units,” the force chief said. The Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) deploys about 32,000 personnel as part of its aviation security group (ASG) to guard airports and about 12,000 troops to protect the Delhi Metro which is the lifeline of national capital region including Noida, Ghaziabad, Gurgaon and Faridabad. The government has not announced as to when operations at these vital public transport facilities, shut till April 14 due to the ongoing nation-wide lockdown due to coronavirus, will resume.A force spokesperson added that the ICICI Bank “has donated 16,000 masks and 10,000 gloves for CISF personnel deployed at the Delhi Metro.” “We are incredibly thankful to the bank for this humane gesture and noble deed. It will certainly help front-line warriors of CISF in the war against COVID-19,” he said.DG Ranjan said his troops remained steadfast in the line of duty during the first phase of the COVID-19 when the “numbers of passengers were quite overwhelming” due to the incoming and outgoing evacuation and regular flights. “We created an ideal scenario in terms of social distancing at the airports but the resources were not in surplus and the task was demanding,” the DG said. The airport units helped in the entry and exit of numerous flights that brought in Indians evacuated from virus affected countries and ensured proper security-cleared departure of special and regular flights as the global airspace started closing, he said.“At the Delhi airport a special triage area was created at the tarmac to assist incoming passengers,” he said. “These personnel are still at the airports ensuring that special flights with citizens of other countries fly out safely,” the DG said.  The force, he said, has also created isolation facilities in all its 349 units of deployment across the country.“We are enhancing beds in these isolation wards so that more personnel can be accommodated in case of requirement,” the DG said. The about 1.62 lakh personnel strong force has its maximum duties in one-to-one public interaction domain whether it is securing public or private sector enterprises, government ministries and departments and vital nuclear and aerospace installations. The first positive case in the force was reported on March 28 after a head constable was found infected in Mumbai. Officials said he has been found negative in three more tests conducted for COVID-19 till now.“Even the 10 other personnel who were found positive and are in isolation now were asymptomatic when their samples were taken. It was the foresight of our commanders who thought of testing all the personnel who resided in the same campus where the first positive person was living,” the DG said. This CISF camp in Navi Mumbai has now been vacated and sanitised and all 145 personnel living there have been quarantined by the force at various other facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/cisf-to-provide-enhanced-protective-gear-to-troops-when-airports-delhi-metro-resume-ops-dg/story-yitheJdzjiZu85smj5wAsI.html
05-04-2020||Education||Chandigarh students of Classes 9,11 not to be promoted on basis of assessments||The UT education department has decided not to promote students of Classes 9 and 11, based on their performance during the academic session, district education officer (DEO) Anujit Kaur said on Friday.The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) released an advisory on April 1, which suggested that schools in which evaluation of few papers are pending for Classes 9 and 11, may declare results and promote remaining students on basis of internal assessments, class tests etc, amid the lockdown imposed in the wake of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.It added that students who were unable to clear internal assessments, will be given a chance to appear again in any number of subjects, either offline or online, after taking remedial classes.“We have already conducted exams for students of Classes 9 and 11 in government schools. Results will be announced once schools reopen,” Kaur said.A school teacher, requesting anonymity said, “Since exams have already been conducted in government schools in the city, and the papers are being evaluated, there is no need to promote students unconditionally. Only deserving candidates should be promoted to Classes 10 and 12 .”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/chandigarh-students-of-classes-9-11-not-to-be-promoted-on-basis-of-assessments/story-MIjRnzafrlAkl8SauJNoVL.html
05-04-2020||Pune||Coronavirus update: 3 more Covid-19 deaths reported from Pune, toll rises to 5||Three people have died in Maharashtra’s Pune in the last 12 hours, officials said on Sunday, taking the death toll due to the coronavirus disease to five in the city.A 69-year-old resident of Gultekdi died at Aundh Hospital on Sunday. The death of the 52-year-old-man with co-morbid conditions was reported on Saturday afternoon and the 60-year-old woman, who had earlier tested negative, was brought dead to Sassoon General Hospital the same day. She later tested positive for the coronavirus infection.Also read: 26 new Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, tally so far 661“The 52-year-old man who lived at Kashiwadi had diabetes and hypertension and was declared dead at Sassoon on Saturday noon. However, his test reports came in late on Saturday night in which his swab samples were found out to be positive,” Dr Ajay Chandanwale, the dean of BJ Medical College, said.“The 60-year-old woman was earlier admitted to Naidu Hospital and had tested negative for the infection. After her death, we took her swab samples as the symptoms were quite similar and found that she was infected with Covid-19,” Dr Chandanwale added.The first Covid-19 related death in the city was reported after a 52-year-old businessman died in Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital on March 30 and a 50-year-old woman passed away on April 2 at Sassoon General Hospital.Pune has reported 88 Covid-19 patients in the district as of Saturday night after six more people tested positive in Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/coronavirus-update-2-more-covid-19-deaths-reported-from-pune-toll-rises-to-4/story-8uk0g6K9No3BfjGQEHizVO.html
05-04-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus stole this 2-yr-old’s birthday party, doctors came to the rescue||A toddler, who has contracted the coronavirus disease, marked his second birthday in a hospital in Punjab’s Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar as doctors and staff made it special for him.The two-year-old is being treated for Covid-19 after he contracted the disease from his grandfather, the first patient to die on March 18 because of the infection in Punjab.The 70-year-old man has emerged as the state’s ‘super-spreader’ after 27 of his direct contacts tested positive for the coronavirus disease. They include 14 of his family members, including his two-year-old grandson, who are being treated at Civil Hospital in SBS Nagar.Dr Harwinder Singh, senior medical officer of the civil hospital, said para-medical staff came to know while counselling patients on Saturday morning from the boy’s mother, who is also under treatment, that it was her son’s birthday.“They shared the news on our WhatsApp group then we decided to celebrate and arrange a gift for the kid. Due to the lockdown, we didn’t get a cake but we arranged chocolate while staff members brought a baby suit for the kid,” Harwinder Singh said.Health officials said it was a very emotional moment for the family, especially the boy’s mother when they gave him the surprise gifts in the isolation ward. They said as the family is undergoing a traumatic experience after the death of the 70-year-old and have been diagnosed with Covid-19 themselves, the hospital staff decided to organise a simple birthday celebration to boost their morale.They said it was also part of counselling to boost the motivation and bring positivity among the patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/coronavirus-stole-this-2-yr-old-s-birthday-party-doctors-came-to-the-rescue/story-IzqQtwTzLTfWP1XpDDk4DK.html
05-04-2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus update: 26 new Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, tally so far 661||Maharashtra, the worst-hit state in the country by the coronavirus disease, recorded 26 more cases of Covid-19 on Sunday morning, taking the tally of the infected people to 661.Out of these 17 cases were reported from Pune, four from Pimpri-Chinchwad, three from Ahmednagar and two from Aurangabad. Officials, however, refused to share details about the travel history of the new patients.The state had recorded 145 cases of the coronavirus disease, which was the highest rise in a single day, on Saturday. In Mumbai, the coronavirus cases increased to 377 and fatalities to 22 as of Saturday. Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageFive people from Dharavi, India’s largest slum, have tested positive so far and none of them has travelled outside. Experts have said the increasing number of cases in Dharavi among people with no travel history is alarming considering its dense population spread across 600 acres.The spike in cases, which has been largely attributed to the Tablighi Jamaat’s international congregation at Nizamuddin in Delhi between March 13 and 15, has forced the state government to ramp up its preventive measures.Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had said during his Facebook address on Saturday that the state has been taking appropriate measures to deal with the coronavirus pandemic.“Yes, coronavirus cases are increasing because we are testing more people. We are further increasing testing capacity in Mumbai as the city recorded maximum cases,” Thackeray said.Also read: New plan holds clues to unlocking countryHe had also said that the state government has traced all those who attended the Tablighi Jamaat’s international congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin and put them in isolation facilities. “As per protocol, every day the central government sends a list of people who attended the congregation to the state. Till today, from the names received, we have traced 100% of them, and all have been kept in the isolation wards,” he said. He appealed to others who had attended the Tabligh-e-Jamaat congregation to come forward and contact civic authorities so that appropriate treatment could be provided to them if they have any coronavirus symptoms.Amid coronavirus outbreak in the state, Thackeray had warned about fake news and viral messages being spread on social media platforms. He said strong action would be taken against spreading communal messages.“Like coronavirus, there is another virus that is trying to divide our society. I am warning people to refrain from it. Coronavirus has no religion. I am warning all of you. No one can save you from the action,” he had said.State health minister Rajesh Tope has assured the state government has adequate personal protective equipment (PPE) and has initiated discussion with the central government on their supply. “There is no need to worry over PPE equipment. As of now, we have 25,000 PPE kits, more than 25,00,000 N95 masks, and more than 25,00,000 triple-layer masks and 3000 ventilators in government hospitals. The central government has assured that they will acquire equipment for the state and provide us,” the minister said.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), in its efforts to crack down on the spread of coronavirus, has identified 241 containment zones in Mumbai city.These containment zones have a large number of people who have to be quarantined because of their possible contact with Covid-19 patients. They are also being monitored by civic authorities by using the close circuit television (CCTV) cameras.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/coronavirus-update-26-new-covid-19-cases-in-maharashtra-tally-so-far-661/story-EPP5GL8ZQAMbAqmY0trAbO.html
05-04-2020||Jaipur||Covid-19 lockdown: 800 cameras, 15 drones are Jaipur Police’s eyes in the sky||On the first floor of the Jaipur Police Commissioner’s office, there is a big hall. When you enter, on your left are three rows of work stations and 30 screens on the walls. Each row has eight work stations - with three computer screens each - tracking every movement on the streets of Jaipur, and routinely watching the feed from 15 drones hovering over the walled city areas.Every suspicious or illegal activity is reported to the police station concerned. On the right, on 16 screens, calls to police are being tracked.Welcome to the ‘corona war room’ of Jaipur Police.“We monitor live feed from 800 cameras all across the city. 150 of them are PTZ cameras that can rotate 360 degrees, the remaining are fixed,” says Adarsh Choudhary, Additional Superintendent of Police (ASP) and one of the three officers in charge of the war room.More on Covid-19:• Covid-19: Your guide to staying safe• Covid-19: What you need to know today• Can Covid-19 spread after symptoms end?• How coronavirus is different from seasonal flu and common coldWith the help of these cameras, Jaipur Police are ensuring compliance of the lockdown in the city. Out of the 800 cameras, 176 are in the walled city and 22 of them are PTZ cameras.For narrow and congested lanes and by-lanes, there are drones that fly over rooftops to detect illegal activities such as gatherings of more than five people.“The drone footage is monitored by respective police station areas,” said Jitendra Singh Rathore, station house officer of Manak Chowk police station, which is on one gateway to the Ramganj area - the first to be put under curfew after 45-year-old man tested positive for coronavirus disease Covid-19 on March 26.The man transmitted the virus to at least 20 members of his family, sparking fears of community transmission.The area under seven police stations in the walled city - Ramganj, Kotwali, Manak Chowk, Brahmpuri, Nahargarh and Galta Gate - is under curfew since March 28.“Our cameras are in the marketplace and at other prominent locations. We can track activities on main roads with them. For lanes and by-lanes, we needed more eyes in the sky to keep track, especially because of the curfew,” said Ajay Pal Lamba, Additional Commissioner of Police (Law and Order).The police officer, who shot to fame in 2013 when he led the police action against Asaram Bapu as deputy commissioner of police (DCP), Jodhpur West, also gets drone footage on his mobile phone, which he kept checking even as he spoke to Hindustan Times.There were some reports of people rushing to their rooftops to see the whizzing drones flying over them but the police had no problem with that. “As long as they stay indoors and maintain social distancing, we have no problem,” Lamba said.Meanwhile, in the war room, three additional SPs are in charge in three shifts - 6 am to 2 pm, 2 pm to 10 pm and 10 pm to 6 am. The call-in facility has two PRI (Primary Rate Interface) lines that can handle 60 calls at a time. A PRI line enables traditional phone lines to carry voice, data and video traffic.Four screens in the middle of the left wall display calls in progress. Constables in plainclothes monitor the work stations and routine rotate the PTZ cameras for better views.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/covid-19-lockdown-800-cameras-15-drones-are-jaipur-police-s-eyes-in-the-sky/story-r2BDUy1V4MCyyNKywuVsLO.html
05-04-2020||Noida||8 new Covid-19 cases in Noida, total count in Gautam Buddh Nagar 58||Eight more persons, including a woman and her two children, have tested positive for coronavirus in Gautam Buddh Nagar, taking the number of COVID-19 cases in the district to 58, officials said on Saturday.Four of the latest cases were from a JJ cluster in Sector 5, one from Wazidpur village in Sector 135 and three from Sector 62 in Noida, they added.The source of the infection for at least four patients was traced back to private firm Cease Fire, which is already under government scanner for triggering a chain of cases and has been booked for endangering people’s lives, the officials said.“A total of 804 samples have been sent for the COVID-19 test from Gautam Buddh Nagar so far, of which 58 have tested positive, 614 negative and the results of the remaining are awaited,” the health department here stated in its daily statement.Eight persons were cured and discharged from hospitals while the number of active cases stood at 52, the department said.Currently, 1,129 people are under surveillance across Noida and Greater Noida, while another 331 have been quarantined -- 69 in a Gautam Buddh University hostel and the rest in special isolation facilities at hospitals in Noida and Greater Noida -- it added.“District Magistrate Suhas L Y has directed administration officials to ensure a temporary sealing of the sector and village concerned in the wake of the COVID-19 detection as per protocol for a period of 48 hours,” a statement from the administration said.According to officials, the new case from Wazidpur in Sector 135 is a 32-year-old man, who works in Cease Fire.Three more cases were detected in Sector 62 -- the wife (48) and two children (aged 10 and 13 years) of a man who also works for the now-sealed Cease Fire.The man, however, has tested negative for the virus, officials said.Details of the four new cases from the JJ cluster in Sector 5 are awaited.Gautam Buddh Nagar has emerged as a coronavirus hotspot in the country and in Uttar Pradesh. The district, adjoining Delhi, has recorded the maximum number of 227 COVID-19 cases in the state, according to official figures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/8-new-covid-19-cases-in-noida-total-count-in-gautam-buddh-nagar-58/story-CeRUhzgoSc9sc7hl3vKtNN.html
05-04-2020||Ranchi||Covid-19 sample collection mobile booth becomes operational in Chaibasa||Chaibasa now has country’s first-of-its-kind coronavirus swab sample collection booth, which is expected to reduce the need of PPE kits substantially and save crores of money, at the district headquarters of West Singhbhum district, an official said on Saturday.One such mobile collection booth will also be launched on Monday.District deputy commissioner Arava Rajkamal and civil surgeon Dr Manju Dubey launched the static booth in Chaibasa on Saturday. The booth — look alike a phone booth — has been designed and developed by DDC Aditya Ranjan and two engineers from district rural development agency.“This is a booth fully protected by PPE kit and will house a single health staffer dressed in PPE kit. Fitted with microphone and a U-shaped table, the health staffer will direct the suspected patient to open his/her month and bring the nose closure and he will (gloved hands) collect the swabs from mouth and nose. Then the patient will be asked to seal it and the staff will collect the sample and drop it in the virus transport media (VTM) kit for transporting to the Covid-19 testing centres. This is the first such collection centre in the country,” said Ranjan. As per Ranjan, this will help reduce the use of PPE kits and also save much money. “At present, three people — all dressed in PPE kits — go for collecting samples from a single suspected corona patient and destroy the PPE kit after collecting the sample. However, this single health staffer in the booth will now collect all the samples patient-wise. A PPE kit costs about ₹600 to ₹3,000 and every district has an average requirement of 1,000-2,000 PPE kits now. Whereas this one-time booth has cost us ₹15,000 to ₹20,000,” said Ranjan, underlining the huge savings of both PPE kits and money.Rajkamal said the district has sent 47 samples till Saturday for testing of which 40 have come negative and result of seven was still awaited. “We have already used over 150 PPE kits and spent ₹1.5 lakh. But with this collection booth in place, much money will be saved and shortage of PPE kits too could be addressed effectively. We are going to launch a mobile booth on Monday which will go to different places and collect at least 100 samples a day,” said Rajkamal.TMH ready with 500 beds, 37 CCU beds to treat Corona+ casesMeanwhile, Tata Steel general manager (GM, medical services) Dr Ranjan Chowdhary Tata Main Hospital (TMH) was now ready with over 500 isolation beds and 37 critical care unit (CCU) beds to treat Corona positive patients. “We had sent 60 samples so far of which 47 have come negative while reports of 13 more patients are still awaited. We will start Coronavirus testing ourselves as soon as we get ICMR approval,” Dr Chowdhary told a con-call press conference this evening. Get Outlook for Android||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-sample-collection-mobile-booth-becomes-operational-in-chaibasa/story-choyHmTaNnbiAfQeTbtMTM.html
05-04-2020||Ranchi||Four new Covid-19 testing machines in Ranchi, Dhanbad to start functioning next week||Sample testing for coronavirus at Dhanbad’s Patliputra Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) and Ranchi’s Itki TB Sanitorium Hospital will start next week as two new machines for each centre have already been installed and permission for conducting the tests has been obtained from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).The state, which has so far registered two positive cases of coronavirus, is currently having testing facilities for the disease at Ranchi’s Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) and Jamshedpur’s Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Medical College and Hospital (MGMMCH). Both the hospitals have two machines each.“In order to effectively contain the spread of Covid-19 in the state, four new machines, two each at Ranchi’s Itki hospital and Dhanbad’s PMCH, have been installed to get more tests done. ICMR’s mandatory permission to conduct the tests with these four machines have been obtained. There are still some formalities that are required to be completed to make the machines functional. The machines will start working in a couple of days,” said Banna Gupta, health minister.PMCH principal Dr Shailendra Kumar, however, explained that the machines with testing kits have arrived. “A doctor and a clinical staffer would soon visit Jamshedpur’s MGMMCH for a three-day training. Once they would return here, sample testing would begin,” he said.On Friday, state chief secretary Sukhdeo Singh had held a meeting with top officials and all deputy commissioners and issued a slew of directions to them. He said after detection of two coronavirus-positive cases, the state has entered in the second stage of this pandemic.“This is a time of crisis. Casual approach will not be tolerated. Our cumulative efforts should be aimed at to track all suspects of Covid-19 and get them isolated and tested so that we can prevent the pandemic from entering into the third stage. But we have to also keep our preparations ready for dealing with third stage,” he said.He asked all deputy commissioners to prepare a blueprint for this and constitute 10-20 survey teams in their respective areas. He also asked the authorities to provide recreation facility to people quarantined at government centres and take regular feedback of people in home quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/four-new-covid-19-testing-machines-in-ranchi-dhanbad-to-start-functioning-next-week/story-YPY0M1S3QDlFAbovZ9qGqM.html
05-04-2020||Ranchi||Decision on financial aid to people after lockdown gets over: Oraon||The state government is currently focusing on providing relief and health care to those in need and it would ponder over extending financial aid to vulnerable sections only after the national lockdown is lifted, finance minister and Jharkhand Congress president Rameshwar Oraon said on Saturday.“As there is national lockdown, the priority of the government at this stage to provide food and health care to those who have been hit due to this crisis. The government has taken several initiatives for it. Once the lockdown is over, the government would brainstorm over providing financial package to vulnerable groups,” said Oraon.The statement comes in the mid of the 21-day national lockdown to mitigate spread of the contagious Covid-19. With the entire country coming to a standstill, several social groups especially the daily wagers, migrant workers and those employed in the unorganised sectors have been hit the maximum.The Centre has announced a package of 1.7 lakh crore to be spent under several measures targeted at these vulnerable sections. However, people in the state, including elected representatives, have also been raising such demands from the state government to extend financial help for the vulnerable sections.CPI (ML) legislator Vinod Singh demanded the state government to provide help in line with schemes announced by other governments.“I urge chief minister Hemant Soren to follow the experiment of Arvind Kejriwal government. They are providing ₹5,000 to auto rickshaw drivers. Lakhs of migrant labourers from Jharkhand are stuck in different states. They do not have money even to eat, return home. If we do not help them, who else would?” said Singh.Congress coordination committee to look into relief workOraon, who is also the state unit president of ruling Congress, said while the government is taking several measures to execute the plans of the government to provide all possible help, committees have been formed to provide feedback about the work on ground.“Monitoring committees have been formed up to the block level. We are getting feedback and suggestions from several parts of the states. We are taking all measures to provide adequate relief,” said Oraon.The party has formed a state-level coordination committee which includes Roshan Lal Bhatia, Pradeep Tulasyan, Alok Dubey, Kishore Nath Shahdeo and Rajesh Gupta. State president Rameshwar Oraon chaired a meeting with the committee at the party state headquarters on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/decision-on-financial-aid-to-people-after-lockdown-gets-over-oraon/story-YtBHfX1hNWrTgv5CC5wOVN.html
05-04-2020||Chandigarh||Cycling home to meet sick dad, Rajouri man may shake admn’s quarantine plans||The UT administration is in a quandary over the arrival of a Rajouri resident from Mumbai, who is currently pedalling his way home to meet his ailing father.Senior officials believe that coming from Maharashtra makes him a potential case of coronavirus and 14-day quarantine would be essential upon entry.Mohammad Arif, who works as a security guard at Libra Tower in Mumbai’s Bandra West, left the city on Thursday with all but ₹600 for the gruelling journey on a decrepit bicycle he bought from a friend to meet his bedridden father. He said he decided to embark on the 2,100-km travel after he received a call about his dad’s ill health on Tuesday.When asked about the probable course of action upon Arif’s arrival, deputy magistrates of Kathua – the gateway to J&K – and Rajouri, O P Bhagat and Mohammad Nazir Sheikh, cited the strict guidelines in place to check the community transmission of Covid-19.Bhagat said, “When he reaches here, Arif will be quarantined for 14 days at Lakhanpur. Administratively speaking, there is no space for emotions. We pray for his father’s speedy recovery. God forbid he doesn’t make it, one life would be lost, but if Arif is infected, letting him go to Rajouri would prove fatal for several others. We are already in the community transmission stage and can’t take risk.”Stressing the importance of quarantine, Bagat said, “Arif is coming from Maharashtra and that makes him a potential case. Even if we presume he was fine in Mumbai, he will be crossing Gujarat, Rajasthan and Punjab. If he contracts the infection in Punjab and reaches Lakhanpur, how would we know about his health status? Thus, he has to be quarantined for 14 days.”Bhagat’s counterpart Sheikh said, “We are trying to locate him, but his phone is switched off. A police officer was sent to his home in Manjakote area on Friday. The medical reports of his father, who suffered brain stroke, are awaited.”Seconding that Arif should not be allowed to enter the UT without quarantine, Sheikh added, “We will take up the matter with the Kathua administration and the higher authorities. But even if he is allowed to head to Rajouri, he will first be quarantined here for 14 days,” said Sheikh.Meanwhile, a senior bureaucrat in the administration opined that the case should be handled with sensitivity. “We will try to send him till Rajouri (from Lakhanpur) if things are in control. He can be quarantined in Rajouri. This is a sensitive issue and should be dealt with care. We will take a call on his arrival,” he said.Citing the intricacy of the situation, the senior official said, “We don’t want anyone to be stopped, but the current situation demands so. Thousands of persons have been stopped for isolation at Lakhanpur. Any deviation in the policy will force us to allow everyone and that would be a breach of the lockdown,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cycling-home-to-meet-sick-dad-rajouri-man-may-shake-admn-s-quarantine-plans/story-Kl4mSmuNqua70sWYMysldI.html
05-04-2020||Patna||70-yr-old woman dies waiting for Covid-19 test at Patna’s IGIMS||A 70-year-old woman died, waiting for coronavirus (Covid-19) screening, on the third day of being admitted to the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS), family members said on Saturday.Alleging medical negligence, family members said the doctors were reluctant to attend to the woman, taking her to be a Covid-19 patient.“My aunt was a patient of asthma for the last 10 years. The doctors at IGIMS, however, took her as a Covid-19 suspect. They prescribed RT PCR (real-time polymerase chain reaction) screening for Covid-19, and were reluctant to attend to her unless her laboratory report came,” said Raj Kishore Prasad ‘Sadhu’, a close relative of the deceased.The doctor, who initially examined the woman when she turned up at the emergency, wrote “urgent” while prescribing RT PCR of nasopharyngeal swab for Covid-19 on the institute’s letter pad. However, none bothered to collect her sample for three days before her death at the institute Saturday morning, he claimed.“We met the higher-ups in the hospital to instruct the paramedics or doctors concerned to take her nasopharyngeal swab, but no one turned up. Finally, her medical condition worsened last evening and she was taken to the intensive care unit. She was declared dead this morning,” he added.The IGIMS death certificate mentioned “cardio-pulmonary arrest” as the immediate cause of death. It also mentioned “chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) with cor pulmonale” (abnormal enlargement of the right side of the heart as a result of disease of the lungs or the pulmonary blood vessels) and “acute renal failure” as antecedent cause of the patient’s death.The Hindustan Times has copies of the patient’s death certificate and doctor’s advice for RT PCR of nasopharyngeal swab for Covid-19.Dr Arshad Ahmad, additional professor of medicine, under whose unit the patient was admitted, did not respond to this reporter’s phone calls or text message.Hospital administrators, too, were evasive.“I am not looking after Covid-19 cases or their suspects. You may please speak to the competent authority,” said IGIMS medical superintendent Dr Manish Mandal.“One of our junior doctors had advised the Covid-19 test, which was not required and later deleted from the patient’s medical file after our institute was designated a non-Covid-19 hospital. Our doctors, however, did not neglect the patient, who was suffering from hypertension, diabetes, metabolic acidosis (when the body produces too much acid) and COPD. She was admitted to the high dependency unit before being shifted to ICU, where she died,” said medical superintendent-II Dr Gopal Krishan, who is also the coordinator for corona related management at the institute.The IGIMS began RT PCR screening for Covid-19 from March 24. Its director Dr NR Biswas had then admitted that his paramedics were reluctant to take nasopharyngeal samples for Covid-19.“I have told them I will terminate their services if they do not collect samples after our dean and head of microbiology, Dr SK Shahi, showed them the way to do it,” Dr Biswas had then told this reporter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/70-yr-old-woman-dies-waiting-for-covid-19-test-at-patna-s-igims/story-aM6shQK7QvYnq4kmzU2FVI.html
05-04-2020||Patna||Two booked for sheltering 10 Myanmar natives||Two people were booked for providing shelter to 10 foreign nationals in Darbhanga, said police on Saturday.Darbhanga senior superintendent of police (SSP) Babu Ram said the accused were identified as Mohammad Salim and Mohammad Jaifee. The duo was booked under the Foreigners Act following the statement of the station house officer (SHO) H N Singh.The SSP said the matter came to light when police headquarters informed them that a foreign national was hiding in a mosque after attending the Nizamuddin Markaz function. Following the information, a special police team was dispatched to investigate the matter and found that about 10 Myanmar nationals had been illegally staying in the mosque till March 21, said the SSP. All of them left for Delhi via Patna on March 24, he said.“They came here on tourist visa and got involved in religious activities in violation of the visa rules,” the SSP added.“They didn’t inform the local intelligence office or the SSP’s office about their arrival in the Darbhanga town and their guides hid their movement from authorities, which was also violation of the Foreigners Act,” Babu Ram said.He told that the police also informed immigration department about the same and requested them to cancel their visas. The SSP also directed to all the participants of the Nizamuddin event or those who came in contact with the Myanmar nationals to get checked and declare their travel and contact history at the earliest.Bihar police have identified more than 100 foreign nationals, who had come to the state at different stages on tourist visas but some of these foreigners joined the Jamaat.The police said that the local imams (priests) of the mosques did not inform the authorities about the presence of the foreign nationals had attended the recent religious event at Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi. Meanwhile, the ministry of home affairs directed the Bihar police to sternly deal with anyone not cooperating with the authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/two-booked-for-sheltering-10-myanmar-natives/story-YXu9shSwhL766nLDzyAXUO.html
05-04-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus lockdown: Chandigarh Police register two FIRs for hate messages on Facebook||The UT cyber cell on Saturday registered two separate FIRs against multiple persons for spreading communal hatred through volatile posts on social media platforms, amid the Covid-19 pandemic, police said.A complaint on the Chandigarh Police twitter handle referred to a Facebook page in the name of Suraj Pandey on which communal messages had been posted. The complainant later sent an email to the police sharing the posts.Police, who have yet to ascertain whether the Facebook page actually belongs to Pandey, who belongs to Uttar Pradesh and lives in Chandigarh, say the posts were against people who had joined the Nizamuddin Tablighi Jamaat.Taking cognisance of the complaint the cyber cell has registered a case against the person in question, under section 153(wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause riot) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Sarangpur police station.The second case was registered after another person, not named here because of security issues, alleged that volatile messages, especially against the Muslim community, had been posted by some members of a Facebook group named “Sector 15, Chandigarh.” The police action follows Union home ministry directions to states and union territories, to take effective measures against fake news in view of the coronavirus pandemic and ongoing lockdown.Rashmi Yadav, deputy superintendent of police (DSP), cyber cell, said “Anybody found spreading hate against any particular community will be booked. There will be zero tolerance on such issues. These are sensitive times and people should avoid blaming one another.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/coronavirus-lockdown-chandigarh-police-register-two-firs-for-hate-messages-on-facebook/story-Gz8a1Qz7F5wcqr5tqp5NUM.html
05-04-2020||City||Chandigarh man held for Panchkula snatching spree amid coronavirus lockdown||A 29-year-old man was held for allegedly snatching five handbags in Panchkula amid Covid-19 lockdown in the past two weeks.The accused has been identified as Harmeet Singh of Sector 36 in Chandigarh.Inspector Karambir Singh of Sector 19 crime branch said the accused was arrested following a tip-off.“The accused used to take the route from IT Park towards Mansa Devi Complex (MDC) to enter Panchkula,” he said.“The accused used to steal two-wheelers and commit snatchings on it. He was also involved in two cases of vehicle theft in Chandigarh and was out on bail. He has used a stolen Honda Activa and two motorcycles for snatchings in Panchkula,” said the inspector.On April 1, the accused fled with a 32-year-old woman’s handbag near Sector 10 on a Honda Activa, he said. Earlier on March 30, he had snatched 35-year-old woman banker’s handbag in Sector 9 and on March 23, a doctor had lost her handbag in Sector 7, he added.52-yr-old woman’s gold chain snatched in ManimajraTwo scooter-borne men snatched the gold chain of a 52-year-old woman, on Saturday when she was returning from a nearby market in Manimajra, police said.This was second snatching incident in Manimajra in the last three days.According to police, the victim, Anuradha, a home maker, along with her neighbour Meena, had gone to purchase some vegetables when snatchers, who are on the run, attempted to take her gold chain, police said.However, the snatchers managed to flee with only half of the chain, police said.A case under Section 379-A (snatching) of Indian Penal Code against unidentified persons, has been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-man-held-for-panchkula-snatching-spree-amid-coronavirus-lockdown/story-6jPUMc8vUsFee5tRlTBRPJ.html
05-04-2020||Chandigarh||Implementation of cow cess in Chandigarh deferred due to coronavirus curfew||The implementation of cow cess that the UT had notified last month and that was to come into force from April 1 has once again been deferred, this time due to the lockdown.On the sale of four-wheelers and two-wheelers, the cess was decided at ₹500 and ₹200, respectively. A cess of 2 paisa per unit was finalised on electricity consumption. The cess was fixed at ₹5 per bottle for the sale of country-made liquor and beer, and ₹10 per bottle on the sale of Indian-made foreign liquor.A senior official of the municipal corporation said since the sale of liquor and sale of vehicle registration are banned in the city for now, “At most, we can get some revenue by levying the tax on electricity consumption.”PENDING SINCE JULY 2018The MC had hoped to earn ₹15 crore revenue per year from implementing the cow cess to help with running of three gaushalas and two cattle pounds, sheltering over 1,000 stray cattle in the city, and in making the city roads free of stray cattle.The agenda was approved last year but the implementation got delayed due to confusion over applicability of the Punjab Slaughter Act in Chandigarh. Later, it was decided that since the Act was passed before the Punjab Reorganisation Act, 1966, there was no need for a separate process to adopt and apply the Act in Chandigarh. On January 17, UT administrator VP Singh Badnore had given his nod, paving way for the MC to levy the cess that was approved in July 2018.WATER MISUSE FINE DEFERREDMC has also deferred the levying of water misuse fine from April 7. The ₹2000 penalty that was earlier imposed on watering of lawns, washing of cars and leakages in water tanks has been put on hold since all MC staff is deployed on emergency duties to deal with corona outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/implementation-of-cow-cess-in-chandigarh-deferred-due-to-coronavirus-curfew/story-g19y2bNyUagTFLp1DiQopK.html
05-04-2020||City||Infected Ludhiana woman’s two relatives, Dera Bassi village panch test positive in Mohali||Two women of Mohali’s Sector 91, both close contacts of a coronavirus-infected Ludhiana woman, tested positive for the disease on Saturday. A 42-year-old panch of Jawaharpur village in Dera Bassi also tested positive for Covid-19, taking the count to 15 in the district. The Sector-91 women, aged 55 and 80, are relatives of the 69-year-old woman from Ludhiana’s Shimlapuri area, who tested positive on April 2, and was staying with them. The Ludhiana woman was rushed to Fortis Hospital in Mohali on March 23 after she experienced a sudden drop in her sugar levels, diarrhoea and difficulty breathing, but was later shifted to Ludhiana, where her report on April 2 confirmed she was Covid-19 positive. Civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said they sampled six relatives of the woman on Friday and got three reports on Saturday that confirmed two women were positive. “We will be shifting them to Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur,” he said. While the Ludhiana woman had no history of foreign travel, she had travelled to Mohali via Punbus on March 17 to visit her niece here. “Out of the total 54 samples taken from Jagatpura village, where a 55-year-old man had tested positive on April 1, 51 have tested negative and three reports are awaited,” Dr Singh said. He added that all 11 patients admitted in various hospitals in the district were stable and responding well to treatment. DC, SDM VISIT KUMBRA, MAULI BAIDWAN A day after two out of the three men from Mohali who attended Tablighi Jamaat’s Markaz event at Nizamuddin in Delhi last month tested positive for Covid-19, deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan and sub-divisional magistrate Jagdeep Sehgal visited Kumbra village in Sector 68 and Mauli Baidwan in Sector 80. DC said since both areas were densely populated and both positive patients had been socialising since their return from Delhi on March 17, they had urged people to stay indoors. Even though the district administration has already sealed both the villages, residents have also set up barricades on all entry points, banning further entry or exit.Health department teams also carried out door-to-door survey in both villages, screening 3,615 people.District nodal officer Dr Harmandeep Kaur and senior medical officer Dr Kuljeet Kaur monitored the survey and sampling work. They said 25 samples were collected from Mauli Baidwan and six from Sector 68. These have been sent to PGIMER, Chandigarh, for results. Dr Harman said most samples were collected as a precautionary measure, and residents were asked to inform health officials at helpline number 104 if any person was symptomatic. Meanwhile, people from Jagatpura, Mauli Baidwan and Kumbra villages, who had tested negative, have been quarantined at the hostel of the Government School for Meritorious Students in Sector 70 for 14 days. Sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Jagdeep Sehgal said, “As many as 70 rooms in the hostel have been set aside for people in quarantine, and 20 are occupied.” PANCH OFTEN SERVED LANGAR IN HIS VILLAGEThe panch had been socialising with villagers at Jawaharpur village in Dera Bassi since the coronavirus outbreak, and had even served langar several times. Brother of the village sarpanch, the 42-year-old first visited Jeevan Jyoti Hospital in Dera Bassi, where a doctor attended to him and referred him to Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in Sector 32, Chandigarh, when he complained of breathlessness on April 2. He was admitted in GMCH and tested positive on Saturday.There were about 200 patients in the private hospital at the time, and he had interacted with many of them. Consequently, Dera Bassi SDM Kuldeep Bawa said, they had quarantined the private hospital’s doctor, who attended to the panch, along with the doctor’s wife and their six-month-old child. “Process is also on to seal Jeevan Jyoti Hospital and trace the panch’s contacts,” the SDM said. RAN FACTORY OPERATIONS AMID CURFEWSources said the panch runs a tent house and a tile factory in Dera Bassi, and had been running the factory operations despite the curfew in Punjab. When police visited the factory for checking on Saturday, the workers ran out and hid in the nearby fields.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/infected-ludhiana-woman-s-two-relatives-dera-bassi-village-panch-test-positive-in-mohali/story-2Lg6q569hXAdslc1ZlSqnO.html
05-04-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus outbreak in Chandigarh: Administration asks private doctors to voluntarily join mobile squads||The UT administration has decided to rope in private doctors for providing health care to senior citizens on a voluntary basis.With private hospitals shutting down their outdoor patient departments (OPD) and private clinics closing doors to patients in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak, the administration is working out a plan to utilise the services of private doctors now.The plan is to have mobile teams that will be available on call to reach patients in their homes in case of emergency.UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida said, “Many doctors must be free now. We are planning to have mobile squads of such doctors who can go to attend to senior citizens who can’t come to the hospital due to the curfew.” Parida also tweeted on the issue seeking volunteers for joining these mobile squads.As highlighted by the Hindustan Times earlier, patients suffering from diseases other than Covid-19 are finding it hard to connect with doctors because of the curfew. Severe restrictions on movement, particularly vehicles, has been imposed during the curfew, which will last at least ten more days. The administration wants to address the problem by using the services of the private doctors.‘WELCOME MOVE, BUT ASSURE PROTECTION’Doctors in the city have welcomed the administration’s decision, but have also sought assurances that protective equipment and security will be provided to them.“In principle, it was much needed. More than 80% of the doctors in the country work in the private sector. Their services must be used in times like these. But the important question is how the administration plans to implement this decision,” asked Dr Neeraj Nagpal, convener, Medicos Legal Action Group, Chandigarh.Doctors say because of coronavirus, extra precautions have to be taken. “Personal protective equipment (PPE) has to be provided to all doctors, especially those visiting people’s houses. Similarly, doctors should only be asked for general check up of patients and examine them for acute problems. They can’t give medical care to all the patients in their houses, because for that they have to go in depth into their case histories,” said Dr Neeraj Kumar, former president of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Chandigarh.Administration officials say protection will be given to all doctors coming forward to be part of the mobile doctor squads. Dr Rajesh Dhir, president, IMA, and head of department, ENT, at Government Multi-Speciality Hospital, Sector 16, said, “Whatsoever protection, equipment required will be provided.”“Doctors from the private sector are already coming forward to help. A list of all doctors is being compiled,” said Dr Dhir.LIST OF DOCS FOR BACKUP BEING PREPARED: PARIDAAdministration is working on compiling a list of private doctors who can act as a reserve or back-up for government doctors for managing coronavirus patients, said UT adviser Manoj Parida. In case government doctors can’t continue with their work, services of these private doctors could be banked upon, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/coronavirus-outbreak-in-chandigarh-administration-asks-private-doctors-to-voluntarily-join-mobile-squads/story-Kw6XiRZRhdpEtZzCLgY5mL.html
05-04-2020||Chandigarh||1,536 vehicles challaned in Chandigarh since curfew imposed||Despite a curfew imposed in the city since March 23, people have been pushing their luck and venturing out onto the roads. From that day on, working in coordination with local police, the traffic police have challaned a total of 1,536 vehicles for violating curfew. Most violations were due to not possessing the right set of documents and traffic police have impounded 1,363 vehicles since.As per data, 1,536 vehicles have been challaned for a total of 3,819 violations, most of which have to do with lack of relevant documents including driving license, registration certificates or expired third party insurance. On an average, traffic police are issuing between 100 to 200 challans these days, whereas before the curfew, they were issuing between 500 and 600 challans a day. Policemen attribute lower numbers to lesser traffic and a shift in their working.Explaining this, deputy superintendent of police (DSP, traffic administration) Kewal Krishan said, “Currently we are setting up nakas only to check those breaking the curfew. At the naka, documents of the driver are checked whereas during traffic nakas documents are only checked when a driver is committing a visible violation. This is why so many people have been challaned. Traffic Violation Information Slips (TVIS) challans are also being issued through the social media profiles and Whatsapp number of the traffic police.”Krishan added that since cops are not needed to be deployed to manage traffic jams in the city, they have been assigned to check markets and residential areas to spread awareness and urge people to stay indoors. They are also helping distribute food and rations to needy people in colonies across the city.The use of breathalysers has also been suspended to contain the epidemic and no challans for drunken driving have been issued after March 10, when on the day two people were booked for drunken driving. Police said that with curfew restrictions and ban on opening liquor stores, the likelihood of people driving in a drunk state was considerably less.On Saturday morning too, the traffic police had set up a naka in Dhanas between 9 am and 1pm and impounded 32 two wheelers and one auto for not having a movement pass. Anyone found driving without a movement pass was to be considered violating curfew. The violator would be challaned and their vehicle impounded. A total of 1,363 vehicles have been impounded this way.BOXHED: Challans issued during curfewINTRO: Despite curfew, people have been venturing out on the roads, that too without mandatory documentsTotal traffic violations____________3819Driving without license/expired license/failing to produce license__________1712Driving without insurance/with expired third party insurance____ 839Driving without RC_______________ 802Riding without helmet____________ _280Driving without seat belt___________ 23Triple riding_____________________14||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/1-536-vehicles-challaned-in-chandigarh-since-curfew-imposed/story-MgHd12EhoLHFmNQ6a2YLDJ.html
05-04-2020||City||Five of family injured in cylinder blast in Ludhiana||Five of a labourer’s family suffered burn injuries after a blast at their one-room accommodation in Guru Arjun Dev Nagar near Samrala Chowk on Satuday night, due to gas leaking out of the LPG cylinder. The victims are the labourer Raj Kumar, 46, his wife Sonali, 43, daughters Neha, 18, Shobha, 14, and son Deepak,12. They were taken to the civil hospital where their condition is stable, said division number 7 SHO inspector Satbir Singh, adding the fire brigade was called in, which doused the flames in 40 minutes. Furniture and clothes of the family have been gutted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/five-of-family-injured-in-cylinder-blast-in-ludhiana/story-cdOIOPAp2nvfmjbhPkR1UK.html
05-04-2020||City||Lockdown is beyond doubt, but execution is not||Many of us were hoping that after the botched demonetisation exercise and the shoddy implementation of the GST regime, the Union government would have learnt that major executive calls require better planning. Sadly, the present lockdown proves the Centre has failed to understand the issues and implications of this pandemic.The US may enjoy some degree of protection from the oceans. But when you share a land border with China, the onus is on Prime Minister Narendra Modi to act early, and act decisively.With 70 days to prepare, the public expected better from the Union government. Whether history will be kind to the NDA government on this issue remains to be seen, but announcing a 21-day lockdown with no notice and nominal planning does not lay the groundwork for a robust strategy. What data did the government base this decision on? With marginal disease testing capacity and negligible testing overall, it would have had no accurate measure of the spread within India.The Prime Minister needs to explain why he could only provide a four-hour notice of the shutdown. Did he foresee a raging pandemic that, uncontrolled, would flatten our cities and villages in a matter of days? This is no doubt a serious pandemic, but one that develops momentum in weeks and months, not in days. There was still time to plan that the government did not avail. The principle of a lockdown is beyond doubt, as events worldwide have proven that social distancing is necessary to contain the spread of this disease. But the execution measures have left much to be desired.TRANSITION PERIOD WAS NEEDEDThe government could have announced a transition period of seven to 10 days that would have allowed families to reunite and to plan for their homes for the duration of the lockdown. Businesses could have planned an orderly shutdown and not be counting the huge costs of sudden process failure for want of manpower.Migrant labour could have returned to their families in an orderly manner. Essential services could have obtained permits to continue operations. Local authorities could have better catered for feeding the poor. Traders could have adjusted logistics so that perishables did not rot and goods were not left stuck on our roads and railways, awaiting looters. Ordinary citizens would have been better prepared.DETAIL THE OBJECTIVESThe state administrations should have been given clearer operating procedures and thus avoid the daily fiasco of revised local guidelines. Apart from slowing down the spread of the disease, the Centre has failed to detail the objectives of the lockdown. What are the numerical targets for antigen testing? What is the testing strategy for the hotspots? After all, capacity deficiencies do not limit a focused approach. Where is the governmental support for developing indigenous antibody testing?Where is the urgent enhancement of intensive care hospital beds, and the purchase of critical equipment? The countries that have managed better are those that have tested extensively as only this can reveal the true scale of the problem. Yet even now, several days into the lockdown, we have failed to test most hospital patients and key medical professionals. Without the confidence that comes from testing, the absenteeism of our frontline medical professionals will continue to increase.The coronavirus morbidity and mortality data published by the government is that for proven cases alone. A majority of the cases are excluded. In a country where 1.12 lakh people perish each day a few hundred coronavirus deaths may not be that obvious in the absence of testing. While some of India can socially distance, most can’t. Their housing does not allow them to and it is the escape to school or work that achieves for them effective social distancing. Confining the same family indoors in tight spaces means potential rapid spread within the family and to the neighbours.TEST AND ISOLATEThe minimal objective for the lockdown should have been to test and isolate all persons displaying symptoms, to home quarantine their families, to test all hospital patients and health workers, but there is no evidence that these are the government’s objectives.Consequently, at the end of the lockdown the disease will still be prevalent in the community, possibly spreading at a slower rate, but still sufficiently embedded to ensure that we rapidly return to square one, necessitating another lockdown.The Prime Minister owes the public a fuller explanation.The writer is a Congress leader and a former Punjab MLA. Views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lockdown-is-beyond-doubt-but-execution-is-not/story-qrRtklsgIzn0duuu6975gI.html
05-04-2020||City||Coronavirus curfew in Mohali: When masks replaced grooms’ sehra, langar a lavish buffet||Mohali Surgical masks replaced traditional sehra of the grooms and veils of the brides, as two siblings tied the nuptial knot with their partners amid the coronavirus outbreak at the Phase 4 gurdwara in Mohali.From booking marriage palaces to arranging a lavish buffet for guests, Dharamvir Singh had planned it all for the weddings of his son and daughter scheduled for March 27 and 29.But much to the family’s dismay, the curfew dented their plans for the typical big fat Punjabi weddings, while also deferring them for want of permissions from the administration.Dharamvir, a resident of Sector 105 in Mohali, ultimately had to resign to keeping the weddings of his children a simple affair. The glitzy marriage places were replaced by limiting the wedding celebrations to the gurdwara in Phase 4, Mohali, while the langar prepared at the gurdwara took the place of the sprawling buffet, which was to serve cuisines from across the globe. Instead of a huge wedding party from all four families, the brides and grooms were accompanied by just their parents, while all other relatives had to give the weddings a miss due to ban on gathering of more than 10 people. The weddings, which would have otherwise cost Dharamvir several lakhs, thus, came down to ₹20,000 for both ceremonies. “The district administration allowed us hold the weddings with permission to allow only four members from a family,” said Dharamvir. His son Vikramjit Singh married Navneet Kaur of Chandigarh, while his daughter Bhupinder Kaur exchanged vows with Ramandeep Singh of Gurdaspur. Dharamvir said “We were unsure as to when the curfew will be lifted, so went ahead with simple weddings. We had booked marriage palaces for the two weddings and even distributed cards, but the venues were cancelled.” “We all wore masks and sat at safe distance in line with social distancing. My brother regularly gave us sanitiser to keep our hands clean,” said the newly wedded Vikramjit. Before taking off for Mohali from Gurdaspur at 4am, groom Ramandeep ensured his car was sanitised. “I always wanted a simple wedding, but this level of simplicity was a different experience altogether,” he said. “The gurdwara is being regularly sanitised. The weddings were solemnised after taking all precautions,” said JP Singh, president of the Phase 4 gurdwara committee. MORE APPLYING FOR PERMISSIONSEven when everything has virtually come to a standstill, the Mohali administration is regularly getting applications seeking permission for weddings. “We are not allowing more than four persons from a family, and permission is given only in exceptional cases. We are discouraging any kind of gathering,” said Girish Dayalan, deputy commissioner, Mohali. “So far only five families have been given permission in the district, of which four weddings are done. The fifth one is scheduled in Dera Bassi on April 16,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-curfew-in-mohali-when-masks-replaced-grooms-sehra-langar-a-lavish-buffet/story-O1Rxv61pyzjMQpXGqFaENO.html
05-04-2020||City||Tarn Taran farmer hacked to death over old feud||A 45-year-old man farmer allegedly hacked to death by old rivals in Naurangabad village, Sadar police said on Saturday.The deceased has been identified as Tejinder Singh of Naurangabad village.The police have booked the accused –Rajbir Singh, Sarabjit Singh, Sukhraj Singh, Sukhdev Singh and Jaspal Singh of the same village – under sections 302 (murder), 148 (rioting dangerous weapons), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the IPC, and relevant sections of the Disaster Management Act.In his police complaint, the victim’s son, Satnam Singh (20), said, “The accused had been keeping a grudge over a minor tussle that had taken place with my father on Diwali last year. On Friday evening, my father was standing at the threshold of our house when the accused came there and started abusing him. As an argument ensued, some of the accused hit my father on the head with sharp-edged weapons. Following this, my father fell unconscious on the ground and the accused fled.”Tejinder was then rushed a hospital in Amritsar where the doctors declared him brought dead. He is survived by two sons and a wife.Sadar police SHO Manoj Kumar said a hunt has been launched to arrest the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tarn-taran-farmer-hacked-to-death-over-old-feud/story-3oftnsMGTjKZWqcpkjQQXK.html
05-04-2020||Chandigarh||Gurinder Singh Josan first Sikh elected to top Labour panel||Gurinder Singh Josan, a long-time member of the Labour Party based in the West Midlands, was on Saturday elected to its apex national executive committee (NEC) – making him the first Sikh on the key panel in the party’s history.Josan, a businessman who was active in student politics and campaigned against racism and fascism, is one of three new members elected to the committee, besides Johanna Baxter and Carol Sewell. The result was declared along with that of Keir Starmer’s election as the new leader of the party, defeating Indian-origin Lisa Nandy and Rebecca Long-Bailey.Josan, who was awarded the royal honour of CBE in 2019 “for political service”, has held several posts in trade unions, the local police and crime board, and health bodies. He is a founder and vice-chair of the Sikhs for Labour group within the party.Josan said during the election: “If elected, I would be the first ever Sikh to be elected to Labour’s NEC and would do my utmost to represent all minority faith communities and BAME (black and minority ethnic) members”.“It is vital the NEC looks more like the communities we represent and the country we aspire to govern…Labour is only successful when we reach out to people we don’t necessarily agree with on everything to build a diverse and election winning movement.”The Sikhs for Labour congratulated Starmer on winning the leadership election: “We look forward to working with you to rebuild trust and confidence within the Sikh community,” it said in a message.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurinder-singh-josan-first-sikh-elected-to-top-labour-panel-in-west-midlands/story-hBbskcHqRrXdbPdrYYtMsN.html
05-04-2020||City||Amid lockdown, woman gives birth on road in Moga||Amid the lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus, a woman gave birth to a boy on the roadside in Dharamkot town in Moga district as she failed to get medical help from government as well as private hospitals on the intervening night of April 2-3.Jyoti, 30, of Dharmakot developed labour pain on Thursday night and her husband took her to the nearest primary health centre (PHC) which they found without staff. Also, staff at a private hospital refused to offer help. However, two cops — assistant sub-inspector Bikker Singh and constable Sukhjinder Singh — on PCR duty came to the couple’s rescue and arranged help from nearby residential area for safe delivery. Harmesh Kumar said he first took his wife Jyoti to the PHC on a two-wheeler but no staff was present there. “I tried to admit her to a private hospital but they didn’t let us in. We also contacted 108 for ambulance but they said all vehicles were occupied. When no private doctor attended to my wife, I panicked when her pain became severe. Finally two cops who were patrolling in the area came for our help and called two women to help my wife deliver safely,” he said. The cops dropped the couple and their newborn home. “The woman was in so much pain, so instead of taking her to hospital, we sought help from the neighborhood,” said ASI Bikkar Singh.The local officials claimed the Dharamkot PHC staff was on coronavirus duty at nearby Janer village on Thursday evening. Moga civil surgeon Andesh Kang said she was not aware of the incident. “No such incident has been reported to me so far. I will inquire why the staff was not present at the PHC. The family should contact me. Strict action will be taken against anyone found guilty of negligence,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amid-lockdown-woman-gives-birth-on-road-in-moga/story-r4mpSiKvNALdaF5jiiqkYI.html
05-04-2020||City||Curfew violations: Fazilka turns stadiums, college auditorium into temporary jails||The Fazilka administration has turned the auditorium of DAV College in Abohar and multipurpose sports stadiums in Fazilka and Jalalabad towns into temporary jails to tide over the shortage of space to lodge persons violating curfew. Fazilka has only a sub-jail and that can house only 80 inmates. To date, the local police have arrested 275 persons for disobedience of curfew orders issued in view of Covid-19. Now, 49 persons had been lodged in these jails with social distancing norms being followed.Deputy commissioner Arvind Pal Singh Sandhu said, “People continue to violate curfew restrictions. In addition to these jails, we have also decided to suspend supply of vegetables, fruits and grocery items in the district till Sunday to check unnecessary movements of residents. People with emergency needs will be helped.” Fazilka SSP Harjeet Singh said that even other offenders can be kept at the identified temporary jails. “Due to limited space in Fazilka sub-jail, we needed a place to keep offenders. Till date 114 FIRs have lodged and we have started using drones to identify curfew violators under a zero tolerance policy.” Ferozepur also designated Shaheed Bhagat Singh Stadium as a jail on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/curfew-violations-fazilka-turns-stadiums-college-auditorium-into-temporary-jails/story-UYHMPwuKkbifeJSgiFuluI.html
05-04-2020||City||Jalandhar air quality best in a decade, AQI recorded at 52||Jalandhar With the lockdown in place, the air in the district is a lot cleaner with the Air Quality Index (AQI) recorded at 52 on Saturday, the best value recorded over the past decade, a Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) official said on Saturday. He did not want to be quoted, as he is not authorised to speak to the media. The lower the AQI the better it is. The AQI reading on Friday was 65. Since March 20, the AQI reading for the district has stayed below 80.Before the lockdown, the district’s average daily AQI reading was between 120 and 140. An AQI of under 50 is considered to be in the “good category”, which means the air pollution poses little or no risk. While, AQI between 51-100 is satisfactory, 101-200 is moderate, 201-300 is poor, and 301-400 is very poor, while 401 and above is severe. Environmental engineer Arun Kakkar said, “The improved quality is under moderate category due to the closure of vehicles and non-plying of vehicles.” The PPCB officials said the lockdown has also led to a reduction in the quantity of pollutants in the air. They added that the Respirable Suspended Particulate Matter (RSPM) had dropped to 50 micrograms per cubic metre in March; this was 188 micrograms per cubic metre, on average for 2019; it was 162.5 in 2018; 172 in 2017 and 197 in 2016.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jalandhar-air-quality-best-in-a-decade-aqi-recorded-at-52/story-AYsicrnXwqqwSaTj6wfSPI.html
05-04-2020||Chandigarh||In Punjab, 5% of sample reports have been positive for Covid-19||Even as the state has added 12 new cases over the pat 24 hours, taking its tally to 65, just about 5% of the samples that it has tested and got the report so far have been positive. Of 1,585 samples whose reports are out, 1,520 are negative. With 239 reports awaited, the total number of samples taken have been 1,824. Five patients have died and three have been cured. In the first four days of April, 19 new cases have come up. Over the past week, the state has doubled the tests from 977 conducted till 977 to 1,824 on April 4; this period also saw and addition of 27 new cases. State govt officials claim even those with minor symptoms are being recommended tests. Tablighi Jamaat count reaches 255Health department spokesperson for covid-19, Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said 255 people from Punjab, who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat gathering in Delhi on Saturday had been identified, and 196 of them had been traced within Punjab. “The sampling of the Jammat visitors located in Punjab is underway and till now five cases have been found positive; two from Mohali and three in Mansa,” he added, claiming that the number of visitors from Punjab could increase. State’s additional chief secretary KBS Sidhu tweeted, “A good number of Tablighi Jamaat followers from Punjab are coming out positive during the preliminary testing/screening round of RT-PCR Test. They had returned to Punjab almost 16 days ago.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/in-punjab-5-of-sample-reports-have-been-positive-for-covid-19/story-mPUvH80LqYzEFK1oKcw95K.html
05-04-2020||City||Covid-19: Admn on toes to trace contacts of Rupnagar man, 17 quarantined||The district administration and the health department in Rupnagar were on their toes on Saturday to trace the contacts of a 55-year-old resident of Chatamali village who was tested positive for Covid-19 a day before.The man, who suffers from sugar and hypertension, was admitted to the Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, Chandigarh, where he was found positive for the coronavirus. He has been shifted to the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER).It is learnt that he had gone to a medical check-up camp in the village on March 13 that was attended by doctors from the Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH), Ludhiana, and Mohali besides some people from abroad.He also reportedly visited hospitals in Rupnagar, Kurali and Mohali before visiting the GMSH, Chandigarh.The officials are finding it difficult to trace his contact history and as from where he got infected by Covid-19.Seventeen persons, including family members of the patient who came in contact with him, have been kept in the isolation ward of the Rupnagar civil hospital. Their swab samples have been sent for testing reports of which are awaited.As a precautionary measure Chatamali and its adjoining Chatamala and Dhianpura villages have been sealed to contain the spread of the virus. Rupnagar deputy commissioner Sonali Giri said anyone who came in to contact with the 55-year-old patient should inform the administration and the health authorities. Reports of samples of three attendees of Tablighi Jamaat in Nizamuddin area of Delhi were found negative while reports of five others are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-admn-on-toes-to-trace-contacts-of-rupnagar-man-17-quarantined/story-ybZw3ahGSBCC8MPZgdS8KO.html
05-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab cuts security of police top brass||Days after pruning the security of VIPs, the Punjab Police on Saturday cut down gunmen and other staff attached with top cops, government functionaries and Punjab and Haryana high court judges. The security personnel will now be give law and order duties during curfew imposed in Punjab following coronavirus outbreak.Punjab was the first state to clamp curfew on March 23, a day before Prime Minister announced a 21-day nationwide lockdown to fight coronavirus. On March 31, Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh ordered to extend the curfew till April 14. Around 400 cops deployed on different duties with top officials and functionaries have been withdrawn immediately and have been deployed at their original postings.Those who face security cut include chief principal secretary to the CM Suresh Kumar (3 gunmen withdrawn), advocate general Atul Nanda (7), DGP human rights Mohammad Mustafa (9), special DGP (crime) Prabodh Kumar (3), chief director, vigilance and anti-corruption bureau and ADGP BK Uppal (11).Almost the entire top brass of the police, including those in the rank of DGP, IG, DIG, whose postings do not require field visits during present conditions, have faced a cut in staff from one cop to five.Retired DGP-rank officials, including Suresh Arora (4), Paramdeep Singh Gill (17), SK Sharma (5) and Rajinder Singh (4), are also in the list.The orders from the headquarters say “the staff attached with the cops has been withdrawn temporarily till further orders”.The list also included four senior judges of the Punjab and Haryana high court and some advocates working with the state government.“After chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh himself offered the DGP to have cut in his security to put cops on duties related to curfew and food distribution for the poorest of the poor across the state, pruning of senior police officials’ staff was also necessary. If need be, more staff deployed at police headquarters will be cut,” a senior police official said. A government spokesperson has recently said a significant number of personnel from the CM’s were withdrawn to fight the Covid-19 outbreak. Many senior police officials are not taking their staff along with them due to the virus threat, and putting them on field duties was a good idea as they all were sitting idle, said a top official. In the first phase on March 31, DGP Dinkar Gupta had ordered to have cut in security of district and sessions court judges, IAS officers, senior police officers, and some politicians.The personnel deployed with the MLAs, MPs and ministers have not been touched as per the list of 162 protectees whose security was pruned. Nearly 7,000 cops are still deployed to guard VIPs and officers in Punjab out of which 3,000 have already been withdrawn in past around two weeks, an official said.Punjab has put nearly 44,000 cops on curfew-related duties across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-cuts-security-of-police-top-brass/story-RxbQhgOryUflwxoAZhtanI.html
05-04-2020||Mumbai||2 new cases bring Dharavi count to 5; BMC ups efforts||Two more people were tested positive for Covid-19 in Dharavi on Saturday. It was also found that the total five positive patients in India’s largest slum have no travel history. The state health department confirmed the two new cases in Dharavi.The two new cases include a 30-year-old woman in Dr Baliga Nagar colony and a 48-year-old man from Mukund Nagar in Dharavi. No direct contact has been established between the two new cases and the first patient. Only one death due to coronavirus has been reported in Dharavi so far.A 56-year-old municipal sweeper and a 35-year-old surgeon from Dharavi tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. It was found on Saturday that the sweeper worked in Dharavi but is a Worli resident.The BMC had already sealed Dr Baliga Nagar where the first Covid-19 patient, a 56-year-old garment shop owner, was reported. The colony he lived in had eight buildings with 308 flats and 91 shops which were sealed. He later succumbed to the virus.After two cases have been found in Dr Baliga Nagar, BMC has decided that out of the 2,500 residents home quarantined, all symptomatic people will be tested for Covid-19.Confirming the development, Kiran Dighavkar, assistant municipal commissioner of G North Ward (Dharavi,Mahim), said, “A health camp has been set up at Dr Baliga Nagar and swab samples of all symptomatic cases swab are being sent for testing.Till that time, Dr Baliga Nagar will be closed. Today, all food packets, groceries, medicines were provided inside the colony by us.”All high-risk contacts of both patients reported on Saturday (around 26 contacts) are being tested. Symptomatic contacts will be shifted to Rajiv Gandhi Sports complex in Dharavi and essential supplies like food and medicines will be provided to them by the BMC.The increasing number of cases in Dharavi with no travel history is alarming considering its dense population and congested slums spread across nearly 600 acres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/2-new-cases-bring-dharavi-count-to-5-bmc-ups-efforts/story-GSwBwmTXOXni4rScdP2YwJ.html
05-04-2020||Gurugram||Palwal administration seals 9 villages after 16 Jamaat attendees test positive; 2,000 cops deployed||The Palwal district administration on Saturday declared nine villages as containment zones and 27 as buffer zones — banning the entry and exit of people in these villages —after 16 Tablighi Jamaat attendees tested Covid-19 positive in Palwal. Naresh Narwal, deputy commissioner, said that the 16 Covid-19 positive patients had frequently moved around in the nine villages. Therefore, for the safety of people in and around these villages, their boundaries have been sealed and door-to-door screening and scanning of people initiated.In a statement released by the administration, nine villages — Kot, Ghurawali, Lakhnaka, Babupur Hathin, Jalalpur, Guraksar, Paharpur, and Uttawar — were named in the containment zone. At least 27 villages share boundaries with these nine villages. As many as 274 people were in contact with the Covid-19 patients who are currently in home quarantine.Dr Brahmdeep Sandhu, chief medical officer, said in his statement that of the 16 positive patients, 13 are from states like Telangana, Chennai, Bihar, Karnataka, West Bengal and from abroad, Bangladesh. He said that 56 samples of Jamaat attendees had been collected for testing. One patient from Palwal has been discharged. According to CMO, at least 99 people who attended the Tablighi Jamaat were traced inside a mosque in Hathin villages and are currently admitted in the isolation ward of the government hospital in Nalhar. He said, “Situation is very critical in the district and the citizens should stay at home.” A 45-member team of Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHAs) and Nurse Midwife (ANMs) has been constituted to conduct screening in every house.Police is tracking the travel history of these men and are taking help from informers to identify people who attended the Jamaat or come in contact with people who attended the congregation.Talking to HT, Deepak Gahlawat, superintendent of police, Palwal said, “At least 2,000 policemen have been deployed across these villages to prevent people from moving to other villages and to adjoining districts. This is to ensure the safety of people and to preventing transmission of the virus. The boundaries of the villages hav ebeen barricaded. We are also requesting people to share their travel history and inform us about anyone found with symptoms of Covid-19.”According to the police, till Saturday 536 people in the district were under surveillance, out of which 71 people completed their 14 days of quarantine and 465 were under home quarantine. To maintain law and order in these villages, seven senior government officials have been appointed as duty magistrate. Narwal on Saturday issued an order that said that all the villages are to be sanitised completely.Palwal, on Saturday, recorded the highest number of Covid-19 positive cases in a day in the state. As per the state health bulletin, eight new positive cases have been reported from Faridabad, of which are five were at the Jamaat congregation. The Haryana Police has traced at least 524 people, including foreign nationals, who attended the congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area, which has emerged as a Covid-19 hotspot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/palwal-administration-seals-9-villages-after-16-jamaat-attendees-test-positive-2-000-cops-deployed/story-al4wsHJ7xterzXyuJ5t33O.html
05-04-2020||Gurugram||Waive rent for workers, students, owners told in Gurugram||In an attempt to stop the exodus of migrant workers and students back to rural areas or their home states and to reassure those who have stayed back of the state’s continued support, the Haryana government has directed all property owners across the state to waive off a month’s rent in rural areas of the state. The order was issued Thursday by the principal secretary, development and panchayat department, after directions from Union home ministry on March 29. The order states that wherever landlords who have let out properties to workers, including migrant labourers, shall not demand rent for a period of one month.The order has been passed in exercise of powers available under Section 10(2) (i) of the Disaster Management Act of 2005, said the letter issued by the government.The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has also issued directions in this regard. Deputy commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh issued a public notice on behalf of the MCG on Saturday which stted that landlords in the city shall not demand house rent for one month from migrant workers, students and paramedics. His order added that if any landlord is found forcing such tenants to vacate, they will be liable for strict criminal action.“In case of violation of any of the above measures, action under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code shall be taken. A complaint can be lodged on the helpline number 1950,” the order states. This was also stated in the state government’s order. According to an official estimate, there are more than two lakh migrant workers staying in rented accommodations in industrial hubs located in rural areas of south Haryana such as Manesar, Bawal, Dharuhera, Mewat and Jhajjar, among others. Besides, a large number of workers are employed in warehouses and logistics firms located in Tauru, Pataudi and other areas of Gururam district, officials said.In Gurugram’s urban villages, however, it is estimated that five to six lakh migrant workers are staying as tenants in villages such as Chakkarpur, Nathupur, Dundahera, Mollahera, Sukhrali, Sirhaul, among others.When asked about the matter, Bijender Malik, tehsildar, Manesar, said the directions have already been conveyed to most property owners and landlords in Gurugram district. “When we approached them, a majority of the locals voluntarily decided to waive off rent for a month, which is a positive thing. They also agreed to remain flexible with rent collection if the situation so demands in the future,” he said.Malik added that in case workers are harassed or face trouble from landlords, action would be taken against them.In Khoh village which falls under his jurisdiction, where around 4,000 workers stay in rented accommodations, land owners have joined hands to provide food, groceries and other items to the renters. “We have set up a dedicated kitchen on our own in Manesar tehsil and food is being supplied locally. The work on scaling up operations is going on,” he said.Another official from the department, asking not to be named, said most of the workers engaged in agricultural work in rural Haryana want to go to their home states as they wanted to harvest the standing wheat crop, which shall be ready by the middle of April. “Hopefully, the lockdown will end by the middle of this month and these workers can go home with ease. Till then, we are helping them,” he said, requesting anonymity.Meanwhile, landlords in urban areas and villages in Gurugram said they have already decided to waive off rent and also help workers as they form the backbone of the city’s economy. “I have been constantly interacting with property owners and they have agreed to voluntarily waive off rent due to the lockdown,” said Rakesh Daultabad, MLA, Gurugram.(With inputs from Kartik Kumar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-to-stop-exodus-govt-asks-landlords-to-waive-month-s-rent-for-workers-students-paramedics-2-lakh-to-benefit-across-haryana/story-UYtX9t0Sw3pLceljkbuMYO.html
05-04-2020||Noida||Easy flows the Yamuna as effluent discharge stops; assessment likely soon||With all legal (and illegal) industrial clusters shut across Delhi-NCR owing to the ongoing 21-day nationwide lockdown, river Yamuna has got a much-needed breather, albeit temporary, and is now showing a visible improvement.However, with labs and most government offices also shut, the pollution control boards and the Yamuna monitoring committee are yet to quantify the quality of improvement, with experts pointing out that the boards are losing ”a lifetime opportunity” to study the changes to the river. Pollution control board officials said they will start the river quality assessment Monday.Experts said while domestic sewage discharge across the river length in Delhi-NCR accounts for the maximum volume of effluents, it’s the industrial waste that’s more hazardous to the water quality as it adversely impacts the dissolved oxygen (DO) and biological oxygen demand (BOD) content of the river.“There is a visible change in the river and it seems that the Yamuna is much cleaner now. The water is quite clear and the opacity has improved. There are about 20 legal industrial clusters along the river such as the ones in Wazirabad, Narela, Okhla, Patparganj, etc., and they all used to discharge effluents into the river. But that has stopped due to the lockdown. So the water quality has improved, but just how much of an improvement it is, can only be ascertained after the water quality is assessed in labs,” Manoj Mishra, environment activist who leads the campaign, Yamuna Jiye Abhiyaan, said.He expressed surprise that the agencies were not gabbing the opportunity to collect and study samples.About 48km of the Yamuna, the largest tributary of the Ganges, flows through Delhi-NCR, of which 22km is in the national capital and the remaining passes through several NCR towns.“This is once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to study the river, sans its load of industrial effluents. This is the right time to collect samples, so that we get to know the exact toll that industrial waste takes on the river,” Mishra said.According to Noida-based environmentalist Vikrant Tongad, the water quality at three major spots – Kalindi Kunj, ITO and Sector 150, Noida — has improved visibly.“The domestic waste is still flowing into the river and the major pollutant in that is faecal coliform. But the major hazardous one are effluents from industries that carry grease and oil and heavy metals. We are working on getting the samples tested ourselves, but the agencies should be doing this. The water quality at present, whatever it may be, reflects the improvement that can easily be achieved by stopping the discharge of industrial effluents,” Tongad said.According to data from Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB), according to the last assessment in December 2019, the DO at Okhla Barrage (entry point to Noida) was 1.3 mg/l and the BOD was 42 mg/l while at Tilwada (exit from Noida), the DO was nil and the BOD was 54 mg/l .In Delhi, the last assessment held in February found the DO at Palla (entry point to Delhi) was 8.7 mg/l, and BOD was 2.6 mg/l. At the exit point in Jaitpur, the DO was nil and BOD was 32 mg/l.The standard for DO levels is 5 mg/l or more, and that of BOD is 3mg/l or less. The DO and BOD is minimum oxygen needed for a river to decompose organic waste.Meanwhile, officials said they will start testing water samples from Yamuna soon.“We will start collecting samples from Yamuna from Monday. The samples will be collected twice a week,” Arun Mishra, member secretary, Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC), said.Officials at UPPCB had no such plan. “Currently, all our labs are closed. We have no plan to get the water tested,” Anil Kumar Sigh, regional officer, UPPCB, Noida, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/easy-flows-the-yamuna-as-effluent-discharge-stops-assessment-likely-soon/story-BRJ1vhI9SJPCYkFBLZgjBM.html
05-04-2020||City||10 more positive cases reported in Ghaziabad, 10 Indonesian nationals held in Sahibabad||The officials of the Ghaziabad health department Saturday said they have 10 new cases of Covid-19 since Friday evening. The officials said the sudden spurt is attributed to people who attended various religious congregations, including the one in Delhi’s Nizamuddin.Officials said they had a list of 13 positive cases till Friday evening and the number rose to 23 by Saturday evening. The 10 new additions include a 25-year-old woman from Vasundhara whose sister is an employee of Noida-based company – Ceasefire.“The nine other Covid-19 patients are those who attended various religious congregations. The positive patients are from across Ghaziabad, from areas such as Masuri, Loni, Muradnagar etc. Of the 23, we now have 13 Covid-19 patients who have surfaced in past few days after health officials and police launched a search. All these people were picked up after the spurt in cases reported from Nizamuddin in Delhi,” Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer, said.The 29-year-old sister of the 25-year-old woman has also tested positive. The patient’s sister used to share her car with another 30-year-old employee of Ceasefire and he is also positive for Covid-19, health officials said.“Of the 23 patients so far, the father-son duo from Raj Nagar Extension has already been discharged from the hospital after treatment, as well as another patient, a doctor from Kaushambi who returned from France,” the CMO said.On Friday night, the health department officials also sealed a three-kilometre area in Masuri after several patients were found positive there after returning from attending various religious congregations. The officials also sent their family members to different isolation and quarantine facilities.Overall, in Uttar Pradesh, there has been a sudden spike in the number of Covid-19 cases and UP officials said that this is largely due to members of Tablighi Jamaat who have returned from Nizamuddin after attending a congregation there in March.On Saturday evening, the Sahibabad police also picked up 10 Indonesian nationals who had arrived in Ghaziabad for attending religious congregations and were living in a mosque, a madarsa and the house of a resident in Shaheed Nagar locality.“Five of the 10 are women. They also have their passports with them while some have deposited their passports at the Jamaat’s office in Delhi. All 10 have been sent to a quarantine facility. A case will soon be registered against them and also the caretakers of the mosque, madarsa and the private individual who provided them shelter and did not disclose their information,” Rakesh Mishra, circle officer (Sahibabad), said.The Uttar Pradesh government officials have already said the passports of such persons will be seized as they are in India on tourist visas and not allowed to attend religious events or take part in missionary work.Till Saturday evening, 306 such foreigners were identified across Uttar Pradesh and passports of 228 were seized besides 36 FIRs being lodged against them under the Foreigners’ Act, Epidemic Act and Disaster Management Act, the officials of the Uttar Pradesh government said.Dr Gupta also said that there was information about a Covid-19 positive patient from Shipra Sun City, Indirapuram.“When our teams went there, he was found to be admitted to a private hospital in Delhi and his family could not produce any confirmatory report. So we have not included him in the list of positive cases, which came to light on Saturday. However, containment exercise has been taken up at Shipra Sun City,” he said.“People who are yet to make self-disclosures about their travel to foreign countries, other states and to religious congregations, should do so by 5pm on April 5. If they fail to do so and are traced by the health department or police, FIRs will be lodged against them,” Dr Gupta said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/10-more-positive-cases-reported-in-ghaziabad-10-indonesian-nationals-held-in-sahibabad/story-xxJt6AoXkqkZRkaW8isMxI.html
05-04-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra unable to determine source of contagion for 11% Covid-19 cases||The Maharashtra government is still attempting to trace how 55% of the total Covid-19 positive patients in the state contracted the Sars-Cov-2 virus. In 11% of cases, the state has been unable to determine the source of the virus. The data of 423 persons who tested positive in Maharashtra, which was analysed and compiled by the medical education and drugs department (MEDD), was made available by the state public health department on Saturday. Of these 423 patients, information on 233 (55%) is still being traced, while data about the source of the virus for 46 persons (11%) has been inconclusive. Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicAn official from the state health department said, “Inconclusive means the respective local bodies were not able to trace the source of the virus in the patients. This is the case for 11%. Whereas, for the 55% of patients, whose source information is awaited, it means the respective local authorities are still tracing the source and are yet to inform the state government.”Of the 154 cases in which the source of the virus has been traced, 84 (20%) have a travel history, while 60 persons (11%) tested positive after coming in contact with those with travel history. Figures from a week ago, from the MEDD report (March 27) revealed that 50% (67 persons) of Covid-19 positive patients had travel history; 31% (42 persons) had contact history, and source in 8% (11 persons) was inconclusive. In the report's focus period, the source in 11% (14 persons) was ongoing.Maharashtra recorded its first case of Covid-19 on March 9, and the patient had a travel history. Eighteen days since, the number of cases among contact persons has superseded those among travellers.“It is premature to say if this implies that we are at the community transmission stage of the Covid-19 outbreak. More information is needed on the 55% of positive patients. Awaited data means we have not exhausted routes of investigation to find out the source,”said a health department official. “I am certain in some cases, local authorities have found the source, and are yet to convey the information to the state health department. Hence it is not reflecting in the analysis,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/how-did-55-maha-patients-get-virus/story-3MdP3HbFpm6ogpWGJTky0H.html
05-04-2020||Noida||Covid-19 spread feared as four test positive in a Noida slum||The domestic help of a Ceasefire company employee, along with three of her family members, including a six-year-old boy, tested positive for Covid-19 late Friday, triggering fears of a community spread. Four more persons linked with Ceasefire company in Sector 62 and 135 also tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday afternoon. All eight persons have been admitted to the Super Speciality Children’s Hospital in Sector 30.The total number of Covid-19 cases in Gautam Budh Nagar reached 58 by Saturday evening. Of the 58 patients, 39 are directly or indirectly linked with fire safety solutions company Ceasefire.Two woman, aged 21 and 26, a 30-year-old man and a 6-year-old boy from a slum colony in Sector 5 were found positive for the infection. All four persons were already in a government quarantine centre in Noida after their samples were collected.A 32-year-old male employee of Ceasefire from Wajidpur village in Sector 135 has also been found positive for Covid-19. A 48-year-old woman and her two sons, aged 13 and 10, from a residential society in Sector 62 of Noida have also tested positive. The woman’s husband is an employee of Ceasefire and is negative for the infection. All eight persons have a direct or indirect connection with Ceasefire.According to officials, one of the women patients from the slum colony was working as a domestic help for an employees of Ceasefire.Fearing the community spread of the disease, officials have got in touch with 25 secondary contacts of the four persons from the slum colony and have put them in home quarantine. Officials said until now, none of the secondary contacts showed any symptoms of Covid-19.“We put all four persons in quarantine a day before their reports came. We have got in touch with people who came in contact with them and all of them are asymptomatic. We are hoping that the infection has not spread through the area,” Sunil Dohre, additional chief medical officer, said.The health department has also developed a mobile app for officials to keep a tab on the movement of those in quarantine. Officials have also given an order to put stamps on the hands of people in quarantine.“We are hoping that no community spread takes place as all the required measures have been taken. The area where the slum colony is located has been sanitised and all residents have been asked to remain in home quarantine. We will also be putting stamps on the hands of those in quarantine as a precautionary measure,” Suhas LY, district magistrate, said.“We have also started installing apps on the phones of those in quarantine to keep a tab on their movement. Through the app, we will also be making random video calls to ensure that the person is inside the house at all times,” the DM said.Both the localities in sectors 5 and 62 have been locked down for two days while the sanitisation exercise is completed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/community-spread-feared-in-noida-as-four-of-a-slum-colony-test-positive-for-covid-19-total-now-at-58/story-6k6i79pJROnGB4i8F9eYZL.html
05-04-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: CM praises girl for donating to relief fund on her birthday||Chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday praised a seven-year-old girl for not celebrating her seventh birthday and instead donating the amount to the CM Relief Fund and PM Cares Fund started to fight the Covid-19 outbreak.“Namaskar, my name is Aaradhya and today is my birthday but I have decided not to celebrate it and instead donating the money in the PM Cares Fund and CM Relief Fund… Dhanyawad… Go Corona,” she said in a video tweeted by her father Ajay Kadu on April 3.Kadu works as a zonal manager of a bank in Solapur. “A little contribution to the PM Cares Fund and CM Relief Fund in celebration of little Pari Aaradhya’s 7th birthday,” Kadu tweeted. In another tweet, he informed that ₹5,000 each was donated to each of the funds and shared screenshots of the e-receipts.In his address to the state, Thackeray thanked Aaradhya and praised her sense of responsibility. “I would like to thank a seven-year-old girl from Solapur, her name is Aaradhya. At her age, one wants to celebrate her birthday with much fanfare but Aradhya has contributed the amount to the CM Relief Fund. I want to give her blessings on her birthday on behalf of the entire state. She has set an example before the state. This is the State’s credo and identity,” the CM said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-cm-praises-girl-for-donating-to-relief-fund-on-her-birthday/story-Dij2h2SKCA2vkV8WTYKsjP.html
05-04-2020||Noida||State ropes in religious leaders to counsel patients to accept treatment, not misbehave||Alarmed by the spike in number of infections among people who had attended various religious congregations, including the Tablighi Jamaat gathering in Delhi, the Ghaziabad officials have turned to religious leaders and sought their intervention in educating and counselling people put in quarantine and isolation wards.The step comes after multiple suspects kept in isolation wards at MMG Hospital in Ghaziabad allegedly misbehaved and harassed nurses and other medical staff on April 1. An FIR was also lodged against these persons suspected to have contracted the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) at religious gatherings attended in large numbers by members from countries where the pandemic had spread at the community level. One of these suspected cases later tested positive for Covid-19.“Since majority of these people are not cooperating with the recommended line of treatment, we have decided to rope in religious leaders from their communities to counsel them. After the incident at MMG Hospital, we have also been directed to rope in male staff to attend to the suspected cases from religious congregations. We are also trying to put up CCTV cameras in quarantine facilities,” chief medical officer Dr NK Gupta said.“The chief minister has directed us to rope in religious leaders of all the districts and will be holding a video conference with them on Sunday. In all, in UP, we have tracked 1,302 persons linked to the Delhi Tablighi Jamaat gathering and 1,000 are being sent to quarantine facilities. The search is on to find others and we are also getting calls from people reporting those who are trying to hide,” Awanish Awasthi, UP additional chief secretary (home), said in a press briefing at Lucknow.On Saturday, officials of the district administration held meetings with religious leaders of different communities and asked them to persuade people to disclose if they were part of any large religious gatherings or were direct contacts of any person who was. The leaders were also asked to urge people to follow health protocols to contain the Coronavirus outbreak.“The religious leaders will be given the mobile numbers of people in isolation/quarantine and have been asked to speak to them. They will pursue them to take up treatment and behave well with the health department staff. We expect that this measure will help in containing Coronavirus,” Dr Gupta said.Chief medical superintendent at MMG Hospital Dr Ravinder Rana said another set of Covid-19 patients were brought to the hospital on Friday evening and they, too, were misbehaving. “They were also misbehaving and spitting around in the isolation ward. Some police officers present in the hospital, when this happened, intervened. It is vital that patients cooperate and not endanger the lives of the medical staff and that of others,” he added.After the April 1 incident, the Ghaziabad police have also beefed up security at quarantine facilities by deputing teams of personnel.Meanwhile, state government officials on Saturday said they have asked district officials to strengthen tracking of people who attended the March 18 Tablighi Jamaat gathering and to contain the spread of Coronavirus infection in affected areas.According to the state health department officials, there has been a sudden spurt in Covid-19 patients in the past two days. On Thursday, the number of positive patients in the state was 121 which shot up to 227 by Saturday afternoon.“Ninety-four positive patients are linked to the Delhi gathering. Positive cases have now been reported from 27 districts against 16 districts two days ago. We are stepping up our efforts to contain Coronavirus infection in an aggressive manner to prevent community outbreak,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, UP principal secretary (health).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/state-ropes-in-religious-leaders-to-counsel-patients-to-accept-treatment-not-misbehave/story-h74GbnOlOll47g3xbJy8QO.html
05-04-2020||Delhi||Lokpal member tests positive for Covid-19||Judicial member of the Lokpal and former chief justice of the Chhattisgarh high court, Ajay Kumar Tripathi, 62, tested positive for Covid-19 late on Friday night. He was in the isolation facility at the main AIIMS campus and was later moved to Jai Prakash Narayan Apex Trauma Centre, which has been converted into a dedicated Covid-19 hospital.He has been admitted to the intensive care unit of the hospital and is currently on a ventilator.“His condition is critical, and he is on a ventilator,” said an official from the hospital, on condition of anonymity.So far, 445 people have contracted the infection and six have died of it in the city.He is the second patient admitted to the 240-bed facility, which opened on Saturday. Around 120 of these beds have ventilator support. All trauma cases have now been diverted to the main AIIMS campus, where they are handled in the emergency ward.Apart from the five hospitals designated by the Delhi government for the treatment of Covid-19 patients, this is the only other stand-alone facility doing so. The hospital also plans to have one of the OTs dedicated for surgeries on Covid-19 patients.On Friday, doctors from gynaecology department of AIIMS used a minor OT for the delivery of a pregnant woman with Covid-19. Lights and anaesthesia table had been brought from other departments to equip the OT for a major procedure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/lokpal-member-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-cCGaJl1IDJuBi6TOAjUrnN.html
05-04-2020||Delhi||Pregnant women find ambulances busy, police vans step up to the task||At 2 am on Friday, Ruby Kataria,25, a Sangam Vihar resident, nine months into her pregnancy, started having labour pain. With most public transport off the road because of the nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19, her elder sister, Komal, began calling hospitals for an ambulance. But each call was met only with radio silence.“For some reason, no hospital took my call. It was an emergency. My sister was in pain. We do not own a car. At that moment, something struck me and I called the police control room. I told them my sister was about the deliver a baby, and no conveyance was available. Within six minutes, a police van was at our door and took us to the hospital. They saved her life,” Komal said.On Saturday afternoon, Ruby, a homemaker, gave birth to a boy. They haven’t named him yet Komal said Ruby will she would take her child along with her to meet the head police constable who saved her life, once she leaves the hospital.Since the 21-day nationwide lockdown came into effect on March 25, the city’s police control room (PCR) vans are doubling up as ambulances.PCR vans are the first responders whenever a crime is reported to the control room.Between Friday evening and Saturday evening alone, PCR vans shifted at least 43 women who experienced labour pains to hospitals across the city. Since March 25, the police have rushed 139 women to hospitals, after getting calls on the police control room helpline. Deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Sharat Sinha, said, “As private and public vehicles have been banned due to the, and ambulances are mostly being used for transporting suspected or confirmed Covid-19 patients, we are getting the police vans to be used as alternate emergency vehicles to shift pregnant women or people injured in various accidents to hospitals.”A senior official in the health department however said the government has enough ambulances to transport non-Covid patients. “We have ample ambulances dedicated for Covid-19 patients. We also have ‘102 ambulances’, which are dedicated only to transport pregnant women and sick infants.”In some cases, police officers, unused to the task now presented to them, are going the extra mile to make sure women in their vans feel safe and comforted.A police constable, who had rushed a pregnant woman to Safdarjung hospital on April 3, said, “I have asked my wife to guide me on the things that one must say when a woman is in labour pain so that I can to comfort her psychologically. We are learning on the job. We have to learn so many things as a police officer.”Sinha said that for many residents who do not own vehicles, getting hold of transport in emergency situations is proving to be a severe challenge.“Keeping these problems in mind, we instructed all personnel in the PCR vans to prioritise calls from women in labour. Fortunately, there has been no mishap in any of the cases, and our officers were able to rush women to hospital,” Sinha said.The police have narrowed their focus on such medical emergencies, he said, as crime-related calls are few and far between now.According to Delhi Police data, the number of heinous crimes, like robbery, snatching, dacoity, has come down in the last 15 days. Road Accidents on the city’s streets have reduced as well. Between March 15 and 31 last year, there were 48 fatal road accidents in the city. In the same period this year, that number dropped to 19.“The low volume of vehicular traffic has led to improvements in our response time. Our vehicles are reaching spots within two or three minutes, and are shifting women to hospitals in as much time,” he added.Each PCR van has a stretcher to carry people who are unable to walk. First-aid kits are also available in the vehicle but they are mostly used to give preliminary medical attention to people injured in accidents. To avoid police personnel getting infected by the Sars-Cov-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, they are provided sanitary masks, hand gloves, sanitisers, water and soap, which are kept in the vehicles.“We keep reminding our staff about their personal hygiene and safety. Being the first responders to any emergencies, we regularly encourage them to continue the services they provide to society during these times,” the DCP said.In many of the cases, the police vans had to transport women in labour as far as 14km from their homes to a multi-speciality hospital.On Friday evening, when HT spoke to the constable, he said he was going to a spot in his PCR van. There was a distress call. Just that this time, he had less of a pressing matter on his hands — he was on his way to settle a quarrel between two neighbours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pregnant-women-find-ambulances-busy-police-vans-step-up-to-the-task/story-ose7e4fyOFgM3kWvsyeoQO.html
05-04-2020||Delhi||Delhi may soon run short of essentials, say traders||Wholesale traders in Delhi have warned of a shortage of essential items in the coming days, saying they are still to get the required number curfew passes for the movement of goods during the nationwide lockdown announced to stave off the spread of Sars-Cov-2 infection.Essential items include milk, vegetables, foodgrains, cooking oil, consumer durables and medicines, among others.The capital’s apex traders’ body on Saturday said they had written to the Union and Delhi governments to streamline the issuance of passes so that supplies are not affected.The Central government had issued a list of essential items, including groceries, which have been kept out of the purview of businesses ordered to remain shut during the lockdown. Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicAccording to traders, the shortage of curfew passes meant that goods were not able to reach retail markets and small-time grocers on time. According to the Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT), with only around 20% of the labour force and limited vehicles available, the delay in issuing passes may lead to a scarcity of essential items as retail stores may run out of stock.“We are already in the day 12 [Saturday] of the lockdown. The system of issuing e-passes for transporting essential goods must be streamlined. In many cases, passes have not been issued even after four or five days of applying. Additionally, some are being rejected without any reasons being given. This may disrupt the supply chain,” said Praveen Khandelwal, general secretary, (CAIT).Curfew passes are necessary to cross Delhi’s interstate borders, as well as movement across the city. From March 26, the Delhi government and Delhi Police began an online system where people can apply for an electronic pass (e-pass), intended primarily for workers engaged in essential services who did not have formal identity cards.Wholesale dealers supply stock from their godowns to different groups of retailers across the city. But modern supply chains are intricate, and rely on several interconnected elements to function in tandem. If a single element is disrupted, the entire chain is thrown into disarray.“We have suggested that authorities may allow the recognised traders associations to issue passes to drivers and merchants with, along with government officials, after following due process, in a phased manner. This could help facilitate movement of goods and services, while also maintaining the sanctity of the lockdown,” Khandelwal said.A senior Delhi government official, however, said there is no pendency as such. “Initially there were some technical glitches, but passes are being given within a day or two. We haven’t received any complaints so far. We will ensure that all essential goods reach stores in time,” a senior officer, who did not wish to be named, said.Delhi Police spokesperson MS Randhawa said, “We will definitely address if there are specific issues being faced in delivering essentials. Passes can only be issued to a select number of service providers in order to maintain the provisions of the lockdown.”Grocery store owners in several markets in Delhi said they were already running short on stocks of essentials such as flour, cooking oil and frozen foods.“It’s been five days since fresh stocks last arrived. The supply at the back-end is slow. We have almost run out of flour and items such as besan and suji, as well as some spices,” said Yogesh Gupta, 34, who owns a store in central Delhi’s Gole Market.Traders said they were also facing problems in arranging labour and transport. A large number of migrant workers engaged labourers in wholesale markets across the city have returned to their home towns in the aftermath of the lockdown.Naresh Gupta, president, Delhi Grain Merchants Association, said while there is at least two weeks’ worth of essential items in stock old Delhi’s Naya Bazar wholesale market, there aren’t enough vehicles or labour to transport them across the city.“There is limited staff for loading and unloading. Besides, we don’t get trucks in time, because transporters say they don’t have passes to ply or even drivers available for duty,” he said.Currently, Gupta said most wholesale dealers have only one truck available every two or three days.Transporters in the city too said they have been facing challenges in getting vehicles around due to a lack of staff, as well as a shortage of curfew passes. “Many times, despite having e-passes, our staff faces harassment. My drivers have been working two or three shifts a day,” said Kultaran Singh Atwal, president, All India Motor Transport Congress.He said only 15% of the supply trucks are plying currently. Even during the lockdown, this number should at least be 25%-30%, to ensure essentials reach the markets, Atwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/transport-labour-crunch-may-hit-supply-chain-warn-traders/story-i58Y1fSSFIVRGlACyZ4hJJ.html
05-04-2020||Delhi||Will win fight against virus, say residents of Patparganj||On March 25 around 9pm, the empty streets outside the gated apartment complexes in east Delhi’s IP Extension — which houses a cluster of high-rise societies — were overwhelmed by scores of migrant workers, many carrying suitcases, backpacks and their children, walking out of the nearby IP Extension industrial area.Those whose apartments faced the National Highway witnessed this exodus on a much greater scale. They say they saw myriad workers spread across the eight-lane highway, metres away from where they live, walking away from the national Capital.It wasn’t until that moment that the residents realised the seriousness of the pandemic.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicMany claimed it was difficult to fathom that the narrow lanes of the industrial area, which is barely a few kilometres away, could house so many workers and their families.“I did not even know why so many people were out on the streets that night. It was only the next morning that I came to know they were leaving to go to their home towns. It really hit us hard. While we can afford to stay in with our families, these people were aiming to walk hundreds of kilometres just to get home,” said Brij Mohan, a social worker living in the area.Ever since the lockdown was announced, many residents of this middle-class neighbourhood, also known as Patparganj, have come out to help their less privileged neighbours. Developed in the 1990s, IP Extension has over two dozen housing societies and multi-storey apartments. Many of these complexes were marked by the government for retired civil servants, university teachers and journalists. Some residents are distributing food packets, others are sending across groceries, soaps and hand sanitisers.“Every morning, one of us cooks some extra food and delivers it to Patparganj Village. As social distancing is important, and we do not want to risk mixing in a crowd while distributing the meals, we drop them at a local grocery store and someone from there goes door-to-door to distribute the food packets,” said Swati Sood, a resident of Sahyadri Apartments.A group of residents are in touch with local municipalities to ensure cleanliness along the cramped lanes of Patparganj Village and in the industrial area.“These lanes are very dirty. Even if one does not have any disease, they will fall ill if they live here for long. We tried to get municipal officials to help us but that did not happen for days. A few days ago, we got help from a residents’ group and got the area sanitised,” said Tarikh Ali, the pradhan of street number eight, Patparganj Village.Ali said people here, irrespective of financial background, are now working together to ensure that the area is safe from the spread of the coronavirus.“Disease does not discriminate in financial strata. Over the last week, though everyone is maintaining the lockdown guidelines, we have come closer as a community. We have got tremendous support, financially as well as in resources, from resident groups of neighbouring colonies. This fight will have to be won together,” Ali said. Many resident welfare associations (RWA) of these gated neighbourhoods have also sent out circulars to residents urging them to buy their vegetables and groceries from local vendors to ensure their business is not hit in these tough times. Rohit Maan, president, RWA of Shri Sai Apartments, said they have roped in two local vegetable and fruit vendors who set up shop at the colony gate every day. He said residents of each block in the complex have been given a specific window to come out for purchases, to ensure there is no crowding.“We have provided masks and sanitisers to vendors to ensure the health of residents here is not affected. However, at the same time, instead of calling for home deliveries from online services, you will do good if you buy groceries from the people who actually need the money,” Maan said.He said they are also working to ensure residents do not have to step out repeatedly.“For groceries, residents can call us with their shopping list and we make a collective order every alternative day with a local grocer,” he said. “There are many retired people living in these colonies and even a single person’s mistake can put lives at risk,” said Sarita Iyer, a member of the East Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/will-win-fight-against-virus-together-ip-extn-residents/story-MtqeDcT50OT9CZRJAzCSLO.html
05-04-2020||Delhi||Cancer institute will move patients to private hospitals, test them||After another nurse of the Delhi State Cancer Institute tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday, the institute has decided to shift all the patients admitted to its wards to private hospitals for treatment. The hospital had earlier closed the out-patient clinic for sanitisation.The sample of the 30-year-old male nursing officer was collected after he came in contact with one of the doctors from the hospital, who tested positive earlier this week. The samples of around 19 staff members had been collected, of which three tested positive. Two others, a male and a female nurse, both in their 40s, tested positive on Friday.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicBefore shifting the 48 people admitted to the hospital for cancer treatment, their samples would be collected to see whether they might have contracted the infection. “We are in the process of shifting the patients. However, it will be done only after all of their samples have been collected,” an official from the hospital said, on condition of anonymity.A 35-year-old doctor from the department of Preventive Oncology had tested positive on Tuesday and was admitted to Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital in Rohini, close to where he lives. His wife and child were admitted to Lok Nayak Hospital, on suspicion of having contracted the infection from him.“Most of the patients in the hospital have a weak immune system and we cannot take a chance here. So, they are being moved to private hospitals for their treatment,” the official said. This will be done under the Delhi government’s existing Delhi Arogya Kosh scheme, which covers over 1,000 procedures in private hospitals.It is, however, unclear where he got the infection from. “He has no history of foreign travel or treating any Covid-19 patient. So, the source of the infection is still a question mark. His brother and sister-in-law did travel to the UK in February, but they haven’t tested positive for the infection,” an official with the Delhi government’s health department said.Another nurse from the emergency department of Apollo Hospital, who had come in contact with a 62-year-old man from Yemen, who had died of Covid-19, also tested positive earlier this week. Eight to 10 people who had come in contact with him have been asked to remain in quarantine.At Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, 108 staff members have been asked to remain in quarantine after they came in contact with two Covid-19 positive patients a couple of days ago.So far, at least eight doctors and five nurses in the city have tested positive for the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/state-cancer-institute-to-shift-all-patients-to-pvt-hospitals-over-covid-19-fear/story-QqjX4iFzN3mdq6vo3ufySP.html
05-04-2020||Delhi||14-day isolation must for people out of quarantine, says new government rules||People who complete their mandatory 14-day quarantine periods at government facilities will be allowed to return home only through routes approved by the district administration and within a specified time frame, a fresh set of guidelines issued by the Delhi government stated.According to senior health officials, the standard operating procedure (SoP) for patients who have recovered and those who have finished their quarantine period is almost the same, and mandates that they stay in self-isolation for 14 more days. The standard operating procedure (SoP), issued on Friday by the state executive committee — headed by chief secretary Vijay Dev — also talks about the transit arrangements of foreign nationals who arrived in the city after February 15 and were put under mandatory quarantine.Till Saturday, Delhi had recorded 445 Covid-19 positive cases, with six deaths. Fifteen people have recovered and one is out of the country. “In case of stranded foreign nationals, the concerned foreign government, in consultation with the ministry of civil aviation, Government of India, will arrange for chartered flights. Screening for Covid-19 symptoms as per protocol will be done prior to departure and local transportation will be provided by the embassy concerned. Transit passes will be issued by district magistrate for transit routes,” read the SoP, which was drafted on Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal’s directive.The L-G’s directive came on March 31 after he received complaints that several foreign nationals were stranded in Delhi even after completing their quarantine period. Similar complaints also came from Indian nationals who returned from abroad after February 15, completed their 14-day quarantine in government centres and have not been able to return home despite testing negative for Covid-19 due to the 21-day nationwide lockdown.The total number of people quarantined as of Saturday was 3,531, of which 374 had completed the quarantine period. Out of 374, 219 have tested negative for Covid-19. Of the 219, at least 102 have been discharged from institutional quarantine. “We declare a Covid-19 patient as recovered if two consecutive test results, within a minimum span of 24 hours, comes negative. The person is then discharged from the hospital. But, the story doesn’t end there,” said Dr Nutan Mundeja, Delhi’s director general of health services.“They are then asked to self-quarantine at their homes for another 14 days. The drill is the same for even those who have completed their 14-day quarantine in a government facility or at their homes. So, the entire follow-up exercise actually goes on for 28 days in every case,” she said.The latest SoP also stated that no person of any group will be released where even one person tests positive for Covid-19. “Transport arrangement has to be made by the person themselves and transit for fixed route with specified validity for such person will be issued by district magistrate of concerned district. Such person will further remain under home quarantine for a period of 14 days as per standard protocol on the matter; the details of such person will be shared with state/UT government for necessary follow up,” read the document.As on Saturday, a total of 101 transit passes had been issued, a senior official said. A senior official in the revenue department said that more than 700 district surveillance teams are currently active across Delhi for contact tracing, and monitoring recovered patients and those under home quarantine.The New Delhi district, for example, has 98 district surveillance teams comprising doctors and paramedical staff, who also work in resolving all complaints received from the district. Similarly, the south-west district has 76 such teams.District magistrate (south-west) Rahul Singh said there are eight Covid-19 positive cases in the district. There are another 3,587 people under home quarantine, and 300 placed in institutional quarantine facilities.“If a suspected case is found, then a poster is pasted outside their home for mandatory home quarantine. In case higher level of scrutiny, the person is kept at an institutional quarantine centre being operational in the district at 2 places — sector 9 PTS Dwarka and DUSIB flats in Sector 16 Dwarka. Together, both the facilities are housing 300 individuals in quarantine. When a person is found to be positive, the individual is sent to the designated Covid hospital,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/14-day-isolation-must-for-people-out-of-quarantine-says-new-government-rules/story-sSCU01gdkrVc1y4opM2H4L.html
05-04-2020||Delhi||PPE shortage forces govt’s hand, allows purchase from private sellers||To address a shortage of personal protective equipment (PPE) for doctors treating Covid-19 patients, the Delhi government has allowed hospitals to purchase necessary equipment from private manufacturers, provided each kit costs less than Rs 1,087, the price set by HLL, a government company.A PPE kit contains a full-body suit, masks, goggles, gloves, and shoe covers. “The cabinet has approved the procurement of PPE kits by individual hospitals from local manufacturers or suppliers at market rate, provided the rates are less than or comparable to rates of HLL of Rs 1,087 per kit,” the order read.Until now, the hospitals were dependent on supply from the central procurement agency and their contracted manufacturers. “Now, we do not have to depend on only the manufacturers we have contracts with, but can purchase PPE kits from anyone in a position to sell. It should cost less than the ones provided by HLL, but also be of good quality. This order increases the range of options for us. Several small manufacturers have come forward due to the shortage in the market. Their products are not always of good quality, but one or two out of five manufacturers can give us decent PPE kits,” an official of Lok Nayak Hospital, one of the five hospitals designated as a Covid-19 centre by the Delhi government, said.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe central procurement agency, which is responsible for buying medicines, consumables and equipment for Delhi government-run hospitals, already has a tender in place for 120,000 PPE kits, with three companies. “Due to the shortage in the market, they are not able to give bulk orders and are supplying up to 2,000 PPE kits a day right now, which is just about enough for our needs. But, we need more kits to prepare for a surge in numbers,” a senior Delhi government official said.These kits are shared among the five designated hospitals and quarantine facilities across the city. At the hospital level, managements have also been purchasing the protective gear. “We get about 200 or 300 PPE kits from our local manufacturers that are shared with two other quarantine facilities in the area. This is enough for us at present, but more would be needed if the cases rise,” an official of Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital, which is among the five designated by the government, said.The Delhi government has written to the centre, asking for more PPE kits, but is yet to receive a reply, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Saturday. “The government has asked for about 200,000 PPE kits from the centre to ensure adequate stock,” a senior official of the Delhi government said.A senior official of the health ministry, on the condition of anonymity, said, “Orders for more PPEs have been placed and will be distributed among states on a priority basis.”So far, at least eight doctors and five nurses — three of whom had worked with Covid-19 positive cases while the history of the index patient for the others remains unclear — in the city have contracted the infection. At Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, around 108 staff members, including doctors, nurses, paramedics and ward boys, have been placed in quarantine after coming in contact with two Covid-19 patients without PPE.“The hospital received authorisation to treat Covid-19 patients on Friday, but we are still working on procuring PPEs. There is a shortage in the market and those who have it have driven up the prices. We cannot start treating patients without ensuring adequate protection for our staff,” an official of the hospital said.The five-doctor committee advising the CM on Covid-19 preparedness has estimated that in Scenario 1, when hospitals start receiving 100 patients a day, the stock of PPE should be around 5,000 in each of the designated hospitals. However, as on April 2, the five hospitals, combined, had 3,261 kits, according to the Delhi government’s health bulletin.“If 100 patients are admitted to a hospital, let’s say 20 of them would require ICU care. The hospital would need around 500 to 600 PPE kits in a day for that. If Delhi gets 100 cases a day for seven days, each hospital must have a stock of 5,000 PPE kits for that scenario. Right now, we are not getting 100 cases every day, so the hospitals can manage with the kits they have,” said Dr SK Sarin, head of the committee and director, Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/shortage-forces-delhi-govt-to-allow-purchase-of-ppe-kits-from-pvt-sellers/story-CrLbvTN1z1hgqD5Yd2ls1N.html
05-04-2020||Delhi||Kejriwal hits out at Centre for PPE shortage, says haven’t received a “single rupee” from Rs 17,000 crore fund||As Covid-19 cases in Delhi touched 445 on Saturday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and deputy CM Manish Sisodia accused the Centre of not responding to the shortage of personal protective equipment (PPE) in Delhi. They also accused the Centre of not giving “a single penny” from the ₹17,000 crore emergency assistance given to other state governments. Sisodia urged the Centre not to “play politics” during a pandemic.In his digital media address, Kejriwal said that due to the Nizamuddin Markaz incident, Delhi has seen a sudden spike in the number of Covid-19 cases. The tests of around 500 persons evacuated from the Markaz, which has emerged as a hot spot, is underway.The number of persons linked to the Tablighi Jamaat, who have tested positive for Covid-19, increased from 259 on Friday to 301 on Saturday. “We urgently need PPE kits and have written to the Central government about it. I do not want the doctors and nurses to work without the protective gear. The centre has not yet provided us with a single kit till now,” he said.Responding to this, a senior health ministry official, on condition of anonymity said, “Orders for more PPEs have been placed and will be distributed among states on a priority basis.”Sisodia said he had also written a letter to Union finance minister, Nirmala Sitharaman, expressing disappointment over lack of relief assistance to the Delhi government. “The Central government provided relief assistance worth ₹17,287 crore to all the states but Delhi was not given a single rupee,” his letter stated.Sisodia said that Delhi has become the third worst-affected state in India.Kejriwal on Saturday reiterated that with 40 cases of local transmission, Delhi has still not reached the community transmission stage. “Of all the patients who have Covid-19, 11 are in ICU. Five are on ventilator support. Of over 2,300 people evacuated from the Markaz, around 500 are admitted to various hospitals and around 1,800 are in quarantine. We are testing all 500 people because they have various symptoms and all of them may be suffering from Covid-19, which means the number of positive cases in Delhi will increase. But I want to reiterate that this is not community transmission. So, there is nothing to worry yet,” he said.The chief minister said that until now, Delhi has recorded six deaths, of which five were above 60 years of age and one was 36 years old. “Among these six people, three were traced to the Markaz, while five had other serious illnesses. One person had liver disease, one person had diabetes, two persons had respiratory disease and one person had heart disease.APPLICATION FOR RATIONKejriwal, on Saturday, said that over six lakh who do not have ration cards will start getting free ration, up to five kilograms, from Wednesday or Thursday. He asked them to register on the government’s portal soon.“We have already announced that the Delhi government will give 7.5kg free ration to 71 lakh people who have ration cards. There are around 6.5 lakh people whose applications for ration cards have been in the waiting list for years. We have decided to give these people the benefit of free ration first,” the chief minister said.On Friday, the Delhi government launched a website where one can fill a form to get registered. After the registration, the person will get free ration. Since its launch, nearly 40 to 50,000 people have already registered.He also said it is important to register to ensure that one person does not take multiple stocks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/kejriwal-hits-out-at-centre-for-ppe-shortage-says-haven-t-received-a-single-rupee-from-17-cr-fund/story-yRGLgK79iIu3LRZ3QMq0WI.html
05-04-2020||Delhi||66,000 lockdown violators booked since day one||Since March 25 — Day One of the lockdown — Delhi Police have booked 66,000 violators of the lockdown; registered 3,350 FIRs, impounded 10,000 vehicles and filed cases against 40 people have been registered for violating home quarantine, senior officers said on Saturday. Additional commissioner of police (crime) M S Randhawa confirmed that since the lockdown, police booked 66,000 violators of the lockdown under Delhi Police Act. “Apart from this, 3,350 FIRs have been lodged under Section 188 of IPC (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 10,000 vehicles have been impounded so far and 40 FIRs have been lodged against those who were caught violating home quarantine,” said Randhawa, also the force’s spokesperson.A police officer said that the offences under section 188, during a pandemic, may lead to six months of imprisonment or Rs 1,000 fine or both.Since the lockdown was announced, the police are conducting regular patrolling on roads and in bylanes of residential colonies, asking people to stay indoors and move out only in case of emergency. Regular announcements are also being made by the police to educate people about the risk of exposure to Covid-19 and on measures to avoid it. Randhawa also said that with the help of NGOs, Delhi Police are providing food to around 200,000 people and ration to 6,000 families for the last 10 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/66-000-lockdown-violators-booked-since-day-one/story-uH6JLXBh5qQGInxPYDOctM.html
05-04-2020||Pune||Woman techie duped of Rs 31.45 lakh in KYC-related online fraud||A 36-year-old woman from Wakad was duped of Rs 31,45,226 by cyber fraudsters in a KYC-related case. The incident took place between March 28 and April 3, 2020, according to police.The woman works in a software company and through multiple transactions, she was duped of Rs 31,45,226. Money was extracted from two bank accounts in two separate private banks, according to the complaint.The woman received a call on the afternoon of March 31 while she was at home. The caller told her that the KYC of her e-wallet had to be renewed as it had expired. To do so, the woman was told that she would receive an OTP (one-time-password).According to police sub-inspector Sapna Devtale of Wakad police station in Pimpri-Chinchwad police jurisdiction, “They told her that her bank account will be emptied before the money is returned to it. She shared the OTP for multiple transactions over the next five days.”A case in the matter was registered on Friday night as the woman realised that she had been duped.A case under Section 420 (cheating) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 66(c) and 66(d) of Information Technology Act, 2000 was registered at Wakad police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/techie-duped-of-rs-31-45-lakh-in-online-fraud/story-MPVLVtXvclZvdhRfpem46H.html
05-04-2020||Pune||Facility begins at Miraj to test cases in Sangli, Kolhapur and Sindhudurg||A coronavirus testing laboratory has been set up in Miraj, Sangli on Friday. The facility is operating at the premise of Miraj government hospital headed by Dr Pallavi Saple, dean, Grant Medical College attached to JJ Group of Hospitals in Mumbai.Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Jayant Patil on Saturday said that the facility will benefit people from Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg and Solapur districts as well as the neighbouring state of Goa.“The facility has tested 50-60 cases so far and all have turned out to be negative. We are testing people with severe acute respiratory illness. We have received samples from Kolhapur, Sindhudurg today (Saturday),” said Patil.The laboratory received recognition from the Pune-based National Institute of Virology (NIV) on March 31, according to Dr Saple.An average test at the lab will be divided into three procedures and is expected to take six hours. On a daily basis, the laboratory is equipped to test around 100 samples. The entire microbiology department of the hospital and four additional professionals are running the facility, said Dr Saple.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/facility-begins-at-miraj-to-test-cases-in-sangli-kolhapur-and-sindhudurg/story-xvCiY7pYmBjsmotr3bblRO.html
05-04-2020||Pune||New entrants of Yerawada jail kept in isolation for 14 days before merging with other inmates||The Yerawada Central Jail authorities have been keeping new entrants in isolation for 14 days under medical inspection before sending them inside the jail premises. Isolation facility has been created on the jail premises for this purpose, according to a video of the process shared by Sunil Ramanand, additional director general of prison, Maharashtra.The footfall in the police stations in Pune police jurisdiction has reduced drastically since the state went into lockdown to curb the spread of Covid-19. However, police action during lockdown has ensured the inflow of inmates at the jail premises.The Yerawada Central Jail is the biggest jail in the district that comprises Pune rural police, Pune city police and Pimpri-Chinchwad police. The Pune police alone have also registered 22 cases and arrested 23 people for running multiple illegal businesses in the city since the lockdown was announced.Among the 22 cases, two are of illegal drug possession. In one case, ganja worth Rs 7,160 was seized while in another case, hash worth Rs3,60,590 was seized by the police, according to a statement issued by Bachchan Singh, deputy commissioner of police, crime, Pune.While the arrests are made by the crime branch, cases are registered at various police stations in the city, including Hadapsar, Samarth, Koregaon Park, Kondhwa, Swargate, Sahakarnagar, Lashkar, Bibvewadi, Mundhwa, Sinhgad road, Faraskhana, Warhe, Wanowrie, Vimannagar, and Bharati Vidyapeeth.The arrested people are either entrusted to the respective police stations’ custody or to judicial custody at the Yerawada Central Jail.The biggest lock-up facility in the city is located at Faraskhana police station in Zone-1 of Pune city police. There was one person in the lock-up in police custody on Saturday.“We ensure use of sanitiser, mask for all officials and inmates. The metal bars and handles are sanitised constantly as they are touched often. The floors are cleaned with Dettol as well,” said Swapna Gore, deputy commissioner of police, Zone-1 of Pune police. The lock-up houses arrested people from multiple police stations. It is the only facility with provision for arrested women.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/new-entrants-of-yerawada-jail-kept-in-isolation-for-14-days-before-merging-with-other-inmates/story-ODS84L5vwEDOycQXOkaBEO.html
05-04-2020||Pune||Covid-19 on the frontline – 1: Right now, things are in control in Pune, says Dr Prasad Rajhans||Dr Prasad Rajhans , chief intensivist, Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital, Pune, speaks to HT about city’s preparedness for dealing with the Sars-cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 (coronavirus) infection. It has been declared a pandemic by the World health Organisation (WHO).What exactly is your role in this crisis?I am in charge of the Emergency Department and ICU (Intensive Care Unit) and have been very busy. We are doing all kinds of preparedness for the Covid-19 pandemic. We have to train the staff, get everything in order, see the disaster preparedness of the hospital.How does your day begin and roll out?I stay next to the hospital, so, before I head to work, it is imperative to look after one’s health. I do pranayama (breathing exercise in yoga) in the morning. Once I come to the hospital, I take a round in the ICU to see my patients, followed by an academic discussion with my colleagues to get ourselves updated on Covid-19. I have taken 30 lectures for my staff on facts about Covid-19 and motivation, which is absolutely important during this pandemic. What precautions are you taking?Basically, we have to make sure that hand washing is important. Then, while looking after highly suspected Covid-19 patients, we need to take care that we are covered in proper, scientific personal protective equipment (PPE). Finally, we need to follow all the precautions at home that we teach to our staff.What is your assessment of the Covid-19 crisis in Pune? How is it unfolding?Right now, we are very much in control of the situation and there is good networking between the public and private sector. Also, many industries have come forward with donations and support. So, basically, we will have to keep a close watch until the end of April and May to see how things evolve.What gaps do you see in healthcare and relief work?I think the main problem that hospitals and healthcare workers will face is the shortage of protective consumables such as N95 masks and PPEs (personal protective equipment). The problem is, people have hoarded these things in their houses and these items are being sold at a very high cost. There needs to be some kind of monitoring as to what price they should be sold at. I would request people who have stocked N95 masks in their homes to come and donate them to the nearest hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-on-the-frontline-1-right-now-things-are-in-control-in-pune-says-dr-prasad-rajhans/story-c3vETTruA5LDjVyDOCKp1J.html
05-04-2020||Gurugram||Haryana truck driver, who travelled to Gujarat, tests positive for Covid-19; cops comb Nuh||A 50-year-old truck driver of Khanpur Ghati in Nuh, who had travelled to Gujarat, tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday, said officials.Virender Yadav, chief medical officer (CMO), Nuh, said that his family, of five, has been placed in quarantine and their samples were taken. “We are ensuring that all the people who came in close contact with positive cases are being quarantined in hospitals. There are two hospitals to which these patients are being admitted,” he said.On Friday, three others, of Kerala who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat in Nizamuddin last month, had tested positive in Nuh, said officials.The superintendent of police, Nuh, Narender Bijarniya, on Saturday, said they have deployed 900 personnel across the district along with medical teams to keep a watch on those who had come in contact with the patients. “We have identified 270 people, so far, who had attended the Jamaat and 430 others who came in close contact with those who had returned from there. We have admitted more than 270 people to Government Polytechnic college in Malab and Shaheed Hasan Khan Mewati Government Medical College, Nalhar, Nuh,” he said.The police sealed the district border as well, to check the spread of disease from outside. Bijarniya said the police have asked all village heads and ward officers to ensure that people experiencing symptoms of Covid-19 are taken to the hospital and that the police are informed. The three who were tested positive on Friday had come to Palwal on March 19, and stayed in Nizamuddin for 10 days, before visiting Nuh on March 30, the police said.Bijrania said they had traced them through their travel history, mobile location, human surveillance and informers. “We have collected samples of more than 70 people, so far, who were close to the people infected. We are tracking all the possible movements and contacts so that the situation can be monitored and controlled,” said Bijrania.Special police teams have been formed for visiting villages in Nuh to check the ground situation and ensure no person with these symptoms go unreported. “We are sending the police personnel with the medical staff and district administration teams door-to-door, to check the details of each occupant, ascertain their travel history and track their current location. We are undertaking intense patrolling in the area and if anyone found is found hiding intentionally, strict action will be taken against them and those sheltering them,” said Bijrania.Police teams deployed near the hospitals and dealing with the quarantine patients are given full-body protective suits. All the staff members have been asked to ensure sanitisation four times a day, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/truck-driver-from-nuh-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-OBFUvHnnlzC69eeJlG0cMI.html
05-04-2020||Pune||Life in a sealed area under Pimpri-Chinchwad: “I don’t want Italy, US-like situation in our city”||Late on Thursday night, the Pimpri-Chinchwad police sealed an entire locality under the Wakad Police Station with a population of about 3,000. This was after two persons who had returned from the Tablighi Jamaat at Nizamuddin, New Delhi, had tested positive for the Sars-Cov-2 virus. This locality is highly congested and most people have been living here in self-constructed, one, two or three storey houses, from the last two-and-a-half decades. People living here are workers, petty businessmen, fruits and vegetables vendors. Here’s are first-person accounts from people in the area on how life has changed for them after the area was sealed.‘I don’t want Italy, US-like situation in our city’A 58-year-old resident shared his experience: I can’t imagine that the two Covid-19 positive cases were reported from just 100 ft distance of my home. We on our own rigorously followed the lockdown and after this area was sealed, the police were deployed outside our houses. We stopped going outside our house to purchase essentials such as grocery, milk and vegetables. We are adjusting with whatever is available at home without making any fuss. After all, life is precious. I have been living here since the last 20 years. I have three sons, wife and a five-year-old granddaughter. We all spend time engaging ourselves in household work, watching television and taking as much rest as possible.I am worried about my granddaughter. I can go out and buy milk from just about 50 ft distance; but I’m avoiding even that. We are allowed to step out to take milk and vegetables between 6 am and 10 am only. I, however, decided that no one will step outside the house in the present conditions. I don’t want a Italy or a US-like situation in our city. I told my family members, ‘Be like a soldier’ in this situation. A soldier can live under any circumstances and survive. My earnest request to all is, don’t go outside.A 45-year-old homemaker’s view The situation became serious in the last two days. The Covid-19 positive cases were reported just 200 ft from my house. The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation’s health staff keeps knocking on our doors daily to check whether anyone in our family has symptoms of fever, cough and cold. I showed my medical prescription to police to purchase medicines. The medical store is just 100 metres away. Barring the medical store, everything is shut down here. I make various types of sprouts, soaked chickpeas and prepared idli-dosa batter in the refrigerator. As we have children at home, the demand for food is high. For the last two days, no vegetable vendor was allowed in the area. I am very scared to go outside. I keep watching television news and read newspapers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/life-in-a-sealed-area-under-pimpri-chinchwad-i-don-t-want-italy-us-like-situation-in-our-city/story-mfCAIDtasbnZ8QjKptqLsN.html
05-04-2020||Pune||Civic staff facing resistance during Covid-19 surveys in Pune’s slums||The Pune municipal staff is facing resistance from people in slum pockets while conducting house-to-house survey to detect Covid-19 related symptoms like fever, dry cough, cold and respiratory illnesses. As of Saturday, seven positive cases of Covid-19 was reported from various slum pockets of the city. While four have occurred in Parvati slums, two are from Gultekdi and one each from Laxminagar (Yerawada) and Ghorpadi peth. The civic administration has maintained that these are sporadic cases and there are no concentrated numbers in the slums as yet. Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad said, “We have only found a few sporadic cases in these areas like 2-3 and they too are only the close contacts of the positive patients. There is no immediate plan to seal off these areas. We may decide on containment when the cases touch 10-15 in one area.”Besides slums, such cases occurred in congested ‘peth’ areas of the city, including Raviwar peth, Bhawani peth and Kasba peth. Dr Vaishali Jadhav, officer incharge of the containment plan in Pune said, “We conduct survey in the nearby areas where a positive patient has been found to find out if anyone is suffering from any respiratory illnesses like cold cough and difficulty in breathing. We also ask them about their foreign travel history and any other movement. But during the process, our officers often face physical and verbal assault and opposition from residents. Especially in Muslim majority pockets, as they fear that this survey might be linked with NRC (National Register of Citizens) or CAA (Citizenship Amendment Act). These incidents have risen since the Delhi Tablighi incident. We have to take the help of the local police for surveys in these areas which makes our job even more difficult.” The civic body and the district administration have been tracking people who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi. Currently, under the PMC’s action plan, a solution of 1% sodium chlorite is sprayed in areas where a positive patient is found for 14 days of the incubation period. Dr Sanjeev Wavare, assistant health officer, PMC said, “We implement the containment plan when a positive patient is found in the half to one kilometre radius. If any of the first contacts who have tested negative do not have the space for home isolation, then we provide them with institutional isolation. We also conduct a survey in the area to find if anyone has symptoms. Depending on the severity of the symptoms, we recommend for sample testing.” Covid-19 advisory for Jhuggi-Jhopri clusters/slumsThe advisory issued by the National Centre for Disease Control defines slums as small, roughly-built house or shelter usually made of mud, wood or metal having thatch or tin sheet roof covering. It says, “slum” means an area consisting of badly built, overcrowded houses, buildings or Jhuggi-Jhopri cluster. The action plan includes, common areas like toilets, water supply areas, surfaces, likely to be touched by residents to be cleaned frequently using any available disinfectant. It advises that the local administration must ensure cleaning of toilets frequently, prevent crowding around public amenities such as toilets, drinking water sources and ration shops. People waiting should maintain a distance of 1m and face away from each other and refrain from touching their eyes, nose and mouth. The local body must also ensure that all residents have access to soap and water for frequent hand-washing for at least 20 seconds and any family member working as domestic help in the neighborhood should request exemption from service for a short period of two weeks so as to ensure that neither the employer nor employee acquires and spreads Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/civic-staff-facing-resistance-during-covid-19-surveys-in-pune-s-slums/story-mfKa9i2ydtozhnDiAa5SyH.html
05-04-2020||Pune||Lockdown Gameplan Day 9: Riya Habbu, badminton u17 no. 1, shuttles between training, practice and painting||Riya Habbu, ranked No. 1 in the under-17 category of Badminton Association of India gives priority to her fitness training and badminton during the lockdown. However, with a lot of spare time on her hands, Habbu also paints, is learning how to cook, stitch and sew.For the 15-year-old, 2019 was a great year as she clinched the top spot in the under-17 group and also delivered memorable performances. Habbu was also a part of the Indian squad for the junior Asian badminton championship and finished third in the under-19 junior nationals held at Rajahmundry in December. A resident of Kalyaninagar, she describes a day in her life during the lockdown. Morning sessionI wake up at 8am and have a light breakfast and start my day with my morning workout. It usually consists of long runs in the society to keep up the energy reserves and maintain my stamina. The session continues for an hour, later in the day I devote my time to household chores like cleaning and sweeping.Afternoon sessionI usually take a nap for an hour, have lunch and then proceed to either paint and get creative or simply read a book. Evening sessionI work on strengthening and conditioning my muscles followed by 20 minutes of core workout – the session lasts for an hour. After the workout, I enjoy watching Netflix and catching up with my friends through online games or video calls. I also utilise my free time by painting or helping my younger brother with his studies. To cheer up at night, my family religiously plays the carrom or a game of cards followed by watching news on TV.No gym, no worries As I am not allowed to hit the gym, I follow a workout routine given by my trainer. I do endurance training twice a week, work on agility and footwork three times a week and spend the remaining days working on flexibility and yoga. It is very important to take care of your body in times like these, we need to be able to train to the best of our abilities and use all the resources which are available. In my opinion, quarantine should not be an excuse to miss or skip training. You do not need fancy equipment or too much time, one justs need to schedule the workout properly. To keep in touch with the game I do wall-practice with a shuttle for 20 minutes a day and make it a point to watch badminton related videos and online matches.HobbyCooking and painting. My grandmother also encourages me to learn how to cook and teaches me something new every day which I enjoy a lot. I am also currently learning how to stitch and sew. Painting is one thing which I like since my childhood. As a player, this routine is quite different from the normal one, I hope we can all overcome this pandemic and resume our normal lives soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/riya-habbu-badminton-u17-no-1-shuttles-between-training-badminton-practice-and-painting-at-her-pune-home-during-the-lockdown/story-o0qJfkOKGZdeDk8TF4B13N.html
05-04-2020||Education||Bihar Education Project Council to teach students of Class 8-12 via All India Radio||If all goes well, students of Class 8 to 12 would commence their academic course via radio in a couple of days.In view of this, the Bihar Education Project Council (BEPC) has announced to introduce learning for students of Class 8 to 12 via radio broadcast in order to facilitate home-schooling amid lockdown. This decision has been taken to begin the new academic session on time.BEPC director Sanjay Singh said, “The council has collaborated with UNICEF for developing content. Class-wise and subject-wise study materials are being prepared. With the help of All India Radio (AIR), the content will be broadcast.”“Radio has deep penetration into villages which would benefit the rural and urban students as well. The equipment required for radio access is much simpler. A basic phone or smartphone would serve the purpose.”Kiran Singh, state programme officer, said, “Paper work with AIR is in progress, which I hope will be completed soon. We have asked for evening slots for Class 9 and 10. Weekly schedule would be finalised shortly. We might start broadcast from next week if we get duly approval.”Besides, BEPC has also encouraged use of online education portals like Diksha.“Now almost every family has a smartphone and internet connection. The students can utilise their free time by engaging themselves with new syllabus using these mobile applications. NCERT books are available free of cost on Dikha app for class 1 to 12. It also has integrated audio-visual media along with digital textbooks for better understanding and online assessment”, said a BEPC official.Earlier in March, BEPC had announced for promotion of all students from Class 1 to 8 to next grade on the basis of their performance in half-yearly examination. The education department suspended examination owing to the Coronavirus outbreak.Meanwhile, all the teaching and non-teaching staff members of the Central University of South Bihar (CUSB) donated their day’s salary to PM Cares fund to fight with Covid-19 outbreak.“On the call of vice-chancellor Harish Chandra Singh Rathore, each employee of CUSB voluntarily donated their one day’s salary of March in a bid to extend their help to the government in procuring medical equipment and facilitate better medical services to fight with coronavirus outbreak. The donated amount summed Rs.5,60,918 which was electronically transferred to PM CARES fund on April 2 ”, said Mudassir Alam, public relation officer of the university.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/bihar-education-project-council-to-teach-students-of-class-8-12-via-all-india-radio/story-oJhClUWjkCQK6Uv5mXJ40J.html
05-04-2020||Delhi||Newspaper vendors fight myths with facts amid Covid-19 crisis||Gopal Chauhan has been distributing newspapers in Lajpat Nagar for the last 30 years. Every day, with clockwork precision, Chauhan ensures that his customers get their daily dose of latest news, views and information. For four days between March 23 and March 26, however, Chauhan could not do his job, which he proudly says, is an important one.“I have always taken pride in my job. I know that my customers wait for me eagerly each morning. I know their day is incomplete if I don’t deliver the newspaper,” said Chauhan, in the context of the nationwide lockdown in which several housing societies and RWAs had stopped accepting newspapers fearing the coronavirus infection. No one has been infected by Sars-Cov-2 through newspapers or packages, with scientific research showing the virus does not survive on porous surfaces. The particular sterility of newsprint makes newspapers safe, world’s top scientists and researchers have said.“Initially, I had stopped because some of my customers suspended the service, so I assumed that others will also not accept. But from fifth day onwards, I started getting so many calls from my customers, asking for the newspaper,” Chauhan said.In its guidelines related to the national lockdown to stave off the spread of Sars-Cov-2 infection released on March 23, the Union home ministry had included media in the list of essential services along with others such as banking, hospitals and ration shops. This means there is no bar on the distribution of newspapers or the movement of journalists. Chauhan, like hundreds of other vendors, who are helping in the fight against Covid-19 by ensuring dissemination of credible and scientific information through newspapers, said: “At a time like this, the newspaper is even more important. Besides information, during any crisis, it is the newspaper that gives voice to the common man,” said Chauhan. He said he was making all-out efforts to connect with his customers and convincing them to resume the delivery of newspapers.Dinesh Kumar, a newspaper vendor who has 32 distributors working under him, said despite several condominiums and gated societies in Gurugram refusing to accept their daily supply of newspapers, his men were still going out every day and leaving the bundles at the gates. Kumar said he has been in the business of newspaper distribution for the past 17 years. Every morning, Kumar reaches IFFCO Chowk centre in Gurgaon from where his distribution team sorts and picks newspapers before going out to deliver them across the city. Asked why he was continuing despite customers not accepting newspapers, Kumar said: “This is a social service. There is so much fake news on the internet and social media. It is only the newspaper that tells the truth,” he said. Like Chauhan, Kumar said he was trying to convince his customers to read the newspaper “even more” during this “critical time”.He said sales have reduced by half. “We are going through a tough time. But my distributors are coming without fail every day, and I am trying my best to ensure that their salaries are paid on time,” said Kumar.National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) director Dr Sujeet K Singh had earlier said it is untrue that newspapers can be a source of the Sars-Cov-2 infection. “There is no evidence to suggest that. If it was happening, we would have said so to stop the infection. What we know about the virus, for sure, right now is that it spreads largely through droplets and fomites [infected surfaces], not newspapers,” Singh said.Several newspaper vendors and distributors in Delhi-NCR said they were struggling to figure out how to collect payments from their customers during lockdown. The biggest issue they say they are facing is that of discrimination from people who feel that the newspaper and those distributing it are carriers of the virus.BP Singh Pradhan who has been distributing newspapers in central Delhi since 1984, said, “The fear of the virus is so strong that people have started to shun us. The idea that the newspaper spreads coronavirus is misplaced. Even we are touching the newspaper to deliver it to people. But has anyone thought about our health?” asked Pradhan.The vendors and distributors said they were taking all precautions to ensure that they operate with safety gear such as gloves and masks and sanitise their hands. “I am also trying to spread awareness through various means that the newspaper does not spread coronavirus,” said Kumar. Emphasising the need for newspapers to reach people, additional commissioner of police MS Randhawa, who is also the city police’s spokesperson, said that police personnel are ensuring that no vendor or distributor is stopped from delivering newspapers.The officer said, “It was reported that some newspaper agents, distributors were blocked from distributing the paper. An order has already been issued to all the district deputy commissioners of police to instruct all beat level officers to allow newspaper delivery. The distribution of papers takes place between 4am and 9am. Delhi police will ensure that citizens are not deprived of their daily newspapers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/newspaper-vendors-fight-myths-with-facts/story-QLsk9EqRw6Up9Z7x90sw2K.html
05-04-2020||City||Coronavirus effect: Licence renewal date for pubs and bars extended till April 22||Gurugram: The Haryana excise and taxation department has extended the date for renewal of licence for pubs, bars and company godowns till April 22 due to the nationwide lockdown imposed to contain the spread of coronavirus. Excise licences for liquor vends, pubs, bars and restaurants are renewed annually by March-end, said officials. All the liquor vends in the state are not allowed to operate at least till April 14. The prices of liquor of all brands will also not change till the new excise policy, announced in February, is implemented. The prices, which had to be revised starting April 1, may now change after April 22 or later. The new policy is likely to be implemented in May depending on the situation, said the officials.Aruna Singh, deputy excise and taxation commissioner (east), said, “The permit fee, assessment fee, import and export fee will also be charged at the rates applicable for the policy year 2019-20 until April 22 and other provisions of the excise policy will also remain unchanged for the time being. The renewal fees for pubs, bars, and godowns can be paid by April 22,” she said.The officials said that the licensees shall pay a full annual fee, whatsoever is due at the time of renewal.On February 20, the Haryana cabinet had approved the new excise policy, in which they gave relief to wholesalers and hoteliers who will have the choice to buy liquor from any licensed wholesaler for 2020-2021.HC Dahiya, deputy excise and taxation commissioner (west), said that the extension was given so that people do not visit the excise office for their documentation work. “We are keeping social distancing and have informed all the licence holders to visit the office after the lockdown period is over. The restaurants are anyways shut and not operating, so they will get the benefit for this period,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-effect-licence-renewal-date-for-pubs-and-bars-extended-till-april-22/story-EtqDC2tdvaiN1IoDCpG7sN.html
