06-04-2020||Mumbai||Wockhardt Hospital sealed off after 52 staffers test positive||Wockhardt Hospital in Agripada was declared a containment zone y the civic body, the first private hospital in the state to be marked so, on Sunday, after 52 employees, including doctors, nurses and ward boy, were diagnosed with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). According to the ministry of health, a Covid-19 containment zone refers to the area where cases of coronavirus are found. Containment zones are created to map the local transmission of the disease and prevent the contagion from spreading.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is investigating the matter and if any doctor is found negligent, the report will be submitted to Maharashtra Medical Council (MMC) for further action. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner (health), BMC, said they have sealed the hospital and none of the staffers will be allowed to go out until they test negative of coronavirus. “It is the fault of the hospital administration that they didn’t take precautionary measures, due to which nearly 300 staffers have been quarantined.” “We have also set up a team to probe how the virus spread among so many people in a hospital setting,” he added.“Our colleague nurses and the doctors identified as Covid-19 positive are presently being treated. We have tested all those within the hospital and are treating the positive patients, quarantining the primary contacts of the infected and terminally cleaning the facility to contain the contagion,” read a statement by the hospital. “The hospital staff were unknowingly exposed to the infection in the time period. We are informing the healthcare sector at large not to be misled by asymptomatic patients,” it read further.Authorities, after holding a meeting with the hospital administration and nurses association, have decided to shift high and mild-risk patients to SevenHills and Kasturba Hospital respectively, while the low-risk ones will be kept in quarantine centres or at the hospital itself.“Soon, Covid-19 patients will be shifted to isolation facilities under civic and private-run hospitals. We are categorising patients, depending on their health conditions,” said health officials.The BMC has contacted the MMC, seeking guidance in the alleged matter of medical negligence. But as hospitals don’t come under the purview of MMC, the council can’t take direct action against the hospital. “So, we will have to wait until BMC completes their investigation. If they find any individual doctor in violation of rules, it will be referred to us. The doctor will be asked to provide an explanation, following which, action will be decided,” said Dr Shivkumar Utture, president of MMC.More than 200 nurses from Kerala are working at Wockhardt Hospital, of which, more than 150 nurses in the hospital are kept under observation.As HT had reported earlier, the infected nurses alleged that owing to the negligence of the hospital, the infection spread across to other staffers. “We have contracted the infection after we were exposed to suspected coronavirus patients who were undergoing treatment in a general ward at the hospital,” said a nurse from the hospital who has been found positive. The relatives of the patients also claimed that the infected nurses shared the same canteen, hostels and bathrooms with uninfected medical staffers. “We were asked to attend to Covid-19 patients without protective kits. Despite raising the issue, the management didn’t pay heed to us,” said a nurse from the hospital. The hospital, rather than quarantining the nurses, was forcing them to work, which further spread the virus to other staff. While recollecting the alleged harassment, one nurse said when BMC came for inspection on April 1, few of the nurses informed them about their symptoms, after which the senior officers from the hospital reprimanded them.MA Sayyed, acting chairman of Maharashtra State Human Right Commissio,n said that it also counts as a violation of human rights. “The hospital may be the employer of the nurses, but not providing basic amenities of medicos counts as violation of human rights. This is also a violation of rights preserved under the Indian constitution. As it is a private hospital, we can’t take action, but we request the corporation to punish the violator,” he said. Meanwhile, members of Jan Swastha Abhiyan (JSA) have written to the BMC commissioner Praveen Pardeshi seeking an appropriate action against the hospital for not providing adequate safety to medicos on duty. “We have demanded to provide proper training to nurses in handling coronavirus patients. Along with that, all nurses should be provided with personal protective equipment in all hospitals,” said Inayat Singh, JSA.The hospital has identified the source of infection as a 70-year-old patient who was admitted to the hospital on March 17 for a cardiac emergency. The patient was asymptomatic (showed no symptoms of Covid-19). On March 26, the patient developed cough, and was tested for coronavirus, which turned out positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/wockhardt-hospital-sealed-off-after-52-staffers-test-positive/story-M39fOFZJYN3JwPuqjcMQzL.html
06-04-2020||City||‘I am able to devote more time to my family’||In such time of crises, technology has proven to be a saviour. Thanks to it, people from different sectors are able to work from home and be with their families.Most of the employees from the private sector have turned their homes into a virtual office. They confess that there is less stress in working from home. Moreover, they are also getting more time to spend with their families.Chief executive officer (CEO) of Cyber Frame Solutions, Anoop Gupta, said, “Me and all my employees are working from home everyday, except on Sunday. Our working hours start at 10am and I communicate with the employees through video calls, conference calls and e-mail.”Gupta, who is an information and technology expert, said that they develop websites and mobile applications, hence they receive many queries from clients on phone and e-mail.“As most of the businesses are closed due to the curfew, we have less workload as compared to normal days,” he added.Deepak Jathani, 36, who works in non-banking financial sector, said, “As I am working from home, my day begins just like any other normal day. I receive hundreds of e-mails from customers regarding their queries, which need to be addressed. I read the e-mails and mark them to my subordinates. Due to the lockdown, I’m receiving enquiries about relaxation in paying the equated monthly instalments (EMIs).”“Working from home is less stressful and there is less workload than usual days. I can devote more time to my family and I pass time by playing board games with my children,” he said.Aashna Taneja, 25, an assistant professor at a private college, said, “Though the college is closed due to the curfew, students need help as examinations are around the corner. I take their classes through a mobile application, where I teach a batch of 15 students for two hours. After a brief break, I teach the next group.”“For me, working from home is as stressful as any normal day. The only difference is that I don’t need to go to the college, but I have to prepare the lecture every day and resolve the queries of the students,” she said.“The positive side is that I get to spend more time with my parents and siblings,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/i-am-able-to-devote-more-time-to-my-family/story-2CLyYIrzJ0vYjqVHvOQFkM.html
06-04-2020||City||Covid positive woman delivers baby at Navi Mumbai hospital||A 32-year-old woman, who had tested positive for Covid-19, delivered a girl in Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC)-run hospital on Monday. The Ghansoli resident, who didn’t have any travel history, was tested positive two days ago after she showed symptoms of Covid-19. NMMC commissioner A Misal said, “Her delivery date was yesterday. On Monday, our team of eight doctors performed a C-section. We are yet to test the baby.”Misal added, “We are yet to trace from where she got infected.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-positive-woman-delivers-baby-at-navi-mumbai-hospital/story-abrveRWceDAAmLy9GFeFYL.html
06-04-2020||City||BJP, Congress fight over food distribution||MumbaiLeaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Congress have started a debate over distribution of food grains to poor. Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis demanded the distribution take place based on Aadhaar, instead of insisting on ration card. Congress alleged that BJP was trying to politicise the issue and create unrest. Meanwhile, Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Monday took stock of the situation in the state during a video conference with divisional commissioners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bjp-congress-fight-over-food-distribution/story-UqaOEpnCPJpjmU0QHAZpQP.html
06-04-2020||City||Mumbai civic body makes coronavirus containment zone map accessible to only staff||A week after announcing grand plans on its real time mapping of containment zones for the public, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s web portal which showed Geographical Information System (GIS) map of coronavirus-affected areas and containment zones was inaccessible within two days of activating it. The map was restricted to only employees of the civic body for internal use on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-civic-body-makes-coronavirus-containment-zone-map-accessible-to-only-staff/story-0SQrUbB9zK7gFO6E7024VK.html
06-04-2020||City||Kaushambi youth tests positive, his village sealed||A youth from Kaushambi district tested positive for the coronavirus late on Sunday night, Kaushambi district magistrate Manish Verma said on Monday. This was the first case of Covid-19 infection in the district, Verma added. It is the fifth case in the region; three others were reported from Pratapgarh and one from Prayagraj earlier.The youth’s village, Malak Pachamba in Kada development block, was sealed and the entire area was being sanitised, the Kaushambi district magistrate said. Samples of all residents were being collected for tests, he added. The youth had returned home from Haryana last week, the district magistrate said, adding that he had been employed as a labourer there. He, along with eight other suspected patients, was initially put in an isolation ward in the district hospital as he was suffering from cough and fever, Verma said.“Of the total nine samples sent for tests so far to BHU, eight tested negative while this youth tested positive. His report was received late on Sunday night. We have shifted him to the Level 1 Covid hospital. The remaining eight, who were in contact with him, have been quarantined in the isolation ward,” he said.In Prayagraj, the first and only coronavirus positive patient so far was one of the seven Indonesian nationals, who were found staying at the Abdulla Masjid last Tuesday, district surveillance officer (Corona), Prayagraj, Dr Ganesh Prasad said. The test report was received on Sunday night, he added. “He has been kept in the Level 1 Covid hospital on the outskirts of the city in Kotwa under Phulpur tehsil. If necessary, samples of all the people who were found at Abdulla Masjid would be taken. The reports of three other suspected cases are awaited,” he added.Meanwhile, samples of eight suspected patients from Pratapgarh were sent for tests to Lucknow on Monday, according to information made available by Control Room for Corona in Pratapgarh. Three other coronavirus positive patients, who are residents of Uttarakhand, were admitted to the 30-bed Level- 1 Covid Hospital at the trauma centre in the district’s Sadar tehsil.Pratapgarh’s chief medical officer Dr AK Srivastava said the three coronavirus positive patients, who were admitted in Level - 1 Covid hospital in the district on April 2, were shifted to Prayagraj in ambulances on Monday evening. They were now admitted in a Level 1 Covid hospital set up in Kotwa on the outskirts of Prayagraj. The chief medical officer said the step was taken due to lack of proper facilities in Pratapgarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kaushambi-youth-tests-positive-his-village-sealed/story-cJ02hvVnUoos4nBLKJsMmK.html
06-04-2020||City||Palghar locals help arrange funeral of 89-year-old woman||A few members of the Muslim community from Manor came forward to arrange the funeral of an 89-year-old woman who died in an old age home in Manor on Saturday. As the government has banned transportation of dead bodies in view of the pandemic, Sandhya Binsale’s son could not get her body to Tardeo, where he lives. However, locals arranged the funeral in Manor, said Bilal Rais, an ambulance driver.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/palghar-locals-help-arrange-funeral-of-89-year-old-woman/story-EN9Wi0iLszfSqaMqP6Tb3I.html
06-04-2020||City||Panvel man booked for forwarding fake message||The Panvel police have booked a caterer for forwarding an offensive message on coronavirus outbreak. The police lodged an FIR against him under sections of Indian Penal Code and IT Act. One of them who received the message realised the photos and message was fake and alerted the cybercrime cell of the Navi Mumbai police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panvel-man-booked-for-forwarding-fake-message/story-SLBvt8ox7VuybMY9j80uzN.html
06-04-2020||Mumbai||Police officer from Kurar tests positive for Covid-19||A 39-year-old police sub inspector from Kurar police station tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday. He is in a stable condition and is doing well, a BMC ward officer said. Three police officers who were in touch with him have been tested as a precautionary measure. Bhagyashree Kapse, assistant commissioner and ward officer from Borivli (west), said the police sub inspector was feeling feverish and coughing last week following which he got himself tested for covid 19 on Friday. After the report came positive, he has been sent to Bhabha hospital for quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/police-officer-from-kurar-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-GO5Cd8QTjkUuvsSSX9FUhN.html
06-04-2020||Gurugram||Shop damaged, machine charred in two incidents of fire Sunday night||Two minor incidents of fire were reported Sunday night, caused due to burning of candles for nine minutes at 9pm. There was no injury in either incident.On Sunday night people across the country had lit candles, diyas or used a torchlight as a mark of hope in the fight against Covid-19.The first incident was reported from a general store at Ram Chowk, located next to Udyog Vihar, when the owner lit a candle around 9pm. “It seems the candle fell from the top of a shelf onto the ground and led to flammable items located inside the shop catch fire. The shopkeeper called the fire department and a tender from Udyog Vihar fire brigade, located 500 metres from the shop, was sent to the spot. The fire was doused under five minutes. A portion of the shop was damaged,” said IS Kashyap, assistant divisional fire safety officer.In the other incident, a couple residing in Kendriya Vihar, Sector 56, who are under self-quarantine for the last two weeks, had lit a candle atop of a washing machine in their balcony.According to RWA members, they forgot about the lit candle and the washing machine was soon engulfed in flames. “Our security guards noticed flames and smoke emitting from an apartment in C-block. They then went inside the apartment and doused the fire. The washing machine was located in the balcony and the fire was extinguished before it spread to the rest of the apartment. The machine, however, was completely charred,” said Abhey Raj, president, Kendriya Vihar, RWA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/shop-damaged-machine-charred-in-two-incidents-of-fire-sunday-night/story-4v0YpNXMdsFajsboRPXlVO.html
06-04-2020||City||Grocery, veggie shops in Kalyan-Dombivli to shut after 5pm||Kalyan police announced that all shops in Kalyan and Dombivli will be shut after 5pm from Monday. Grocery stores, vegetable shops, fruits shops, which were earlier allowed to open till night, will be shut after 5pm. Only medical shops, clinics and hospitals will be allowed to remain open 24x7. On Monday, the police conveyed this to residents by making announcements across Kalyan and Dombivli. “We learnt that several places become crowded in the evening. Shopkeepers will face action if they are found keeping shops open after 5pm,” said AH Pawar, senior inspector, Khadakpada police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/grocery-veggie-shops-in-kalyan-dombivli-to-shut-after-5pm/story-0ZHkVKdrNSPbW7bIJ89M4L.html
06-04-2020||Gurugram||Haryana labour minister inspects construction sites, assures migrant workers of jobs||Two weeks into the 21-day nationwide lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), Haryana’s minister of state for labour and employment minister Anoop Dhanak made a surprise inspection of construction sites in the city along the Dwarka Expressway and interacted with workers.He assured workers, who live at the project site in make-shift rooms, that their jobs were safe and that they would get all essentials and cooked meals would be made available to them on the site. “The government will safeguard distressed workers in this difficult time and all help will be given,” said Dhanak.The minister was accompanied by a team of labour department officials with whom he held a detailed meeting after the inspection. Officials present in the meeting were Dinesh Kumar, deputy labour commissioner, Ramesh Ahuja, deputy labour commissioner, Ravinder Malik, deputy director industrial security and health department.Dhanak asked them to ensure that jobs of construction workers remain safe and issued directions that all sites where the migrant labourers were staying should also be decontaminated regularly. There are 77 shelter homes set up for migrant and construction workers by the district administration, labour officials said, adding that food camps were being operated in the city and everyday 1,72,000 food packets are being distributed along with dry ration. As per estimates of the district administration, there are around 1.5 lakh workers in Gurugam-Manesar industrial complex and they need immediate help in terms of food and other essential items. A survey conducted by the DTCP found that there are roughly 21,000 construction workers located at 85 construction sites.The labour department officials said it is working with the DTCP to provide food to these construction workers. During the meeting, labour officials informed the minister that to ensure that there is no shortage of essential items in the district, around 70 manufacturing and service-oriented firms are continuing to produce basic safety gear, among other things. Around 2,000 workers are engaged in these units and producing essential items, officials said.Dhanak also asked officials to ensure that food and other essential items were not sold above MRP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/haryana-labour-minister-inspects-construction-sites-assures-migrant-workers-of-jobs/story-e6qvy1QLquYLeEWomY3RjI.html
06-04-2020||City||Now, you can consult Kamothe doctors over phone||A group of private practitioners from Kamothe have started consultations over phone as people have started panicking in cases of cough and cold. The doctors will give advice over phone and address the concerns. Dr Rupesh Wadagaonkar, who runs Sai Samarth Hospital in Kamothe, said, “People can also opt for video calls. I have been getting nearly 10-15 calls every day from across Mumbai.” “Those who cannot afford to pay are treated free of cost,” said Wadagaonkar. One can contact Dr Wadagaonkar at 9594999690.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/now-you-can-consult-kamothe-doctors-over-phone/story-sTaCPYSvrnSyt9aovmRuHK.html
06-04-2020||Gurugram||AlphaCorp GurgaonOne: Music binds these residents together||As the country remains in lockdown to keep the spread coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in check, close to 800 residents of AlphaCorp GurgaonOne, a condominium in Sector 22, have been trying to keep their morale up by setting up live performances of classic Bollywood songs right on their premises.The residents are treating themselves to a range of hit songs from RD Burman and Kishore Kumar to Arijit Singh from their balconies. The performance usually starts after 7pm and can last up to an hour.“A few days ago, I started singing on my karaoke machine in the evening. A few friends wanted to hear more, so I started doing it in the balcony with the speakers on,” Ashish Sarin, a resident and CEO of AlphaCorp development, says. Sarin adds that he does not want to perform every day as people might get bored with his singing but tries to perform with a gap of a few days. He uses the gap days to rehearse and is already working on a list of songs to sing next. He seems to have set an example of showcasing musical talents during the lockdown.“When I finished the first time, we heard a piano playing. We are yet to find out who it is but he or she played for close to 20 minutes. Then we also had a resident turn on his speakers and play some beautiful Sufi instrumental music,” Sarin says. He adds that while he sings, his family joins him in the balcony.The society, as a precautionary measure, has reduced its staff to 25% of its strength. This staff is responsible for housekeeping, cleaning, maintenance and horticulture. Close to 12 staff members have been living in the condominium since the lockdown started. Cooking facilities and ration have been provided for them to make their own meals. Sometimes, residents too volunteer to provide home-cooked meals to the staff.“The in-house staff does not include the security guards as they have been provided passes for travelling and they do not interact with the residents much,” says Deepak Jain, estate manager of the condominium. He adds that despite the skeleton staff, the society is still keeping up with its efforts of composting and sewage water treatment.While the entry of maids and other household help has been stopped, exceptions are made for senior citizens who need help at all times. The society has even come forward to help procure special travel passes for them from city authorities.“Most senior citizens have their domestic help stay with them around the clock. But for those who have to return home, we helped procure requisite passes from the police. This was done for senior residents who absolutely need them so that their help faces no hindrance to their movement across the city while travelling during the lockdown,” says Sunil Mathur, the general secretary of the Residents’ Welfare Association of the society.When news of migrant labourers in the city struggling to go home reached the residents, they came together to volunteer to cook for them. Food packets were prepared by the residents at their homes, collected by a few volunteers and distributed with the help of police.“Around 70-80 houses cooked the meals in varying capacities and packed them. The meal was roti and sabzi. A few volunteers collected the packets hygienically and distributed them among the labourers,” says Mehta. He adds that a few hundred packets were distributed by the residents.The residents have also created a fund to feed daily wagers in the city. The fund has been donated to a nearby temple where food is distributed.“We collected money and ration to feed daily wagers who are now struggling to find food because of the lockdown. The temple is cooking the food and serving it to them,” says Sonica Sood, a resident.The society, for the time being, has halted all doorstep deliveries. For their daily needs, residents can place their order at the grocery and vegetable shop located inside the society. Residents are expected to pick up food deliveries from the lobby of their towers. The management is also carrying out routine sanitation of commonly touched surfaces.To take care of the senior citizens residing in the condominium, the management of the society has decided to carry out routine checks to ensure that support and help are provided to them as and when required.“We call them to make sure if they are unable to step out, we can help them out. With a skeleton staff, it is not always possible to visit them in person but we do make sure we ask them if they need anything from time to time,” says Jain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/alphacorp-gurgaonone-music-binds-these-residents-together/story-KgEs22lumV15v7hoRII1gM.html
06-04-2020||Gurugram||Residents step up to help with maintenance work||As the provision of many services has been affected across the country amid the 21-day national lockdown, announced to curb the spread of the coronavirus pandemic, resident welfare associations (RWAs) of some condominiums and residential sectors in the city have turned to their residents to get maintenance work done.For instance, at Sushant Lok in Phase 1, the local RWA reached out to the residents last week looking for volunteers who could take up electrical and plumbing work in the neighbourhood.Sudhir Sachdeva, member of the RWA said that the township had tied-up with a private agency for maintenance related work in the area, but after the 21-day national lockdown was announced, the services provided by the agency services came to a sudden halt.“Last week, through our society Whatsapp groups, we asked residents to volunteer to fix electrical and plumbing related problems in our area. Twenty residents, who they said have some degree of expertise in plumbing and electrical work volunteered for the task and have been visiting homes ever since,” Sachdeva said.Residents who have volunteered said that given the unusual circumstances those who can should step up. “This is an unprecedented situation for all of us. The only way to get through this phase is by looking out for each other and when the RWA asked for assistance from residents, I immediately volunteered. I have some basic knowledge with electrical circuits and have been fixing problems related to electrical work in the area,” Anant Malik, a Sushant Lok resident, said.While some of the RWAs have already appointed duties to the volunteer residents, others are in the process of setting up similar volunteer groups in case the lockdown is lifted for only a short duration and maintenance staff choose to return to their home towns when they can.In Princeton Estate, a condominium in DLF 5, the local RWA issued a circular on Monday, asking for volunteers to take up maintenance-related work such as security, housekeeping, horticulture, electrical, plumbing, and other such work. The circular stated that the RWA is trying to constitute an ‘emergency task force’ within a week, as a standby measure to take over maintenance duties in the near future if the Covid-19 outbreak is not contained and the existing staff chooses to return to their home towns.Arati Pandya, joint secretary, Princeton Estate Condominium Association said the condominium is currently operating with 50% staff. All the staff members have been provided with accommodation within the condominium. She said, however, there is a possibility that the condominium’s staff may leave for their respective home towns in case the outbreak is not contained.“While the chances of such situation arising are very less, we want to be fully prepared in case such a situation does arise. Thus, with a view to prepare ourselves better, a circular has been issued within the condominium asking for volunteers to come forward. Depending on the response, we will constitute a team,” Pandya said.In Sector 14, the RWA has also identified residents who have volunteered for carrying out electric and plumbing related work in their area.“With the help of residents, we have made arrangements for fixing plumbing and electrical related issues in our locality. The volunteers help out those families who need some quick and basic repairs. Recently, in one house, there was some issue with the sewerage and the volunteers looked into it,” Kalyan Singh Sharma, a member of the RWA, said.At Old DLF Colony, in Sector 14, residents themselves have come together to make a similar arrangement.“We have people in our society who know some plumbing or electrical work and they have come forward to help others. People are collaborating with each other and everyone is helping their neighbours,” Kulbhushan Bhardwaj, a resident, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/residents-step-up-to-help-with-maintenance-work/story-4JXTnSixXl5KU631yT4FtL.html
06-04-2020||Gurugram||Six more test positive for Covid-19 in Nuh||The district administration of Nuh on Monday declared Umrao village in Nagina as a buffer zone — banning the entry and exit of people in the village to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), said officials. Six more people tested positive for Covid-19 in the district on Monday, taking the total number of confirmed cases to 14, said officials. The police said 13 of them had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Nizamuddin in Delhi last month. The superintendent of police, Nuh, Narender Bijarniya, said that they have declared a three-kilometre area around the residence of a 50-year-old truck driver, who had recently returned from Gujarat and tested positive last week, as a buffer zone and locals have been asked to remain indoors and take care of their health. “The residents of this village will remain quarantined at home. They can only come out to buy essentials between 8am and 10am,” he said.The police said if more cases are reported from the village, they will declare it a ‘red zone’. “In the red zone, the entire village will be isolated and samples will be collected from each house. There will be no movement of any person and essentials will be provided by the district administration. However, in a buffer zone, people are allowed to move to get their essentials but not allowed to move out of the village,” said Bijarniya.Bijarniya added the area has become vulnerable with regard to the further transmission of Covid-19 and it was necessary to halt further transmission of the disease in the villages. “We are taking precautionary measures to ensure the virus does not spread; therefore we have declared one village as a buffer zone as only one local case was reported positive from here. We are discussing with the district administration and chief medical officer the next steps to declare a few villages as red zones. It has become imperative to take stringent precautionary measures like declaring some villages as containment zones and surrounding areas as buffer zones,” he said.The police said there would be no vehicular movement from these villages and people would stay within their homes to ensure complete lockdown.Virender Yadav, chief medical officer (CMO), Nuh, confirmed that six people tested positive on Monday. “All of them had allegedly attended the Tablighi Jamaat Markaz in Delhi’s Nizamuddin last month. Two are from Sir Lanka, one each is from Thailand, Indonesia, South Africa, and Jammu and Kashmir,” he said.The samples for nearly 300 people had been collected by Monday, said officials.“We have admitted more than 300 people to Government Polytechnic college in Malab and Shaheed Hasan Khan Mewati Government Medical College, Nalhar, Nuh. More than 400 people are home quarantined,” he said.Seven more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Faridabad on Monday, bringing the total count to 21. Nine more people, all of whom had attended the Nizamuddin Jamaat, tested positive in Palwal on Monday. The officials said the number of positive cases in Palwal has reached 25, the highest among any district in Haryana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/six-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-nuh/story-s1oxEgSxw1yJBO98EVFIxO.html
06-04-2020||Gurugram||Covid-19: Rapid antibody testing to start by the end of the week in Gurugram district||For early detection of Covid-19 cases, the Gurugram district health department is planning to start the rapid antibody blood test by the end of the week. Health officials on Monday said the rapid test would be conducted in a three kilometre radius of the containment zone from where a Covid-19 positive case has been reported. Officials said a team of health workers and doctors would test of all occupants in 50 houses, chosen randomly, in each of the four directions of the containment zone.Rajeev Arora, additional chief secretary of the health department, confirmed that the rapid antibody test would be conducted. However, he said the tests would be started only by the end of the week as the kits are yet to be procured. “The rapid blood test would help us find out whether the patient has had exposure to the virus. For the diagnosis, the Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) would be continued. The guidelines for the rapid antibody test were issued recently by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The test will be done in the most affected districts such as Gurugram, Faridabad, Palwal, and Nuh, as part of intensive screening to restrict the transmission of the coronavirus,” said Arora.The antibody blood test gives results in 15 minutes, which would speed up Covid-19 screening in the state as there has been a spike in the number of positive cases across districts in the last few days. As of now, there are 25 confirmed coronavirus disease cases in Palwal, followed by Faridabad at 21, Nuh at 14 and Gurugram at nine. According to officials, out of all the positive cases in Palwal, a majority are those who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat Markaz event in Delhi’s Nizamuddin last month -- another nine of the total of 25 were identified on Monday as those who had attended the event. With this, the total of confirmed cases in Palwal who had attended the event comes to 24 out of 25 cases. Currently, there are 70 active Covid-19 cases in the state, with Palwal having the maximum cases at 25, followed by 13 in Faridabad, 14 in Nuh and nine in Gurugram. On April 4, the ICMR had issued a letter to states on starting rapid antibody-based blood tests for Sars-Cov-2 in clusters with containment zones and large migration gathering or evacuees. Dr Jaswant Singh Punia, chief medical officer, Gurugram, said a containment strategy has been prepared under which the serological antibody blood test would be conducted. “After a case is reported positive in a particular area, 50 houses in each of the four directions within the three kilometre radius will be covered where rapid antibody blood tests would be done. For every 50 households, Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA), Auxiliary Nurse Midwife (ANM) and a medical officer would be appointed,” said Punia. In such a test, a blood sample is collected to check for antibodies developed by the body’s immune system to fight the virus. The presence of antibodies helps to detect the coronavirus infection in the body.“For all those whose reports come out positive in the antibody test, nasal/throat swabs will be taken up for the RT-PCR. Even if the antibody test is negative and the medical officer feels that there is a necessity to take a sample for PCR, then throat and nasal swabs would be taken, as per the protocol followed till now,” Punia said.Punia said for those who are asymptomatic but have contracted the coronavirus, their antibody test will be positive. “There is a possibility of a recent infection. For them, a quarantine period of 10 days will be suggested, after which the rapid antibody test will be done again. If positive and symptomatic, a PCR test will be conducted on the patient and they will be admitted to the hospital for treatment,” said Punia, mentioning that the process will prevent local transmission of the coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/covid-19-rapid-antibody-testing-to-start-by-the-end-of-the-week-in-gurugram-district/story-Ww7f7qNI8jDXIi8jltnT4I.html
06-04-2020||Mumbai||MU launches portal for free online psychological counselling in six languages||The University of Mumbai (MU) has launched an online portal to counsel those dealing with mental health issues arising owing to the 21-day nation-wide lockdown imposed to contain the coronavirus outbreak. As the world grapples with the coronavirus outbreak, the World Health Organization (WHO) has acknowledged that many people around the world are experiencing worry, fear and anxiety.Launched by the department of applied psychology and counselling centre of the university, the portal will provide free online counselling and psychometric assessment in English, Hindi, Marathi, Gujarati, Bengali and Kannada. The portal can be accessed at https://forms.gle/Uhb5f2SPfEC8YL39A on which any person can submit a request for counselling.The portal offered by MU has been conceptualised by associate professor Vivek Belhekar and all the faculty members of the department are involved in the counselling process. The Covid-19 counselling guidelines have been designed using WHO, American Psychological Association and other professional guidelines. An intensive and exhaustive online training of all faculty members has also been conducted to deal with the specific issues associated with the Covid-19 outbreak.“Many are going suffering mental health issues owing to the coronavirus outbreak. They are finding it difficult to deal with the anxiety, uncertainty and feel depressed and vulnerable,” said Belhekar, adding that the counselling is done in three steps.The first step is to register online, requesting for a counselling session, followed by an online psychometrics assessment of counselee and finally by attaining online counselling. Those who have registered will receive a link for psychometrics assessment and counselling. Additionally, the department has developed information handouts that refer to various mental health issues and easy-to-implement solutions for various psychological problems such as emotional issues, work from home and productivity-related issues, issues pertaining to children and senior citizens, among others.Meanwhile, many other psychologists have also started offering free online counselling for people dealing with anxiety, helplessness and depression owing to the outbreak and the subsequent lockdown. For instance, Juhu-based Sharnam Therapy and Healing is offering free sessions via phone calls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mu-launches-portal-for-free-online-psychological-counselling-in-six-languages/story-Y04P4uROqikYva7tMdgK3I.html
06-04-2020||Mumbai||Universities asked to prepare fresh exam schedule||With the lockdown affecting the annual examination season at colleges, the state minister for higher and technical education, Uday Samant, on Monday interacted with all vice-chancellors of all state universities via a video call. Samant asked the universities to take measures to calm the nerves of students by clearing any queries regarding examinations as well as help the government in battling the Covid-19 pandemic.“The minister urged all heads of universities to release a fresh exam schedule as plan B for whenever the lockdown is lifted. This means we have to keep more than one exam schedule ready. In case the lockdown is not lifted on April 14, we will need another schedule for the examination,” said one of the officials attending the virtual meeting. Keeping in mind the pending curriculum, the minister also inquired about the techniques adopted by departments and institutes to ensure completion of the syllabus. “We put together a set of mobile and computer applications that can be used by all polytechnic and technical institutes to ensure that students are not at a loss and their education is not affected. The application also checks attendance of teachers and teaching content every day for transparency purposes,” said Abhay Wagh, director, state Directorate of Technical Education (DTE).Apart from curriculum and examinations, Samant also urged universities to set up think-tank labs in their respective universities to come up with possible solutions to solve the Covid-19 crisis. “University of Mumbai has recently launched a helpline for their students. The minister has urged more universities to follow suit and reach out to students,” said another official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/universities-asked-to-prepare-fresh-exam-schedule/story-i2gj7eED0EK69wxvRY76oN.html
06-04-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: City cops file FIR against 150 members of Tablighi Jamaat||The Mumbai Police has registered a first information report (FIR) against 150 members of the Tablighi Jamaat who had attended Markaz (congregation) in Nizamuddin, Delhi last month and had come to Mumbai. According to police, many foreigners, who were allegedly Covid-19 positive, had attended the congregation and are suspected to have transmitted the disease to other members of the jamaat. These members then travelled to other states and allegedly transmitted the disease there. Despite appeal by the government, many members did not come forward, thus posing threat of spreading the disease further. Hence, an offence was registered against the Jamaat members, a senior police officer on Monday told HT.The FIR, a copy of which is with HT, was registered at Azad Maidan police station on April 2 based on a complaint on behalf of Hemant Parab, deputy chief fire officer, fire brigade department.The accused have been charged under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code and sections of the Disaster Management Act. Senior inspector Vasant Wakhare confirmed the development. No arrest has been made.Advocate Syed Akmal Razvi of Tablighi Jamaat said, “The prosecution and government should focus on getting infected persons to voluntarily report themselves. Filing FIR will only create fear.”Meanwhile, the police continued to take strict action against those not following lockdown in the city. On Sunday, 63 offences were registered taking the number of total cases to 1,039 since March 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-city-cops-file-fir-against-150-members-of-tablighi-jamaat/story-CMvtrtdRZ1CKkdeaY0kv1L.html
06-04-2020||Mumbai||Like Maharashtra, Centre should’ve denied permission for Jamaat event, says Sharad Pawar||Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar on Monday indirectly blamed the central government for allowing Tablighi Jamaat to hold its international congregation in Delhi. He said that permission for the event should have been denied in Delhi just like it was denied by the Maharashtra government. During a live Facebook interaction on Monday, Pawar said that timely action could have prevented the spurt of Covid-19 cases among people who participated in the gathering. “The Tablighi Jamaat should not have organised the congregation in the first place. In Maharashtra too, a request was made to hold a congregation but state home minister Anil Deshmukh and chief minster [Uddhav Thackeray] discussed it and denied them permission. If the same concern was shown in Delhi, we would not have to see it repeatedly on television,” the NCP chief said.“Is this an attempt to create a perception about a particular community and create a social divide? They wouldn’t have got that opportunity,” he added.The veteran leader said that bull and horse races were organised in a village in Solapur recently, and thousands gathered there. The police started booking people as soon as they came to know of it. “If the same alertness was shown in Delhi, we wouldn’t have to see what is going on today,” Pawar said.He stressed the country’s need to be united and refrain from causing animosity and social divide. “Reports on television and messages circulated on WhatsApp are of concern. After the investigation, it was found that four of every five messages were fake. It appears they are being sent to create confusion and misunderstandings,” Pawar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/like-maharashtra-centre-should-ve-denied-permission-for-jamaat-event-says-sharad-pawar/story-YH1cn1MBa0lbCsnHPpLsHL.html
06-04-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: After complaints about centre at Worli, Aaditya orders to shift patients||Patients admitted to RA Podar Ayurved Medical College, Worli, have claimed that the 376-bed quarantine centre lacks basic amenities such as clean toilets, drinking water, food and cleanliness in hospital wards. After videos highlighting the poor facilities and unhygienic conditions went viral, Worli legislator and Maharashtra environment minister Aaditya Thackeray tweeted on Monday that these patients have been shifted to another quarantine centre.“Strict action has been taken against those responsible for inconvenience. These patients have been shifted to another quarantine centre. They sent me videos from there. I contacted them and apologised for what happened at Podar Hospital. I have shared my contact number with them so they can contact me if they require any help,” Thackeray had tweeted. However, officials at the hospital said the patients have not been shifted to any other quarantine centre. “Yes from the past two days, there have been some issues pertaining to the quarantine facility. But we are working on it now with the help of other departments as well as the civic body. The repair and maintenance work of the toilets are ongoing and we have also appointed dedicated staff to take care of the quarantined patients,” Dr K Rajeshwar Reddy, head of the hospital’s coronavirus wing, told HT. Earlier, one of the quarantined patients had alleging that toilets are unfit for use. “It would have been better to die with coronavirus infection at home,” the woman had said in a video. Patients had claimed that the hospital administration did not visit the ward despite several requests made by them on the unhygienic conditions at the quarantine centre. Of the patients quarantined at Podar Hospital, 35 from Worli koliwada, which has been among the worst-affected areas of the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-after-complaints-about-centre-at-worli-aaditya-orders-to-shift-patients/story-67B2sCNDXvAlLTI8mwpZnJ.html
06-04-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: 14,474 home-quarantined in city so far||From the first week of March to Monday evening, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has home-quarantined 14,474 people in the city. Of them, 6,548 people have completed the 14-day home quarantine period.According to the data accessed by HT, till Monday evening, five of the 24 wards in the city account for 46% of the home-quarantined. “Earlier, only people who were in close contact with the infected or suspected patients were home-quarantined, now it has been extended to all inhabitants of containment zones, which is why the number has gone up,” said a health officer from the BMC. Dr Daksha Shah, deputy health officer, BMC, said, “In several wards, the number of institutional-quarantined is more than home-quarantined, like in case of Dharavi. We have shifted many high-risk people to vacant lodges and places for their safety. Fourteen days of home quarantine is also essential for patients who turned negative after they get discharged from hospitals. This also reflects in the data.”The K/E ward, which covers areas Andheri East, Vile Parle East and city airports, tops the list with 2,330 people. This ward has reported 26 Covid-19 cases. It is followed by P/N ward (east of Kurar village, west of Manori village, south of Govind nagar road, Chincholi bunder) with 1,927 people in home quarantine and 24 cases. Occupying the third position is the G/S ward that covers Worli, Tardeo and Dadar, with 1,659 people under home quarantine. This ward has recorded the highest number of Covid-19 positive cases with 68 patients. Following it is the M/E ward which shares borders with Deonar, Chembur and Govandi with 964 people home quarantined and has seen 16 positive cases. This is followed by the R/N ward that comprises Dahisar and Borivali, which has 950 people quarantined. So far, six cases have been reported at the ward. The number of positive cases is till Sunday evening.Wards A, B and C have the lowest number of quarantined people 213, 78 and 111, respectively. The number of the home-quarantined is not directly proportional to the number of infected people in wards. For example, E ward, which covers Byculla and parts of Reay Road, has the second highest number of Covid-19 cases with 44 patients. But according to the data shared by BMC, the number of home-quarantined people in the ward is only 209. Dr Shah said, “It doesn’t necessarily mean that the number of quarantined people will be equivalent to cases.” Several home-quarantined family members of Covid-19 patients are complaining of harassment. A 56-year-old man, a resident of Chembur who got admitted at Seven Hills Hospital on March 31 after being diagnosed with Covid-19, got discharged on Sunday. Talking to HT, his home-quarantined 24-year-old son, said, “From the time my society members got to know that my parents are coronavirus positive, they have been ignoring me and treating me like a criminal. If I greet them, they don’t even respond. The society members take a U-turn even if I stand 100m away from them.” He also complained that although the BMC was supposed to provide them with food, he didn’t get any help from the officers. “I also had the responsibility of my 72-year-old grandmother. So, I got groceries for 10 days from my uncle. Thankfully, I didn’t depend on the BMC or else we would have had to starve,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-14-474-home-quarantined-in-city-so-far/story-OQlj3I64PVNblO43mVVlcO.html
06-04-2020||Noida||MLAs to suggest plans to handle affairs after April 15||Day after UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath held a video conference with all MPs and MLAs of the state, including opposition parties, to discuss the road map of how to lift the lockdown after April 14, Gautam Budh Nagar MLAs said they would likely send their suggestions by Tuesday after consultation with all stakeholders. On Sunday, in a video conference interaction, Adityanath had told all political leaders that the state machinery must be used to prevent people from spilling out on the streets when the lockdown is lifted partially on April 15. The chief minister sought the cooperation of elected representatives and suggestions on the measures the government can take to control the spread of this highly infectious disease. Jewar MLA Dhirendra Singh, who donated ₹1 crore from his constituency fund to the CM Distress Relief Fund for Covid 19, said they were in favour of extending the lockdown till end of month. “Since, Gautam Budh Nagar, with 58 Covid-19 cases, has emerged as the epicentre of infection in the state for now, we believe that the lockdown should be extended till April-end so efforts made so far are not wasted. The government is taking all steps to contain the disease and providing food and medicine to the needy,” he said, adding that it was more important to save human lives and that economies can be rebuilt if the manpower is healthy. Uttar Pradesh additional chief secretary Awanish Awasthi also said that if Covid cases continue to increase then the state may not end its lockdown. Noida MLA Pankaj Singh also echoed similar sentiments saying that as of now their focus was on providing food to needy containing the disease from spreading. “We are taking suggestions from all stakeholders including farmers, businessmen, village heads, intellectuals, doctors and others before sending suggestions to the state government on how to lift the lockdown, if at all. Our priority is to ensure all needy get food, medicine and other essential services without hassle. Anybody who tags me on social networking sites or makes calls for food is getting immediate response. If we can continue to deliver essential services, no one will suffer if the lockdown continues,” said the Noida MLA, who also donated ₹1 crore from his constituency fund to the CM Distress Relief Fund. GB Nager MP Dr Mahesh Sharma said, “We have made suggestions to the UP government but will not discuss it now. However, the government should take decision on the basis of prevailing conditions in the state.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/mlas-to-suggest-plans-to-handle-affairs-after-april-15/story-iJo9RkS8kek5ItUG5U1RhM.html
06-04-2020||Noida||Noida gets together for PM’s 9-minute request||Noida administrative officials, police personnel and residents all came forward on Sunday to light candles and diyas for nine minutes in response to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s request to do so to battle the “darkness caused by the coronavirus pandemic.On March 24, the PM had announced a 21-day nationwide lockdown to curb the spread of the disease and on April 3, he had addressed the nation in a video message requesting citizens to light either candles and diyas or flash torches for nine minutes at 9pm to bring about a sense of collectiveness in the entire country.He had also called for a janta curfew on March 22 and had asked the public to clap and bang utensils to show their appreciation for the first responders and ground workers.“Yesterday, when we went out to light a diya at 9pm, people were already on their balconies with lit diyas and candles. Many of them had decorated the spaces as if it was Diwali. Their were string lights, several candles and diyas. On top of that, people started clapping and ringing bells just like they did on the day of janta curfew,” said Ritika Singh, a resident of a high-rise in Sector 75.All across Noida, people came up with creative ways to mark the nine minutes. High-rises decorated their common areas while in some societies, children painted a map of India and decorated in with diyas. Chants of ‘Go Corona Go’ were also heard along with the applause.Even administrative and police personnel came forward to participate in the event. The commissioner of police and deputy commissioners lighted lamps with families while almost all police posts and stations and administrative offices were also lit up.“Residents of 16th avenue in Gaur City donated food packets containing items such as flour, pulses, and vegetables to the police post to help as many as 3,000 people. Police can share them with those coming to them for rations. We will continue to help as much as we can,” said P Chauhan, a resident of Gaur City.The police has appointed DCP, women safety, as the officer in charge of relief efforts.“We have a centralised godown at the commissioner’s office in Sector 108 where we have supply of around 2.5 lakh kilos of rice, 12,000 kilos of pulses and other essential items, including masks. We also have 5,000 ration kits and donations are being received at police posts and police stations. Approximately 1.6 lakh beneficiaries have been helped already and we are working with at least 50 organisations to continue the relief work,” Vrinda Shukla, DCP, women safety, said.So far, more than 520 FIRs have been registered in the district against people violating guidelines of the lockdown and more than 300 of them have been arrested. Gautam Budh Nagar district has reported 58 positive cases of coronavirus till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-gets-together-for-pm-s-9-minute-request/story-YSv5BFvX69q77DkXFd5o3H.html
06-04-2020||City||Corona crisis: GB Nagar to get two new testing labs||Ghaziabad: Amid the rising Covid-19 cases in Uttar Pradesh, chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday gave directions for setting up of 14 new testing laboratories, including two in Gautam Budh Nagar, at 14 medical colleges across the state, senior government officials said. The CM also directed for upgrading 10 existing laboratories at other medical colleges in the state, the officials said, adding that the process of upgrade and commencement of new labs will start at the earliest with the help of UP’s ‘Covid care fund’.The 10 existing labs, which will be upgraded, are in medical colleges at Meerut, Prayagraj, Jhansi, Gorakhpur, Lucknow, Etawah and Kanpur.“The CM is of view that the state should have its own infrastructure for testing facilities. The 10 existing labs will be upgraded to BS-3 level (Biosafety-3 level) while directions have also been issued for coming up with new labs at 14 other medical colleges in Ambedkar Nagar, Kannauj, Jalaun, Azamgarh, Banda, Badaun, Noida, Greater Noida, Ayodhya, Basti, Behraich, Firozabad and Shahjahanpur,” said Awanish Awasthi, UP’s additional chief secretary (home).The two medical colleges in Gautam Budh Nagar, where the new laboratories will be set up, are Super Speciality Paediatric Hospital & Post Graduate Teaching Institute in Noida and Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in Greater Noida.“The CM has directed officials of the departments concerned to initiate the works at the earliest. The sum required for the purpose will be released from the UP’s Covid case fund. The CM has also given directions that those districts having no medical colleges should have minimum of one collection centre at their district hospitals. So, the state will have its own facilities and apparatus to deal with cases,” Awasthi said in Lucknow.The officials added that work for upgrading and creation of new labs will be monitored on daily basis.The chief minister recently set up the Covid care fund to deal with the rising Covid-19 cases and also to upgrade the health care system in the state.The UP government has also initiated the process for a three-tier system for treating Covid-19 patients. Hospitals are being converted to levels 1, 2 and 3. These hospitals will be dedicated to deal only with Covid-19 cases while their OPDs and emergency services are being shifted to other government hospitals.The state government recently notified six hospitals under the L2 category, which includes Sanjay Nagar Combined District Hospital in Ghaziabad. The Ghaziabad health department has started the preparations and the 100-bed hospital is likely to start functioning as L2 facility for Covid-19 patients from April 10.“All 100 beds in the hospital have been separated and completely dedicated to Covid-19 positive cases. Initially, such cases will be dealt by L1 hospital at Muradnagar. In case of some complications, these patients will come to our hospital. We have roped in 53 doctors and staff members, while 30 more are expected to arrive soon from nearby districts,” said Dr Naresh Vij, chief medical superintendent of Sanjay Nagar hospital.“Every bed has oxygen supply facility and exhaust fans have also been installed. We have five ventilators and 10 more will arrive soon. The OPD and emergency services have been shifted to MMG hospital and Women’s hospital while the dialysis centre here will continue to function,” Dr Vij added.For the doctors and hospital staff dealing with Covid-19 patients, the administration has also tied up with two hotels where they will put up after their duty hours, the officials said.Ghaziabad chief medical officer Dr NK Gupta said that 30-bed L1-category hospital at Muradnagar will suffice. The facility became operational on March 5.“In case we have more Covid-19 positive patients, they will be shifted to Sanjay Nagar hospital. Once this is full, the patients can be shifted to another 100-bed hospital of a private medical college where isolation ward has come up. For dealing with critical patients, we can send them to Meerut or Delhi,” he added.According to health department officials, the Ghaziabad district at present has 23 Covid-19 positive cases and three patients have been discharged from hospitals..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/corona-crisis-gb-nagar-to-get-two-new-testing-labs/story-49tBZ3q9rJhL7gPkfKbm0N.html
06-04-2020||City||Ghaziabad MLAs in favour of partial lifting of lockdown||Two days after Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath spoke to MLAs and MLCs through video conferencing and sought suggestions on the lifting of the 21-day nationwide lockdown on April 14, Ghaziabad MLAs are said they in favour of restrictions continuing partially.Most of the MLAs are of the opinion that schools and educational institutions besides malls, multiplexes, restaurants and shops selling luxury items should continue to remain shut as they are likely to attract public gatherings which may prove detrimental to the ongoing efforts of fight the coronavirus spread.“We are of the opinion that areas from where positive cases have emerged should continue to remain locked down for another 10 to 15 days so that the infection does not spread to other areas,” Sunil Sharma, Sahibabad MLA, said.“Areas where people with a foreign travel history are residing as well as areas from where cases linked to Noida-based company, Ceasefire, have emerged should remain under surveillance. Weekly markets, schools and cinema halls should remain shut. Industrial units should be allowed to open but with strict enforcement of sanitisation and social distancing norms,” he said.According to the state government, there are 305 Covid-19 cases in UP as on Monday.Dr Manju Siwach, Modinagar MLA, said pockets from where positive cases have emerged should continue to be under lockdown for another 15-20 days and effective scanning of potential patients should continue.“The public transport should open but not modes such as autos, e-rickdhaws, etc otherwise it will become very difficult to enforce social distancing. We can still wait for another month or so to visit malls, restaurants etc. Educational institutions including those related to higher education should remain closed for a further period of time,” she said.Ghaziabad MLA Atul Garg said any decision regarding the lifting of the lockdown would need to be reviewed in another seven to eight days.“For Loni, which is densely populated, more funds should be allotted to deal with anti-Covid-19 efforts. There are a large number of people who work in factories and we suggest that factories should be allowed to function so that people can resume their jobs and earn a livelihood. But the premises have to be sanitised thoroughly and social distancing should be maintained. Schools should remain closed for a further period,” Nand Kishor Gurjar, Loni MLA, said.“I don’t think the present conditions are favourable for lifting the lockdown. In Loni, the health department and police have picked up about 125 people who went to attend religious congregations. The number of positive patients has increased as a result. The Delhi-Ghaziabad borders should be locked and police barricading should continue to check movement of people,” he said.On Monday evening, additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi said during a press briefing that lifting the lockdown after April 14 may not be possible as sensitivity in the state has increased due to rising number of Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-mlas-in-favour-of-partial-lifting-of-lockdown/story-WMbO6OmiHxXksDmhmFz27K.html
06-04-2020||Mumbai||Living in lockdown: This Mulund society gets organic veggies, mangoes delivered home||With almost 1,000 residents, Vikas Paradise, a residential colony in Mulund, has set up a system to get fresh fruits and vegetables delivered to its residents.On Monday morning, around one tonne of fresh fruits and vegetables were delivered to a collection centre near Vikas Paradise’s main gate. Today, around 300 dozen mangoes are expected. “Instead of our residents stepping out to purchase vegetables and fruits, we thought we could get them good quality and organic produce from farms at a good rate. It can be a little expensive, but those who want to, can opt for it,” said a committee member.Resident Vishal Thakkar said, “Though it was delayed once and we had to call a local vendor, otherwise we are regularly provided with parcels from Nashik.”The colony’s management committee imposed restrictions on people’s movement as soon as the lockdown was announced. Initially, there was some opposition. “When the decision to not allow maids inside the society was taken, it was difficult for members to accept it. But now they appreciate the foresight,” said a committee member. Other initiatives by the committee include organising musical.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/living-in-lockdown-this-mulund-society-gets-organic-veggies-mangoes-delivered-home/story-G4wL3ZDwpYpRbBXP39l6xN.html
06-04-2020||City||UP may continue lockdown after April 14||Ghaziabad Uttar Pradesh may not call off the 21-day lockdown on April 14 as a senior official in the state home department on Monday said that restrictions cannot be lifted till Sars-Cov-2 virus is wiped out from the state. Senior government officials said that the increasing number of positive Covid-19 cases remained a worrying factor.The UP’s additional chief secretary (home), Awanish Awasthi, said that before ending the lockdown they will have to ensure that there is “not a single Covid-19 positive case present” in the state.According to officials, the total number of Covid-19 cases in the state stood at 305 till Monday evening, which include 159 cases related to the last month’s Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Delhi’s Nizamuddin.“On Monday, there has been addition of 27 cases and 21 of them are linked to the Tablighi Jamaat event. Out of total 305 positive cases, 159 are linked to Jamaat. There have been reports which are optimistic about ending the lockdown in UP after April 14. But, the sensitivity in the state has increased during the past four-five days as the number of Covid-19 cases linked to Jamaat has surfaced. So, it is premature to say whether the lockdown will end or not,” Awasthi said during a press briefing in Lucknow.Initially, UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath had announced a lockdown of 16 districts, including Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar, in the state on March 22. Thereafter, in his address to the nation, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the night of March 24 announced a countrywide lockdown for 21 days to prevent the spread of the deadly virus. The 21-day lockdown will end on April 14.Awasthi further said,“So it cannot be said that lockdown will end after April 14 or not. Our teams of health, police and government officers are putting in a lot of efforts and they will have to work for a longer period. People’s participation is also required now.”The officials said that they are also trying to trace those who came in contact with the 159 positive cases linked to Tablighi Jamaat meet.“We are also scanning and searching for a third category of people who came in contact with the second category. At present, we can say that there is no community spread as cases and contacts are identified, and before ending lockdown we will have to ensure that there is no single positive case pending in the state,” Awasthi added.According to the officials, about 1,600 people linked to Tablighi Jamaat event were identified and nearly 1,200 of them were sent to quarantine facilities. They added that 159 positive cases linked to Jamaat were reported in Agra (29 cases), Lucknow (12), Ghaziabad (14), Meerut and Shamli (13 each), Hapur (3) and Saharanpur (13 cases), among other districts.Besides, 315 foreigners were also identified till Sunday and 249 passports have been seized so far and 42 FIRs filed against them, the officials said. Six people from Nepal were traced by the police in Ghaziabad on April 1 while 10 Indonesian nationals were traced and taken to a quarantine facility after they were hiding in a madarsa in Sahibabad on April 4. In Ghaziabad, there are a total of 23 Covid-19 cases and 14 of them are linked to people who attended different religious congregations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/up-may-continue-lockdown-after-april-14/story-Cq5zI7lb1tarDfwnu83zgL.html
06-04-2020||Noida||Lockdown puts the brakes on 10,000 trucks of GB Nagar transporters||The nationwide lockdown has stranded over 10,000 trucks, belonging to the transporters of Gautam Budh Nagar district, in different parts of the country and they are incurring losses of over ₹2 crore per day.Shiv Kumar Sharma, president of Noida transporters’ association, said that due to the lockdown, many goods carrying vehicles have halted in states such as Gujarat, West Bengal, Bihar, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh, Haryana and Rajasthan. “Due to the restrictions, they could not reach Noida from their respective destinations. Drivers and helpers of these trucks are having a tough time as all restaurants and hotels on highways are closed. Thanks to the initiatives taken by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) that our drivers have got meal arrangements near different toll plazas,” he said.Sharma further said over 30,000 workers are involved in the transport services. “As per a rough estimate, this lockdown is causing loss of over ₹2 crore per day. It will be really hard for us to recover the loss in the near future, even if the lockdown is lifted after its stipulated 21 days. Most drivers, helpers and cleaners have left the trucks and returned to their native places.For those who chose to stay with their vehicles, the transporters are arranging their food and stay,” he said.Choudhary Vedpal, convener of Noida transporters’ joint forum, said despite the lockdown, transporters are paying salaries to their staff. “Even once the lockdown has ended, we will have to wait for the staff to return. We expect that all trains and buses will be overcrowded. Once they are back to work, I don’t think 10,000 trucks will be sufficient to carry goods needed by the people,” he said.Appreciating the support being given by the district administration during this period, Vedpal said a little less than 10% of trucks are being used by the administration for transporting essential commodities in the district. “With the payment we received for that, we were able to arrange food and stay for the staff stranded in the district. But it is not more than a drop in the ocean,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/lockdown-puts-the-brakes-on-10-000-trucks-of-gb-nagar-transporters/story-wM6NapG7Qh03qdsgap31lL.html
06-04-2020||Lucknow||31 fresh cases, UP’s tally up to 309||The coronavirus count in Uttar Pradesh breached the 300-mark on Monday with 31 more people testing positive for the infection, taking the total number of cases to 309.After an official bulletin said there were 30 fresh cases and put the tally at 308, the numbers increased by one each as two-and-a-half year-old child also tested positive in the state capital.Among the fresh cases, 26 are linked to the Tablighi Jamaat, it said. The overall count of Tablighi Jamaat members in the state who contracted the infection stood at 164.Six more districts — Kaushambi, Bijnor, Sitapur, Prayagraj, Mathura and Badaun —reported cases for the first time, taking the total number of districts with coronavirus cases to 37 out of UP’s 75 districts.The bulletin on Monday said eight cases were reported from Sitapur; five each from Lucknow (excluding the toddler), Shamli and Agra; two each from Mathura, Kanpur, Bijnor, Prayagraj, Kaushambi; and one from Badaun.Till Sunday, the state had reported 278 cases, about half of which were linked to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin, from where participants took the virus to several parts of the country.The state has so far reported three deaths--one each from Basti, Meerut and Varanasi. At least 21 people have recovered from the infection in the state. “In all, 21 patients have been discharged from hospital after they recovered and more are likely to be discharged in a day,” said Dr Vikasendu Agrawal, state surveillance officer of the health department.The districts that reported cases so far are Agra (52), Lucknow (23), Ghaziabad (23), Noida (58), Lakhimpur Kheri (4), Kanpur (8), Pilibhit (2), Moradabad (1), Shamli (14), Jaunpur (3), Baghpat (2), Meerut (33), Bareilly (6), Bulandshahr (3), Basti (5), Hapur (3), Ghazipur (5), Azamgarh (3), Firozabad (4), Hardoi (1), Pratapgarh (3), Saharanpur (13), Shahjahanpur (1), Banda (2), Maharajganj (6), Hathras (4), Mirzapur (2), Rae Bareli (2), Auraiyya (1) Barabanki (1) Kaushambi (1), Bijnor, (1), Sitapur (8), Prayagraj (1), Mathura (2), Badaun (1)and Varanasi (7).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/31-fresh-cases-up-s-tally-up-to-309/story-UqCAtgYyXipX2vSlNA8jFK.html
06-04-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Worli is Mumbai’s worst-hit area||The civic body has deployed 22 teams and checked more than 50,000 people for Sars-CoV-2 in Worli (G-South ward), which became Mumbai’s worst-hit area, with 11 new cases taking the tally to 68 on Monday.After a Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) sweeper from Worli Koliwada tested positive on April 2, civic health staffers swung into action and screened more than 50,000 people, said BMC officials. From Monday, the BMC initiated a second survey of all homes in the area, with the help of doctors from KEM Hospital in Lower Parel.Civic commissioner Praveen Pardeshi said: “The number of cases in this particular area is increasing. So we have imposed a strict ban on movement. We are rigorously tracking high-risk and low-risk contacts.”Civic health officials said a team of four members identified containment zones in the area to conduct door-to-door surveys for suspected patients. Beyond the containment zones, the BMC has surveyed buffer zones, where the virus might have spread. As part of this survey, 320 high-risk contacts have been identified and quarantined at the local Potdar hospital for 14 days.Shiv Sena deputy leader Sachin Ahir said, “We are shifting suspected patients to quarantine centres with the help of BMC staff. We are preparing a quarantine facility of 500 beds in the parking area of the racecourse club.’’On Monday, Dadar saw another case of Covid-19 – a 54-year-old woman who lives at SK Bole road. Two buildings of the colony where she lived have been contained and the local ward office is sanitising the area. The BMC has quarantined all high-risk contacts, and their test results are awaited. The travel history of the patient is being investigated. This comes a day after a 60-year-old man tested positive for Covid-19, a few hundred metres away in Shivaji Park. The patient had no travel history.A total of 150 suspected patients were admitted to civic-run hospitals across the city, of which 57 tested positive. The rise in number has been attributed to the Tablighi Markaz in Delhi. The civic body has asked all those who attended the event to inform the BMC by calling on 1916, failing which action will be taken.“Overall, through contact-tracing measures, the BMC has surveyed 15 lakh people till Monday evening and referred 665 contacts for testing. Also, five teams have collected 1,400 samples through home visits. This method has helped identify 130 patients,” said Dr Daksha Shah, deputy director, health department BMC.Ten special clinics have been set up at the periphery zones by doctors, nurses and lab technicians, which were used to collect 112 swabs of high-risk contacts on Monday.Following directions from the Central Zoo Authority after a tigress tested positive in New York, the Byculla zoo authorities have decided to closely monitor all animals in the zoo and conduct tests, in case any animal shows any symptom.(Inputs from Mehul Thakar and Sagar Pillai)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-worli-is-mumbai-s-worst-hit-area/story-YLCe6NukcS9SwTK1DWcQIO.html
06-04-2020||Mumbai||Lockdown: Residents irked as police bar them from walk on premises||Many residents of housing societies in the city are irked after having witnessed instances of police barring them from taking a walk inside society premises.Recently, the police barged inside Gundecha Gardens at Lalbuag, Ashok Towers in Parel and had warned the residents. “We take adequate care while exercising and maintain adequate distance. We need some activity and cannot sit throughout the day at home,” said Anil Parmar, Parel resident, who walks for an hour with his wife. Parmar says that such an order is bad, especially for patients of various disorders like diabetes for whom walking and exercises are a must. The city, as well as suburban city collectorates, had issued orders soon after the nationwide lockdown was announced, asking housing societies to enforce stringent social distancing measures. The orders said that congregation at the society gardens or common areas should be barred, sanitisers must be kept at the entrance of the buildings, essential goods supply must be regulated and vendors must drop the goods at society entrances etc.Sharmila Ganesh, a resident of Mulund said, “Why should police interfere within society premises. As long as one is taking a walk by herself or with a family member maintaining social distance, there should not be a problem.”Well-known diabetologist Dr Pradeep Gadge agrees that walking and exercises are must for diabetes patient but said that the current situation is extraordinary. “The Covid-19 threat is more fatal than diabetes and hence it might be best to do walking inside their home for some days,” said Gadge.City collector Rajiv Nivatkar said, “We have asked people to not step out of the premises unless it is an emergency. Our order also lays down that congregation of members must not be allowed at gardens, common areas etc. The rest like whether taking a walk is to be barred within the premises is to be decided by the residents themselves.”He added, “Housing societies can make their own rules based on consensus considering the wellbeing of the community. If there are a few members who are causing trouble by not following social distancing measures then the society office bearers should make a complaint to the deputy registrar.”Another official from the suburban collectorate said that the problem arises when societies are not well aligned and there are differences between the members. He also added that not all societies have implemented social distancing norms properly.“Despite several warnings, the residents continue their outdoor activities and we don’t have adequate powers to enforce this,” said Dhaval Shah, chairman, Lokhandwala Oshiwara Citizens Association. He quoted a recent incident where a resident bashed up the building secretary for disallowing maids from coming to work due to lockdown.Mumbai Police PRO Pranay Ashok said residents should ideally not come down. “The residents can walk at home or use the stairs. They are expected to not come down,” said Ashok.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/lockdown-residents-irked-as-police-bar-them-from-walk-on-premises/story-UsPYW2N82D6PK5YtxWmGbI.html
06-04-2020||City||Staying strong key to recovery, says Punjab’s first Covid-19 casualty’s son||Fateh Singh (35), the son of Punjab’s first Covid-19 casualty, Baldev Singh, was declared as having recovered from the disease on Sunday by the health department after his two samples tested negative for the virus.In a video message, he thanked the doctors and staff of the SBS Nagar civil hospital for giving him the best treatment, saying if anyone gets infected by the coronavirus they must get it treated without getting panicked.“My family members being treated in the isolation ward are also in good condition and will get well soon. I urge that everyone must wear masks while venturing out and eat food after washing hands properly,” he said.“People should ensure social distancing to curb the disease as there is no permanent solution for it so far,” he added.Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh tweeted, “Good news from Nawanshahr, Fateh Singh & others who had been diagnosed #Covid19 positive on 20 Mar have recovered. Fateh Singh has tested negative & will soon be discharged. 7 others will also be discharged after their confirmatory tests. We will win this War Against #Covid19 (sic).”Seven others, including four family members of Baldev Singh (three granddaughters and a two-year-old grandson) besides Baba Gurbachan Singh, head of Dera Bhai Ghaniya Singh and Daljinder Singh of Jhikka, both of whom returned from Germany via Italy along with him and village sarpanch Harpal Singh, tested negative for Covid-19 on Sunday.Baldev (70), a resident of Pathlawa village in Banga sub-division, died on March 18 after he was tested positive for the coronavirus. He infected 27 of his contacts, including 14 of his family members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/staying-strong-key-to-recovery-says-punjab-s-first-covid-19-casualty-s-son/story-GITbvoihAG7zs8g9GIE4RK.html
06-04-2020||City||Preet Kaur Gill, Vaz in Labour’s new shadow cabinet in the UK||After appointing Lisa Nandy as the shadow foreign secretary, Labour leader Keir Starmer on Monday appointed Preet Kaur Gill and Valerie Vaz among others in his team, increasing the overall number of Indian-origin MPs in the shadow cabinet.Gill, MP from Birmingham Edgbaston, retains the shadow international development portfolio, while Vaz, MP from Walsall South, also retains in her role as shadow leader of the House of Commons. Both were members of former party leader Jeremy Corbyn’s team.Starmer said: “I’m proud to have appointed a shadow cabinet that showcases the breadth, depth and talents of the Labour Party. This is a new team that will be relentlessly focused on acting in the national interest to respond to the coronavirus pandemic and rebuilding Labour so that it can win the next election.”According to parliamentary rules, the shadow cabinet is the team of senior spokespeople chosen by the leader of the opposition to mirror the cabinet in government. Each member of the shadow cabinet is appointed to lead on a specific policy area for their party and to question and challenge their counterpart in the cabinet. In this way, the official opposition seeks to present itself as an alternative government-in-waiting, the rules state. Starmer, who promised to be a rallying figure in the party, defeated Nandy and Rebecca Long-Bailey in the leadership election that was triggered after Corbyn stepped down following the party’s fourth election loss in a row in December.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/preet-kaur-gill-vaz-in-labour-s-new-shadow-cabinet-in-the-uk/story-GIWcEZScOM7Q7w2h4eFEfO.html
06-04-2020||City||Jungle cat rescued from 200-ft well in Charkhi Dadri after two weeks||Gurugram: Wildlife activists, with the help of locals, on Sunday rescued a female jungle cat from a 200-foot deep well at Pichopa village in Charkhi Dadri district, about 75 kilometres from Gurugram. The one-year-old animal, which had fallen into the well about two weeks ago, was being kept alive by locals who would throw cat food in the well.The young cat is currently being kept under medical observation at the forest department’s office in Charkhi Dadri, and will be released in three to four days once it regains strength, wildlife department officials confirmed.Satish Sangwan, the owner of the farm where the well is located, first noticed the cat after hearing some sounds emanating from the deep well. “It is an old 200 feet well that we no longer use. One day I heard the animal’s sound clearly. It was howling,” Sangwan told HT over phone.Sangwan said that he immediately reached out to local conservationists -- Rakesh Ahlawat and Sonu Dalal -- who informed the divisional wildlife officer, Hisar, under whose jurisdiction the area falls. On March 27, a wildlife inspector arrived at Sangwan’s farm to attempt a rescue, but was unable to lower a cage till the bottom of the well. The inspector left the cage behind at Sangwan’s request. “Luckily, I was able to borrow a hydraulic crane from a neighbour. It is usually rented out, but it has been lying in the village since the lockdown began,” Sangwan said.Over the next few days, Sangwan, his family members and other villagers made multiple failed rescues. “We lowered the cage and a bucket with food in it multiple times into the well, but could not succeed in bringing out the cat,” Sangwan said.Finally, Dalal and Ahlawat reached Pichopa on the morning of April 5. “We attached the cage to the hydraulic crane, and I sat on top of the cage as it was lowered into the well. After sitting at the bottom for about half-an-hour in the dark, I felt that the animal walked into the cage. I immediately shut it, and instructed the crane operator to pull us up,” said Dalal, describing the successful attempt. Wildlife officials said that the rescue operation was not possible without the help of the villagers, and Ahlawat and Dalal. “We did not think a rescue was possible. However, we managed to save the cat with the help of locals. The cat is a young female, not more than a year old. She has been taken care of by a vet, who will do another routine check-up in a few days. The animal does not seem to be injured, but is extremely weak. We will release it back once it gets better,” said Pawan Grover, divisional wildlife officer, Hisar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jungle-cat-rescued-from-200-ft-well-in-charkhi-dadri-after-two-weeks/story-0tSz96azbqTx7aK4YwHlgP.html
06-04-2020||City||Drug addicts attack police team in Sirsa||Several policemen have been injured as drug peddlers attacked a police team which had gone to Dadu village in Sirsa district to urge people to stay indoors as part of a campaign.The police have registered a case and arrested eight persons so far. Teams have been formed to nab the other accused, an official said. While sharing information, station house officer of Kalanwali police station Om Prakash said, “Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Dharampal Singh and ASI Amritpal Singh with their team reached Dadu village for an awareness campaign when some youths attacked the police party with sticks. The police have arrested eight persons in this regard and other accused will be arrested soon.”ASI Dharampal Singh said that the youths who are drug addicts attacked him and other policemen.“I fell unconscious after they attacked me with a stick. I have given a written complaint in the matter,” said Dharampal Singh who is undergoing treatment at the civil hospital in Sirsa.Muslim youths attacked for not turning off lights on PM’s appeal Four persons were arrested on Monday for allegedly attacking four Muslim youths in Jind, as they did not turn off the lights to support Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call, said police.The police have arrested the main accused, Sanjay, and his three accomplices of the same village.In his complaint to the police, Sandeep Khan said that he along with other his neighbours were lighting diyas to support PM’s call on Sunday night.“One of the lights in my house was on at that time. Few youths had hurled abuses at me and my family members. Then a group of people attacked me and when my neighbours intervened, the accused attacked them as well.” he added.DIG-cum-SP of Jind, Ashwin Shenvi said that they have arrested four youths under various sections of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/drug-addicts-attack-police-team-in-sirsa/story-yublaHUIR6zGcVG2lbFnRM.html
06-04-2020||Chandigarh||Voluntarily report by tomorrow evening or face action: Vij to Jammat attendees||Haryana home minister Anil Vij on Monday warned the “hiding” Tablighi Jamaat workers and attendees to report themselves to their respective district authorities by 5pm on April 8, failing which they would face stern action.“We have so far identified 1,526 people who had attended the Nizamuddin congregation and their number has been increasing for the past few days. Thus, it is suspected that there could be more such persons. We have decided to run Covid-19 tests on all 1,526 persons. Out 700 samples taken, 48 have tested positive till date,” he said.The maximum number of attendees, 678, has been quarantined in Nuh, followed by Yamunanagar (231), Faridabad (136), Panchkula (117) and Panipat (94). They include 107 nationals of Bangladesh, Nepal, Sri Lanka, Indonesia, Philippines and Thailand.Meanwhile, senior health department officials said they had identified around 1,200 persons who had come in the contact with the identified Tablighi Jamaat attendees.LOCKDOWN TO BE STRICTLY ENFORCEDVij who held a meeting with the top police brass earlier in the day, said it had also been decided to implement the state-wide lockdown more strictly from now on. Admitting that a large number of violations (5,778) were being reported in the state, Vij said the police would strictly follow the orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/voluntarily-report-by-tomorrow-evening-or-face-action-vij-to-jammat-attendees/story-eUzJ6otSNDcyOk4jLmbDGI.html
06-04-2020||Chandigarh||20 new cases take Haryana tally to 96||With 20 new positive cases, 16 of which are linked to the Tablighi Jamaat event, the number of Covid-19 patients in Haryana jumped to 96 on Monday. Of the 20 fresh cases, Palwal has reported nine, followed by Nuh (6), Karnal (4) and Charkhi Dadri (1). The fresh data released on Monday places Palwal on top with 26 positive cases, Gurugram (18), Faridabad and Nuh (14 each), Karnal (5), Panipat (4) Ambala and Sirsa (3 each), Bhiwani and Panchkula (2 each) and Charkhi Dadri, Hisar, Rohtak, Kaithal and Sonepat (1 each). Total 15 people have been discharged from hospitals. As many as 2,194 samples have so far been taken of which, 1,639 tested negative while reports of 459 are awaited. Close to 13,400 people are still under surveillance in Haryana. DOCTOR, NURSE AMONG 4 KARNAL PATIENTSA doctor and a nurse of Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College and Hospital are among the four persons who tested positive for coronavirus in Karnal on Monday. Of the other two, one is the son of 58-year-old man, the third fatality of state, and a man with history of travel to Dubai. Karnal DC said Birachpur and Rasin villages have been sealed. Sonepat DC Ansaj Singh said a middle-aged man, who attended the Nizamuddin event, and a health worker posted at Faridabad tested positive for coronavirus. A 27-year-old man from Jind and a 60-year-old man from Dadri were said to have tested positive for the infection, but the official bulletin does not mention any case from Jind. FIRST CASE IN FATEHABADA 26-year-old man from Jandwala Bagar village has turned out to be the first case of Covid-19 in Fatehabad district. Chief medical officer Dr Manish Bansal confirmed the development and said the youth had come in contact with some people who attended the Nizamuddin event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/20-new-cases-take-haryana-tally-to-96/story-gVRQa0RMQitlbw6X2qreHK.html
06-04-2020||City||Former municipal official dies of Coronavirus in Amritsar||A former municipal corporation official died of coronavirus at a private hospital where he was undergoing treatment on Monday.The patient identified as Jaswinder Singh, 65, a resident of Chatiwind Date, was earlier admitted at the Government Medical College and Hospital where he was tested negative, however, later he was admitted to a private hospital where he was tested positive.On Monday, the health department officials collected the samples of the deceased for re-testing. “The fresh samples were tested at GMCH and the results came out positive, confirming that Singh died of coronavirus,” said Amritsar civil surgeon Dr Prabhdeep Kaur Johal, adding that the body has been kept in a morgue at the private hospital and his last rites will be conducted on Tuesday, as per the government’s protocol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/former-municipal-official-dies-of-coronavirus-in-amritsar/story-6Eq6f79hEoY4Lo0R0UXUcP.html
06-04-2020||City||Punjab wants cotton procurement to restart, CCI cites lack of space||Even as authorities in Punjab claim that modalities are being worked out to restart the purchase of cotton from farmers, the Cotton Corporation of India (CCI), the central agency for procurement, says it is facing the problem of plenty of processed stock. Private traders, who were, anyhow, purchasing the crop below the MSP (minimum support price) this season, are unlikely to jump in the procurement exercise amid Covid-19 outbreak, sources say. Cotton is the economic lifeline of farmers in the semi-arid belt of south Malwa region as the crop is sown in eight districts, mainly in Fazilka, Mansa, Bathinda and Muktsar. Hoping for higher price by private traders, about 5 lakh quintal cotton stock is still held back by farmers, before the curfew was imposed, officials claim. This season, the CCI has purchased about three lakh bales (one bale of cotton weighs 170kg) at the MSP of Rs 5,450 per quintal. Cotton state coordinator Rajnish Goel told HT on Monday that deliberations are on with the CCI to commence buying of raw cotton within the next 2-3 days. “Modalities are being finalised and farmers will soon be apprised about it. We are concerned about the pandemic and all steps will be taken to ensure safety,” said Goel. Mansa and Faridkot have already accorded permission to the CCI to resume purchase.However, CCI officials say they are facing multiple problems in the middle of national emergency to restart cotton purchase. Private ginning units associated with CCI have reportedly said there is shortage of labour to process more raw cotton.An official added that the CCI was mandated to buy cotton stocks till September 30, so purchase should be started after pandemic situation eases.“Owing to the national lockdown and curfew in Punjab, transportation of ginned cotton is completely stopped. Private buyers from Punjab and others states are unable to get binola, which is used as cattle feed, from CCI warehouses and the central agency has hardly any space left for a new purchase,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-wants-cotton-procurement-to-restart-cci-cites-lack-of-space/story-qcDuYkKau4Hs83eUNVHyPK.html
06-04-2020||Delhi||Policeman, milkman caught smuggling liquor||An assistant sub-inspector (ASI) with the Delhi Police and a milkman from Uttar Pradesh were arrested for allegedly smuggling liquor into the city during the lockdown period when liquor and wine shops have been shut, the police said on Monday. The police officer, Jangjeet, who is posted in the Paschim Vihar police station, was off duty when he was caught carrying 29 boxes, containing 1,432 bottles of liquor, in his car in outer Delhi’s Nangloi on Sunday morning. The ASI has been suspected and a departmental enquiry has been initiated against him, said Delhi Police spokesperson Anil Mittal. Deputy commissioner of police (outer) A Koan said that on Sunday morning, the Nangloi police received information that a car was transporting Haryana-made illicit liquor through Rohtak Road. “Accordingly, barricades were put near Surajmal Stadium and we started checking vehicles. At around 6.45am, the checking of one car led to the recovery of 29 boxes containing 1,432 quarter bottles of liquor. The driver, Jangjeet, was arrested under sections 33, 38 and 58 of the Delhi Excise Act,” said the DCP. Police said the ASI is a native of Haryana’s Rohtak and had been smuggling liquor during the lockdown period. In another operation, the New Delhi district police late Sunday night caught a milkman, Bobby Chaudhary, for allegedly smuggling liquor bottles into Delhi by hiding them in his milk containers. Seven such bottles were recovered from four milk containers tied to his motorcycle. Chaudhary was caught near Rashtrapati Bhawan by police personnel who were deployed on a police picket. Police said Chaudhary had procured the liquor bottles from Haryana and was smuggling it to his hometown in Bulandshahr, Uttar Pradesh, to sell it on for a profit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/policeman-milkman-caught-smuggling-liquor/story-qGFBldKnEQ6uuVZnG30AhO.html
06-04-2020||Delhi||DoE directs schools to provide food for disabled students during lockdown||The Delhi government’s directorate of education (DoE) has identified as many as 346 disabled students enrolled in its schools who are in urgent need of food amid the lockdown and directed the heads of schools (HoS’) to ensure that these students get food daily during this period. The DoE has identified another 1,656 disabled government school students who may also need food during the Covid-19 lockdown.A senior official at the Delhi government’s inclusive education branch said that there are around 12,175 Children With Special Needs (CWSN) enrolled in their schools at present. The inclusive branch had also issued a circular last week saying that it had carried out a survey to assess the availability of food for the children with disabilities studying in government schools across the country.“It’s been noticed that 346 students are in urgent need of food and it’s expected that an additional 1,656 children with special needs may also require food during the lockdown period,” the circular stated.The DoE has directed all the HoS of government schools to ensure that the identified 346 disabled children get food during the lockdown and asked them to provide daily Action Taken Reports (ATRs) to the directorate. “All HoS of government schools are hereby directed to ensure that all children with disabilities must have food throughout the lockdown in collaboration with nearby concerned hunger relief centres of the government, at schools, or night community centres etc., and provide ATRs for the 346 CWSN daily,” the circular added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/doe-directs-schools-to-provide-food-for-disabled-students-during-lockdown/story-6K3dQcrTalRQV6ABSAgspM.html
06-04-2020||Delhi||Monday is hottest spring day||The national capital recorded the highest maximum temperature this spring on Monday, with the mercury climbing to 35.8 degrees Celsius.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the maximum temperature at the Safdarjung observatory, which is considered the official marker for the capital, was 35.8 degrees Celsius and the minimum was 18.5 degrees Celsius. At the Palam observatory, the maximum temperature touched 37.5 degrees Celsius, while the minimum was 19.1 degrees Celsius.IMD scientists said that the maximum temperatures are likely to hover around 35 degrees C till Wednesday. On Tuesday there is a forecast for light rain and thunderstorm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/monday-is-hottest-spring-day/story-qe91ALwmTzpnELgbXIZlbO.html
06-04-2020||Lucknow||Two-and-a-half year-old son of Lucknow’s first Covid-19 patient tests positive||A two-and-half-year old boy became the youngest patient in the state to test positive for Covid-19 in Lucknow on Monday, about three weeks after his mother (a doctor) emerged as the first coronavirus case of the state capital, doctors said.“The sample of the child tested positive. He has been admitted (to KGMU) and doctors have started treatment,” said Dr Sudhir Singh, spokesperson for the King George’s Medical University.“His condition is stable at present,” said Dr Singh.“Very young children have been reported coronavirus positive in the country but this child is the youngest in the state to test positive,” said Dr D Himanshu, who is treating patients in the isolation facility at KGMU.Another doctor of the medical team looking after the child said, “The condition is stable but we are watching him closely. Hopefully, he will recover soon and be discharged.”The team attending the child comprises doctors from the departments of paediatrics and medicine. The boy’s mother had tested positive on March 11 after the family reached Lucknow from Canada. Samples of her husband and child tested negative at that time. The woman recovered and was discharged on March 22. A few days later, her parents tested positive. They are now under treatment at the Base Hospital here. A resident doctor, who was deployed to take care of coronavirus patients at the KGMU, also tested positive and is admitted for treatment. Three other contacts of the doctor too tested positive.Apart from the child, six others, all members of Tablighi Jamaat who had been staying in Sadar’s Kasaibada locality and the Chowk area, tested positive in the state capital during the day. They are admitted to different hospitals.Meanwile, two patients admitted to KGMU, including a resident doctor and a contact of the first patient of Lucknow, are likely to be discharged from hospital on Tuesday as their samples tested negative for coronavirus, said Dr Sudhir Singh, the KGMU spokesperson.‘MOTHER WITH HIM, CHILD IS PLAYING IN WARD’The mother of the two-and-half-year-old Covid-19 patient is with him at KGMU so that she can take care of him. Doctors have asked her to wear a mask while being with the child. The mother had tested positive last month but she has recovered now.“The protocol says mother can stay with the child if he is very young in age. The child is playing in the ward and is stable at present,” said Dr D Himanshu, who is treating patients in the isolation facility.The medical staff too were taking care of the child and continuously monitoring his health. HTC||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/two-and-a-half-year-old-son-of-lucknow-s-first-covid-19-patient-tests-positive/story-QEGfPg6VhXiAkVoIXXOIII.html
06-04-2020||City||10 Jalandhar pvt hospitals join hands to set up 40-bed covid facility||Chandigarh Ten leading private hospitals from Jalandhar City, facilitated by the Punjab chapter of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), have combined to establish a high-end 40-bed COVID-19 hospital near Nakodar. The facility will have 20 ventilators. The special facility, to be used after the 350 bed-facility for COVID-19 at the Jalandhar civil hospital and 500 beds at the Punjab Institute of Medical Sciences (PIMS), again only for covid-19 patients, are fully occupied, has been set up in a fully-AC building on 5 acre at Billi Chuharmi village on the Shahkot road. A charitable facility, Sant Waryam Singh Dahiya Charitable Hospital, was to start here in May. Now, doctors from private hospitals will oversee treatment to covid-19 patients here without charging anything.Jalandhar deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma, who has visited the building to oversee its readiness, said the hospital was a novel idea that private players in healthcare had floated. “The IMA offered that, in case of outbreak of the disease, instead of keeping one or two patients in each private hospital, a single covid-19 facility must be created. Each private player has provided at least one ventilator,” the DC added. As of now, the civil hospital and the PIMS combined have 12 ventilators. The district administration will provide consumable medicines to the set-up, private players will bear the other expenses on the project. KhalsaAid will take care of logistics related to food for patients and attendants.“The patients to the IMA facility will be shifted after the civil hospital and the PIMS facilities are full,” the DC added. IMA Punjab president Dr Navjot Dahiya said all facilities available in ICUs of private hospitals were available in the Centre, which will be ready to induct patients in two more days. “Private players are ready to offer their own spaces as well, in case an outbreak happens. We also have the infrastructure to ramp up capacity at this new special covid facility to 60 beds,” he claimed. Five pvt units to make PPEsFive private units have cleared the testing phase to deliver personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, N-95 and N-99 masks to support the state government. Punjab industries minister Sunder Sham Arora said that for the manufacturing and supply of Protective Personal Equipment (PPEs) Ludhiana firms Shiva Textiles, Swamy Textiles and Shingora had been approved by the South Indian Textile Research Association (SITRA), Coimbatore, which is the authorised testing agency. The minister added, “JCT Fabrics, Phagwara, and Ever Shine garments, Ludhiana are the other two.” For making N95 and N 99 masks, Surgeine Hosphiarpur and Oxyclear had got the go-ahead with two other Ludhiana-based firms, Gurkirpa Textlies and Navyug Laminates given permission to make the PPE fabric.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/10-jalandhar-pvt-hospitals-join-hands-to-set-up-40-bed-covid-facility/story-KcP6j1X31dIlEpmmdmskiN.html
06-04-2020||City||Health workers fighting pandemic rue lack of PPE kits||With Punjab witnessing rise in the Covid-19 cases daily, the health department staff in Bathinda on Monday complained of lack of personal protective equipment (PPE) in fight against the disease.Talking to Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal, the medical and paramedical staff at the Bathinda civil hospital rued that even as they are risking their lives in the fight against the coronavirus, the lack of protective gear is exposing to the infection.The minister talked to them after they were given guard of honour by the Punjab Police personnel as a mark of recognition of their work in fight against the pandemic.The staff also demanded to set up a special quarantine centre for them in case they were to be isolated. Bathinda hasn’t reported any positive case of Covid-19 so far.Manpreet said adequate availability of PPE will be ensured in a week by the state government at any cost.“This is perhaps the first-ever guard of honour in India meant exclusively for the medical and paramedical professionals. It is meant for the bravest of the brave and the visiting dignitaries. I think everyone in the country will follow this practice of arranging a special guard of honour to express their appreciation and gratefulness,” he said.Dr Gurmail Singh, district president of the Punjab Civil Medical Services Association, said PPE kits are available but the guidelines to use them are strict, exposing many employees to the risk.Swaranjit Kaur, a staff nurse deployed at the hospital’s isolation ward, said, “We don’t even have N-95 masks. We are attending to the suspected patients with simple masks.”A delegation of employees who met civil surgeon Dr Amrik Singh for setting up a separate quarantine centre for staff raised slogans against him when they were not satisfied with his response.The civil surgeon claimed they have sufficient PPE kits to be used as per the state government guidelines. On the demand for setting up separate quarantine centre for staff he said that issue has been taken up with the higher-ups.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/health-workers-fighting-pandemic-rue-lack-of-ppe-kits/story-ov2FoZ3EpwwBZZYXmdb7zH.html
06-04-2020||Lucknow||Lockdown may not be lifted in UP after April 14: UP govt||The state government on Monday clarified that the lockdown may not be lifted in Uttar Pradesh after April 14 and said that the statewide tally of Covid-19 infected patients increased to 305, including 159 Tablighi Jamaat members.“With a spike in Covid-19 cases, sensitivity in the state has increased. Covid positive cases in the state are increasing daily. Reports have been carried in certain sections of the media that the lockdown will be lifted in UP after April 14. The state government wishes to make it clear that lockdown is not likely to be lifted till there is a single coronavirus case in the state. The lifting of the lockdown means UP has become coronavirus free,” additional chief secretary, Home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi said at a press conference in the state capital.“The state government has taken effective measures to check the spread of the coronavirus in the state. If the lockdown is lifted, the purpose of enforcing it to check the spread of the coronavirus will be defeated. If there is a single Covid case in the state, the chances of its spreading looms large. There is a need to put all Covid positive patients in isolation wards of hospitals and track and quarantine those who came in contact with them,” he said.Earlier, there was speculation that the lockdown might be lifted by the middle of the month as chief minister Yogi Adityanath held a video conference with MPs and ministers on Sunday, telling them to prepare a work plan for the post-lockdown period, management of crowd and give suggestions on how curbs should be lifted. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced the 21-day nationwide lockdown starting on March 25.Awasthi also said 27 fresh cases, including 21 Tablighi Jamaat members, were reported in the state on Monday, taking the statewide tally of infected patients to 305 since the pandemic began. The state government had already identified around 1600 Tabligi Jamaat members and 1200 of them were quarantined, he said. The increase in the number of positive cases among Jamaatis was a matter of concern, he added. “There is no community transfer of coronavirus in the state. Those who came in contact with the Covid- 19 positive patients are among people infected with the disease,” he said.The state government has urged people, who are ill and staying in religious places, to contact the health department for treatment. Common people should also inform the authorities about the movement and activities of Tabligi Jammat members, he said.He said 159 coronavirus positive Tablighi Jamaati members were identified in various districts, including Agra (29), Lucknow (12), Ghaziabad (14), Lakhimpur Kheri (3), Kanpur (7), Varanasi (4), Shamli (13), Hapur (3), Ghazipur (5), Azamgarh (3), Firozabad (4), Hardoi (1), Pratapgarh (3), Saharanpur (13), Shahjhanpur (1), Banda (2), Maharajganj (6), Hathras (4), Mirzapur (2), Rae Bareli (2), Auraiya (1), Barabanki (1), Bijnor (1), Sitapur (8) and Prayagraj (1).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/lockdown-may-not-be-lifted-in-up-after-april-14-up-govt/story-Oj8oo96DrgGVNxjEVtEWSP.html
06-04-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai woman stuck in Delhi thanks Maharashtra CM for help||A Mumbai resident stuck in Delhi due to the national lockdown has expressed her gratitude for Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray for coming to her aid in the hour of crisis and making arrangements for her accommodation in the Maharashtra Sadan there.The woman, Elizabeth Pingale, said that she felt like her own brother was standing behind her in the Chief Minister.“The moment the CM called me his sister, I realised my brother is firmly standing behind me to support,” Pingale was quoted as saying in a statement issued by the state government.A resident of Mulund in Mumbai, Pingale was placed under quarantine after she had landed at the Delhi international airport on March 22 as per the protocol put in place to check the spread of novel coronavirus.“After my quarantine period got over, I had to vacate the place. The alternative accommodation offered to me was not acceptable to me, and I could not travel to Mumbai due to the restrictions” she recalled.Pingale said she shot a video of her woes and shared it with her friends which somehow reached the CM, who contacted her personally.“CM Uddhav Thackeray called me his sister and said I need not worry. ‘My government will take care of you’ were his comforting words when I had no clue about my next step in the national capital. It felt like my brother is standing behind me firmly and supporting me. I have been given a room in Delhi-based Maharashtra Sadan,” she said.“Now, I am not in a haste to return to Mumbai. The accommodation is comfortable,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-woman-stuck-in-delhi-thanks-maharashtra-cm-for-help/story-kL3INJJAVdqCOAkmj3snWI.html
06-04-2020||Lucknow||Sitapur’s Khairabad town sealed for three days||The Sitapur district administration sealed Khairabad town and an area within its three-kilometre radius for three days after eight Tablighi Jamaat members, including seven Bangladeshi nationals, tested positive for the Covid-19 infection on Monday, the district authorities said.All the eight Jamaatis had recently returned to Khairabad locality from Nizamuddin in Delhi.“Samples of eight people tested positive for the coronavirus. These people are currently in quarantine at the community health centre in Khairabad,” district magistrate Akhilesh Tiwari said.According to the DM’s order, Khairbad town and an area of three kilometres around it will remain sealed from 4pm on April 6 till 10am April 9. Entry and exit of people in the area, along with movement of vehicles, barring emergency vehicles, will remain suspended during this duration, the DM’s order said.“The area has been temporarily sealed on the advice of medical experts to reduce the possibility of further spread of the infection in the district,” the DM said. “People are advised to abide by the order and remain indoors. Those found violating the order will be booked and they will have to face action from the administration,” the officer said.A total of 12 Tablighi Jamaat members, including eight Bangladeshi nationals, returned from Delhi a few days ago.They were put under quarantine on Saturday. Seven of the Bangladeshi nationals and another member of the group, who belongs to Maharashtra, tested positive. “We have also stared contact tracing to identify the people who came in contact with them in the past few days,” the DM said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/sitapur-s-khairabad-town-sealed-for-three-days/story-GBtIaCgI0TpU4XrawT7iaP.html
06-04-2020||City||Covid-19: Gawai urges people to celebrate Ambedkar anniversary at home||The Republican Party of India (Gawai) chief Rajendra Gawai has urged people to celebrate birth anniversary of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar at home in the wake of novel coronavirus outbreak in the country. The Ambedkar was born on April 14. “The coronavirus has created havoc in the entire nation. Even the nations with best of medical infrastructure are finding it difficult to fight this battle. Being a dermatologist I know the severity of the present situation. I urge all the Ambedkarites to celebrate the anniversary this year at home as Dr Ambedkar had always given preference to the nation,” Gawai said in a statement released on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-gawai-urges-people-to-celebrate-ambedkar-anniversary-at-home/story-4R49koSE1Rrzfa5MRnSjJI.html
06-04-2020||Lucknow||Police trace 165 Tablighi Jamaat members in Lucknow, book 51||After a spurt in Covid-19 cases among Tablighi Jamaat members, the police traced 165 of them in Lucknow and booked 51 for various violations, a senior police official said on Monday. Forty-six of these members had attended the Delhi Markaz, the officer added. Last month, the Tablighi Jamaat group had organised a massive congregation at Delhi’s Nizamuddin area which has now emerged as a Covid-19 hotspot.“Twenty-three of the 46 are foreign nationals. So far, 51 (members) have been booked for different violations and more FIRs will be lodged,” Lucknow commissioner of police Sujeet Pandey said.Fourteen Tablighi Jamaat members staying in Peer Bagh mosque of Indiranagar under the Ghazipur police station limits and two caretakers of the same place of worship were booked for lockdown violations, another police officer said.Deputy commissioner of police, North, Sarvshreshth Tripathi said, “All of them and two mosque management people have been booked for (lockdown) violations. They were sent for quarantine.”INTELLIGENCE OFFICIALS ON THE JOBAs Tablighi Jamaat members were not coming forward to get themselves tested for Covid 19, the state government pressed the intelligence wing into service to trace them, a senior police officer said. Several intelligence sleuths were on the job while police were tracing the Jamaat members’ immediate contacts.The senior police official said intelligence personnel were asked to collect information about all Tablighi Jamaat members, who returned home to Uttar Pradesh after attending religious gatherings held outside the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/police-trace-165-tablighi-jamaat-members-in-lucknow-book-51/story-0SWWyIFvf8eOzwQ2ATSthL.html
06-04-2020||City||Cpvid-19: Do not send any new prisoners, Taloja jail authorities urges||The Taloja Central Jail authorities have appealed to the city sessions courts, and other lower courts in Mumbai and its suburban districts, to not send any new prisoners to the jail and instead to grant them bail. The letter from Taloja jail authorities on April 1, 2020 comes after prisons in Mumbai and Thane stopped admitting new prisoners due to overcrowding and the imminent threat of COVID-19 virus. At Taloja prison, every new prisoner is kept in the isolation ward to quarantine for the required period of a fortnight which has seen that the jail’s capacity to hold more prisoners come down, a senior police officer said. “All the prisons from Arthur Road, Byculla, Thane Central prison and Aadharwadi at Kalyan stopped taking new prisoners, and hence all the prisoners were being sent to Taloja. We have been receiving 10 to 15 new prisoners every day, and now we do not have the facility to accommodate all of them. So we have requested the courts to not send more prisoners to Taloja, and to let the accused go on bail if the offence is not grave in nature,” said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cpvid-19-do-not-send-any-new-prisoners-taloja-jail-authorities-urges/story-cXiVWPAaYuNRil1M61TG4I.html
06-04-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Punjab govt puts zoos, deer park on high alert||The Punjab government sounded a high alert in all five zoological parks across state on Monday. The action came after a tiger at the Bronx Zoo in New York, US, was tested positive for coronavirus.Principal chief conservator of forests (wildlife), Kuldip Kumar, said that he spoke to the officers in-charge of the Chattbir Zoo and four other zoos in Punjab and asked them to be alert and monitor all animals through close-circuit televisions (CCTVs) for any abnormal behaviour or symptoms.“We are taking precautions at all times along with using masks and disinfectants. I have asked the zoo staff to be extra careful in the current situation,” he said.The wildlife department has asked the officials that there should not be any human-animal close contact and only the authorised animal attendants should visit the animal habitats.“We are taking care of not just the big cats, but also other animals and birds,” he said.Detailed instructions have been issued after the Central Zoo Authority sounded a red alert for all zoological parks in India and directed them to collect samples of animals on a fortnight basis.They have been asked to send the samples to the National Institute of High Security Animal Disease in Madhya Pradesh, the National Research Centre on Equines in Haryana, or the Indian Veterinary Research Centre in Uttar Pradesh.Besides Chattbir, Punjab has three small zoos at Patiala, Ludhiana and Bathinda, and a deer park at Neelon in Samrala; housing a total of around 3,000 animals and birds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-punjab-govt-puts-zoos-deer-park-on-high-alert/story-gHSGFXUcn4bTsIB8VHzS2L.html
06-04-2020||Lucknow||Agra mayor writes to DM to exempt school fees||Agra mayor Naveen Jain has written to district magistrate Prabhu N Singh to exempt school fees of students for three months (April, May and June) to reduce financial burden of guardians when they are deprived of their jobs or businesses during the lockdown in wake of coronavirus spread. Talking more in this regard Jain said, “I have requested the district magistrate to issue directives to schools about the exemption of school fees for three months. It will help many family members as most of them are deprived of their jobs or businesses due to ongoing lockdown.”He said that in some areas of the district school fees had been exempted due to efforts of the DM. “I have also requested him to consider my request and direct schools to not charge fees from parent during the lockdown period.”“Earlier, parents had to deposit fees of April, May and June in the month of April. But, these days, schools are closed due to spread of coronavirus and when parents are asked to pay fees of these three months, it will add more financial burden on the families,” the DM added.  YOGESH DUBEY||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/agra-mayor-writes-to-dm-to-exempt-school-fees/story-ihCIlDDniOFg7Y5Uph3kSP.html
06-04-2020||City||Kin sit in car as admn cremates Covid-19 woman patient||The family of a 69-year-old woman, Surinder Kaur from Shimlapuri area here, who died on Sunday after testing positive for Covid-19, refused to claim the body and the district administration arranged the cremation while her near and dear ones sat in a car 100metres away.Last week, residents of Verka village refused to allow cremation of Padma Shri awardee Hazoori Nirmal Singh, who too had died of Covid-19.Ludhiana additional deputy commissioner (general) Iqbal Singh Sandhu through a video narrated the incident. Sandhu said Surinder Kaur had gone to Mohali where she probably contracted the virus and died at a hospital.“After the death, the family was asked to complete the formalities to claim the body. However, the family refused, saying it was administration’s responsibility. After this, duty magistrate Jagsir Singh, along with police officials of the area, completed the formalities and the administration took the body in its possession,” said Sandhu.“They didn’t agree even as we told them that all the preventive measures will be in place and they could light the pyre from 12 feet away using a bamboo, but sadly they refused,” Sandhu said.A cremation ground worker was asked to light the pyre. The person was sanitised, covered with a PPE kit before he lit the pyre from a distance, said Sandhu, adding the administration will also perform the bhog ceremony of the woman at Baba Deep Singh Gurdwara on Saturday for which money is being pooled.Several attempts made to reach the family for a comment went futile and once a woman picked the call made on Surinder Kaur’s phone number but refused to talk saying she was busy and has nothing to say on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kin-sit-in-car-as-admn-cremates-covid-19-woman-patient/story-IJZOXCKzcs5iythy6JiL9J.html
06-04-2020||City||Covid-19: Chawl residents near Thane hospital to be shifted||Sixteen families of sanitation workers, living at Thane’s Manisha Nagar, will be shifted as their chawl is near the civil hospital.“They will be give temporary homes at Brahmand. Thane Municipal Corporation will also provide transport facility for them,” said Kailash Pawar, surgeon, Thane Civil Hospital.There are 21 rooms in the chawl. “Our families have been staying here for almost 90 years. We don’t know whether we will be allowed to return after the pandemic,” said Hemant Choudhari, 42, a resident of the chawl. Ankita G Menon||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-chawl-residents-near-thane-hospital-to-be-shifted/story-CADGVleedA9RYHCgXusbcP.html
06-04-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19 lockdown: ‘City sees nine incidents of gathering of crowd daily’||Despite the ongoing lockdown to prevent the spread of Covid-19, at least nine incidents of crowd gathering are being reported daily at control rooms, according to data released by the Mumbai Police.These control rooms have been designated to monitor such activities via CCTV cameras across the city.According to the control room data, between March 22 and April 3, more than 10 incidents were reported daily. On March 22, the day the Janata Curfew was announced, 27 incidents of crowd gathering were reported, followed by 29 incidents on March 23, and 30 incidents on March 24, when a three-week lockdown was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Deputy commissioner of police, Pranay Ashok, who is also the spokesperson of Mumbai Police, said, “Every time our control room gets a report of crowd gathering via the CCTV network, the local police station is informed. We have been appealing to citizens to practice social distancing and have also been regularly filing cases against those ignoring the lockdown.”Both, the Mumbai Police and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) have been monitoring the city streets from their respective control rooms. The BMC is also taking real-time feed of over 241 containment zones using video analytics from the disaster management control room.Crowding incidents reduced from March 25, when nine incidents were reported, however, the number started to increase since March 30 when 23 incidents were reported. On March 31, 15 incidents were reported; 15 on April 1, and 19 incidents on April 2. On April 3, the most incidents of crowd gathering in the last two weeks – 28 – were reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-lockdown-city-sees-nine-incidents-of-gathering-of-crowd-daily/story-2uNWp95sUdGxKOOnm4pbUI.html
06-04-2020||City||59-year-old Jamaat member tests positive for Covid-19 in Ludhiana||A 59-year-old man from Chowki Mann village of Jagraon subdivision in the district, who had recently returned after attending the Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Nizamuddin in Delhi, tested positive for coronavirus on Monday.Confirming the development, Ludhiana civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said it is the first Covid-19 case from Jagraon area.He said the test reports of nine family members of the patient are awaited.The patient and his family members have been kept in the isolation ward of the civil hospital in Ludhiana. The police have sealed all the entry points of the village.The district has so far recorded a total of seven Covid-19 cases. On Sunday, a 26-year-old man of Rajgarh village near Doraha town of Ludhiana, another Tablighi Jamaat member, had also tested positive for coronavirus. The man runs a dairy along with his other family members on the outskirts of the village.Khanna senior medical officer (SMO) Rajinder Gulati said the sample reports of seven relatives of the 26-year-old man were found to be negative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/59-year-old-jamaat-member-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-ludhiana/story-sHVVNGF1lhoWQ57iQQ9CaK.html
06-04-2020||Chandigarh||34 cases filed against fake news circulation in Punjab||The Punjab Police has registered 34 cases of pertaining to circulation of fake news and rumours on the social media amid the Covid-19 crisis.Of the total cases registered between March 21 and April 6, 27 relate to WhatsApp forwards and misinformation, said director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta.The police are also taking stern action against attempts of spreading communal strife through social media, the DGP said, adding that a sedition case was registered on Friday against a Ludhiana resident. As per information the said person had shared a post on a Facebook post seeking to mislead the people about availability of critical medical equipment, and to spread hatred against the state government.Fake Tik Tok vidoes, unsubstantiated audio messages, forwards of provocative and false news are all under the scanner of Punjab Police. The DGP had earlier this month constituted a special team headed by an ADGP-rank officer to monitor all social media platforms for any instance of fake news or rumours affecting citizens during the lockdown.Giving details of some of the key cases registered in the last 17 days, the DGP said five have been filed in Sangrur and four in Bathinda for crimes relating to exchange of fake videos and false audio messages, and creating panic on WhatsApp regarding death of a person due to coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/34-cases-filed-against-fake-news-circulation-in-punjab/story-kb7WBzRnjNwUgtUPMu7UAK.html
06-04-2020||Chandigarh||Capt seeks release of GST arrears, claims pendency of Rs 6,750 crore||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking release of the state’s GST arrears and resolution of other pending issues to enable effective management of Covid-19 crisis. A similar letter was also sent to Union home minister Amit Shah. “The release of our GST arrears is most important as we are facing serious financial constraints,” the CM wrote, drawing the Centre’s attention to the pending issues and seeking necessary follow-up action from the Prime Minister and the home minister.The CM pointed out the state government’s GST arrears, pending since July 2017, amounted to Rs 6752.83 crore. Top officials in the state finance department told HT that in case the arrears are released, state’s fiscal position will ease out, especially when local revenues are negligible due to the ongoing curfew.Capt also sought increase in the borrowing limit under Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (FRBM) Act from 3% to 4%, deferment of payment of industrial and agricultural loans by commercial banks and waiver of three months’ interest.Referring to other issues that needed to be addressed by the finance ministry, the CM sought permission for utilisation of 14th Finance Commission grants by urban local bodies (ULBs) and panchayati raj institutions (PRIs) for emergency relief, including food and medicines for rural poor, as well as use of 25% flexi funds under Centre-sponsored schemes in the battle against Covid-19, along with its enhancement to 50%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/capt-seeks-release-of-gst-arrears-claims-pendency-of-rs-6-750-crore/story-6skpvULKqmUUrbySOqG9GN.html
06-04-2020||City||KDMC launches helpline to report Jamaat attendees||The KDMC launched a helpline number (0251-2211373), asking residents to contact them if they had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi in March or know anyone who had attended the event. KDMC commissioner Vijay Suryavanshi has warned people of strict legal action if they do not disclose it. “We appeal to people to come forward voluntarily as it will help prevent the virus from spreading,” said Suryavanshi. Earlier, Kalyan police said 12 people from the city had been quarantined.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kdmc-launches-helpline-to-report-jamaat-attendees/story-QJgWCx2nZukEim9mPopc2M.html
06-04-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19 lockdown: Beed women raise ₹75L to aid field workers, families||A non-profit organisation run by 300 rural women in Maharashtra’s Beed district has raised ₹75 lakh through various organisations, to help sugarcane workers and their families. Navchetana Sarvangin Vikas Kendra (NSVK) in Beed is run by women and works with Dalit communities, nomadic and de-notified tribes, landless labourers, abandoned women and migrant sugarcane cutting communities around Beed. So far, it has reached out to 7,000 families across 300 villages as part of its relief efforts during the lockdown.Manisha Ghule, founder of NSVK, said, “This year, thousands of sugarcane returned [to their villages] owing to the lockdown and were ostracised by other villagers who feared they may have contacted the disease.” NSVK took immediate steps to provide ration, medical and hygiene needs to the families in need, she said. NSVK is now looking at raising money through crowd-funding to reach out to another 3,000 families in Beed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-lockdown-beed-women-raise-75l-to-aid-field-workers-families/story-wbNqdVzXQJgRmupt2alzRJ.html
06-04-2020||City||Six new Covid-19 cases in Kalyan-Dombivli; 1 new case in Thane||Six new cases of Covid-19 were reported in Kalyan-Dombivli on Monday, taking the twin city toll to 34. Among the new cases is a nurse, who works in Mumbai.Meanwhile, the 25-year-old man, who had tested positive for coronavirus and attended a wedding in Dombivli, was discharged from hospital on Sunday.On March 28, the police had booked the man, who had come from Turkey to attend a wedding function, for spreading the virus to many others.The Dombivli police said the man will remain quarantined for 14 days and later they will take action.“He will be home quarantined in Dombivli for 14 days. We will take action as per the case registered against him,” said SP Aaher, senior inspector, Dombivli police station.Of the 34 infected people from Kalyan Dombivli, six of them have been treated and discharged, said KDMC officials.“The civic body has initiated a survey and asked residents to home quarantine for 14 days. We have asked residents to approach the civic body if they show any symptoms,” said Madhavi Pophale, public relations officer, KDMC.A 35-year-old man from Vithawa, Thane tested Covid-19 positive on Monday. He had gone to a private hospital in Kalwa on April 3 when a man with the infection was there at the same time. The hospital has been sealed since then. “We have quarantined 10 of his family members,” said Sandeep Malvi, public relations officer, TMC. Thane also reported two new cases on Sunday – a 28-year-old doctor from Naupada and a 67-year- old resident of Vrindavan Housing Society. The doctor had treated a Covid-19 positive patient from Palghar and the senior citizen had returned from Dubai on March 10. The doctor’s house and Vrindavan housing society have been sealed.“The 67-year-old man, his wife and son returned from Dubai on March 10. They were self-quarantined,” said Malvi.“Vrindavan Housing Society has around 100 buildings and all residents have been asked to remain indoors,” said Vikrant Tawde, resident of Vrindavan Society. Thane has a total of 21 Covid-19 positive cases||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/six-new-covid-19-cases-in-kalyan-dombivli/story-IVEU0KKUaSx0Qg5gDZy73L.html
06-04-2020||Lucknow||DLW develops, deploys foot-operated hand-wash kiosk||The DLW (Diesel Locomotive Works) has developed a unique hand-wash kiosk for its employees, which can be operated by feet. The first hand-wash kiosk has been installed at the RPF barrack on the DLW premises. The move comes as part of the Break the Chain campaign to defeat coronavirus. Two more hand-wash kiosks are waiting to be installed at different locations of the DLW. Public relations officer Ashok Kumar said that the foot-operated hand-wash is fitted with a liquid soap dispenser and a water tap, each connected with two different pedals. As the user presses the pedal by foot, the soap dispenser will dispense the liquid soap and the water tap will give out water. Kumar said the user will not have to touch it with their hands.A DLW team has also made medical equipment, including a drip stand, bedside bowl stand, patients’ food table, medicine table for DLW Hospital to provide quick and better health facilities.All this equipment has been made at the tool room.DLW chief public relations officer Nitin Mehrotra said that a team DLW engineers and technicians together created a unique hand-wash kiosk operated by foot under the Break the Chain campaign to defeat Covid-19. It has been installed at the barrack of RPF on the DLW premises. Mehrotra said that the Plant and Tool Design Office designed the equipment and a team of engineers and technicians of the tool room made them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/dlw-develops-deploys-foot-operated-hand-wash-kiosk/story-iDl1VkQNP6BqSFZOynbcDO.html
06-04-2020||City||Three labourers die while cleaning tank at cattle feed factory in Moga||Three labourers died while cleaning the septic tank at a cattle feed factory in Moga’s Kot Ise Khan town on Monday. Police have booked the owner of the factory for culpable homicide.Deceased have been identified as Surjit Singh (35) of Nasirpur Jania village, and brothers Jaspreet Singh (25) and Satnam Singh (22), of Khosa Kotla village, in Moga.Station house officer (SHO) Jaswinder Singh said that they have registered a case against the factory owner Sanjeev Kumar Garg after recording statements of the deceased’s kin. Police are conducting raids to nab the accused.“The incident took place at Ekam Feed factory. Surjit was first to enter the tank. When he did not come out, Jaspreet went in looking for him. When neither returned, Satnam went in to pull them out, but he too slipped and fell into the tank. After some time, the security guard of the factory went to look for them and found them dead in the tank,” the SHO said.“Police pulled out the bodies with the help of residents. The bodies have been sent to the district hospital for autopsy. Investigations revealed that defying curfew orders, work was on at the factory,” he added.The 10-feet deep tank contained a mix of different cattle feed that had turned into molasses and had started to emit some poisonous gas. And the labourers were allegedly asked to clean the tank without letting out the gas first.The case has been registered under Sections 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) and 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Kot Ise Khan police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-labourers-die-while-cleaning-tank-at-cattle-feed-factory-in-moga/story-ycMKOlVcJOigMwozrqBoYP.html
06-04-2020||City||20,000 farmers in border districts seek pending relief for two years||Over 20,000 farmers of 220 villages in six border districts in the state, who own land between the barbed fence and the 553-km India-Pakistan border, have sought the release of Rs 48 crore of compensation given to them due to this adverse location, for the year 2018 and 2019. These districts are Tarn Taran, Amritsar, Gurdaspur, Pathankot, Ferozepur and Fazilka districts; farmers here claim that they are in urgent need of the money, as the lockdown has affected their crop. The Centre and state governments contribute 50% each for the compensation, which is Rs 10,000 per acre. The National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government had, during its tenure from 1997-2002, started the scheme as borders farmers faced problems in accessing their land due to the fencing and other restrictions in place. The compensation was enhanced to Rs 15,000 per acre in 2015. “The government should release the compensation at the earliest. Now, harvesting of our crop will start only after the lockdown ends. Farmers here do not even have money for harvesting,” claimed Surjit Singh Bhura, vice president of Border Area Kisan Welfare Committee (BAFWC), adding that the lockdown had made the situation worse for them. Tarn Taran deputy commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal said the compensation would be released soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/20-000-farmers-in-border-districts-seek-pending-relief-for-two-years/story-OEOkfcy8u8s8V2EhT9KA2M.html
06-04-2020||Lucknow||Inside Divyakunj complex in Prayagraj: Inmates take up cleaning job in rotation||It’s the eerie silence that hits you when you enter Divyakunj complex, a 23 flat housing complex, located in the heart of posh Civil Lines in Prayagraj.Usually bustling with activities —kids busy playing on the roof and at the basement that works as a parking space, the stillness makes plain how seriously the COVID-19 threat and the lockdown is being taken by the residents here.“The silence is a new thing and the clean air owing to the sudden reduction of traffic on roads is a great thing. However, everyone is careful and worried of this sudden unexpected threat that has started to loom all over us. We are determined to beat it and keep everyone safe,” said Kamlesh Joshi, a state government official whose office is presently closed.The complex housing around 65 residents, including many government servants and a high court judge besides a high court lawyer, a journalist and teachers among others has imposed a strict ‘No Guests’ policy in the five-storey building.“We have given leave to all maids, guards, drivers and even the building cleaning staffs following announcement of the lockdown for their and our own safety. We are also not allowing any guests inside,” added Joshi, who at the time is alone with his wife Nirmala, a schoolteacher.The couple’s only son Mohit, employed with a Germany-based tech firm having office in Bengaluru is down South.“Barring occasional chats with my son, who is also working from home in Bengaluru, we are keeping ourselves busy cleaning the house and helping each other,” added his wife while appealing all to follow the lockdown guidelines strictly.RATION READY, SPIRIT UPAlmost all here have stocked their ration and medicines etc for 10 to 15 days to venture outside only when absolutely needed.“However, everyone is waiting for the home delivery services to become fully functional in the city. Once that happens, it would be even more assuring, and life would become easy. Presently the reports that medicine shops, petrol pumps and many kirana stores are being kept open have been greeted with relief,” said RK Dey, another resident and a database administrator with a government department.His wife Sumita, a self-employed teacher, is stuck in Bengaluru where she had gone on a private visit before the ‘Janta Curfew’ and the lockdown announcement that led to suspension of all trains and flights in the country. “I have asked her to stay put there and wait for the entire lockdown period to get over before coming back. Till then WhatsApp chats and a few video calls are keeping us connected,” said Dey.“This is time to perform your duty to country and community by adhering to the guidelines and restrictions strictly. In these challenging times, saving life is the priority than the food that we eat,” he said.MAIDS, SANITATION STAFF ON LEAVE, IT’S JOINT CLEANING HERERecognising the need for waste disposal and keeping the building clean, the residents here have devised an alternate day joint cleaning and garbage disposal exercise.“Three alternate days have been selected by us jointly for cleaning of the building when the roof and floors are swept and washed by residents in the morning wearing gloves, masks and head covers. The other three days the members of the society collect garbage and dispose it off. The main gates are being kept bolted to deter casual visitors even as using the elevator in groups have been stopped for all,” said Vivek Dhaka, a high court lawyer and secretary of the complex’s Residents’ Welfare Association.He along with his two kids Shreshta (class 9) and Aujasvi (class 6), as well as wife Geeta, a home maker, are observing the lockdown in their fifth-floor apartment here. “I believe the lockdown was needed as achieving effective social distancing is always an uphill task. It’s great that we have not recorded a COVID-19 positive patient till date in Prayagraj region, including Pratapgarh and Kaushambi districts. It’s time to ensure that this trend continues, he added.Geeta said the strict lockdown was best for all, especially the kids and the elderly who are the most vulnerable. “So, it’s watching TV, cooking food and managing studies of the kids besides the household chores that we are doing together that takes the whole day. As the festival of Holi had just passed, our stock of ration was already with us and we are managing with it,” she added.MANAGING HOMES, DUTY WITH GUSTOSanjay Jangwan runs a medical store at Balson crossing and is having to keep the shop open that is witnessing heavy rush of people desperate for their medicines. “He goes every morning and comes in the night but is taking all precautions. Here at home I am managing with my two kids Aishwayra, who is an MBA student at an institute in Lucknow and son Aryaman, a BTech student with a university in Jaipur. While Aishwarya’s institute is holding regular online class sessions that she attends from home, Aryaman is keeping busy online,” she shared.On the fifth floor, there are also Singh family — having five members, including three grown-up children. Sanjay Singh is an accountant with a private firm while his wife Shweta is a housewife. Their eldest son, Saurabh, younger one Shubham and only daughter Nandani are all keeping themselves busy—well within their three-room apartment. “This is the time to show social responsibility and so none of us are venturing out. With Navrataras on, I am spending time in prayers and fasts beside household chores while the husband is busy maintaining the accounts of his office. The kids are having a tougher time keeping indoors but they too are managing with Internet and few visits to rooftop when it is empty,” shared Shweta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/inside-divyakunj-complex-in-prayagraj-inmates-take-up-cleaning-job-in-rotation/story-UMTiSUN0I75VMiz8ScOYpO.html
06-04-2020||Lucknow||UP: Teenagers commit suicide, bodies found hanging on tree||Two teenagers allegedly committed suicide by hanging themselves from a tree outside their village in Fatehpur, said police.The deceased, both residents of Chandragarh Lakhnaha village, were missing from Sunday evening. The girl’s family has given a complaint to the police alleging they were murdered and their bodies were hanged.ASP Fatehpur Chakresh Mishra said the villagers found their bodies on Monday morning and informed the police. A packet containing pesticide was also found at the spot. The police seized their cellphones and the packet. Further investigations were on, said the ASP.The boy, 17, was a student of Industrial Technical Institute (ITI) and the girl, 16, was in Class 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-teenagers-commit-suicide-bodies-found-hanging-on-tree/story-SJYjJYK1ngDnlADMoiuCHP.html
06-04-2020||Chandigarh||With limited access to internet, Kashmiri families divided by LoC unable to contact each other||It has been more than eight months now since high-speed internet was suspended in Jammu and Kashmir following the abrogation of Article 370, leaving people living on both sides of Line of Control (LoC) unable to contact each other.Sitara Begum,80, a resident of Garkote village in Uri said she has not been able to talk to her four cousin brothers settled in Muzaffarabad in Pakistan occupied Kashmir (PoK). “Earlier, our children used to call them on WhatsApp, but now it has been eight months that we haven’t contacted each other,” she said.Iqbal Banday, a government employee in Uri whose relatives reside on the other side of the border, said, “We fear about the well-being of our loved ones across the LoC, as there is no medium to reach out to them”.Limited access to the internet has left families on both sides of the border divided and out of communication due to low-speed 2G internet services in the Indian administered part of KashmirEarlier this year, the government has decided to restore the facility with limited access to social media and internet-based messaging services like WhatsApp.“WhatsApp was cheapest and easiest medium to reach out to our relatives on the other side of the border, but too has been snatched from us,” said Javaid Ahmad Budoo, a resident of Uri.Yasmeena Mir, 57, a resident of Muzaffarabad in PoK said her husband’s family is settled in Uri. “It has been a long time now that we didn’t talk. One can imagine our situation,” she said adding the government of India must restore high Internet services in the valley.The high-speed internet services were suspended in the valley on August 5 last year, following the abrogation of Article 370. However, 2G mobile internet and low-speed broadband were also restored last month with limited access to social media.The people have also demanded that the government must restore the cross-LoC bus service which was shut a year ago. The Karavan-e-Aman (peace bus) between Srinagar-Muzaffarabad bus service was started on April 7, 2005, on fortnightly basis as a confidence-building measure between India and Pakistan when the two countries were engaged in a composite dialogue.The cross-LoC bus service was suspended in March last year following the Pulwama terror attack on February 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/with-limited-access-to-internet-kashmiri-families-divided-by-loc-unable-to-contact-each-other/story-a2sw7Qkwc5ZMWyK0SfbwWP.html
06-04-2020||Lucknow||Woman names baby boy ‘Covid’||A woman delivered a baby boy at the district hospital in Sadar locality, on Monday and named him ‘Covid’. She was subsequently asked to remain in the quarantine facility set up by the district administration till lockdown ends, officials said. Due to lockdown, the couple was returning to their home in Nepal. However, the authorities stopped them and asked them to stay in quarantine until the lockdown ends. The woman’s husband is a migrant worker, who was working at a hotel in Faridabad.“This woman, who had come from Nepal, was pregnant. But we could not allow her to go back because of the lockdown. Hence, we had admitted her to the district hospital where she was taken full care of and later delivered a baby boy,” additional district magistrate JP Gupta told news agency ANI.Gupta said both the mother and the new-born were healthy and the hospital staff was taking good care of them. On being asked that the mother had named her boy ‘Covid’, the ADM said that he would not like to comment on that. “Every mother has the right to choose a name for her boy or girl,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/woman-names-baby-boy-covid/story-48iOEi9oTNh344BHvjK3bN.html
06-04-2020||City||Floriculture crisis: No demand, growers forced to destroy flowers in their fields||As the curfew enforced in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak has brought down the demand for flowers in the market to almost nil, flower growers in Punjab are destroying their yield in the fields. The farmers say due to the curfew people have deferred their celebratory functions, and the demand for flowers in temples and gurdwaras has also plunged to a minuscule level. There are 10 farmers in Tarn Taran district’s Jagatpura village, who have been growing flowers for the past 10 to 12 years. Most of these farmers have tilled the flower plants — marigold and gultak — in their fields while seeing no hope of growth in demand in near future. The situation is no different in other parts of the state. “Breaking wheat-paddy circle, I have been growing flowers in my fields. Like every year, I spent Rs 40,000 per acre in planting flowers in December last year. From per acre yield, I was to earn Rs 1.20 lakh. Since curfew has been enforced, there is no demand in the market as shops have been shut and marriage functions deferred,” said 65-year-old Balwinder Singh, who had grown flowers over 2.5 acres. Balwinder has now tilled the flower plants, which had just started blooming, in his fields and has transplanted maize. He said he has suffered a loss of around Rs 2.5 lakh.Lakhwinder Singh, 60, and Ajit Singh, 65, of the same village have also destroyed flower plants in their one-acre and two-acre fields respectively. Balwinder said the 10 farmers in the village had grown flowers over around 15 acres of land. “Most of them have destroyed their grown flower plants,” he said. Lakhwinder said, “We had already been facing losses due to the untimely rain and hailstorm this season. The coronavirus has now hit us hard. We are forced to destroy our flowers as most of the temples are now closed for devotees and the demand for flowers in gurdwaras has also dipped drastically.”State convener of Kisan Sangharsh Committee Satnam Singh Pannu said the situation of floriculture farmers across Punjab is the same as in the Jagatpura village. “The state government should announce a package for flower growers in the state,” he said.Joint director, horticulture, Gulab Singh Gill said flower growers in the state have been facing problem due to the ban on celebrations in hotels, marriage palaces, and organisation of religious functions. “Growers are demanding compensation. A report about the situation will soon be sent to the government in this regard,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/floriculture-crisis-no-demand-growers-forced-to-destroy-flowers-in-their-fields/story-ghTsTrgr3WaLM6TmaljpKP.html
06-04-2020||City||Man held for attacking cops with petrol bomb in Jalandhar||Two Punjab Police personnel suffered 20% burn injuries after being attacked with a petrol bomb by a 50-year-old man at Pandori Jagir village of the district on Monday. The accused has been arrested.The injured cops have been identified as assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Saroop Singh (52) and home guard Rashap Singh (51) posted at the Nurmahal police station.According to the police, the cops were going on a motorcycle when the accused, Des Raj, threw a petrol bottle on them, a day after he was confronted by the police over roaming on the road. Superintendent of police (Investigation) Sarabjit Singh said preliminary investigations revealed that the accused got influenced from a movie scene and was reportedly under stress.“The accused is a daily wager. He filled the petrol in a beer bottle and threw it on the cops. The exact cause behind the attack will be ascertained in the investigations. He will be medically examined,” the SP said.The SP said the cops sustained 20% burns on their bodies and are undergoing treatment at a government hospital where their condition is stated to be stable. Meanwhile, the accused was arrested under Section 307 (attempt to murder), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions) of the IPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-held-for-attacking-cops-with-petrol-bomb-in-jalandhar/story-41XAnEmTbNtyzeUGNilrMJ.html
06-04-2020||City||Lockdown blues: Hundreds of Canada-based NRIs wanting to fly back stuck in Punjab||Hundreds of Canada-based non-resident Indians (NRIs) wanting to fly back are stuck in Punjab for lack of proper arrangements to ferry them to the country of their residence amid the ongoing lockdown to contain the Covid-19 spread.Newton Sidhu, a Chandigarh-based businessman who has started online initiative #CanadiansStuckinPunjab, said, “We have a list of around 5,000 such NRIs or Permanent Residence (PR) card holders, but the total count is nearly 25,000. When the lockdown came into force, none of them knew how to fly back. Many of them don’t know how to get curfew passes issued from the authorities online. We are helping them for their smooth and safe return.”“We have been trying to book chartered planes for Canadian citizens hailing from Punjab for the last fortnight. We even negotiated the price of a chartered plane with some companies that are willing to fly out of the Chandigarh or Amritsar international airports. As the Canadian High Commission issued clearance for this today with the intervention of the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO), a glimmer of hope has emerged for a direct flight from Punjab at an affordable price,” he said.He said the Punjab government has even offered to provide buses for transportation of the NRIs to airports.The role of Canadian ministers and MPs of Punjab origin, who are 19 in number, has been far from satisfactory in helping these people, he added.Sukhi Sandhu, a Punjabi community activist in Canada, said, “The Canadian government is duty-bound to help its citizens in any eventuality anywhere in the world. To our surprise, none of them bothered to respond to our calls, emails, Facebook posts or tweets.”Colonel (retired) Gurnam Singh, an overseas Canadian citizen from Mohali who along with his wife came to India in October 2019, says, “We got registered on an official online portal of the Canadian High Commission. But nothing concrete has happened so far.”Moreover, many found the already operational special flights too expensive.The first flight from Delhi to Toronto on April 4 cost 3,988 Canadian dollars per passenger. For those flying to Vancouver in the same flight were charged 4,262 Canadian dollars. More flights are departing from the Amritsar airport via New Delhi on Tuesday and Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lockdown-blues-thousands-of-canada-based-nris-wanting-to-fly-back-stuck-in-punjab/story-gNT3YcquomhsinGKXSZepM.html
06-04-2020||City||Indians visiting friends and relatives after lifting of lockdown will help recovery of travel sector: Centre Asia Pacific Aviation||Visiting friends and relatives (VFR), after the lockdown is lifted, will help the Indian travel segment which is likely to see a very slow recovery after the lockdown ends.According to a report by aviation think tank- Centre Asia Pacific Aviation (CAPA), VFR traffic would normally be the first to pick-up as friends and families would seek to re-unite after months of separation. However, CAPA said that health concerns associated with travel may limit this segment, especially senior citizens.However, CAPA has predicted that discretionary international leisure travel may take even longer as it will be impacted by the weak economy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indians-visiting-friends-and-relatives-after-lifting-of-lockdown-will-help-recovery-of-travel-sector-centre-asia-pacific-aviation/story-Oljb899Ir9MfEPOVBNpQlN.html
06-04-2020||City||One-Rupee clinic to start in Thane, Kalyan and Dombivli||One-Rupee clinic will start their door to door free screening to find symptomatic patients for Covid-19 in Thane, Kalyan and Dombivli, from Monday. At present, the medical team of One Rupee clinic has screened more than 10,000 people from various parts of Mumbai. “The free screening service has been started at Thane, Kalyan and Dombivli areas with mobile clinics. The screening will be undertaken by a team of a doctor and other medical staff. Any person found with the Covid-19 symptoms will be advised to go to nearby municipal hospital for medical test,” said Dr Rahul Ghule, director of One-Rupee clinic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/one-rupee-clinic-to-start-in-thane-kalyan-and-dombivli/story-MY1vMf08SKeiG8ILnUdtAM.html
06-04-2020||Pune||Celebrate Dr Ambedkar’s birth anniversary on Apr 14 by staying at home, reading books written by him: Leaders||Dalit leaders have appealed to citizens to celebrate Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar’s birth anniversary on April 14 at home instead of visiting public places.Dr Ambedkar’s birth anniversary is celebrated in Maharashtra and across the country by visiting various places related to him and paying homage. Police too put in diversions in place across the city in order to facilitate movement of people to the areas on that particular day. However, considering the Covid-19 pandemic, leaders have asked people to celebrate the birth anniversary at home.RPI leader and Union minister for social justice Ramdas Athwale issued a press statement, saying, “Considering the present situation, citizens must remain at home. If people come out to celebrate and do not follow social distancing norms, it would create problems. Residents can hoist a flag at their homes on the 14th and prepare sweets and celebrate it indoors. Many festivals too have been cancelled during this period and hence, it is necessary to cancel the rallies and marches on April 14.”Nationalist Congress Party leader Sharad Pawar and deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar also appealed to the residents through social media to celebrate the birth anniversary at homes. Mahila Utkarsha Prathishthan’s Utkarsha Shelke said,“The birth anniversary of Dr Ambedkar should be celebrated by reading books. During this lockdown, it would be better to remain at home and read the books written by Dr Ambedkar. Activists can circulate such literature on social media so that people can read it on their mobile phones.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/celebrate-dr-ambedkar-s-birth-anniversary-on-apr-14-by-staying-at-home-reading-books-written-by-him-leaders/story-aciW4tDqByn1JbBc0njL9I.html
06-04-2020||Chandigarh||HP tourism industry demands special package to cope amid lockdown||The tourism industry stakeholders here have demanded a special package from the state government to sustain the Covid-19 lockdown period.Association president Mohinder Seth said that it might take at least 12 to18 months to bring the Himachal tourism industry back on the rails even after normalisation. This is because the main contributing states, including Maharashtra, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Delhi, and parts of south India are badly affected due to the coronavirus crisis.The association has demanded that the relief package should cover water, electricity, sewerage cess and garbage collection fees, besides property tax and demand charges by state power board.Apart from this, the body has asked the government to consider liberal working capital limits, term loans and enhancement of existing limits with nominal rate of interest.“The country-wide lockdown due to Covid-19 ahead of summer has dealt a blow to the tourism industry which is dependent on seasonal business. The sustainability of tourism units – hotels, travel agents, restaurants, taxi operators – is hanging in the balance as 100 % bookings for the coming season have been cancelled,” said Seth.There has been a steep decline in the inflow of tourists and hotel occupancy suffered further due to online travel companies offering accommodation for as low as ₹400 to ₹500 per day. Due to this, the hotel industry had to fill the gap of operational costs of their units either by raising loans or by liquidating their deposits. More than 95% of tourism units in the state are small and medium enterprises. These units hardly have any cash reserves to ensure payment of staff salary, electricity and water bills, taxes, loan interest, rent, insurances and repair and maintenance costs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hp-tourism-industry-demands-special-package-to-cope-amid-lockdown/story-c3gyvicSCQCmZiBvfYh87L.html
06-04-2020||Mumbai||Railways’ isolation coaches likely to be moved to rural areas||After modifying around 20,000 coaches of its outstation trains into isolation wards that can accommodate more than three lakh beds for coronavirus patients, the Indian Railways is now planning to use them in the rural areas in the country.The Railway Board, which is the apex body of all the zonal railways, has asked the zones to identify locations which have minimal or no medical facilities to combat the virus outbreak. The isolation coaches will be moved to such areas.“Once prepared, the coaches can be moved to rural areas which lack proper medical facilities so that more people will be benefitted,” a Railway Board official said.Of the 20,000 isolation coaches, the Central and Western Railways will be converting 942 into isolation wards, of which 652 coaches will be available for Maharashtra. Central and Western Railways are identifying rural locations in the state where the coaches can be moved. However, the Central Railway (CR) plans to retain some coaches for the city. The coaches are being converted into isolation wards at Matunga and Lower Parel workshops, as well as at Wadi Bunder, Bandra Terminus and Lokmanya Tilak Terminus (LTT) railway depots in the city.“We are discussing and finalising a plan. The coaches are being converted but we plan to keep few coaches for Mumbai in case the cases surge further,” said a senior CR official.The railway ministry has also directed all the railway zones to ensure that every bed has an oxygen cylinder next to it, the toilets are clean, there is adequate distance between the beds, and enclosed reception counters with microphone and speakers are provided, along with other facilities, in all isolation ward coaches.The ministry has asked the railway zones to tie-up with all state governments and hospitals and provide the isolation ward coaches for interim duration to handle coronavirus patients.Meanwhile, the Central and Western Railways have also started making masks and protective equipment for its employees. CR has made 2,830 masks, while Western Railway (WR) has produced more than 1,000. The railways has also begun manufacturing of coverall suits. Zonal railways will also commence manufacturing of coverall suits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/railways-isolation-coaches-likely-to-be-moved-to-rural-areas/story-WdNNtXJa9Uj6CWYMTqGrzM.html
06-04-2020||Mumbai||P Chidambaram donates Rs 1 crore to govt hospital in Mumbai||Congress leader P Chidambaram on Monday donated Rs 1 crore to state-run St George Hospital, which has been converted into an exclusive facility to treat COVID-19 patients in the metropolis.The former Union minister has sent a letter to the director of the Maharashtra government’s medical education department informing about his donation of Rs 1 crore to the hospital from his MP Local Area Development Scheme, a state Congress spokesperson said here.An official of the deparment said the money donated by Chidambaram will be used to buy medical equipment and protective gear needed in the fight against coronavirus.It would be helpful for the state to purchase two digital portable X-ray machines, 10 para-monitors, four defibrillators, four suction machines and some 2,000 PPE (personal protective equipment) kits, among others, he said.Chidambaram is a Rajya Sabha member from Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/p-chidambaram-donates-rs-1-crore-to-govt-hospital-in-mumbai/story-svpFl2nynShm4Gp10gqLZJ.html
06-04-2020||Mumbai||Lockdown: Domestic workers struggle to make ends meet as families refuse to pay||Thousands of domestic workers in the city are struggling, with no work and hardly any money left to buy the essentials. Many women who do cooking and cleaning work in the apartments are now left to fend for themselves, as they have not received salaries from their employers after the lockdown was announced.“They have been out of work for a month now and while some people have given them their salaries, many others have denied giving them any money, as they have not been able to work. This has put many of them in a very difficult situation as they barely have money to buy food and essentials,” said Surendra Bansode, a city-based activist who works for the welfare of domestic workers.Neelam Jirve, who lost her husband to tuberculosis last week, travels from Vasai to Prabhadevi every day where she cooks in five households. With two children to fend for, Jirve is having a tough time making ends meet. “The people with whom I work have agreed to give me my salary, but there is no way I can collect it from them under this lockdown. They asked if they could transfer the money online, but I have no bank account or debit card for the same,” she added.Bansode said that while some NGOs and voluntary organisations are helping them with food, there is a lot of uncertainty about the coming days. “If they go out of their homes, they won’t be paid in the coming months. It is going to be an uphill battle,” he added. “There is so much uncertainty. We don’t know when the lockdown will be lifted,” said a 38-year-old woman who works as a house help in Borivli.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/lockdown-domestic-workers-struggle-to-make-ends-meet-as-families-refuse-to-pay/story-aB6zzwdUyQYnivAJoCMtEJ.html
06-04-2020||City||MEDD report: 73% local transmission cases; 31-40 age group most infected||Pune: The Medical Education and Drugs Department (MEDD) data for Pune district from March 9, when the first Covid-19 case was reported in Pune city, to April 4 states that out of the 83 positive cases detected, 23 are from the age group of 31-40 years old.Medical Education and Drugs Department that comes under Maharashtra’s directorate of medical education is responsible for medical education, health care and research in the field of medicine, control of drugs and prevention of food adulteration.The MEDD data also reveals that out of the 83 cases, 61 or 73% are through local or community transmission within the city, followed by 10% from travel history to Dubai.While chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had announced state lockdown from March 24, the cases of local transmission or community transmission calls for study by experts.Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram said, “As social distancing is difficult in congested areas, we are providing institutional quarantine for positive cases if they do not have the space at their own homes.”The data shows 14 cases in the 41-50 age group, though fatality rate is more among senior citizens due to low immunity and multiple health conditions. Out of the five deaths reported in the city, two are above 60 while the other three are above 50. The data also states that 53 out of the 83 Covid-19 cases are males while remaining are females.Graphic:Source: MEDD reportGender cases percentFemale 30 36Male 53 64Total 83 100Age wise distribution0-10 year: 111-20 year: 621-30 year: 1131-40 year: 2341-50 year: 1451-60 year: 1261-70 year: 1171-80 year: 5Travelled country of Covid-19 casesTravel country No. of cases %Abu Dhabi 1 1Dubai 8 10Philippines 2 2Thailand (Phuket) 1 1Tokyo 1 1US 3 4Amsterdam (Netherlands) 1 1Scotland 1 1Ireland 1 1London 1 1US and Qatar 1 1South Africa 1 1 Contacts 61 73Total 83 100 (approximately)Lab accredited for Covid-19 test in Pune NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF VIROLOGYBJ MEDICAL COLLEGE PUNEARMED FORCES MEDICAL COLLEGE PUNERELIGARE LABORATORYMETROPOLISTHYROCAREAG DIAGNOSTICSSUBURBANHN RELIANCE||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/medd-report-73-local-transmission-cases-31-40-age-group-most-infected/story-Qpnypsnj80dDP59GfA2C9L.html
06-04-2020||City||Lockdown: Vasai vegetable market closed for 4 days||The Palghar collector Dr Kailash Shinde has ordered closure of all vegetable and fruit markets in Vasai-Virar from April 6 to 9 April, as there were instances of overcrowding in the stalls. The hand carts selling the vegetables also will not be allowed.The order was issued on Sunday. Earlier, the vendors were allowed to sell fruits and vegetables door-to-door, and were also allowed to set up stalls in housing societies for two hours daily. But after collectors’ orders, they will also be prohibited. Over 17 positive cases and 2 deaths have been recorded in Vasai-Virar so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lockdown-vasai-vegetable-market-closed-for-4-days/story-G11F7RG1vAo24TPVpgGtFK.html
06-04-2020||City||Cancellation due to lockdown: Govt should step in to help consumers get full refund||It’s really unfortunate that the aviation and hospitality sectors are refusing to return consumers’ money, following cancellation of bookings caused by the unprecedented three-week countrywide lockdown to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Ironically, as far as airlines are concerned, consumers did not even have to make the cancellation. All flights were cancelled by the airlines themselves, following the government’s decision to suspend all domestic passenger flights from the midnight of March 24, 2020. Yet, they are unwilling to refund the amount and want consumers to re-schedule their travel plans. The only concession that they are offering is waiver of re-scheduling charges! But there is a catch here too – the re-scheduling has to be done within a particular time frame – some are offering credit notes valid for a limited period. But that’s not all – if the rescheduled tickets are higher than what is paid for, then the consumer has to bear the additional burden! This is totally unfair, particularly in these uncertain times when nobody really knows when the pandemic will come under control and one can travel without the fear of catching the infection. So for all you know, the ‘credit notes’ may well expire without the consumer making that trip. Besides, once the airlines begin their operations, the demand for travel will be so high that the fares are bound to skyrocket. So eventually, consumer is the loser! Consumers are getting a raw deal from the hospitality industry too. Many hotels are pointing to their terms and conditions to collect hefty charges from consumers for cancellation. If you want to escape such penalty, you can re-schedule your booking, but here again, if the room charges are higher during that period, you have to pay the difference. Consumers feel that they are being penalized for no fault of theirs. Ram Prasad, for example, was part of a 25-member group that planned an engineering college reunion at a holiday resort in Karnataka. Since it was a large booking, the hotel wanted in advance, 50% of the room charges. Following the lockdown, the group cancelled the booking. But the hotel is refusing to return the money and asking them to re-schedule their trip, within a certain specified period. Here too, there’s a condition attached to it -- that the group will pay higher charges if the room rents have gone up. The group does not want to reschedule because it is not easy for so many to come together, given their work schedules. Besides, many in the group are entrepreneurs, who have been hit hard financially by the lockdown and are not interested in the reunion anymore and want their money back. Prasad and his group are not alone. Many hotels are pointing to the terms and conditions of booking and refusing to refund the money on cancellation. First of all, these are standard terms and conditions which can be challenged if they are unfair and also if the hotel never brought them to the notice of the consumer at the time of booking. But more important, here the cancellation has been done under exceptional circumstances beyond the control of the consumer. In fact, the consumer is forced to stay home, by law, on account of the lockdown declared by the government (and also to prevent the spread of the coronavirus) and given this situation, hotels cannot enforce their terms and conditions, even if the consumer had seen them, agreed to them and signed on them.Consumers can go to the consumer courts on these issues, but considering the extraordinary and unparalleled circumstances, the government should step in and ensure that consumers get the full refund, without their having to wage a long legal battle. The Indian Railways is giving full refund for all journeys from March 21 to April 14. Why shouldn’t others follow suit?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cancellation-due-to-lockdown-govt-should-step-in-to-help-consumers-get-full-refund/story-WkRbe4DrBDzE1itnisY03H.html
06-04-2020||City||Death in times of lockdown: Ashes of dead piling up at Haryana cremation grounds||With the Haryana borders sealed in order to contain the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) spread, bereaved families are finding it difficult to immerse the ashes of their loved ones in the Ganges.The district administrations have asked the families to keep the ashes with them till the normalcy returns, while banning the gathering of more than 20 people at a funeral.Many, however, have started immersing the ashes of the cremated in Yamuna and Saraswati rivers that flow through the state.“We had to immerse the ashes of my father in the Yamuna as we could not cross the border to reach Haridwar,” said Vinod Kumar, a resident of Nandi Khalsa village in Karnal.Similarly, Harish Dhawan of Yamunanagar’s Antawa said, “When we reached the Uttarakhand border, police stopped us and we had to perform the last rites of my father-in-law at Sukartal Tirth on the Haryana-Uttar Pradesh border.”Even the ashes of more than 1,200 unclaimed bodies, which were cremated by an NGO in Karnal, Jan Sewa Dal, have piled up at local cremation grounds.“We go to Haridwar for immersion twice a year. This time, we had decided to immerse the ashes on April 12, one day before Baisakhi. However, we will wait till the lockdown is lifted,” said Raj Kumar Arora, a member of the organisation. Karnal deputy commissioner (DC) Nishant Yadav said, “Nobody is allowed to cross the border. In fact, the ghats at Haridwar are also shut. People could keep the ashes with them and could immerse them later.”On asking if any movement pass is being issued for the purpose, the DC said, “We have no problem in issuing passes for movement within the state. But, crossing the border is prohibited. It’s better for the families to wait.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/death-in-times-of-lockdown-ashes-of-dead-piling-up-at-haryana-cremation-grounds/story-KEeKDydUd0QVU4drC5jJOM.html
06-04-2020||Pune||War against Covid-19 myths has Pune scientists helping world keep it real||Under the umbrella of Indian Scientists’ Response to Covid-19 (ISRC), a team of scientists, graphic designers and translators from around the country have also come together to bust myths, hoaxes and superstitions surrounding the virus. Professor and astronomer Surhad More from Inter-University Centre for Astronomy and Astrophysics (Iucaa) has developed software to translate from text to images, the information regarding Covid-19 (coronavirus) that is being collated from all around the globe. These images are being “translated” into 16 different languages.“We are group of scientists, collectively trying to respond to the Covid-19 pandemic, this involves trying to burst myths on social media, trying to take the data, and go through newly available literature how they can be used to inform the public, part of the motivation having behind the group,” said More.The group aims to communicate evidence-based scientific understanding to the society in times of uncertainty.In a statement issued on Saturday, R Ramanujam, theoretical computer scientist at the Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai, and coordinator of the ISRC, said, that the group started with about 10 and now has 400 scientists, engineers, social scientists and journalists from different parts of India. “A nanometre sized virus has brought the world to its heels. For the person on the street, this is hard to fathom. Our group not only tries to debunk the hoaxes that are going viral but is also spreading general scientific awareness by various other means. This is critical since the success of measures coming from the government depends on citizens playing their role rationally,” he said.Biologist Sandhya Koushika of the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research always wanted to be a part of the something that clears misunderstandings about Covid-19 in simple language. “ISRC’s grassroots effort has brought together knowledgeable and enthusiastic people invested in the same goals. Coordinating the hoax busting team has been rewarding,” she said.Myths bustedThere is no evidence to suggest mosquitoes transmit the Sars-Cov-2 according to the ISRC hoax busters. It is a respiratory virus which spreads primarily through droplets generated when an infected person coughs or sneezes, or through droplets of saliva or discharge from the nose. Several astrologers and spiritual masters have claimed that the calendar followed by the spread of coronavirus follows a certain pattern that can be predicted by astrology. Countering this claim the hoax busters have released social media material making it clear that the motion of planets do not impact human bodies and tiny microorganisms. Moreover, they say, there is no evidence of any influence of eclipses and calendrical objects like Nakshatra and Rahu on human life. There is no connection, whatsoever, between astrological beliefs and the spread of epidemics, they warn.How to access?The hoax busting messages in English and 14 Indian languages are available at the ISRC group website: https://indscicov.in/busting-hoaxes/. The short and simple social media messages are available for downloading and sharing freely and have been designed in collaboration with the Association of Designers of India. The website also hosts detailed responses with additional references to scientific evidence and technical manuscripts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/war-against-covid-10-myths-has-pune-scientists-helping-world-keep-it-real/story-4ntkJ8hZixrLDTOQNUvT0O.html
06-04-2020||City||Covid-19 ‘safety station’ set up at Sangrur before wheat procurement||A coronavirus ‘safety station’ has been set up at the local administrative complex for sanitisation of farmers, commission agents, labour force and administration officials before the wheat procurement season.Though this station is part of the district administration’s pilot project, more will be set up soon, said Ghanshyam Thori, deputy commissioner.Heavy footfall was likely at the grain markets with wheat arrivals expected from April 10 and it was necessary to ensure the safety of farmers and others involved in the process, Thori said.Sangrur contributes more than 10% wheat share in Punjab’s basket.A four-step process will be followed to sanitise people passing through the station: First, an infrared thermal scanner will record the person’s temperature. Those with fever will be sent to the Civil Hospital’s flu centre. The next step includes washing hands in a basin with foot-operated taps. Then a concentrated sodium hypochlorite (bleach) solution mixture will be sprayed on the person, who will then go into a booth with ceiling fans and hand dryers to “dry up.”“Hands and clothes will be dried without towel use as that can increase the risk of contamination. The safety system can easily sanitise four to five persons in a minute,” Thori added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-safety-station-set-up-at-sangrur-before-wheat-procurement/story-AwQFSghEFO7LeCGa0lGERL.html
06-04-2020||City||Shimla under lockdown, hungry monkeys head for villages, forests||Wild animals, such as leopards, sambars and even elephants, are roaming the streets of locked down cities like Chandigarh and Dehradun these days but Shimla has a different tale to tell.Twelve days into the lockdown effected to check the spread of the coronavirus disease, and Shimla, which is home to an estimated 1,900 monkeys, is seeing the simians shifting base back to forests and periphery villages.Shimla divisional forest officer, wildlife, Rajesh Sharma, says, “This is a temporary phase. They will be back once the hustle-bustle of the town returns. Over the years, the monkeys developed commensal habits by feeding on garbage, street-food waste and raiding homes. With shops, restaurants and eateries closed for almost a fortnight, their source of food has depleted.”Commensalism is a long-term biological interaction in which members of one species gain benefits, while those of the other species neither benefit nor are harmed.Of the simians, most langoors have headed back to the forest in search of food, while most monkeys have chosen to settle down in villages on Shimla’s outskirts. In the forest, monkeys become omnivores, feeding on rats and insects but in cities, they develop commensal habits, living off hand-me-downs and left-overs.MISSING FROM JAKHU!It’s strange to visit the Hanuman Temple in Shimla’s Jakhu Hills without monkeys for company. The temple priest, who performs the rituals in the absence of devotees these days, says he has never come across such a sight in his four decades at the temple.“At any given time, about 500 monkeys would roam in and around the Jakhu temple but now they have simply vanished,” says Anil Thakur, who stays near the temple and runs a travel business.The monkeys have made their way to the nearby jungle.CHALLENGE FOR FARMERSThe monkeys that frequented the Sankat Mochan temple at the entry of Shimla town have taken refuge in Rajhana village and adjoining Anandpur panchayat of 12 villages. Farmers are worried as the simians tend to feed on seasonal vegetable crops of pea, cauliflower, cabbage, radish and carrot.“These monkeys are now finding it difficult to survive. I have noticed a behavioural change in them. While most of them have shifted from Shimla town to the rural areas, those who chose to stay behind are turning aggressive,” says retired forest officer Kuldeep Singh Tanwar, who also heads the Kisan Sabha, a conglomerate of farmer bodies that ran a statewide campaign against the growing wild animal problem.VIRUS DOES WHAT GOVT COULDN’TFor three decades, the wildlife wing of the forest department struggled to curb the growing monkey population across the state, particularly in Shimla, but in vain.Besides the sterilisation drive, primate parks were set up, food zones for monkeys were notified, and even monkey watchers, armed with air guns and catapults, were appointed to scare the simians away but nothing worked.The monkeys are a problem in several localities such as Chhota Shimla, Jakhu, Sanjauli, Lower Bazaar, Brockhurst, Khalini, Annandale, Kaithu, Summer Hill, Boileauganj, Porters Hill, Observatory Hill, Lower and Main Mall Road.In 2016, the state government urged the Centre to declare monkeys vermin in Shimla and a notification was issued that allowed state forest authorities and people to cull monkeys but it never took off as simians are venerated in honour of the Hindu monkey god, Hanuman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shimla-under-lockdown-hungry-monkeys-head-for-villages-forests/story-2HypP627pBShJJ0vRWJguI.html
06-04-2020||Mumbai||Provide facilities for migrants as per SC ensure steps to control virus spread: HC to Aurangabad administration||Taking cognisance of the plight of 50-60 labourers who despite having been accommodated at a zilla parishad school are not getting proper facilities, the Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court (HC) has directed the Aurangabad administration to take the help of voluntary organisations to comply with the directions of the Supreme Court (SC) on the issue of migrants. These labourers were sheltered in the school after they were stopped by the police when they were walking to their homes in Madhya Pradesh from various areas in Aurangabad.The court also directed the administration to investigate a message on social media that some foreigners were receiving treatment for Covid-19 in a private clinic and ensure that proper measures are initiated to avoid spread of the virus in the city.After news reports on the plight of the labourers sheltered at the school came to light, the bench of justice Prasanna Varale took up suo motu public interest litigation (PIL) to address the issue. While referring to the news reports, the court observed that though the mirgrants had been provided with food, the administration was not following the guidelines directed by the SC and the central government, and hence the authorities should rope in voluntary organisations for providing proper facilities to the labourers.The bench also admonished the Aurangabad municipal corporation for not taking cognisance of the message on social media which stated that some foreign nationals were receiving treatment for the Covid-19 virus in a private clinic. The court directed the authorities to investigate the message and if it was found to be true to take measures to contain the spread of the virus in the city.Referring to a report of health workers being pelted with stones in Indore, the bench directed the administrators to apply the provisions of the National Security Act if such an incident were to take place in Aurangabad. The bench however, added that to avoid imposing the stringent National Security Act, the administration should rope in reputed organisations and individuals to create awareness among the masses and avert a repeat of the Indore incident.The PIL was then posted for further hearing on Wednesday for which the administration, police and corporation were asked to make statements about their respective actions and measures initiated by them to contain the spread of the virus. The bench also appointed advocate Amol Joshi as amicus curiae to get first-hand information on the condition of the labourers and file a petition thereafter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/provide-facilities-for-migrants-as-per-sc-ensure-steps-to-control-virus-spread-hc-to-aurangabad-administration/story-8URCvxuvOz3wm5VzmlfLgN.html
06-04-2020||Pune||Monday Musings: Our best option is to stay safe, stay positive||A 12-year-old child I know has happily taken to doing the dishes with her dad after he showed her how it is done “the American way.” It’s far more efficient and effortless as compared to the Indian way and it’s become quite a fun thing to do.Since the domestic help is on a paid leave during the period of the national lockdown, she also helps with mopping the floor, operates the washing machine, and is learning to cook with her aunt and writing down those recipes.Life under the lockdown is boring without being able to go down to play with her friends; but on the brighter side, there are many fun things to do: do her favourite activities such as painting and sketching, continue with her Djembe classes over the Zoom app, watch movies and read books. She detests the television because of the dark clouds of Covid-19 over the entire world. The only option before us is to stay safe and stay positive, locked-up as we are in our homes during the lockdown. By now, almost everyone- upwards from the milkman and the newspaper vendor- is following safety precautions: masks are being used, hands are being washed with soap, physical distance is being maintained and we are largely staying indoors to contain the virus. Dealing with our mental state, especially with children and the elderly in the family is also a big challenge that needs to be addressed effectively. Two mental health experts from Maharashtra have made valuable suggestions: Dr Bhooshan Shukla advised in a tweet against TV watching to deal with the anxiety, alarm and sensation that is created by the news channels. Another mental health expert, Dr Anand Nadkarni, spoke at length in an interaction on the Marathi news channel, ABP Mazha on how families can stay mentally fit and positive during this lockdown. Learn to do new things, become creative and participate joyously in household chores such as washing vessels and cutting vegetables; let children do things on their own; give them the freedom to make a mess with their clay, paints or toys, and join them to clear the mess, he suggested. Since family members are spending the entire day in each other’s company, it’s a good time to become nostalgic about the past, he advised. This is particularly emotionally satisfying for our elderly parents and grandparents, he advised. Be flexible and accommodative with one another and let there be a sense of humour in our interactions. Let us be more accepting of ourselves and others. We can deal with our fears and anxiety by focusing on doing what is in our control, he advised. Finally, our objective should be to learn from this experience and come out as emotionally stronger human beings. The guidance from health experts on the safety measures against Covid-19, and the guidance from mental health experts on effectively dealing with this crisis as a family, are the only two pieces of advice that we need at the moment, I think.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/monday-musings-our-best-option-is-to-stay-safe-stay-positive/story-AypCk3EGR5xF0ze7KArlgP.html
06-04-2020||City||Coronavirus outbreak: Mumbai to get fever detection thermal cameras||The city may soon see fever detection thermal cameras installed in various areas, as part of the surveillance gear to tackle the spread of the coronavirus.The Mumbai Police are conducting trials for installation of the cameras, which will detect individuals with high body temperatures. The aim is to find suspected virus carriers. The home ministry said discussions on the implementation in Mumbai are on, after which a decision on replicating it same in other cities, if required, would be taken.Home minister Anil Deshmukh told HT: “For fever detection thermal cameras, we are in talks with Larsen & Toubro. L&T, along with the Mumbai Police, is working out ways to implement this technology here. The thermal cameras can help detect high body temperature, talks on the best possible locations are on.”Deshmukh added, “There is a shortage of several equipment and material, and for this, we are working with several stakeholders from various industries. We are taking help from the industries to help us tackle shortage of masks, ventilators and personal protective equipment. Globally, several bodies involved in defence manufacturing are also getting involved in manufacturing equipment required to deal with the coronavirus.”An individual who is likely to have the coronavirus shows symptoms such as fever, coughing, and breathlessness. However, many Covid-19 positive patients don’t show the symptoms because their immunity can stave off the infection, even though they are carrying the virus. Fever detection cameras have been used in China and several other countries. In China, security agencies also wear smart glasses, which help them ascertain the temperature of individuals from a certain distance.SN Subrahmanyan, CEO & MD, Larsen & Toubro, said, “L&T Smart World Communication has been working with various city administrations and state governments to effectively manage complex civic functions in metropolitan cities.” In Mumbai, L&T has been working on installation and operation of CCTVs along with the BMC’s Disaster Management Cell. The CCTVs and video analytics are being used to monitor 241 containment zones in the city, where positive cases have been ascertained.In a statement, L&T said it is helping the authorities combat Covid-19 through drone-based surveillance to keep eye on crowd formation and fever detection using thermal cameras at Mumbai. Between March 22, 2020 and April 03, Mumbai Police’s control room got 246 alerts of crowd gathering in the city, with 15-30 alerts daily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-outbreak-mumbai-to-get-fever-detection-thermal-cameras/story-GJDLRpJUZVTW20HKOrgXzO.html
06-04-2020||Bhopal||Bhopal reports 54 coronavirus cases after 14 more test positive||The number of coronavirus cases in Bhopal has gone up to 54, with 14 more patients being found in the Madhya Pradesh capital in the last 12 hours, an official said on Monday.The new patients comprise employees of the health department and police personnel, Chief Medical and Health Officer Sudhir Deharia said.Out of the total 54 patients, two have been discharged after recovery, he said, adding that one of the victims died during treatment at a private hospital on Sunday night.In the past one week, two IAS officers posted in the state health department, including a principal secretary, have tested positive for coronavirus.Some other health officials engaged in combating the deadly virus also tested positive for the disease in the state capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/bhopal-reports-54-coronavirus-cases-after-14-more-test-positive/story-wTwEV3UXMYq18Two2pfMWK.html
06-04-2020||Chandigarh||Amid lockdown, caretakers at Snehalaya, Chandigarh, become fathers and mothers for destitute children||Neelam Kumari, 39, last saw her teenaged children and husband at their home in Mauli Jagran 13 days ago before she moved 10 km away to a shelter home to be available round-the-clock for children living there after the coronavirus lockdown.About 16 other caretakers, apart from Kumari, known as ‘housemothers’ and ‘housefathers,’ are now living in three out of the city’s four shelter homes, Snehalaya for boys in Maloya and Snehalaya and Aashiana (adoption home) for girls in Sector 15 for the entirety of the lockdown period.For them, it means living apart from their families and extended work hours. “I have a 17-year-old daughter and 16-year-old son at home with my husband. No one knows how to cook so they struggle every day to make meals. However, they still support me because they know these destitute children need me more than they do,” says Kumari.The four shelter homes have over 300 children. As the lockdown was announced to curb the spread of coronavirus the UT social welfare department requested the caretakers to start living in shelter homes and work for 12 hours instead of eight.Caretakers camping in the shelter homes include nine out of 37 housemothers with three cooking staff at Snehalaya girls and Aashiana. Out of 25 caretakers, four housemothers and three housefathers stayed at Snehalaya boys from March 24 to March 31.“We are like the children’s parents and take care of their bathing, bedding, feeding and school work,” says 40-year-old Naresh.Pia, 15 (name changed), an orphan living in Snehalaya girls, says “I feel secure that the housemothers are living with us. I am happy that they don’t go out as this can be dangerous for them as well. Meri apni family nahi hai, jo hai bas yahi hai. (I don’t have my own family; they are all I have).”Aishwarya, 17 (name changed), is grateful to the caretakers. “My housemother helps me with my studies, my clothes, my hair and my hobbies. She tells me to wash my hands regularly and to wear a mask. She also told informed me about coronavirus.”About staying connected to her family, Praveen Kumari, 41, says, “My husband, son, mother and father-in-law are at home. We keep video calling each other through the day. My husband is very supportive. He is taking care of everyone at home.”Yashpal Garg, secretary, social welfare, says looking after the children “is our responsibility. We are also emotionally connected with the kids. It is just like our extended family.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/amid-lockdown-caretakers-at-snehalaya-chandigarh-become-fathers-and-mothers-for-destitute-children/story-aDP42vbh0pwaR5XR6462fK.html
06-04-2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Cantt core army area ‘complete lockdown’ brings life to standstill||The ‘complete lockdown’ in Lucknow Cantonment’s core army area brought life to a standstill on Sunday. Not only the army personnel were affected, but the move badly affected the population of more than 50,000 civilians residing in, and nearby, the core area.The Central Command had announced a ‘complete lockdown’ on Saturday, a day after 12 persons were found coronavirus positive in Kasaibada locality of Sadar area in Cantonment, which is near the army core area.Though emergency services and supply of essential goods like milk and vegetables were excluded from the 48-hour lockdown (from Saturday midnight to Monday midnight), the civilians of the area termed it even worse than curfew.Other than the core army area, areas like Tope Khana, Rajman Bazaar, Bahadur Shah Road, Kastoorba Road, Sardar Patel Road, Subhash Marg, some parts of Nehru Road, Sanjog Kshetra Vihar Colony, Nirbhay Vihar Colony etc were affected by the lockdown.“The population of around 50,000 to 80,000, largely civilians, got badly affected during the lockdown that was initiated without giving prior information,” said Pramod Sharma, former vice chairman, Cantonment Board, and present member of the board.Sharma, who resides in Tope Khana Bazaar area, said fearing the complete lockdown, the shop owners dealing in essential goods and groceries who used to open their shops during the national lockdown, didn’t turn up to open their shops.“Not a single shop opened today (Sunday), be it medical store, grocery shop or those dealing in milk, bread, eggs etc. The market remained completely closed,” added Sharma.He said the army should at least allow movement of locals, including families of defence personnel, till nearby vegetable markets. Some civilians called it even worse than curfew as most of them were not even allowed to move out of their houses to but medicines from medical stores. Some locals also blamed army personnel for restricting their movement within the colony premises. “We were asked to stay indoors. Two army personnel took control of the colony gate and asked us to stay indoors. They also restricted the entry of cleaning staff,” a resident of Nirbhay Vihar Colony said.Defence officials said the decision was taken as a precautionary measure, which is part of the exercises that are being conducted pan-India to reduce contact with civilians and outer environment after the coronavirus outbreak.Under the move, some practices like banning the entry of civilians into unit lines, sanitising persons and vehicles, distancing oneself from individuals and limiting interaction are being followed across the country to check ‘contamination’ among soldiers.Gargi Malik, public relations officer (PRO), defence, said, “No curfew has been imposed in Cantonment area. Yes, there is a ‘complete lockdown’ in Cantonment since March 25, except for essential services. And following the detection of coronavirus positive cases in Sadar, it has been declared ‘out of bounds’ for army personnel.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/lucknow-cantt-core-army-area-complete-lockdown-brings-life-to-standstill/story-mHwUeI5AGgWWIqye5KKS2N.html
06-04-2020||Lucknow||Sadar Bazaar Lucknow ‘out of bounds’ for armymen||The Central Command Headquarters on Sunday declared Sadar Bazaar ‘out of bounds’ for army personnel, terming it ‘unsafe’ for them. The area will remain ‘out of bounds’ for the armymen of all ranks till further orders.The Central Command’s move comes two days after 12 Tablighi Jamaat members, who were camping in a mosque in the area, tested coronavirus positive.“In the wake of the frequent coronavirus cases from Sadar Bazaar area, the area has been declared ‘out of bounds’ for the soldiers,” said Gargi Malik, public relations officer (PRO), defence, Lucknow.“In military terms order of ‘out of bounds’ is generally passed to restrict movement of troops, temporarily or permanently, into an area where they are not supposed to go. It could be for an area, the exposure to which is not good for the soldiers. It’s like protecting our troops from falling prey to any social evil, mentally or physically,” said lieutenant general RP Shahi, chief of staff (retired), Central Command.Central Command officials, meanwhile, said the ‘out of bounds’ order is an outcome of a pan-India exercise of the army that aims at cutting down the chances of the disease infecting the troops. “And declaring Sadar Bazaar area ‘out of bounds’ is part of the same exercise under which efforts are being made to reduce contact of army personnel with civilians,” an official, who didn’t wish to be named, said.Sadar Bazaar, one of the oldest general markets in Cantonment area, is also nearest to the core army area. Some locals said Sadar, being the biggest market, used to be the most preferred places for the defence personnel, who often used to visit the market to make brisk purchases of vegetables, fruits, milk, medicines, electronic goods and groceries. But apprehending the possibility of army personnel getting infected with coronavirus, the area has been declared ‘out of bounds’ for them.This is not the first time that an area has been declared ‘out of bounds’ for soldiers. Similar orders have been issue in the past too.Some retired defence personnel said it was around four years’ back that Tope Khana Bazaar -- another prominent market in Cantonment area -- was declared ‘out of bounds’ for soldiers after some financial ‘issue arose between a group of army personnel and shopkeepers. Similarly, they said, areas especially some colonies surrounding Cantonment Race Course, which were infamous for selling of illicit liquor and even flesh trade, were also declared ‘out of bounds’ for the soldiers almost a decade back. They said this is a British era norm that is often enforced from time to time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/sadar-bazaar-lucknow-out-of-bounds-for-armymen/story-IiLZ7KYsrntGTQbsuKuNRL.html
06-04-2020||Lucknow||Lock-down impact: Zoo carnivores forced to eat frozen meat||The pan-India lock-down to contain spread of Sars-Cov-2 has not only brought human life to grinding halt but also adversely affected animals, both strays and caged.The carnivorous inmates of the Nawab Wajid Ali Shah Zoological Garden in Lucknow are forced to feed on frozen meat instead of fresh, which they got earlier.Zoo officials said the lockdown had badly affected the supplies of fruits, veggies, fodder and meat to the zoo that houses 1,000 animals, including birds and reptiles. The zoo authorities managed to restore the supplies of fodder, vegetables and fruits since the local markets are allowed to operate during lockdown. But the supply of meat is yet to be restored to normal.Of the total animals lodged in the zoo, around 45 are carnivorous. Zoo officials said around 200 kg meat per day was needed to feed the animals once. But the supply first got disrupted on March 22, when Prime Minister Narendra Modi gave the ‘Janata Curfew’ call to laud the efforts of medics. “On that day, we somehow managed. But a day after (on March 23) the UP government announced three-day-lockdown (till March 25) in around 16 districts of Uttar Pradesh to contain the virus outbreak and a day later the PM announced the national lock-down. Hence all the local meat suppliers refused to meet the whopping demand of 200kg meat a day.“It was a panic situation for us. We tried contacting a few slaughterhouses in neighbouring districts. In Unnao we finally found a slaughterhouse which agreed to supply us frozen meat. It indeed turned out to be a saviour,” said RK Singh, zoo director.Some officials said the effect of feeding on frozen meat was quite visible on the animals also . Mubarak Ali, one of the oldest zoo staffers who has been feeding carnivores for almost 30 years now, too believes the same. Some officials said, “Unlike previous days when the fresh meat used to be served, the animals, eating frozen meat, no more greet the feeders with excitement.”Apart from the ‘meat crisis’, financial issues are an added problem. “Ours is not a state government zoo. It’s managed by the Prince of Wales Zoological Garden Trust and we solely depend upon the ticket income. But following the lock-down, our income came to a standstill. The director said following the closure of the zoo it had become difficult to pay the salaries of the staff. “We pay around Rs 55 lakh as salary and spend Rs 35 lakh on food and repairs every month. Hence it would be tough for us to survive if the condition persists,” he added.As per historians, Nawab Wajid Ali Shah Zoological Garden was initially a zoological park and was established on November 29, 1921 in order to commemorate the arrival of the Prince of Wales to Lucknow.“The park was conceived by the then Governor Sir Harcourt Butler and the complex was established in the 18th century by Nawab Nasiruddin Haider, the then nawab of Oudh. Initially, it was known as Banarasi Bagh and the Nawabs of spent their leisure time amid lush greenery,” said Padmashree Yogesh Praveen, a noted historian.During the British rule, the nobility spent their evenings here, added Praveen. The zoo records suggest that the park was established between 1921 to 1926, comprising 26 buildings, at the total cost of Rs 2,08,800. In 1966, its administrative control was given to the forest department and the advisory was reorganized and the principal secretary, forest and chief wildlife guardian was made the administrator of this advisory. In 2001, the zoological park was changed from ‘Prince of Wales Zoological Gardens Trust’ to Lucknow Zoological Garden. The zoo management said it would approach the chief minister, demanding adequate meat supply to feed the animals. “This is the only option left with us to save our zoo,” officials added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/lock-down-impact-zoo-carnivores-forced-to-eat-frozen-meat/story-EhSeQ49i8Sz3DZUyUWdMaM.html
06-04-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: Proust questionnaire with Rakhshanda Jalil||The Proust Questionnaire represents a confessional game that owes its structure to answers given by celebrated French writer Marcel Proust in two parties that he attended at ages 13 and 20 in the late 19th century.We bring these Parisian parlour confessions into the Indian capital to explore people’s lives, thoughts, values and experiences. In a series, we interview folks from diverse backgrounds.So today, say hello to Rakhshanda Jalil. An author, literary critic and an acclaimed translator of classic works, she often shares her bakery experiments as well as reading experiences with friends on Facebook. These days, she is coping with coronavirus-induced isolation in her lovely central Delhi residence with her husband and two daughters. “I have inverted my circadian rhythm in these days of lockdown; I sleep during the day and am up all night reading, watching Netflix and Amazon and reminiscing, mostly about a fun-filled childhood with my siblings.” For the first time in a very long time, she says, she is doing absolutely no writing, not even translation. “Oh, yes, I am also losing a lot of friends ... to the virus of communalism.”Your favorite virtue or the principal aspect of your personalityThey are two different things. To answer the latter, without doubt, it is to be loved unconditionally by those closest to meYour favorite qualities in a manIntelligenceYour favorite qualities in a womanEmpathy, kindnessYour chief characteristicI bounce back and find something to doWhat do you appreciate the most in your friends?When they stand by me – especially when I am down and outYour main faultQuick to judge, quicker to get angryYour favorite occupationWriting, writing, writingYour idea of happinessWhen the thoughts are in full flow, when I have written a para of two of good writing, good by my own standards, that makes me sigh with satisfactionYour idea of misery or what would be your greatest misfortune?To, God forbid, lose or somehow be distanced from my familyIf not yourself, who would you be?A gardener; to plant seeds in the soil, watch them sprout and grow is the greatest marvelWhere would you like to live?Ideally, in a cottage in the hills with a little patch of a garden; But I guess I am doomed to live in this benighted city.Your favourite colour and flowerFavourite colour: redI love the narcissus for their delicate beauty and tremulous fragrance. They come to us in Delhi for a very short while tied in bunches with a bit of a twine. Called Nargis in Urdu, they are a popular trope in Urdu poetry and used as a simile for the seeing eye (nargisi ankhein). And then there are the divine nargis kofte too: hardboiled eggs wrapped in mince, cut open and served in a flavoursome gravy. Sublime!Your favorite birdSunbird; it is quick and agile, I love the way the sun glints off its small, shiny, compact body.Your favorite prose authorsThe Urdu writer Intizar Husain – for the way he fashioned stories, the expressions and idioms he used culled from what was once a real, spoken Urdu and a living literary culture, and the fact that he has single-handedly crafted a new literary sensibility.Your favorite poetsOh, too many but chiefly, in English: T. S. Eliot. W. B. Yeats, John Keats; and in Urdu: Faiz, Iqbal, Ghalib, Mir and from recent times Shahryar and Zehra NigahYour favorite heroes in fictionOdysseus from Homer’s Odyssey; not for the wars he fought but the adventures he had on his way home!Your favorite heroines in fictionAlice from Alice in Wonderland… nothing fazed her ever! She refused to be either daunted or depressed, took every strange occurrence in her stride, and remained cheerful and, more importantly, curious and questioning all through her adventures.Your favorite composersI have been listening rather a lot to the Sabri brothers recentlyYour favorite paintersAmrita Sher-Gill, Frida Kahlo and I absolutely adore A Ramachandran and his ‘Lotus pond’ series.Your heroes/heroines in real lifeJawaharlal Nehru: there is nothing not to like in the man. I admire his erudition, his humanity, his elegance, his leadership and most importantly his writings – be it his big books or the letters and notes he wrote even to the most casual of acquaintances or virtual stranger. Also, Dr Rashid Jahan whose biography I wrote: a feminist writer, activist, doctor, a complete human being.What characters in history do you most dislike?Hitler rather obviously but all those kings and emperors as well as modern-day politicians and leaders who foolishly, and proudly, rushed into wars that caused thousands to die as collateral damage.Your heroines in World historyThe British suffragettes who fought for the most basic of rights for women: the right to voteYour favorite food and drinkParatha with aam ka achar; coconut waterYour favorite namesTara, Ali, BenazirWhat do you hate the most?BigotryThe military event you admire the mostCannot ever admire a military event; the idea of military intervention goes against everything I hold dear. There is no nobility or glory in war.The reform you admire the mostReforms in the Anti-Dowry Act introduced in the early 1980s; any unnatural death of a woman within seven years of marriage merits an investigationThe natural talent you’d like to be gifted withSingingHow do you wish to die?In my own home, and as painlessly as possible. Just as the Believer has been promised death, like fragrance leaving the flower – as an aunt told me by way of solace when my father passed away suddenly sitting in his favourite armchair, talking to my mother.What is your present state of mind?Anguished. I see images of the indigent and migrant taking the long walk home, and I am sick at heart. There are two Indias peopled with those who can afford social distancing, stock up on groceries and sanitisers and those who can’t; those who can stand on their balconies and clang thalis and blow conches and those who are marooned on highways with no food or shelter.Faults for which you have the most toleranceCynicismYour motto in lifeBe the Change||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-proust-questionnaire-with-rakhshanda-jalil/story-wrUYLEhGke6zNwpgwiJSaO.html
06-04-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: The call of duty||Shobha Devi pleaded, cajoled and finally started crying, asking him not to leave the house. She also reminded her husband that “Modiji”, the prime minister himself, had asked the citizens not to step out of the “Lakshman Rekha” of home during the lockdown caused by the coronavirus pandemic.Shailesh Singh, 35, understood his wife’s anxieties but left nevertheless, with a heavy heart, to perform his duty. A security officer in a Gurugram apartment complex, “I could not sit at home and let my colleagues on their own… I have several guards working under me... where would they find motivation if I stayed home?”One early morning, Mr Singh is talking on WhatsApp from the grounds of the said apartment complex—the picture is taken through the phone screen that connects him to this reporter. In a smoothly flowing Hindi, the soft-spoken man explains that he, along with other security staff, is stationed 24/7 in the apartment complex. “We guards cook our meals together.” He adds that the housing complex’s resident welfare association is “providing our rations and the caring board members are looking after us like their own children.”Though his family is staying only a few miles away, in a house they rent in Sainik Khera village, Mr Singh isn’t going to meet them for the time being “just in case I have the virus — I don’t want to pass it on to them.”This has been a sensitive time at work. “We don’t let anyone without a mask and we are taking the temperature of everyone entering or leaving the complex.”Mr Singh admits he feels scared of catching the infection himself. “The nature of the job is such that you have to come into close contact with so many people... and though we are taking all precautions, there is always a risk of the virus getting to you in a way or another.”He however takes pains not to discuss such insecurities with his wife, with whom he exchanges phone calls at least a few times a day “for I don’t want to add to her tensions.” Before he left the house on the eve of the lockdown, Mr Singh bought Shobha Devi several weeks worth of ration, while “she manages to buy fresh vegetables daily.”His face covered behind a mask, the security guard explains it is the first time he has been away from his wife since their marriage in 2006. “My sons are missing me too.” Aman, 12, often calls him on the mobile and Aryan, 9, says, “Papa, ghar aa jao (come home).”Then there are also worried phone calls from his home town, Gaya, in Bihar. “Bhayya and bhabhi want me to return with the family. I can’t. But we will visit for a holiday, after the lockdown ends.”Duty comes first, Mr Singh repeats. He is not romantic about bravery though, he clarifies. “I’m a human being and I greatly fear for my personal safety.” He also realises the comparative value of a man’s worth. “For people living in the apartment complex, I’m just a part of the security, but for my family I’m the sansar (world).A minute after this chat, he WhatsApps a picture of his “sansar”—wife Shobha Devi and sons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-the-call-of-duty/story-wObgDRAAw61nFsTe72skSK.html
06-04-2020||Delhi||Delhi Police urges Muslims to stay at home on Shab-e-Barat amid Covid-19 lockdown||The Delhi Police on Sunday urged Muslims to stay indoors on the upcoming Shab-e-Barat in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak.Shab-e-Barat, also known as the night of forgiveness, will be observed on April 8.Members of the Muslim community visit graveyards to remember their relatives who more.On Twitter, the Delhi Police shared a poster urging people to support them in the fight against Covid-19 by staying indoors.In its appeal, the police said lockdown is in force even on the sacred night of Shab-e-Barat.“Don’t misuse it by coming out on motorcycles and creating chaos on the streets of Delhi,” the poster read.The police also asked for cooperation from religious leaders and RWAs in maintaining the lockdown.“Unlawful behaviour will not be tolerated. Violators will face stern action. Observe the occasion solemnly,” the poster added.On March 24, Prime Minister Narendra Modi declared a country-wide lockdown for 21 days to contain the spread of coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-police-urges-muslims-to-stay-at-home-on-shab-e-barat-amid-covid-19-lockdown/story-Q6jEVaC6q04SfrBNYL24YJ.html
06-04-2020||Kolkata||Bengal Governor urges Mamata to work together with PM to combat Covid-19||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Sunday urged Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee to work together with Prime Minister Narendra Modi to combat the coronavirus threat. The governor also expressed regret over the state government not informing him about the steps taken to tackle the deadly virus. “The entire world is fighting this pandemic. This is not the time to hold on to political differences but to forget those and work together as one. “It would have been good had the chief minister attended the recent video conference by the PM. I would request her to work together with the Centre in combating the disease,” he said, while responding to the prime minister appeal to switch off lights at homes at 9 pm. The electric lights of the Raj Bhavan were switched off at 9 pm for nine minutes to express solidarity with the people at the forefront of the fight against COVID-19. The governor said he has not been updated about the steps being taken by the state government in combating the disease. “I am not complaining but I think I should have been informed,” he said. Dhankhar, who has been at the loggerheads with the state government on a range of issues since taking charge in July last year, had recently praised the chief minister for her efforts in fighting the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bengal-governor-urges-mamata-to-work-together-with-pm-to-combat-covid-19/story-moQvz2UMUSYvo48NhJxE9I.html
06-04-2020||Kolkata||Jadavpur University working on three-layer fabric masks using low-cost materials||Researchers at Jadavpur University have developed a prototype of a three-layer fabric mask using low-cost and readily available materials, amid the growing demand for such safety equipment to combat the dreaded coronavirus.The varsity’s Centre for Appropriate Social Technologies (CAST), an idea incubation centre, has prepared the preliminary version working on a “simple procedure” and with materials mostly available at home, it said in a statement.The two outer layers of the mask are made of polypropylene fabric, while a cotton towel forms the inner portion.“Majority of the droplets caused by sneezing will be screened by this mask, which would also cause no difficulty in breathing for a person,” the JU statement said.Further experimentation on bigger scale can be carried out when the university laboratories are accessible once the lockdown phase is over, it said.“The three-layer mask can be made very easily using any suitable method -- a sewing machine or even by hand,” it added.Two researchers at the School of Medical Science and Technology, IIT Kharagpur, had recently come up with the prototype of a face shield for health workers attending to COVID-19 cases.The face shield is a transparent plastic protective cover attached to an elastic gear.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/jadavpur-university-working-on-three-layer-fabric-masks-using-low-cost-materials/story-aQ5O2Uj4IpaRIcSXdEOrXJ.html
06-04-2020||City||Man dies escaping from sixth floor of Karnal hospital, tests negative for Covid-19 hours later||KARNAL: A 55-year-old man from Panipat slipped and fell to his death while escaping from the sixth floor of the Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College and Hospital building early on Monday.Karnal superintendent of police Surender Singh Bhoria said that Shiv Charan of Noorpur village in Panipat district was trying to escape from the isolation ward of the hospital by using bedsheets as a rope but fell accidentally.He died on the spot.Hours later, Karnal chief medical officer Dr Ashwini Ahuja said, “We got his report telephonically in which he was found to be Covid-19 negative.”He was admitted to the hospital with multiple ailments on April 1. He developed symptoms of Covid-19 and was sent to the isolation ward.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-dies-escaping-from-sixth-floor-of-karnal-hospital-tests-negative-for-covid-19-hours-later/story-8N8be4c4DyO6DsgJsHrbSO.html
06-04-2020||Pune||Coronavirus update: 64K migrant workers housed in relief camps in Pune||Pune Divisional Commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar, on Sunday, said that the district administration has made arrangements for 64,032 migrant labourers in a total of 685 relief camps in the district.The district administration has set up 114 residential camps, while the sugarcane cooperatives have set up 571 camps.Mhaisekar also claimed that a total of 1.18 lakh workers have been provided meals.The commissioner further said that instructions have been issued to all district collectors and municipal commissioners to start the distribution of an essentials kit designated for daily wage workers and migrants.“The kit has 10 items wherein social organizations , NGOs and philanthropists have donated for the cause,” he said.The 21-day nation-wide lockdown has hit the sugar industry adversely in Maharashtra with an inordinate delay in the harvesting of almost 10 lakh metric tonnes of sugarcane. due to a lack of labour.This has jeopardised the production of more than one lakh metric tonnes of sugar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/coronavirus-update-64k-migrant-workers-housed-in-relief-camps-in-pune/story-CN8eRDdwOk0gaukkrPh5AJ.html
06-04-2020||Chandigarh||Teenager who attended Tablighi Jamaat tests positive for Covid-19 in Kapurthala district of Punjab||KAPURTHALA: A 17-year-old boy from Kapurthala district of Punjab, who recently attended a gathering of the Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi’s Nizamuddin Basti, has tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Kapurthala civil surgeon Dr Jasmit Kaur Bawa said that the boy’s samples were taken by the health department with the help of the police on Friday night and it was found that he had tested positive on Sunday night.Of the 33 people from the district who attended the Jamaat, the samples of 22 were sent for testing on Friday and he was the only one to have tested positive.The civil surgeon said that the boy was staying in a mosque along with other jamaatis and has now been admitted to the isolation ward of the local civil hospital.People linked to the Nizamuddin gathering, which has emerged as a hot spot of Covid-19, have been quarantined in the mosque.The district administration has sealed Kot Karar Khan village and all residents of Gujjar dera are under quarantine.So far, 33 coronavirus cases have been reported from Punjab’s Doaba region, which is also the state’s NRI belt. Two people have died of the disease in the region that lies between the Beas and Sutlej rivers.Nineteen cases have been reported from Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, seven from Hoshiarpur district, six from Jalandhar district and now one from Kapurthala district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/teenager-who-attended-tablighi-jamaat-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-kapurthala-district-of-punjab/story-gHoHyMCYi33ewDJ1yRy2NL.html
06-04-2020||Chandigarh||Two women who attended Tablighi Jamaat test positive for Covid-19 in Fatehgarh Sahib||FATEHGARH SAHIB: Two women who attended the Tablighi Jamaat meet in Delhi last month tested positive for for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Fatehgarh Sahib district of Punjab on Monday.Fatehgarh Sahib civil surgeon Dr NK Aggarwal said both the women attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation from March 10 to 13.“They belong to Aurangabad in Maharashtra and had come to Fatehgarh Sahib in Punjab along with four other women and five men,” Dr Aggarwal said.At present, they have been kept in isolation in Khamano sub division, 10 km from the district headquarters.“We have taken the samples of 32 people who attended the Jamaat congregation. The process to identify their contacts has been started,” Dr Aggarwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-women-who-attended-tablighi-jamaat-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-fatehgarh-sahib/story-qS7HWQLOBr80KDW0lvqi8N.html
06-04-2020||Jaipur||After masks and sanitiser, prisons dept sells kits made by inmates||After producing masks and sanitisers, the state prisons department has come up with protection kits to fight against the spread of coronavirus disease Covid-19.Director general, prisons, NRK Reddy said that the protection kits were launched on Saturday. “A kit comprises a phenyl bottle, sanitiser, medicated soaps and masks. It could be availed of through home delivery; later it will be available at Aashayein shops. The minimum order should be of 10 kits,” the Reddy said.Aashayein is a shop which sells products made by jail inmates.Deputy inspector general (DIG), prisons, Vikas Kumar said that 380 inmates of Jaipur jail have been making protection kits in the last 10 days.“The prisoners are working in two shifts for eight hours. Around 70 inmates are involved in making sanitiser, around 300 are working on production of phenyl and masks, and ten are involved in packing them as kits,” said Kumar.The prisons department has tied up with a company which provides medicated soap, solution and other required material for producing the kits.The officer said inmates are producing three types of kits. First is the portable kit which costs Rs 100 and includes a 1000 ml bottle of phenyl, a 100 ml bottle of sanitiser, a 100 gram piece of soap and three masks. The small-size kit costs Rs 300 and comprises two 1000 ml phenyl bottles, two 100 ml sanitiser bottles, two soaps and eight masks.The large kit comprises five bottles of phenyl, five sanitiser bottles, three soaps and 10 masks, which costs Rs 600, he said.“So far our production capacity is 500 to 600 kits, but the demand is more. We have received orders from jailors’ associations, Jaipur city district administration and many departments,” Kumar said.The DIG added that the prisons administration is working to increase the production. “We are roping in the inmates of Bharatpur and Alwar jails, so that the demand can be met. Also, we are working on a website, so that in future orders could be placed online,” Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/after-masks-and-sanitiser-prisons-dept-sells-kits-made-by-inmates/story-l9C16k4h67W2W4PMDmLWDN.html
06-04-2020||Jaipur||Services exempted by Centre from lockdown allowed to continue in Rajasthan: Govt official||The Rajasthan government permitted various business sectors to function during the lockdown, including essential goods and services, agriculture, animal husbandry, AYUSH services and transportation, as per clarifications received from the Centre, a senior official said on Sunday.Based on the clarification received from the Union Home Ministry, the state government also permitted activities related to hygiene products and all such items that are ordinarily available at grocery or provision stores, Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Rajeeva Swarup said here.All activities related to the above products and units connected with their supply chains, including e-commerce/home delivery companies, manufacturing units, godowns etc., have been permitted as well, he said.Shops selling agriculture/horticulture items, machinery, spare parts, fertilisers and other raw materials were allowed to function, Swarup said.As per the order dated April 4, inter and intra-state movement of all trucks and other goods carrier vehicles with one driver and an additional person was permitted during the lockdown. Harvesting and sowing-related machines like combined harvester and offices of transport companies with minimal office staff were allowed too, he said.Swarup said for all such permitted activities, precautions against COVID-19 virus as well as hygiene and social distancing measures were made mandatory. India has been on a 21-day lockdown from March 25 to check the spread of coronavirus pandemic that has claimed over 65,000 lives globally since the epidemic first emerged in China in December.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/services-exempted-by-centre-from-lockdown-allowed-to-continue-in-rajasthan-govt-official/story-OsqWKKserAoFk9dddmSrDJ.html
06-04-2020||Lucknow||First corona death in Kashi, four others test positive in three days||The sample of a 55-year-old-based trader, who died on Friday, tested positive for the Sars-Cov-2 virus late Saturday night, district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said.Four other people also tested positive for the coronavirus in the district in the past three days, the DM added.The man who died was a trader. He returned to his native Gangapur town from Kolkata on March 15, the district magistrate said. The DM said he had been suffering from diabetes for a long time and his blood pressure remained high during treatment.On March 17, he complained of cold and consulted a private doctor. After a few days, he consulted another private practitioner.The DM said he was admitted to the ICU at IMS-BHU and died on April 3. Giving a break-up of the four other patients who tested positive in the past three days, he said they included two Madanpura residents, who returned to the city a few days ago after attending the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi, a youth from Lohta town and a 40-year-old woman from Bazardiha. While the two Madanpur men and the Lohta youth are in the district hospital, the woman is receiving treatment at the Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/first-corona-death-in-kashi-four-others-test-positive-in-three-days/story-BXcTsi8iIGK5sPRVoSDWvI.html
06-04-2020||Lucknow||UP man offers to roll up his sleeve for human trial of Covid-19 vaccine||At a time when the entire world is hiding behind masks and living in fear of the deadly corona virus, a 44-year-old man from Lakhimpur Kheri is willing to roll up his sleeve and get infected if it would help find a vaccine.He has written to different authorities in the state, volunteering to be the first to undergo human trial for any vaccine to fight corona.Harkeerat Singh, who worked for the National Health Mission in 2017-18 and is presently staying in his village in Prayagraj said, “I believe life has given me an opportunity to do something for mankind. This is why I have offered myself to any authority/team working to make a vaccine for Sars-Cov-2.”Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemic“No new vaccine can be administered without human trial and I am ready to be that first human,” he said.“I do not know exactly who are involved in making a vaccine, but I offer myself for human trial, whether in India or anywhere else, ” said Singh who lives with his father and brother.He has written to the health department, the local MLA and also to Sikh Sangathan in Lucknow in this connection.Asked what inspired him to make the offer, Singh said, “The Sikh community has been known for serving mankind and I am just doing the same.”About the dangers involved in such a trial, he said, “I am well aware of what can happen during a trial. But the cause is much greater than the dangers. I have made up my mind and then expressed such a desire.”He said he was ready to go to any place or country. Asked about the reaction of his family, he said, “I have not yet discussed with them but believe they will not stop me from doing my bit for mankind.”However, medical experts said there were medical and ethical issues to be addressed first.“Such an offer should be appreciated but one has to fulfill medical criteria to prove fitness for a trial. Secondly, there are ethical issues that are looked into by a medical/pharmacology committee of the state and then centre,” said Prof Samir Misra, member of the governing council of the state medical faculty.He said a vaccine was ready for human trial only after animal trial. Hence human trial could not be done directly but if the committee found him fit his offer may be kept in pending for such a trial if it happened in India.“Such a human trial will take a long time as there are many stages for a vaccine to come to human trial,” said Prof Misra, also senior faculty at department of trauma surgery at the King George’s Medical University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kheri-man-offers-to-roll-up-his-sleeve-for-human-trial-of-any-corona-vaccine/story-YBVW2iWYI5GViqqqH64LGK.html
06-04-2020||City||State hedges bets on easing lockdown after April 14||PATNABihar is adopting a wait and watch policy before it firms up plans to ease the lockdown after April 14.Senior health professionals Saturday advised Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar against fully lifting the lockdown, as it would defeat the purpose of containing the fast spreading contagion.“We are closely monitoring the number of Covid-19 cases, which is doubling every 4-5 days in the country. Fortunately, that is not the case in Bihar, where we have 32 cases as of now. We have screened nearly 4,000 foreigners and are now testing domestic travellers. The daily evolution of the infection trail is complex and possibility of exponential growth poses a great challenge. The following week would determine the post lockdown strategies,” said Sanjay Kumar, Bihar’s principal secretary, health.Prataya Amrit, principal secretary, Bihar’s disaster management department, too, said it was too early to comment on easing the lockdown.“We will keep a close watch on hot spots. If cases do not go up, say for example, in Gaya, Siwan, Gopalganj and other districts, having a sizeable migrant population, we may consider easing the lockdown district-wise. If cases are localised in a few blocks, we may even go for block-wise lockdown, while relaxing norms in the district,” said Amrit.Both Amrit and Kumar are members of Bihar’s crisis management team.Of the 32 Covid-19 cases detected so far in Bihar, seven are from Munger, followed by Siwan (6), Patna and Gaya (5 each), Gopalganj (3), Nalanda (2), Begusarai, Lakhisarai, Bhagalpur and Saran with one each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/state-hedges-bets-on-easing-lockdown-after-april-14/story-2IduNNzPxSi80xRT9bbGyI.html
06-04-2020||City||Unruly behaviour at quarantine homes to invite FIRs: DGP||PATNABihar government on Sunday directed the police officials to lodged FIR against those who create nuisance and ransack property at quarantine centres.The direction came after some suspected patients ransacked a quarantine centre at Raghunathpur block in Siwan and Town area of Munger for lack of facilities.In Siwan, block development officer of Raghunathpur, Santosh Kumar Mishra, lodged an FIR on Sunday against four named persons for allegedly ransacking the quarantine centre on Saturday evening. The eyewitnesses said more than 78 migrants kept in Rajpur middle school in Siwan had demanded their release after test reports declared them negative. Patients were not happy with the facilities, said the eye witnesses.On getting information, the BDO along with police reached the spot and allegedly slapped one of the suspects. Irate over the BDO’s action, they started shouting slogans against the administration and damaged chairs and tables, demanding action against the officer. DGP Gupteshwar Pandey said that he had got the matter examined. “It is not a big issue. Some people wanted to go to the market from the quarantine centre and when they were stopped, they started ransacking the premises. All those involved will face action under the relevant sections of the IPC and national management act. They will have to go to jail after completing their isolation period. There are 70 labourers kept there,” he added.In Munger, more than 35 suspects kept in Goyenka Dharmsala allegedly broke plastic chairs and created nuisance. On getting information Kotwali police reached the spot and pacified the mob.The suspects alleged that on April 1, the Munger administration collected samples from 118 persons and 86 of them were quarantined at GNM School and 35 at Goenka School.An official said that 40 out of 86 were on fast, demanding that the administration should release them after their reports came negative. Nodal officer-cum-district welfare officer Hriday Narayan Das said the Munger administration did not have any order to release them.In Narkatiaganj (West Champaran) and Nalanda, the medical staff had a difficult time when some of the coronavirus suspects created unruly scenes, used vulgar comments and allegedly demanded mutton in food. According to reports from Pawapuri in Nalanda, four persons were detained from Ahiyapur Mosque in Sheikhpura and kept an isolation ward of Vardhaman Institute of Medical Science (Pawapuri). According to the medical staff, the suspects had used vulgar language and spit on them.All of them claimed to be Islamic scholars returning from New Delhi. Nodal officer of the Pawapuri Isolation centre Purshottam said that the medical staff collected samples from one of them and sent it to Patna for lab test. Two of them were from Darbhanga and one each from Lucknow and Begusarai.Sheikhpura SP Dayashankar said four preachers had been found staying in a mosque since March 21. After locals informed they were referred to an isolation ward on Saturday. In Narkatiaganj, a Tablighi Jamaat suspect on Saturday spit on Indian currency and offered it to a guard in lieu of hard work. Dr Shiv Kumar of sub-divisional hospital said that the man was shifted to another ward and information about his conduct was given to senior officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/unruly-behaviour-at-quarantine-homes-to-invite-firs-dgp/story-qC1K93I7WpWhx2CtO49EEP.html
06-04-2020||Patna||Bihar’s 4th testing facility at PMCH to start today||For a population of nearly 11.5 crore, Bihar has so far carried out just around 2,700 tests, which comes to barely 0.0023%. Of that, there are just 32 positive cases spread across nine of the 38 districts, with just one death reported and three recoveries. The good news is that few more have also responded well to treatment and could be discharged in the next few days.However, doctors say while recoveries are a positive and confidence-boosting sign, the lower number of tests was a worrying factor in the face of growing risk potential due to return of around 1.80 lakh migrant workers to Bihar, apprehension about missing Tablighi Jamaat attendees, high population density and many people returning from Gulf countries to their native places in Gopalganj, Siwan, Saran and few other districts over the last 20-25 days.Bihar’s health minister Mangal Pandey said the government would increase the capacity of testing and the fourth testing centre at the Patna Medical College Hospital (PMCH) would get functional from Monday with the PCR (polymerace chain reaction) kits. Trials are going on at present,” he said.While Rajendra Medical Research Insitute (RLRI) in Patna is a permanent research institute of the ICMR, the Bihar government recently added two more facilities at the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) and Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital (DMCH). According to sources, one more testing centre, preferably in Bhagalpur, could be set up in view of the growing need.Pandey said the government was alive to the need of greater testing and chief minister Nitish Kumar had also said so during his interaction with health experts on Friday.On the need to go in for vigorous testing with rapid kit tests, as is being done in Kerala, Pandey said the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) had approved it only for the hot spots so far. “We have not got approval for that. But we will augment our own capacity of testing with PCR tests. All need not be tested for COVID-19,” he said.The health minister said that in the first phase, all those who came from abroad till March 18 would be tested and sample collection has been completed to a large extent. “Later, we will screen all migrant workers who have returned and those found with apparent symptoms would undergo PCR test,” he said.Pathologist Dr Prabhat Ranjan, who had written to chief secretary as well as principal secretary (health) for use of starting rapid kit tests, however, said there was a growing need to increase testing in the state and depending only on the costly and cumbersome PCR tests, which could only be performed by trained manpower, was not desirable at this age.Ranjan said the ICMR director general has already written to the health secretary for dissemination of advisory to all states start to rapid antibody-based blood tests for COVID-19 in clusters and gatherings due to large migration. “Overall testing for COVID-19 using RT-PCR is increasing. We will be approaching full capacity in near future. We are expecting delivery of rapid kit tests for use in response to COVID-19 situation,” he said.Padam Shri recipient Dr S N Arya, who was present during the doctors’ interaction with the CM on Saturday, said though there were certain efficacy issues with the rapid kit tests, it was still the best in the prevailing situation, more so due to return of people from abroad, their mingling with local population and delegates from Nijamuddin Markaz.“The government is sincere but the task is mammoth. More testing would be the only way out, but all countries are struggling. Therefore, rapid kit test is the only way out to meet the shortfall of PCR kits and trained manpower. It can help immensely in hot spots,” he said, adding there was also a need not to withdraw lockdown in one go and continue with restrictions in the vulnerable pockets after clearly identifying them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bihar-s-4th-testing-facility-at-pmch-to-start-todayreturn-of-1-80-lakh-migrant-workers-missing-nizamuddin-attendees-dense-population-fuel-fears/story-qqlwjI4OL2cARn8UTou1xO.html
06-04-2020||City||JMM leaders ‘beat up’ doctor, nurses at Bokaro hospital||Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) Bokaro district vice-president Pankaj Jaiswal and his associate Kanhaiya Jaiswal allegedly beat up a medical officer and some nurses for denying second time blood pressure check-up at Jainamore Referral Hospital on Saturday.An FIR has been lodged with Jainamore police station by the victim, Dr Ravi Ranjan, and nurses against both the leaders.A joint delegation of Jharkhand Health Service Association (JHSA) and Indian Medical Association’s (IMA) district chapter met superintendent of police (incharge) Sujata Kumari Veenapani and requested her for take a quick action on the assaulters so that doctors and health staffers could do their duties in this emergency situation without any fear.“The SP assured us full protection and arrest of the assaulters on the basis of the FIR filed. We would wait for 48 hours for police action and after that we would decide the course for safety,” said Dr Anurag Srivastava, secretary IMA.JHSA president Dr AK Chaudhary, secretary Dr Uttam Kumar, Referral Hospital incharge Dr Jitendra Singh and Dr Nitish Chaudhary were members of the delegation.The incident took place around 7.30 pm on Saturday. Rattled by the incident, the doctors and nursing staffers of the hospital stopped their duty and sat on a dharna on the gate of the hospital, demanding arrest of the JMM leaders.Hearing the incident, deputy superintendent of police (headquarter), Satish Chandra Jha, BDO Shashibhushan Sharma and nspector Md Rustam reached the spot . After filing an FIR, the doctors and nurses resumed the duty.Dr Ranjan said the JMM leader came for a BP test for the second time in the evening. “When I asked to wait, he lost his patience and hurled abuses loudly. As I protested, he started thrashing me. They also assaulted the nurses and other health staffers who had come to rescue me,” said Dr Ranjan.However, JMM district president Hiralal Majhi denied charge and said only a heated discussion had taken place.“Pankaj had gone to the hospital for a test in the evening. But the doctors refused to do, saying that ‘at night, they do not conduct any BP test’. On this, an altercation took place. It is false charge that Pankaj had beaten anyone,” said the JMM president and added that “doctors should not make such a small incident an issue”. IMA secretary Dr Srivastava said: “In such pandemic situation, the doctors do not want to disturb the health services but our safety is of course a matter of concern.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jmm-leaders-beat-up-doctor-nurses-at-bokaro-hospital/story-0OWeVgHkcZBsneKCT0s8tI.html
06-04-2020||Ranchi||Third corona-positive case in Jharkhand||A woman from Bokaro district who had returned from Bangladesh after attending Muslim religious congregation Tablighi Jamaat in Dhaka, was on Sunday found to be infected with Covid-19.This is the third positive case of coronavirus infection in the state. On March 31, Jharkhand registered its first confirmed case when a Malaysian woman was tested positive. She was the part of 22- people group of 17 foreign nationals who were recovered from two mosques in Ranchi. The group had descended to Ranchi last month after attending Tablighi Jammat in New Delhi’s Nizammudin.The state’s second case was reported from Hazaribag district when a 52-year-old man was tested positive for Covid-19. The man had returned to the district from West Bengal’s Asansol on March 29 amid nationwide lockdown.Confirming about the third case, Bokaro deputy commissioner Mukesh Kumar said, “The affected woman is a resident of village Tello under district’s Chandrapura block. She has been shifted to Covid-19 ward of Bokaro General Hospital and treatment has been started.”“There is no need of panic as the district machinery has started the exercise of contact tracing to identify people who came in direct or indirect contact with the affected woman. Health care workers and sanitation team have been deployed in the village to carry out their work, including door-to-door health checkup of residents and sanitation of entire village,” added the DC, who was camping in the village.According to local sources, the affected woman, along with her husband and two other couples of the same village, returned from Dhaka on March 15. All have been in 28-day home quarantine.“Few people, including this woman and her husband, had visited Bangladesh and returned last month. We are collecting further details in this regard,” said the DC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/third-corona-positive-case-in-jharkhand/story-SzV6gd3E4ACfmCXkpzzHwO.html
06-04-2020||City||More people ‘lock down’ villages for outsiders to keep Covid-19 at bay||One after the other residents of several villages in the state have been barricading the entry points for outsiders to keep the dreaded coronavirus infection at bay. In tribal-dominated West Singhbhum district, some villages had pulled the shutters down even before PM called for Janata Curfew on March 23 and nationwide 21-day lockdown a day later. Hundreds of villages across Kolhan division, comprising East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan districts, have banned entry of outsiders into the villages. Entry is only allowed after coronavirus tests, they said.On Saturday, a person had to desert his SUV near Sidhdih-Lengdih villages under Chowka police station area in Seraikela-Kharsawan district as villages chased the vehicle. SDPO Dhinrendra Narayan Banka and inspector Rajendra Prasad Mahato later seized the vehicle and said it hailed from Kapali area of the district.Four villagers — working in Usha Martin in Adityapur — was chased away from Kathjora village near Dalma Hills under Chandil subdivision when they had reached Kathjora on their way to their native village Jamtara. “Anybody will be allowed only after medical check-up and a negative report,” Narsingh Saradar, Kathjora mukhiya told HT.“We have barricaded the entry points of our village and entry is allowed only after the gram sabha’s approval. Anyone coming from other states are being taken to health centres and quarantined in panchayat bhawan. We ourselves are strictly maintaining social distancing,” said Lalmohan Surin, munda (village head) of Dimbuli village under Manoharpur block if West Singhbhum. Mangra Surin, another munda of the same village, echoed similar thoughts.In Bandgaon block of West Singhbhum, villagers have blocked the Nakti Dam and Kansara Temple roads to block entry of outsiders into Nakta and Kansara villages under Kearaikela PS. Taratara village in Manoharpur block also sealed its entry points and banned entry of outsiders on Saturday.“Now, it has become rampant and most of the villagers have now blocked entry of outsiders. Even traditional village heads are taking no chance of trying ritualistic healing and cure practices,” Devendra Nath Champia, former deputy speaker in Bihar Assembly, told HT from Chaibasa. Villagers of Malkundi village in Chakulia block, Nayadih and Chatro in Dhalbhumgarh block, Bhrukadih and Jaria in Pitka block and Baghuria village in Ghatsila block in East Singhbhum have also set up makeshift barricades banning entry of outsiders into the villages. The only exception is for health workers, and administrative officials reaching with medicines, relief materials etc.On the other hand, Kurmi Sanskriti Vikas Samiti (KSVS) workers have put up barricades and notice boards on the borders of Nayadih and Chatro village in Dhalbhumgarh and Baligumavillage in Chakulia blocks banning entry of outsiders.“We are stopping outsiders from entering our villages by putting up barriers on the main road. Many of our fellow villagers work in other states, we are taking care that they too get into the village after proper testing so that the coronavirus doesn’t spread here. We are putting them in quarantine in panchayat bhawan even after negative reports,” Sapan Mahato, KSVS president said. Similar posters and barricades have also been set up around Baghuria village under Ghatshila block.Villagers of Rolaghutu village in Tiring panchayat under Potka PS on Odisha border have also put up barriers on the road to prevent entry of outsiders. Villagers have set up barriers in Jagannathpur under Seraikela and Kadamdiha and Simla villages under Kharsawan blocks of the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/more-people-lock-down-villages-for-outsiders-to-keep-covid-19-at-bay/story-cuy7y4ZHU37286ZURZHxMP.html
06-04-2020||Ranchi||Covid-19 suspect dies in RIMS emergency ward; probe ordered||State health minister Banna Gupta has set up a probe into the alleged lapses committed in handling a corona-suspect patient who died in an isolation ward in Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) on Saturday and his body was found lying in hospital’s emergency unit.“It is a major negligence. Such lapses will not be tolerated at any cost. I have written a letter to health department’s principal secretary demanding a report on the entire things within 24 hours,” said the minister.The incident relates to a 55-year-old male patient who was admitted in RIMS isolation centre on Friday and his samples were taken for Covid-19 test. But the patient died on Saturday morning and his body was found lying in hospital’s emergency unit creating controversy.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe deceased family members, who are residents of Ranchi’s Khelgaon, levelled serious charges on hospital’s management. They said the patient was admitted on Friday and samples were taken for Covid 19 test.“ No attendant was allowed to live with the patient. On Saturday, when we visited the hospital to inquire about our patient’s well-being, we were told that the patient was missing from isolation ward. On further inquiry, we came to know that one body was lying in emergency unit. We then identified the body,” said a relative of the deceased.He added that the RIMS authorities refused to handover the body till the Covid-19 test report comes.“The test report has not come till 8.15 pm on Sunday. We will handover the body after the report arrives,” said Dr DK Singh, RIMS director.After holding a meeting with task force, doctors of medicine department and others on Sunday, Singh said no lapse had happened in the treatment of the patient. He, however, admitted that some mistakes did occur in communication.He said, “There was a communication gap. The patient’s family member should be informed after the death. We do not find evidence that the patient’s family members were properly communicated. Responsibility has been fixed on each and every working staff. Teams have been constituted to deal with post death disposal, which assumes significance in handling the Covid-19 menace.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/probe-set-up-over-death-of-covid-19-suspect-in-rims/story-CKJTe0BeVe5vLPsuj3FdbO.html
06-04-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s Moti Bagh ‘containment zone’ is fully cut off, except telephonically||It was a busy day for Suraj Singh Pradhan as he fielded calls from a wide range of people in his slum neighbourhood in South Moti Bagh, which has emerged as city’s first coronavirus containment zone beyond the two cluster hot spots of Dilshad Garden and Nizamuddin. Pradhan told HT on the phone that as per instructions of the district administration he is now the conduit for all communication between locals in the slum and the government machinery after one of its residents—a contractual sanitation worker at the AIIMS Trauma Centre—tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. While he was admitted to the Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, his family was shifted to a quarantine centre in Chhattarpur. Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe community leader’s phone rang off the hook on Sunday. While fellow area dwellers, now quarantined at home, called Pradhan to arrange for milk, vegetables and other essentials, the police called intermittently to ask if locals were adhering to the lockdown and sanitation workers called to check if there were any disinfectants left from the batch received in the morning.The development has left residents anxious about the possibility of community spread, several of whom spoke with HT over the phone. Rishiraj Pal, a 20-year-old resident of the slum, said the fear in the slum was palpable. “Policemen are patrolling the area round the clock ready to thrash people spotted roaming the streets. But more than that, we are scared of the infection. We don’t know if staying home would actually protect us. But what else can we do,” he said.Within hours of the result being declared, three out of four connecting routes to the slum from the Ring Road, the South Moti Bagh market and interconnected lanes that lead to the South Campus of the University of Delhi were blocked using trucks. The fourth exit route was barricaded by the police, allowing only patrol vehicles, sanitation workers and government officials to enter the area inhabited by more than 1,000 families. HT went to the neighbourhood on Sunday till the permissible limits set by the police and district administration.An area of around 1 sqkm was turned into a containment zone with a stricter version of the ongoing lockdown imposed here. All shops, including those selling essentials, were closed, sanitisation workers were seen spraying disinfectants at regular intervals and door-to-door drives were conducted twice a day by government officials to check if any of the residents of the slum had developed any flu-like symptoms, said a senior officer in Delhi government’s revenue department.“The residents have been asked to stay inside their homes and call the beat staff, local police station, or hunger helpline over the phone if they need food, ration or other essential items. The other option is to call their community leader (Pradhan), who can further send the message across. Arrangements have been made to get the essentials delivered at the slum so the residents do not have to venture out,” said deputy commissioner of police (southwest) Devender Arya.“The slum residents have been briefed about the coronavirus symptoms and that they must alert the police if they see anyone flouting the lockdown rules. Anyone violating the quarantine order will face legal action,” he added. “About 15 health staffers used a tanker of 15,000 litres of diluted sodium hypoclorite to sanitise the area,” said a senior official of the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC).WHAT IS THE CONTAINMENT PLANAs per the “containment plan” on the Union health ministry’s website, any movement has been prohibited within a containment zone to prevent local transmission of Covid-19. The size of the containment zone, as suggested by the guideline, is directly proportional to the population density of the cluster in question and the scale of the outbreak.In the case of South Moti Bagh’s, 1,000 families live in the affected slum and its periphery, while its “buffer zone” includes another slum, a Gurudwara, a temple, a 24x7 petrol pump and a market. “The cluster containment strategy would be to contain the disease within a defined geographic area by detecting cases in the nascent stage, breaking the chain of transmission and preventing its spread to new areas. This would include geographic quarantine, social distancing measures, enhanced active surveillance, testing all suspected cases, isolation of cases, quarantine of contacts and risk communication to create awareness among public on preventive public health measures,” the document uploaded by the health ministry on its website.“Geographical containment strategies, however, were being discussed since the day the lockdown was imposed,” said a senior official in the Union health ministry.PLAN TO BE IMPLEMENTED AS PER DEMOGRAPHYHowever, states and Union Territories have implemented containment strategies in conformation with the local demography. A comparison between Delhi and Mumbai highlights the differences well.Mumbai has created 241 containment zones in the past seven days, virtually locking down a population of around 9,00,000 people, HT had published on Saturday. In Mumbai, a containment zone means at least one person from the area tested positive for COVID-19. The patient’s family and the building are identified as a cluster zone and at least four to five adjoining buildings on all sides are mapped in the containment zone, depending on the area’s population density. Mumbai too confronts concerns of possible community transmission after cases were reported at slum clusters in Dharavi.“In Delhi, we have adopted a different approach,” said the senior revenue department official. He elaborated. The city has two cluster hotspots – Dilshad Garden, where a woman who returned from Saudi Arabia was the source of infection for numerous relatives, neighbours, two doctors and their patients, and Nizamuddin where a congregation of the Tablighi Jamaat was organised in March. The containment zones in these two hotspots areas, among 22 identified in the country, range between 3 sqkm and 5 sqkm.“Beyond hotspots, localities in which positive cases were reported were subjected to intense surveillance and isolation norms but they were not converted into geographic containment zones. It would be unnecessary to create multiple containment zones. The strategy should be efficiently deployed,” said the officer.District Magistrate (New Delhi) Tanvi Garg, who is in charge of South Moti Bagh area, and additional chief secretary Satya Gopal, who is in charge of the monitoring of the coronavirus prevention exercise in Delhi did not respond to phone calls and messages.The government has maintained that India is yet to slip into the community transmission stage in which the source of infection for a person becomes difficult to ascertain. So far, the coronavirus disease has claimed at least 64,000 lives across the world and at least  100 in India, of which seven have been from Delhi...||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/moti-bagh-s-containment-zone-is-fully-cut-off-except-telephonically/story-kTtjAYvtHBnqcCMLNSd89K.html
06-04-2020||Chandigarh||Crackers sound jarring note as Chandigarh tricity lights up on PM Modi’s solemn plea||The stillness which had become so much a part of the tricity over the last two weeks was shattered by exploding firecrackers on Monday night as people in their enthusiasm to follow Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s solemn call for a candlelight vigil to unite to fight the coronavirus epidemic exceeded their brief to keep things low-key.Even as residents, following PM Modi’s Friday call to show solidarity and battle the pandemic, switched on their mobile phone lights and lit candles and diyas on Sunday at 9 pm, the sound of crackers sounded a jarring note. “This is the height of insanity and insensitivity to celebrate death and disease with so much pomp, show and bursting of crackers. This is a real wake of call for people who love India and the Indian ethos of compassion and humanism above all,” said, Pramod Sharma, who heads Yuvsatta, an NGO. “It was very peaceful initially. People had lit candles in their balconies, many were playing bhajans on their music systems, when suddenly crackers started popping. This was a solemn occasion, not something to celebrate,” said Nayna, a resident of Sector 43.Dr Ravindra Khaiwal , additional professor, environment health, The School of Public Health, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, said, “The purpose (of lighting diyas) was for showing solidarity with the citizens who are at the forefront of dealing with the coronavirus outbreak, but a few people resorted to bursting of crackers. That’s an undesired step,” he said. “We are in the midst of a pandemic and people are celebrating as if it’s Diwali,” quipped Mohali mayor Kulwant Singh. Former railways minister and Congressman Pawan Kumar Bansal felt this showed “the over enthusiasm and hype built up over the PM’s announcement. What was supposed to be voluntary action has now become a must-do thing.”Crackers were burst in most parts of the tricity. In some localities, enthusiastic Bharatiya Janata Party workers resorted to sloganeering in favour of their party and PM Modi. “It appears that people, by bursting crackers, did not understand the sensitivity involved in the issue. The call was not for this,” said Dr Pramod Kumar, director, Institute for Development and Communication (IDC), Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/crackers-sound-jarring-note-as-chandigarh-tricity-lights-up-on-pm-modi-s-solemn-plea/story-ofebPRojCEH0Smhky0FU2L.html
06-04-2020||Chandigarh||48% Covid-19 positive patients in Chandigarh tricity aged between 21-40||Health authorities have confirmed that majority of the 35 Covid-19 positive patients in the tricity, at 48.6%, are aged between 21 and 40.The age bracket hit the next hardest is between 41 and 60 years at 25.7%. Senior citizens, who are above 60 years, account for 20% of the positive cases, all from Mohali.In Chandigarh, it’s mostly the younger population that has been infected by the virus, as 72% of the 18 positive patients are in the age group of 21-40 years.Experts correlate this with the mobility of the young. “If we see the trend in Chandigarh, the five patients, who had travel history to foreign countries where Covid-19 cases were reported, are all below the age of 35,” said PVM Lakshmi, an epidemiologist at the Community Medicine and School of Public Health, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER). “The young individuals mostly mix up with their peers more than their families, and this is one reason that more cases were reported among the younger population in Chandigarh,” she added.On the contrary, the maximum cases in Mohali, at 46.6%, are in the 61 to 80 age group, while no one among the Chandigarh or Panchkula cases falls in this age bracket.Dr G Dewan, director health services, Chandigarh, said the disease’s trend here was the same as that found at the national level. Around 83% people infected in the country are below the age of 60, almost a similar trend seen in the tricity. “However, we need to be more cautious with regards to the senior citizens, especially those also suffering from comorbidities like diabetes and hypertension, as these have been associated with severe symptoms and complications,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/48-covid-19-positive-patients-in-chandigarh-tricity-aged-between-21-40/story-IQclQ9YZPD5MpRMfPfXUhO.html
06-04-2020||City||House owners in Panchkula told to defer rent collection from migrants, students||Amid the lockdown imposed to contain the Covid-19 outbreak, the Panchkula municipal corporation (MC) has issued orders asking landlords to defer collection of rent from migrant daily wage earners and students by at least a month.“If any landlord forces labourers and students to vacate their premises, strict action will be taken against them under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code,” said MC commissioner Sumedha Kataria. She added that a helpline number, 1800-180-2013, had been activated for tenants to report such issues to the MC.If found guilty under Section 188, a person can be punished with imprisonment up to six months, or with fine up to ₹1,000, or both.Kataria also asked the employers of industries, shops and business establishments to pay salaries to their workers without any deduction on the due date.She said social distancing should be maintained, but lockdown measures should also not be violated. Kataria said for effective implementation of the lockdown and to reduce the economic hardship of migrant workers, the government has made adequate arrangements for temporary shelter and food.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/house-owners-in-panchkula-told-to-defer-rent-collection-from-migrants-students/story-MeWR32j7s3EexTkBAN9OAN.html
06-04-2020||Chandigarh||My customers are postponing payment, says Ludhiana milkman||Working during the novel coronavirus pandemic isn’t proving to be very rewarding for 56-year-old milkman Sukhwinder Singh. With customers’ deferring payments, the cost of fodder increasing and the mounting cost of sanitisers, is it any surprise that Sukhwinder, who hails from Jassowal village and supplies milk to different areas of the city, cannot wait for the lockdown to end. “Through the lockdown, I have ensured that I supply milk to customers on time as they need more milk than the regular days as they stay at home all day, however, I still will make less money than usual,” says Sukhwinder. “A number of customers have already requested me to collect dues next month on top of it mixed feed, which would earlier cost ₹2,400 per quintal, is now being sold for ₹2,700 to ₹2,800. While I am trying to accommodate my customers, who are also facing a hard time due to the pandemic, deferred payments are only increasing to my worries,” he says. Sukhwinder starts his day at 7am and supplies milk to around 110 houses in Phullowal, Model Town, Model Town Extension, Sarabha Nagar, Randhir Singh Nagar and Barewal with the help of his son, Jaskirat. Singh also supplies milk to the Verka plant. Sukhwinder is cognisant of the risk of contracting the infection and takes precautionary measures, “During the course of my work, I come in contact with lots of people, which is why I always carry a sanitiser with me and maintain distance while putting milk in their containers. After I finish my work, I only step out of my home when I have to feed cattle in the evening,” he says. Sukhwinder who lives with his wife Kuldeep Kaur and two sons Gurpreet Singh and Jaskirat Singh in the village requests the administration to ensure strictness in the rural area: “While people in the cities are following the rules, villagers are yet to take the coronavirus outbreak seriously,” he says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/my-customers-are-postponing-payment-says-ludhiana-milkman/story-E0ZaSigwyBhCKsQUvk1GdM.html
06-04-2020||Chandigarh||Industry in Chandigarh will need major impetus by government post lockdown, say businessmen||With shops and manufacturing units closed due to the curfew imposed to stop the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), traders fear economic recovery will be difficult.It is for the first time that all business activity, trading and manufacturing, has been shut down in the city.“There is great uncertainty among businessmen as to what the future holds. People have even stopped planning how to manage the after-effects of the shutdown. We also don’t know for how long businesses will remain disturbed because of the Covid-19 pandemic,” said Neeraj Bajaj of the Chandigarh Business Council.In the city’s industrial area, more than 30,000 are employed in manufacturing and service units.“Beyond the short-term struggle, the industry will need major impetus from the government in the short and long term. There should be moratorium period or extension of six months for payment of liabilities including utility bills, taxes and duties to the government,” said Pankaj Khanna, president, industries association, Chandigarh.Industry is also seeking for loans accounts, which become non-performing assets (NPA) during lockdown, to not be considered wilful defaulters.“Stimulus package for MSMEs (micro, small and medium enterprises) should be considered for the financial year 2020-2021. Financial support for unorganized sectors will also be required,” Khanna said.Chandigarh Beopar Mandal wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Punjab governor and UT administrator VP Singh Badnore on Friday, seeking help, as they struggle to deal with the acute economic crisis caused by the pandemic.“We request the government to allow us to pay our employees ₹4,000 to ₹5,000 per month as ration cost till the lockdown continues,” the traders’ body stated in its communiqué.“Most of our traders have taken overdraft/CC limits or term loans in order to run their businesses. When there isno business activity, paying these interests is also a big challenge,” said Charanjiv Singh, chairman of the Chandigarh Beopar Mandal.FACTORY WORKERS ISSUED CURFEW PASSES TO FACILITATE WAGE DISBURSEMENT TO LABOURTo resolve the issue of payment of wages to more than 25,000 factory workers in the city, the UT administration has started issuing curfew passes to factory officials to allow them to disburse wages.“So far, we have issued 120 curfew passes for factory officials. In case there are any problems regarding this, we are taking them up on priority basis,” said Harjit Singh Sandhu, director, industries.Due to restrictions on movement imposed because of the curfew, both factory owners and workers have been facing problems with the disbursement of wages. Various industry associations had taken up the issue with the administration.The UT labour department, too, has contacted industrialists and factory owners regarding payment of wages to the labourers. “Around 10,000 labourers have already received their salaries. Efforts are being made to ensure that the remaining labour is paid wages at the earliest,” said a senior UT official, wishing not to be named.Meanwhile, household workers like maids, gardeners, etc are finding it difficult to collect their monthly salaries because of curfew restrictions. “The administration should devise a plan that allows household workers to collect their salaries from houses of their employers. They are not able to visit their workplaces and they don’t have curfew passes either. This is causing them a great deal of hardship,” said RK Garg, a city based social activist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/industry-in-chandigarh-will-need-major-impetus-by-government-post-lockdown-say-businessmen/story-qjZfuVfUg0pQGoUtAutqtM.html
06-04-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus in Chandigarh: Follow advisories, one cannot be too careful, says 23-year-old discharged patient||The 23-year-old man, discharged from the isolation ward of Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, after two weeks of treatment, is elated to be home.“I am feeling perfectly fine,” he said, as he arrived at his house in Sector 19 around 6pm. Son of a senior UT official, the youth had tested positive for Covid-19 on March 22 after he came in contact with the brother of Chandigarh’s first coronavirus patient, a 23-year-old woman from Sector 21.“One cannot be too careful. Though I did not have severe symptoms, all of us, even the young, are not immune to it. Advisories for social distancing and hand washing should be followed religiously,” he said.“During the course of my stay at the hospital, I learnt that there is nothing to be afraid of, but we need to be careful. My morale was high and I was confident of quick recovery,” he said, while adding that those affected by the disease should not lose hope as recovery was possible.The youth reported to the hospital after his fever rose, alerting him that he could be infected. “In isolation, even though I was not allowed to move out, I spent my days reading and talking to my friends. The doctors, nurses and the supporting staff were immensely helpful,” he said.The 25-year-old brother of the city’s first positive patient was also discharged from GMCH on Saturday. He had tested positive on March 20 after coming in contact with his sister, who flew back from the United Kingdom on March 15 and tested positive on March 18. Their mother, who had also contracted the infection, was discharged on Saturday.On his recovery, the youth said following the instructions of the doctors was vital to get cured at the earliest. “Different bodies react to the virus differently. I did not have many symptoms, while other positive patients had cough and fever. So, precautions are a must to contain the spread of the virus,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/coronavirus-in-chandigarh-follow-advisories-one-cannot-be-too-careful-says-23-year-old-discharged-patient/story-aguXKfYoq8U7SQmcpl7zbJ.html
06-04-2020||Chandigarh||Take lockdown as an opportunity to self-reflect, says film director Rai Yuvraj Bains||For city-based Punjabi movie director Rai Yuvraj Bains, the lockdown has been an opportunity for self-reflection. He believes that the lockdown, necessitated due to the Covid-19 pandemic’, has given us time to contemplate about our lives.Choosing to see the glass half-full during this unprecedented situation, Bains says, “Though a number of people are facing a tough time, but it was important to impose the curfew to combat Covid-19 effectively. With people holed up, nature is getting a chance to coalesce from the damages inflicted by mankind. The lockdown has given us a chance to decompress and enjoy the company of our loved ones.” “Earlier, my hectic schedule, did not allow me to spend quality time with my family. However, the pandemic has put things into a fresh perspective for most of us. Money, careers and other worldly affairs are not as important. Nature has its own pace and we need to sync ourselves to it,” he says.Ask him how he spends his days in confinement, Bains says,” I am utilising this time by working out, gardening, cooking, playing the piano and writing new stories and screen plays.” “I live near Rakh Bagh, with the lockdown in place, I find it peaceful to sit in the courtyard and listen to the birds chirp,” he says, adding that he has discovered new species of birds near his house. Reflecting on his life amid the lockdown vis-à-vis life before it, he says, “I used to always stay busy with shoots and travelled intensively between Ludhiana, Bombay and Chandigarh. I never got a chance to marvel at beauty of nature. Nowadays, the days are all the more beautiful because of decreased air pollution,” says Bains, adding, “The government should fix 15 days of quarantine a year. It will not only benefit us but will also help nature to reclaim its space.”Bains is also limiting the use of mobile phone and is distancing himself not only from people but from social media, too.“I appeal residents to stay calm and spend time with themselves, enjoy nature and distance yourself from social media to save yourselves from the negativity,” he signs off .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/take-lockdown-as-an-opportunity-to-self-reflect-says-film-director-rai-yuvraj-bains/story-gjIgsvqRZGzUGTPQa0LSpN.html
06-04-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University postpones UG common entrance test amid Covid-19 outbreak||Amid the Covid-19 lockdown, Panjab University (PU) on Sunday decided to postpone its undergraduate common entrance test (PU-CET) that was scheduled to be held on April 26, 2020.Now, PU-CET (UG) 2020 for the admission in BPharma and BSc courses will be held on May 16, 2020. Controller of examination, PU, Parvinder Singh said, “Due to the ongoing lockdown it is impossible to hold the PU-CET (UG) on April 26. So we have decided to reschedule it.”Every year around 20,000 Class 12 students appear for PU-CET. The examination centres for this entrance are in Chandigarh, Ludhiana, Hoshiarpur and Muktsar.Earlier, the advisory committee of PU had also recommended that all the deadlines that fall during the lockdown period should be extended by the university. The last date for submission of information on the website to generate the bank challan has also been extended from April 10 to May 4, 2020. The candidates can pay their fee through net banking, debit card and credit card. After successful online payment, candidates will be able to complete their forms immediately.The management entrance rest (PU-MET) which was earlier scheduled on March 28 had been rescheduled to April 25. The last date of registration for PU-MET has also been extended to April 13 by the PU administration. Singh said, “If the lockdown is extended it is likely that PU-MET will be postponed again.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-postpones-ug-common-entrance-test-amid-covid-19-outbreak/story-wtff21Htxr5AYHVhQAvTIM.html
06-04-2020||Chandigarh||Lockdown aftermath: Chandigarh petrol pump sales plummet 90%||Most of the city’s 35 petrol pumps have reported a 90% drop in petrol sales after curfew was imposed here from March 24.Even as the pumps to stay open from 6am to 9 pm every day, only vehicles operating for essential services come in as curfew orders prohibit other vehicles to run in this period without a pass.“I used to sell about 1.2 lakh litre of petrol and diesel per day but now the figure is around 11,000 litre. Only one-third of our staff is present and around 50% of the dispensers are suspended,” says Amandeep Singh, general secretary, Chandigarh Petroleum Dealers Association.Before the curfew, approximate daily consumption of petrol and diesel in all pumps of the city was around 730 litres a day. Now it is around 70 kilo litres a day. With employee salaries and electricity and other bills to be paid, pump owners say they are losing more money than they are making. “Fuel is an essential service and we are doing our part to make sure that the government’s essential services run effectively. There will be no shortage once the curfew is lifted and we expect sales to climb back up again,” Amandeep Singh adds.Staff living near premisesEven as most petrol pump employees have been issued masks, gloves and hand sanitisers, some pump owners have ensured their staff stay close to the premises and don’t risk getting infected by moving around. Anil Manrao, proprietor of Mann Filling Station in Sector 49, says he has formed a team of eight staffers who have been living close to the station since curfew was imposed. “They are bachelors and instead of going home and coming in contact with others they are sleeping in a temple right next to the pump and I have provided them with enough rations to live comfortably.” Manrao says he visits them daily and will be paying them extra incentives for their services after the curfew is lifted.No air pressure checkNot many petrol pumps are offering services to check tyre air pressure or vehicle repair during the curfew. Meenu Chaudhary, proprietor of a pump at Sector 31, says, “We are barely making any sales, so staff strength has reduced to bare minimum.”Petrol pumps at the city’s borders were offering the services, she adds.Due to the relaxation given by the government, pollution checking services have also been suspended.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/lockdown-aftermath-chandigarh-petrol-pump-sales-plummet-90/story-1RAhw5xbkF18ksKU9TqiYJ.html
06-04-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19 outbreak: Containment policy to be implemented in Chandigarh if needed, says adviser Parida||The UT administration will implement the containment policy if a particular area in the city shows a rise in coronavirus positive cases.During the daily review meeting chaired by Punjab governor and UT administrator VP Singh Badnore, UT adviser Manoj Parida said, “The government of India (GoI) has prepared a containment policy for high load districts. Steps will be taken as and when such restrictions become necessary.”So far, no area in the city has shown high incidents of coronavirus positive cases.WHAT IS CONTAINMENT POLICY?As per the containment policy, in the event of a localised increase in Covid-19 cases within a defined geographical area, for example a village, colony or a sector, the administration will create a geographic quarantine having a containment zone that will be surrounded by a buffer zone.Surveillance in containment zone, including contact listing, tracking and follow ups, will be carried out. The surveillance programme will be aimed to gauge if there is any possibility of an increase in the spread of the disease based on the estimates of primary and secondary contacts.No unchecked outward movement of population will be permitted from the containment zone except for maintaining essential services (including medical emergencies) and government business continuity. Besides, thermal screening, and information, education and communication (IEC) activities will be carried out at all entry and exit points of such containment zones.All vehicular, including public transport, and individuals’ movement will also be stopped and all roads connecting the containment zone will be guarded by police personnel. For people and vehicles requiring regular movement, a pass/identity card will be issued with details communicated among the security personnel on duty.OTHER MEASURESOther measures that will be taken up in case of the containment policy are -- posting signs and spreading awareness among public about the need of perimeter control. Health workers posted at the exit points will perform screening of the visitors. The screening will include interviewing the of travellers, measurement of their body temperatures, recording the place and duration of their intended visit and maintaining a complete record of their intended place of stay. Details of the people moving out of perimeter zone for essential/emergency services will also be recorded.HOTEL FACILITY EXTENDED TO HEALTH WORKERSDuring the day, the UT administration also gave nod to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research’s director who had requested them for accommodating doctors in Hotel Parkview, Sector 24, both for the purpose of quarantine and duty rest, as and when they require. Similar facility will be provided to other health workers, including ward boys and security guards in Panchayat Bhawan, Sector 18. The complementary facility will be provided by the UT administration.Principal secretary health, Arun Kumar Gupta, said adequate amount of medicines and medical equipment are available at all hospitals in the city. “Facilities are being created in Sector 48 civil hospital to battle the cases if there is any emergency,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-outbreak-containment-policy-to-be-implemented-in-chandigarh-if-needed-says-adviser-parida/story-KD1nhNV0uch1CCpMHokhdN.html
06-04-2020||City||No positive case in Chandigarh tricity after 6 days||Two more Covid-19 patients were discharged in Chandigarh on April 5, taking the total number of recovered cases to six in the tricity, while no fresh case was reported after a period of six days. As many as 78 samples taken from suspected cases, mostly in densely populated localities in Mohali and Panchkula, also came negative. It is a major breather for the tricity as between March 30 and April 4, it recorded 20 new cases, a big jump from 15 cases reported between March 18, when the first case was reported, and March 29, which was the last time no fresh case surfaced.So far, 35 positive cases have been reported in the tricity — 18 in Chandigarh, 15 in Mohali and two in Panchkula.The two people discharged on Sunday are the 25-year-old brother of the first positive case of the tricity (a Sector 21 woman who had returned from the UK) and the 23-year-old son of a senior official of Chandigarh Smart City Limited, who lives in Sector 19. He, too, had come in contact with the same woman, who is still undergoing treatment.Reports of 114 samples were pending for Sunday, out of which 78 have been declared negative. Remaining are being processed.In Panchkuka, two men, who had attended the religious congregation in Nizamuddin have tested negative. Their report was crucial as both come from a village in Pinjore. The report of 70-year-old resident of Sector 9, Panchkula, linked to the Golden Temple former hazoori ragi Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa’s event in Chandigarh, too has turned out be negative.In Mohali, after three positive cases took the district count to 15 on Saturday, no fresh case was reported on Sunday. Out of 103 samples taken on Saturday, 71 have tested negative, while reports of 32 are awaited. The negative reports include that of 11 people in Dhakoli, Zirakpur, linked to the Nizamuddin event and of some people of Nayagaon, where a 65-year-old with no contact or travel history had died of Covid-19. The negative samples also belong to Jagatpura area, another densely populated colony. District nodal officer Dr Harmandeep Kaur said 26 more samples were collected on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-positive-case-in-chandigarh-tricity-after-6-days/story-bI2bGuj5pxkAWVJx8GY0JI.html
06-04-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s Sector-26 mandi closed for sanitisation today, every Monday||BLURB: Buses delivering vegetables, fruits will be tracked via GPSThe Sector-26 grain and vegetable mandi will remain closed on Monday for sanitisation. In this regard, orders have been issued by the secretary of the market committee.Vegetable and fruits shops owners have also been informed of this decision, and asked to keep their shops closed on Monday. As per the orders, the mandi will be closed every Monday, however, if the need arises, it will be open on alternate days on odd-even basis.The entire market will be sanitised by a municipal team, to eradicate risk of any infection in the market. At the same time, due to this, the administration will also stop the delivery of fruits, vegetables and ration.Retail vegetable shops and vendors, however, will continue to deliver vegetables to people during curfew relaxation hours. These will also be available on phone orders.The administration has also appealed to shopkeepers and vendors of the vegetable market to their shops clean and maintain proper social distance.On Sunday, the administration continued to deliver fruits and vegetables in CTU buses. Meanwhile, to prevent overpricing, the rate list is being updated daily by the administration and is pasted on buses.On March 31, the administration had issued orders that half the vegetable and fruit wholesale shops in the Sector 26 mandi (about 130 traders) will be allowed to open on one day, while the other half will be allowed to open the next day. Karyana shops (grocery) with even shop numbers will open on even dates and shops with odd numbers will open on odd dates. All other types of shops such as bardana shops, gadda sheds etc will remain closed.The daily loading of 60 CTU buses to deliver the goods in allotted sectors has been staggered into three batches. All 60 buses for peripheral areas will be loaded from CCET Sector-26 ground in two shifts. The vendor concerned will send trucks of vegetables such as onion, potato, etc to CCET Sector-26 ground. Only one entry and one exit from mandi is being permitted to allow for regulation of vehicles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-s-sector-26-mandi-closed-for-sanitisation-today-every-monday/story-PGkpOiyS7W9K6HpGK3nQbN.html
06-04-2020||City||Covid-19 : 5 patients associated with ex-ragi shifted to pvt hospital in Punjab||A day after an audio clip of former Golden Temple hazoori ragi Nirmal Singh Khalsa’s last phone talk with his family surfaced alleging lack of proper medical care for Covid-19 patients at Government medical college (GMC) Amritsar, five patients associated with Khalsa were shifted to a private hospital on Sunday.Khalsa’s 65-year-old US-returned aunt and a 58-year old fellow ragi who accompanied him to Chandigarh for a religious congregation, were tested Covid-19 positive on Friday while his associate’s wife, son and 9-year old grandson were tested positive on Saturday.“They were getting treatment in Guru Nanak Dev hospital (GNDH)’s isolation ward. On Sunday, they have been shifted to Fortis Hospital Amritsar as they wished to get treatment from a private hospital,” said Amritsar civil surgeon Dr Prabhdeep Kaur Johal.She added, “The five patients are stable and are responding to the treatment.”In the audio clip of his last conversation with his family members, Khalsa is heard saying that the GMC doctors were not giving him medicines and senior doctors werenot visiting the isolation ward to check the patients. He had also raised sanitation issues. Khalsa died on April 2.Golden Temple’s hazoori ragi Bhai Karaj Singh on Sunday said, “The patients associated with Bhai Nirmal Singh and their families were not satisfied with the treatment being given at GMC. The family members had appealed to Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh to shift them to a private hospital and after his instructions, the health department agreed to shift them to Fortis hospital.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-5-patients-associated-with-ex-ragi-shifted-to-pvt-hospital-in-punjab/story-AsGqGwV8xTr86o0GtZlRwM.html
06-04-2020||Chandigarh||Supply of essentials: Punjab to set up transport control rooms||The Punjab government on Sunday announced to set up transport facilitation control rooms to maintain uninterrupted movement of trucks carrying essential commodities in the state and also decided to impose penalty on anyone found selling essentials above maximum retail price (MRP).While the central transport control room is headed by the State Transport Commission, the facilitation controls rooms in the districts will be headed by the secretary, RTA, according to an official spokesperson.Following orders from chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, the transport department has also stepped up supplies for other states which are deficient in foodgrains and other essentials.The outward movement of stocks to deficient states has gone up by almost 50% over the normal, said an official spokesperson, adding that nearly 20-25 rakes of wheat and rice containing 54,000 to 67,500 tonnes are being dispatched daily to other states.The CM, during a cabinet meeting on Saturday, gave strict instructions to check the prices of all essential commodities and take strong action against those found hoarding, black marketing and overcharging, he said.Enforcement teams are working constantly to check overpricing and are taking stringent action against those indulging in such malpractices, he added.As many as 15 establishments in Pathankot, 10 in Gurdaspur, 15 in Ferozepur, one in Ludhiana and 11 in SAS Nagar have been raided by the enforcement teams and one gas agency has been challaned, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/supply-of-essentials-punjab-to-set-up-transport-control-rooms/story-ttOccC0AE0semnky1PqUUJ.html
06-04-2020||City||Down with fever, panicky woman ends life in Phagwara||A day after her samples were tested for covid-19, a 65-year-old woman Santosh Kaur, of Khurampur village in Phagwara, committed suicide on Sunday morning. Police are treating this as a case of panic attack that turned extreme. She has tested negative and had been getting treatment for fever at the local civil hospital. “She had developed the fear of contracting the disease, even as she had no foreign travel history and not been in contact with any positive case. She lives alone and committed suicide due to panic,” said inquiry officer and Sadar SHO Amarjit Singh, adding that the body had been sent for postmortem.To dispel such fears among residents, the administration has ordered sanitisation of the village. A case has been registered under Section 174 (police to inquire and report on suicide etc) of the CrPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/down-with-fever-panicky-woman-ends-life-in-phagwara/story-KRAXQrkkpLY4dluNXcnvWP.html
06-04-2020||Chandigarh||Insurance policy for frontline workers battling Covid-19: Chandigarh takes up case with Centre||The UT administration has taken up the issue of compensation policy for frontline workers in the fight against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) with the central government.Under the insurance or compensation policy, doctors, policemen and other staff involved in handling the Covid-19 outbreak in the city will be given insurance cover or compensation in case of accidental loss of life on account of contracting the virus.In the daily review meeting chaired by Punjab governor and UT administrator VPS Badnore, he asked UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida to take up a proposal for compensating those working on the frontline in the fight against Covid-19 with the central government.Confirming the development, Parida, said, “As directed by the administrator, we have requested ministry of home affairs to have a common package for all union territories, fixing the amount to be paid to doctors, health workers, police etc in case of any unfortunate incident related to Covid-19.”The Centre in March approved an insurance scheme for health workers fighting the novel coronavirus. Finance minister (FM) Nirmala Sitharaman, on March 26, announced a ₹50 lakh insurance cover per person for frontline health workers involved in managing the outbreak. The announcement was part of a slew of measures announced by the FM under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan package. Even private sector healthcare workers dealing with Covid-19 patients are covered under the scheme.Amit Kumar, general secretary, Chandigarh National Health Mission Employee Union, said, “While the central government has announced the insurance policy, the UT administration also needs to notify its decision on the issue so the policy becomes effective in the city.”Badnore also directed director general of police (DGP) Sanjay Beniwal to examine how police personnel on active duty can be compensated using police fund. The Punjab government on Saturday announced a special health insurance cover of ₹50 lakh each for police officers and sanitation workers who are on the frontline in the battle against the pandemic.A compensation policy for sanitation workers is also under consideration. Municipal commissioner KK Yadav said, “We are working out a plan to compensate sanitation workers in case they suffer because of their work in containing the pandemic. The final decision will be taken by the administration.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/insurance-policy-for-frontline-workers-battling-covid-19-chandigarh-takes-up-case-with-centre/story-CpgCLkCIJ63TGbsTFANybN.html
06-04-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19 : Agreed to give 1-day salary, dept announced deeper cut, claim technical edu staff||A day after the Punjab technical education department announced that it would contribute Rs 5 crore to the CM’s covid relief fund, all department employees are not on the same page. There is confusion on whether the salary cut to fund this is voluntary, or if the employees have to give consent. Salaries for April are yet to disbursed. According to the department’s declaration, officials of group A and B will contribute seven-day salary, group C three days and group D one day. Sources said a week’s salary of a group-A staffer was around Rs 40,000.At least 100 industrial training institutes, 25 polytechnic institutes, four engineering colleges and two technical universities are under the ministry’s administrative control. Workshop instructor union president Harkesh Kumar said, “All staff members in the department irrespective of level had agreed to contribute a day’s salary. The announcement, however, was made, for contributing up to seven-day salary. If given more time, we will have agreed to this as well,” he said, adding that if a government order was issued, no would oppose it. “We are asking for consent, but all should contribute voluntarily,” said Jasvir Singh Gill, Polytechnic Gazetted Teachers Association. Baljit Kaur, president, of an employees body in state-run polytechnic colleges said, “There is no clarity as yet on salary cuts for different levels. No employee can refuse to contribute, if made compulsory.”Additional director Mohanbir Singh Sidhu, who was in touch with employee unions before the announcement, said, “I am not an authority to announce such deduction. One should not mind contributing during such adverse times.” Technical education minister Charanjeet Singh Channi said Saturday’s decision was based on the majority view. “All should be socially responsible,” he said, adding that he had contributed one-month salary to the relief fund.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-agreed-to-give-1-day-salary-dept-announced-deeper-cut-claim-technical-edu-staff/story-9NKUKPv9wP3TBEYVnjllmN.html
06-04-2020||Chandigarh||‘Exercise to lower risk of depression during lockdown’||“We are social animals. We learn, grow, revive and enjoy by being in social setting but the lockdown has forced us to stay indoors for three weeks. While we are trying to protect our physical health by staying inside our houses, it is equally important to keep ourselves mentally fit. Many people are reporting depression or feeling of sadness and loneliness at this time, and exercise is the only way out of it,” said Navneet Singh, a fitness instructor who also owns a gym near Lodhi Club. 45-year-old Singh ensures that his clients continue with their fitness regime even during the lockdown. “Today, I conducted a live aerobics class on Facebook. I have been in touch with all my 400 clients through WhatsApp group, where I not only conduct different exercises, including aerobics, yoga, zumba, but also share important article on health and fitness,” he added. While Navneet has been managing to stay in touch with all his clients, however, paying rent and salaries to his staff has become a major challenge for him. “Monthly rent of my gym is ₹2.5 lakh and I have 10 staff members to pay salaries to along with the monthly EMIs and domestic expenditure. While the business has stopped, bills have piled up. If the lockdown is prolonged, financial situation of many businessmen like me will only worsen,” he said. Other than taking classes, Singh who is a resident of BRS Nagar, spends his days playing games with his daughters Jessica and Bhavnit and reading ebooks. “While I have been continuing with my fitness routine, I’m also enjoying different delicacies made by my wife Satinder Kaur. I’m trying to be positive and productive during this time of uncertainty,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/exercise-to-lower-risk-of-depression-during-lockdown/story-a00b3WTpjvXJ82aWRQZVfM.html
06-04-2020||Chandigarh||Despite heavy borrowing, lockdown to leave Punjab with Rs 5,009-cr deficit||The 21-day coronavirus lockdown is expected to hit the debt-ridden Punjab government hard, leaving it with a deficit of Rs 5,009-crore in the first quarter of financial year 2020-21.The state is staring at this huge shortfall in the April-June period despite market borrowing of Rs 5,300 crore to meet its committed expenditure such as salaries, pensions and interest payments, according to a presentation made by the finance department on the financial impact of the curfew before the state cabinet on Friday.“This is the scenario if the present national lockdown is not extended, but the financial impact will be much more severe in case it gets extended,” officials said. As per the scenarios presented by the department, the deficit will rise to Rs 5,948 crore in the first quarter if the lockdown ends on May 15 and Rs 6,700 crore in case it gets extended till June 15.The state government, which is already grappling with rising debt, plans to borrow Rs 3,000 crore in April, Rs 1,400 crore in May and Rs 900 crore in June to just meet its committed liabilities. The monthly outgo on salaries is Rs 2,100 crore with pensions accounting for another Rs 720 crore.“There is no move to cut salaries, but the state government will have no option but to borrow more to bridge the deficit,” a senior official said, requesting anonymity.The state government has already requested Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman to relax the borrowing limit under the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (FRBM) Act, 2003, from three to four per cent. Under the Act, the state is allowed to raise market loans not exceeding 3% of their gross state domestic product (GSDP).The enhanced FRBM limit will allow the state government to raise another Rs 6,000 crore this fiscal and help it tide over the financial crisis created by the coronavirus outbreak and the consequent curfew – lockdown in other states – that has brought all business activity revenues in the state to a grinding halt.As per estimates, the state economy is taking a hit of Rs 1,700 crore everyday due to the present shutdown. However, the upcoming wheat procurement and payment of Rs 26,000-odd crore to farmers for their produce over a period of two months are expected to provide relief. “This money in farmers’ pockets will give a boost to the state economy as and when the curfew is lifted,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/despite-heavy-borrowing-lockdown-to-leave-punjab-with-rs-5-009-cr-deficit/story-hbyxKVmh5CTiVHGHNRbIYM.html
06-04-2020||City||Anganwadi workers demand N-95 masks, gloves & sanitisers||Without proper gear and masks, Anganwadi workers in the state feel exposed to the risk of contracting coronavirus while delivering food grains at the homes of children enrolled in the midday meal scheme.They are now demanding proper equipment for protection from the state government.“The government has asked people to stay at home, but we have been asked to go to the children’s homes to provide them food grains. We don’t have masks, gloves or sanitisers. Why are our lives being exposed to the infection,” asked Beant Kaur, president of Anganwari workers union in Tarn Taran.She said, “We are ill-equipped for the task. So, I have asked the workers not to go out till the government provides us with the required equipment. However, some are delivering the food grains at children’s homes after being threatened by government officials. They are exposed to the risk.”When asked about the issue, district programme officer Manjinder Singh said the deputy commissioner has already instructed the health department to give necessary equipment to the anganwadi workers. “Some workers have it already and others will get it soon,” he said.Anganwari workers in Amristar are facing a similar problem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/anganwadi-workers-demand-n-95-masks-gloves-sanitisers/story-JrK8foRs3RCUFHKYKeVX7L.html
06-04-2020||Delhi||Quash FIR against DSGMC: Takht Patna Sahib||The ‘jathedar’ of the Takht Patna Sahib on Sunday requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah to direct the police to quash the FIR registered against the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) for allegedly violating lockdown orders.Giani Ranjit Singh said Punjab-bound people stranded in Delhi due to the lockdown had come on their own to seek shelter in the Gurdwara Majnu Ka Tila and the DSGMC had informed authorities about it well in time.The DSGMC has been serving ‘langar’ to the needy while adhering to social-distancing measures, he said.The ‘jathedar’ criticised the Delhi government for filing a complaint against the DSGMC “to defame the religious institution” and for “equating the Sikhs with the Tablighi Jamaat”.At present, 100 gurdwaras have been providing langar to the people stranded in Punjab due to the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/quash-fir-against-dsgmc-takht-patna-sahib/story-abJfipv9CcasHLGr7hbPwK.html
06-04-2020||Chandigarh||With six fresh infections, cases in Haryana jump to 76||Six fresh Covid-19 cases — five from Nuh and one from Gurugram — were reported in Haryana on Sunday even as the virus has infiltrated into 14 districts of the state, infecting 76 people so far. According to health minister Anil Vij, who also holds the home portfolio, at least 29 of the total 76 Covid-19 positive cases are of the Tablighi Jamaat followers, who are linked to the last month’s congregation held at Nizamuddin in Delhi.Last week, Haryana Police had traced 1,305 Tablighi Jamaat workers, including 106 foreign nationals, in different districts of the state. Nuh district in Mewat area, close to the national Capital, has emerged as the hotbed of Tablighi missionaries. As many as 636 Jamaat workers, including 57 foreigners and 528 from other states, were traced to Nuh district alone.As per the health department officials, of the total 76 positive cases, four are from Sri Lanka, one from Nepal and 20 from other Indian states such as Tamil Nadu (5), Kerala and West Bengal (3 each), Telangana and Bihar (2 each), and one each from UP, Punjab, Karnataka, Delhi and Maharashtra. Among the 14 of total 22 Haryana districts from where confirmed coronavirus cases have emerged, Gurugram remains on the top with 18 positive cases, followed by Palwal (17) and Faridabad (14). Hisar, Karnal, Kaithal, Rohtak and Sonepat districts have reported one case each so far. While 15 patients have been discharged, 61 are still undergoing treatment for Covid-19 in Haryana. The results of 482 samples are awaited, while 492 people are currently admitted to hospitals, according to the state health department. On asking about reports that there could be more Jamaat workers in the state who were yet to be tracked down, Vij said, “We believe we have traced all of them. We expect them to come forward and report to the district administration concerned... If they fail to do so over the next couple of days, then strict action as per law will be taken against them.”UNION MINISTER VISITS JHAJJAR AIIMS  Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Sunday visited All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) at Jhajjar’s Badsa extension and interacted with two coronavirus patients through video-conferencing. Harsh Vardhan said total 162 patients, who have been referred from Ram Manohar Lohia hospital in Delhi, are undergoing treatment here.“The doctors and other medical staff are doing a noble service amid the coronavirus scare. I am hopeful that India will win this fight against the deadly infection,” he added.Notably, most of the patients admitted here had attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in south Delhi’s Nizamuddin last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/with-six-fresh-infections-cases-in-haryana-jump-to-76/story-RH2EX42jU27nwwBQEhLsxI.html
06-04-2020||City||Jhammat village school served show-cause for asking parents to submit fee||Taking a tough stance against Delhi Public School, Village Jhammat, for urging parents’ to deposit their wards’ fee amid the coronavirus lockdown, the director public instructions (secondary) office served a show-cause notice to the school management and principal on Sunday.The DPI’s office has asked the school authorities to submit a reply as to why the school’s no objection certificate (NOC) or affiliation to run the school should not be cancelled as they had violated the education departments’ explicit instructions. The school is to respond within three days.On March 23, the state education department had directed all the private schools to reschedule the date of depositing fee as many parents would be unable to deposit fee amid the lockdown. The school authorities were further asked to abide the orders, otherwise, disciplinary action will be taken againstthem. Recently, state education minister Vijay Inder Singla had also instructed all private schools to reschedule their fee depositing dates and not force parents to deposit fee. Despite the orders, the school authorities had issued a circular to parents on Saturday asking them to pay annual miscellaneous charges of ₹21,500 in the month of April itself. The same circular said that the education fee of ₹5,125 and transport fee of ₹2,350 will be debited directly from the parents’ school account through “National Automated Clearing House (NACH) on the first working day of every alternate month.Subsequently, numerous parents’ contacted state and district education officer (DEO) secondary, Swaranjit Kaur and lodged a complaint against the school. Taking note of the complaint, Kaur asked the principal to abide by the state education department’s orders. The school assured the officials that they will follow the departments’ directions and parents will be conveyed a message regarding the same before 4pm. Despite repeated attempts, school principal Baljit Kaur was not available for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jhammat-village-school-served-show-cause-for-asking-parents-to-submit-fee/story-aJErLNY0XP1TlpQ6Ax146K.html
06-04-2020||City||Rohtak PGIMS to increase Covid-19 testing||The Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) in Rohtak is planning to increase its testing capacity to detect and diagnose more affected patients. PGIMS nodal officer for Covid-19 Dhruva Chaudhary said they are planning to increase the testing capacity to 1,000 samples per day against the present limit of 150. “The government is planning to upgrade testing labs at PGIMS and Bhagat Phool Singh Medical College in Sonepat’s Khanpur Kalan village. Besides, four new labs are to be set up at general hospital in Panchkula, Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College in Karnal, Shaheed Hasan Khan Mewati Government Medical College in Nuh’s Nalhar and Maharaja Agrasen Medical College in Hisar’s Agroha. We had placed orders for more kits to conduct tests and we have received 4,000 kits on Saturday,” he added.A spokesperson of PGIMS said that they have tested 1,078 samples, 46 of whom were tested positive till April 4.The samples of Bhiwani, Dadri, Hisar, Sirsa, Fatehabad, Palwal, Mahendergarh, Gurugram, Rewari, Rohtak, Nuh and Jhajjar districts are tested at PGIMS.The data provided by PGIMS shows that testing at PGIMS has increased by 2.5 times from March 30 to April 4. As many as 39 individuals were tested on March 30 and 96 on April 4.FEAR OF COMMUNITY TRANSMISSION LOOMS LARGEDhruva Chaudhary said that the chances of community spread due to coronavirus have rapidly increased with a rise in positive cases related to Tablighi Jamaat workers in Haryana.“Even the 38-year-old Sirsa woman, who was tested positive for Covid-19 on March 30, has neither a travel history nor she got infected from anyone as per initial questioning. There is no doubt that chances of community transmission looms large especially in areas such as Palwal, Faridabad, Gurugram and Nuh,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rohtak-pgims-to-increase-covid-19-testing/story-ba1GioTi4zJlhgp0jkQAwI.html
06-04-2020||Chandigarh||Physical activities must to combat sedentary lifestyle: Fitness expert||Being confined to their homes, the residents are developing sedentary lifestyle which can have negative impact on their health. Therefore, to create an awareness among the residents and to guide them about the diet and exercises to be followed during this period, fitness expert Manmeet Singh of Basant Avenue has started taking health sessions via video conferencing. He has been helping people with the activities they should involve themselves in while remaining indoors. Singh has been working as a fitness expert and a trainer in different gyms and conducts health sessions in different hospitals too.On Sunday, he took two sessions to guide residents about the lifestyle that they can follow while remaining indoors.“To properly communicate my message and interact with the residents, I include only 15 people in a session,” he said.He said today people are cooped up in their homes and level of physical activities has also reduced. “Most of the residents are often lying down or sitting while reading books, watching television or while using mobile phones the entire day. This is making them lethargic. Moreover, if one stays in such atmosphere for a long time, the stress level also increases and when stress increases, body releases hormones which further increases hunger,” he explained.So it is necessary that one should indulge themselves in physical activities and should follow some relaxation techniques to stay healthy.He said people should avoid taking heavy meals and rather consume light meals 5 to 6 times a day to improve their metabolism. He also warned against adding more spices and asked people to avoid sugar in tea and coffee, as sugar increases craving to eat. He said that one should prefer boiled vegetables and pulses in their regular diet.Sharing about physical activities, he suggested that people can do pranayama, walk on the terrace, meditate or do crunches. “Moreover, as maids are not available these days, one can help their mothers, wives in their daily chores, which will improve their physical activities,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/physical-activities-must-to-combat-sedentary-lifestyle-fitness-expert/story-GUDczBsXMIXvWxjRJCo5mN.html
06-04-2020||City||Sedition case against Ludhiana resident for posting fake info on Facebook||Coming down heavily against people who are causing panic and unrest amid the Covid-19 outbreak, Ludhiana police lodged a sedition case against a local resident on Saturday for posting fake information on Facebook.The accused has been identified as Simranjit Singh of Dharmpura.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Surjit Singh of Division Number 3 police station said that police have been keeping tabs on Facebook, Twitter and WhatsApp groups to deter rumour-mongering.WHAT THE POST SAIDPolice had come to know that the accused had put up a post saying that there was no ventilator available in Ludhiana for coronavirus patients. He had also mentioned that a non-governmental organisation (NGO) had contributed Rs 2.5 lakh for the ventilators. The accused then mentioned two phone numbers and urged people to call up those numbers for making contributions for ventilators.The ASI added that the accused misled the people by posting fake information and also tried to make people hate the government.A case under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 505 (1) (B) (with intent to cause, or which is likely to cause, fear or alarm to the public, or to any section of the public), 124-A (sedition) of the Indian Penal Code, Section 3 of Epidemic Disease Act and Section 54 of the Disaster Management Act has been registered against the accused.The ASI further said that a hunt is on for the arrest of the accused. “Once we arrest him, we will find out if he has collected any money from people,” the ASI added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sedition-case-against-ludhiana-resident-for-posting-fake-info-on-facebook/story-ZbQT2KkTott9NkvLRjpFEM.html
06-04-2020||City||Four cops booked for negligence after accused escapes custody in Punjab||An assistant sub-inspector, a constable and two home guards of Nandgarh police have been booked for negligence after three accused escaped from their custody, officials said on Sunday. The accused were arrested with counterfeit currency of ₹8.61 lakh in denominations of ₹500 and ₹2,000 currency notes. Due to the curfew enforced in the state, the accused weren’t able to flee the city and were arrested on Sunday morning.Assistant sub-inspector Balwinder Singh, constable Mandeep Singh and home guard jawans Jaspal Singh and Beant Singh have been booked under Sections 223 (escape from confinement or custody negligently suffered by public servant) and 224 (resistance or obstruction by a person to his lawful apprehension) of the Indian Penal Code.The accused Lakhwinder Singh, Jaswinder Singh and Labhpreet Singh escaped from police custody on Saturday night. The trio along with their accomplice Varinder Singh was arrested by the police a few days back with counterfeit currency. The trio after finding that their cell wasn’t locked, escaped the police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-cops-booked-for-negligence-after-accused-escapes-custody-in-punjab/story-RjoC7XAeErKmHHAgeHEEYO.html
06-04-2020||City||2 drug peddlers held for firing in Amritsar village; sarpanch hurt||Amritsar Two men fired at residents of Janian village, around 20km from district headquarters, after being challenged on the suspicion of peddling drugs at about 3pm on Sunday. The sarpanch, Sikandarbir Singh, 35, and another village resident, Sahib Singh, 35, were injured in the shots that were fired from a .32 bore pistol. Police claim the duo, on a motorycle, had came come from Jandiala, which is around 2km from the village, to peddle drugs. Jandiala SHO Rashpal Singh said the two miscreants had been identified as Krish and Kuddu and were on the wanted list of the police.“Three cases under the NDPS Act are already registered against them at the Jandiala police station,” the SHO added. Yadwinder Singh, the brother of the sarpanch, said, “Due to the coronavirus outbreak, men of the village have been keeping vigil. They noticed the two strangers, on a motorcycle, and another two men in a Maruti car near our village. The men on the motorcycle were seen inside the village and residents attempted to catch them. However, they fired and injured two village residents. We found a drug and Rs 10,000 on them, and handed them over to the police. The Maruti could not be traced.”The SHO added, “Krish opened fire and a .32 bore pistol has been recovered from the duo. We have found a drug on them.” A case has been registered under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 120-B (criminal conspiracy), 188 (defying magistrate’s order), 269 (spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the IPC and Sections 25-54-59 of the Arms Act against the accused at Jandiala police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-drug-peddlers-held-for-firing-in-amritsar-village-sarpanch-hurt/story-pHQii20LHDAWuRCo1hlDzK.html
06-04-2020||Chandigarh||Don’t hike toll fee after lockdown is lifted: Surjewala to Hry govt||Senior Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala on Sunday demanded rollback of the enhanced national highway (NH) toll rates in Haryana, which would ‘come into effect after the lockdown is lifted’.The AICC chief spokesperson said there are 32 NHs and three national expressways having a total length of 3,531km in Haryana. “Every district is connected with one or another national highway. Thus, the toll rate hike would directly affect the people using private vehicles or commercial vehicles. The cost of common goods transported by freight carriers would also get increased,” he added. “Industries are shut and so are the businesses. More than 5 lakh migrant labourers have already gone back to their villages from the state. Most of the raw material for industries comes from other states by road and Haryana’s industries produces the finished products, which is transported to all over the country. In such circumstances, every small burden put on commercial vehicles makes Haryana’s industry non-competitive,” he said.Surjewala asked why the BJP-JJP government was silent on the issue. “Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala came to the power on a promise of uprooting toll plazas. Why is he maintaining a mysterious silence?” he questioned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/don-t-hike-toll-fee-after-lockdown-is-lifted-surjewala-to-hry-govt/story-rMAPBg3lQQLdrzpIGwGVqL.html
06-04-2020||Chandigarh||Probe ‘bias’ against ex-hazoori ragi: National SC commission to Punjab||The National Commission for Scheduled Castes on Sunday directed the Punjab government to set up a special investigating team (SIT) comprising senior civil and police officers to enquire the alleged discrimination against former hazoori ragi (traditional hymn singer) of the Golden Temple and Padma Shri awardee Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa before and after his death.Former Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) MLA Inder Iqbal Singh Atwal said the commission had issued notices to state chief secretary and director general of police (DGP) following a complaint submitted to its chairman Ram Shankar Katheria. Khalsa died on Tuesday last week after he was tested positive for Covid-19.Atwal said he had in a letter to the commission brought to light the manner in which Nirmal Singh was discriminated against while being treated at a government hospital in Amritsar and was denied cremation at Verka.He cited the last telephonic conversation of the former ragi with his family in which the he claimed that he was not attended to for four hours and had lost all hopes of survival. Atwal said Nirmal Singh was a Mazhabi Sikh and his tragic death has shattered the Sikh Panth. He has also filed a separate complaint with the Punjab State Commission for Scheduled Castes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/probe-bias-against-ex-hazoori-ragi-national-sc-commission-to-punjab/story-MLD5OIvqgCC8AGQOl3NGmL.html
06-04-2020||Mumbai||Maha Covid-19 tally touches 748||The number of deaths from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) across the country touched 100 on Sunday as the total infections crossed 4,000 – 748 of them in Maharashtra – with the Central government pegging the doubling rate of the pathogen’s spread at 4.1 days, a figure it said would have stood at 7.4 in the absence of the Nizamuddin cluster. Maharashtra recorded 13 more deaths — the highest 24-hour jump — on Sunday, taking the toll to 45, even as the state reported 113 fresh cases of the infection, revealed figures released by the state health department.Sixteen deaths and 514 new infections were reported on the 12th day of a national lockdown that has been put in place to break the chain of infections. “Our focus is that we chase the virus, rather than the virus chasing us,” health ministry joint secretary Lav Agarwal said during a news briefing. The Union health ministry said that 505 new Covid-19 cases and 15 deaths were reported since Saturday and the total Covid-19 cases were 3,577, with the death toll being 83. However, a tally by Covid19india.org that was cross-checked by HT, showed that the number of cases stood at 4,198, with 114 deaths. There is a lag in the Union health ministry’s data when compared to that of states. Officials say this is because of procedural delays in state-wise cataloguing of cases.The recent spike in infections has largely been propelled by the detection of hundreds of patients who attended the congregation of the Tablighi Jamaat, a Muslim missionary group, in New Delhi’s Nizamuddin Basti last month in a violation of several restrictions. Cases linked to the meet have been reported across 17 states and Union Territories so far.Of Maharashtra’s 13 deaths, eight were in Mumbai, taking the city’s toll to 30, the highest in the country. Three deaths were in Pune and one each in Kalyan-Dombivli and Aurangabad. Four of them died in Kasturba Hospital, Mumbai; two in KEM, Mumbai; two in separate hospitals in Chembur; two in Sassoon Hospital, Pune; one at a district hospital in Pune, while one died in a government hospital in Aurangabad. Most of them had no travel history and barring four, all others were above 60 years of age. Of the 113 people who tested positive for the infection (Sars-Cov-2) in Maharashtra on Sunday, 81 are from Mumbai, 18 from Pune, six from Navi Mumbai, four from Aurangabad, three from Ahmednagar and one from Osmanabad.A 55-year-old taxi driver, who died in a Chembur hospital, used to ferry passengers from the Mumbai international airport, the state health department report stated. Most of the people who attended the Tablighi Jamaat programe in Nizamuddin on March 18 have been traced and are being either kept in isolation or quarantine, the health department has stated. “The local administrations are tracing the people who came in contact with them and are still unidentified. Of the Tablighi attendees, seven have tested positive for coronavirus. Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad and Ahmednagar had two patients each, while one is from Hingoli. Five others found positive are the relatives of these attendees,” health department official said.With a sudden spike in cases in Mumbai and the state, the state administration has been asked to be on their toes with stricter monitoring of containment zones. District collectors and municipal commissioners have been directed to concentrate on the zones, treating them as hotspots. The administration believes that the monitoring of the zones will help the government contain the rise in patients. In Mumbai, the administration has identified around 300 such zones, which are being monitored minutely to restrict the spread. “According to our estimates, we expect the cases to go up for ten more days in Mumbai and other cities, where infected people have been found in large numbers. We expect the figures to reach a plateau by April 15, and then the number of cases will stabilise. But bringing back the situation to normal will take a week after that. We firmly believe that by concentrating on hotspots, we will be able to contain the spread,” said an official from Mantralaya.State health minister Rajesh Tope said 3,078 teams of health workers have so far tracked more than 10 lakh people and they are being monitored for further procedures.Mumbai and Navi Mumbai have 519 and 196 teams, respectively, working to implement the cluster containment action plan. Pune and Nagpur municipal corporations have engaged 439 and 210 such teams respectively.The state government has tested 16,008 samples for coronavirus infections. Of them, 14,837 tested negative. 56 patients have been discharged from various hospitals after their post-isolation tests came negative. 3,122 people are in institutional quarantine, while 46,586 are under home quarantine.The administration has also been directed to concentrate on districts where the cases are zero. “There are around ten districts with no cases so far. As they continue to be unaffected, we can ensure that administrative machinery in those districts can be utilised in other areas if need be,” an official from the public health department said.The state government has asserted that Maharashtra has not reached the third stage of Covid-19 transmission, the stage in which the infection through social transmission is rapid. It has, however, taken measures to ensure that the machinery is prepared even if social transmission began. Every collector and municipal commissioner in the state has identified/acquired schools, colleges, lodges and marriage halls in their respective areas as measure of preparedness. Doctors from all streams have been given training, while students from National Cadet Crop (NCC) and other social services activities at school and college levels, too, are being trained, said an official from the state government.“The videos of training modules are being circulated among health workers and 1.25 lakh more doctors are being trained as preparatory measure,” said Rajesh Tope, state health minister.Meanwhile, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray lent a helping hand to people stranded in Delhi by announcing that they can be put up at Maharashtra Sadan. He spoke to one such Mulund resident, Elizabeth Pingle, on Sunday. Pingale, who was in 14-day quarantine, was left stranded as the hotel she was staying in shut for business and she could not find a place to stay. Thackeray spoke to Pingle and assured her with the arrangements for stay at Maharashtra Sadan. More than 15 such people with negative test reports are staying at the Maharashtra Sadan, chief minister office said.According to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), the city recorded 103 coronavirus cases and eight deaths in Mumbai, the highest in a day so far. Of the new cases, 55 are from private laboratories between March 31 and April 1. After reconfirming pending reports, BMC added the figure on Sunday. This takes the total number of Covid-19 cases in the city to 433. Of the city’s eight deaths, three cases were recorded between March 31 and April 3, which were pending cross-checking with BMC. A 67-year-old woman from Dombivli died at Kasturba Hospital last evening. She didn’t have international travel history. She had diabetes and hypertension. Similarly, another 64-year-old man died at Kasturba Hospital on Saturday. One 62-year-old man died on April 1 at Nair Hospital with respiratory problems and was found Covid-19 positive on April 2. A 52-year-old male died on April 3 at Kasturba Hospital with a known case of hypertension and diabetes. A 70-year-old woman died at KEM hospital Mumbai last night. She was a patient of diabetes and hypertension. Owing to her chronic kidney disease, she was on dialysis. A 77-year-old man died on Saturday morning at Kasturba hospital, who had hypertension and diabetes. An 80-year-old man died on Sunday morning at a private hospital in Chembur. He was a patient of diabetes, hypertension and suffered from epilepsy. Meanwhile, Thane city recorded five new cases on Sunday, taking the city’s coronavirus count to 21. Apart from the three, one each in Kalwa, Mumbra and Kajuvadi, out of the remaining two cases, one is a doctor from Naupada, who had examined the Palghar man who died, and another is a resident of Vrundavan society.An official of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said that Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, is not airborne. “If it was an airborne infection, then in a family whoever has a contact they all should come positive because they are living in same surrounding as the patient and the family is breathing the same air. When someone is admitted in hospital, other patients would have got exposure (if it was airborne) but that is not the case,” said Raman R Gangakhedkar, head of epidemiology and communicable diseases at ICMR. ICMR has issued an advisory that said spitting in public places could enhance the spread of Covid-19. On the question of rapid antibody tests, Gangakhedkar said test kits should be available by Wednesday.The country’s apex biomedical research organisation on Saturday released an advisory on how and where to use the rapid test, which can determine the immunity of an individual and help people get back into the workforce. The advisory includes people in high-risk areas (containment zones), large migration gatherings and evacuation centres. A task force constituted to review the testing guidelines did not open up rapid testing to the private sector.At the briefing, Agarwal said cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba held a meeting with district magistrates, superintendents of police, chief medical officers, state and district surveillance officers, state health secretaries, district health secretaries and chief secretaries to review the situation.District officials shared strategies on how they delineated containment and buffer zone, how they carried out door-to-door survey through special teams and how through telemedicine and call centres people who came from foreign countries were monitored.Covid-19 cases have been reported in 274 districts (till Sunday afternoon) and the cabinet secretary requested all DMs to maintain uniformity in their response and establish a crisis management plan, he said.The government said all states were asked to put in place a district-specific containment strategy in place based on the detailed large outbreak control plan issued by the health ministry on Saturday. “Surveillance and contact tracing has been our main focus, and we will continue to put emphasis on that,” said Agarwal.(with inputs from Rupsa Chakraborty)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-covid-19-tall-touches-748/story-ulbipEIxD6fbK5TXdcBstN.html
06-04-2020||City||4 Patiala youths attacked for asking labourers to stay home||Four youths were allegedly attacked by more than 100 residents at Kulburcha village of Patiala district’s Samana block after they asked some labourers to stay home during the ongoing curfew imposed to stop the spread of Covid-19.The youths had put barricades at the entrance to the village.The incident took place on Saturday evening when Amandeep Singh, in his mid-twenties, and his three associates asked nearly 25 labourers of the village on a tractor-trailer to stay home and not to go to work.After a heated argument with the youths, the labourers along with other villagers returned to the spot and attacked the four. Later, police rescued them.The police said seven of the alleged attackers were identified as Avtar Singh, Harmesh Singh, Joni, Sukhdev Singh, Harwinder Singh, Harjeet Singh and Nirmal Kaur.The complainant said they were attacked with sharp-edged weapons and bricks.A case was registered under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 144 (joining unlawful assembly armed with deadly weapon) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code at the Samana Sadar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/4-patiala-youths-attacked-for-asking-labourers-to-stay-home/story-oLUz1GUZuspP3rGjqX88qL.html
06-04-2020||City||Health dept team attacked in Ludhiana locality||A team of the health department was attacked in a Muslim-dominated locality near Sherpur Chowk of Ludhiana on Sunday. Sahnewal senior medical officer (SMO) Dr Poonam said the incident took place in the afternoon when the health department workers were visiting the street number 4 for ferrying two persons suffering from flu.She said when the team reached a house, they were surrounded by some men and were assaulted with sticks. “One of the health workers was thrashed badly. We have brought the matter to the notice of the authorities,” said Dr Poonam.She added that the health workers sought the help of police after which they were rescued. The suspected flu patients were rushed to hospital.Moti Nagar additional station house officer (SHO) Surinder Singh said both the parities reached a compromise and refused to lodge any complaint.Civil surgeon Dr Raajesh Bagga said Deepak Uppal, the husband of area councillor Kitty Uppal, mediated to help them reach a compromise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/health-dept-team-attacked-in-ludhiana-locality/story-pBHR59Awz0lFtAARoNLT8L.html
06-04-2020||City||7,842 Punjab villages go into self-isolation to contain pandemic spread||With the number of coronavirus cases increasing in Punjab everyday, as many 7,842 of 13,240 villages in the state have self-isolated to check the further spread of the pandemic. Once set up to stop entry of thieves or other anti-social elements into villages, ‘thikri pehras’ (vigil by local residents) have been set up in the rural areas to seal all entry and exit points to these villages. In Patiala district, which has reported only one positive case of the coronavirus so far, has 649 such villages which have decided to disconnect from the outside world. Tarsem Singh, sarpanch of Patiala district’s Sidhuwal village where the campus of Rajiv Gandhi National University of Law is situated, said since the issue involves the health of people, the entire village helped put up special check-points. “The villagers have put themselves in self-isolation. Even the timings for visiting the fields to oversee the wheat crop and collecting fodder for cattle has been set before 10am,” he said.Singh added that a group of 8-10 youths stands guard at each check-point and no one is allowed to leave or enter the village, barring emergency.“The panchayat has arranged special facilities as the villagers can submit their list of requirements such as grocery and medicines which are provided to them accordingly,” he said.Patiala senior superintendent of police (SSP) Mandeep Singh Sidhu said the police are providing all help and logistics to the villagers in arranging these check-points. “Of a total of 966 villages in the district, 649 have been completely sealed, while 317 villages are in process of making such arrangements. The move is helping the district police a lot. Officials from police stations concerned keep visiting these villages so as to ensure law and order,” the SSP added.Harpreet Kaur, sarpanch of Ageta village in Nabha sub-division which was the first to go into self-isolation in the state, said the villagers came forward voluntarily after they were sensitised about the gravity of the crisis.“No one in the village is allowed to enter without sanitising their hands. Moreover, we are maintaining entry and exit register so as to check the locals’ movement,” she said. Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat congratulated the Ageta residents through video-conferencing and asked the SSP to visit village to boost their morale for their initiative.(Inputs from Navrajdeep Singh in Patiala)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/7-842-punjab-villages-go-into-self-isolation-to-contain-pandemic-spread/story-DsyH97Px7NExRW9dJ7UH9I.html
06-04-2020||Mumbai||52% CEOs say Covid-19, lockdown will result in job losses: CII survey||The coronavirus outbreak and the ensuing lockdown will have a major impact on the country’s job scenario, a survey conducted by the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), based on the responses of more than 200 company heads across India, has revealed. Fifty-two percent chief executive officers (CEO) across India have said that there could be job losses in various sectors after the lockdown period ends. The survey, ‘CEOs Snap Poll on Impact of COVID-19 Lockdown on Industry’, collated the responses of CII members last week and was revealed on Sunday. Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicWhile 47% of the CEOs have said that they estimate less than 15% job cuts, 32% of the respondents have said that there could be job losses in the range of 15-30%.CII is a non-government business association which includes private and public sector companies. The survey reveals that majority of the firms also expect a fall in their revenue by more than 10%, while profits are set to decline by more than 5% in the current (April-June) as well as the preceding quarters (January-March).Chandrajit Banerjee, director general, CII, said, “The government could announce a fiscal stimulus package for the industry and implement it on a fast-track mode, given that the sudden imposition of the lockdown has significantly impacted industry operations and the uncertainty of a recovery threatens substantial loss of livelihoods going forward.Companies involved in the manufacture of essential services have also said that there is a major constraint in manufacture, transport and distribution of goods. While 65% have said that there are constraints in the movement of goods, 35% have said that there are constraints in access to manpower. According to the survey, 80% of the respondents have also said that their inventory is lying idle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/52-ceos-say-covid-19-lockdown-will-result-in-job-losses-cii-survey/story-INfgvWzCQyUVpOfdn2eexK.html
06-04-2020||Mumbai||6 wards account for 53% of Mumbai’s positive coronavirus cases||Even as the city witnessed its highest single-day tally of new confirmed coronavirus cases (81) with the total number of cases surging to 458 on Sunday, an analysis of the previously-tested 330 virus-infected patients has revealed that six administrative wards which cover Worli, Prabhadevi, Malabar Hill, Andheri, Byculla and Malad areas, account for the majority of the city’s positive cases. As per the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) data, of the 330 positive cases, 175 (53%) have been detected from the areas mentioned above. At areas such as Bandra (East), Chembur, Deonar and Ghatkopar, more than a dozen cases each have been detected, while two to 10 cases have been found at Borivli, Dahisar, Mulund and Kurla. The G South ward, which comprises of areas such as Worli koliwada and Prabhadevi, has recorded the highest number of cases (58) of the 330 positive cases, followed by the D ward (Malabar Hill, Grant Road and Chowpatty) with 31 confirmed patients. The third highest cases (25) have been recorded in the K West ward that covers areas such as Andheri (West), Irla, Juhu, Oshiwara and parts of Jogeshwari. The B ward (Dongri and Princess Dock areas) which has a low population has the lowest number of positive cases. According to area-wise cases, the maximum number (137) of patients has been recorded in the island city, followed by 118 confirmed cases in the western suburbs and 75 in the eastern suburbs. In the island city, central Mumbai has 90 confirmed patients, while 47 have been confirmed in south Mumbai. Meanwhile on Sunday, the BMC reported eight deaths. Three of these deaths had taken places between March 31 and April 3 and were confirmed by private labs but were confirmed by the BMC on Sunday. Of the 81 new cases reported by the state health department in Mumbai on Sunday, 55 were confirmed by private labs between March 31 and April 2. However, according to the BMC, the city recorded 103 cases on Sunday. At Dharavi, one more coronavirus case was detected on Sunday after a 21-year-old man residing on 60 Feet Road was tested positive. The total number of confirmed patients from Dharavi now stands at five. Earlier this week, a Worli resident who worked as a sweeper in Dharavi was tested positive for the virus. The 21-year-old has no travel history, but works as a technician in a lab at Airoli. He had developed symptoms on March 29. The BMC has traced around 185 of his close contacts, including his five family members. According to the civic body, around 3,450 people across five containment zones in Dharavi have been home quarantined.As Dharavi is a congested area and is Asia’s largest slum area, the civic body has set up a clinic at the containment zone in Baliga Nagar, where all the 2,500 residents, including 132 senior citizens and 32 residents with respiratory ailments as well as cough, cold and fever, will give their swab tests. BMC on Saturday had set up 10 clinics in the city for swab tests. A confirmed case has also been detected at the densely-populated Lalbaug area on Sunday. According to BMC officials, the patient is a man in his 30s. He has been admitted to Kasturba Hospital and seven of his close contacts have been quarantined. BMC issues SOP for officials working at containment zonesBMC on Sunday also released the standard operating procedures (SOP) drafted by municipal commissioner Praveen Pardeshi which consist of guidelines for officials working at more than 241 containment zones in the city.Some of the guidelines include marking of the buffer zones near the containment zones if necessary and preparing a report of all establishments such as hotels, lodges and hospitals/ clinics in the containment zones. The SOP also directs BMC officials to prepare a list of people who had complained of flu, cough or fever in the past few days at the clinics and hospitals within the containment zones.According to the SOP, officials from BMC also have to count the number of people within a containment zone every day to ensure that nobody goes missing. Further, the SOP has also directed institutional quarantine for those who are close contacts of positive patients, but administer self-quarantine measures as they reside in small houses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/6-wards-account-for-53-of-mumbai-s-positive-coronavirus-cases/story-U3XFUIdfKIlbJwRcsslDNM.html
06-04-2020||Noida||Man arrested for spreading coronavirus rumours in Greater Noida||A 20-year-old man was arrested for allegedly spreading rumours about coronavirus in Greater Noida. The suspect was identified as Asif, a resident of Khodna Kala village in Surajpur.Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Central, said local residents had informed police that the suspect was spreading rumours that were causing people to panic. He said the Surajpur police registered a complaint and launched an investigation into the matter.A police team visited his house and picked him up for questioning. “The police seized his mobile phone and found he had shared an inflammatory video. In the video, it was said that the coronavirus threat was not real and the health department officials were deliberately detaining members of a particular community and inflicting harm on them,” he said. Surajpur police said they have registered a case against him under Section 153-A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth), section 505 (Statements conducing to public mischief) section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and section 54 of Disaster Management Act, 2005.“The police have seized his mobile phone. The police also talked to the local people. The suspect will be produced in court and sent to judicial custody,” Chander said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-arrested-for-spreading-rumours-in-greater-noida/story-Dmvjz7fFzCXQOQR3hXivyO.html
06-04-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram civic body identifies 250 clusters for supply of essentials||A preliminary list of 43 slums in the city, compiled by the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) in the wake of a nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of COVID-19, has since swelled to include over 250 informal housing clusters (including smaller unauthorised colonies and EWS hamlets). These clusters have been identified in order to streamline the flow of food and essential supplies, such as water, soap and toothpaste, to these areas. An estimated 15 to 20,000 families, mostly daily wage migrant labourers, reside there.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe MCG, with the help of several volunteers and NGO groups, has attempting to supply these families with at least two cooked meals a day.MCG joint commissioner Vivek Kalia said, “We have been actively mapping areas in the city where aid is required and updating this list. Initially, we were focused on providing residents with dry ration, but now we are instead providing cooked food as many of the families living in these clusters do not have stoves or LPG cylinders. There are several kitchens at work in Gurugram, from where MCG officials and volunteers are collecting and distributing food packets.” Logistically too, providing cooked food instead of dry ration packets has proved to be easier for the MCG.As per a statement issued by the district administration on Sunday, a total of 172,000 individuals across the district are being provided with cooked food and other essential supplies every day. Those who aren’t receiving delivery of supplies in their neighbourhood also have the option of visiting any of the 77 relief centres which have been set up across the district, of which 56 are located within the MCG area. Approximately 168,000 food packets, along with 2,500 dry ration packets, are being provided to people each day.Kalia urged residents, who wish to volunteer by either providing cooked food or helping with distribution, to approach the district administration or their local councillor before doing so. “We have noticed that many of the slum clusters in newer parts of the city are being adequately serviced, because of their proximity to condominiums. However, there are large informal housing settlements in older parts of the city too, and we need to ensure equitable distribution of food and other essential items,” he added.To ensure equitable distribution, the MCG has created a centralised, digital map for each of the city’s four zones, marking the exact locations of these clusters, along with the number of families residing there. “Volunteers and officials, when referring to this map, are also able to see when food was last delivered to a particular area. This way, we avoid duplication,” Kalia explained. Each of these clusters has also been assigned a citizen volunteer, who is directly responsible for coordinating food supply to the families there.Among the NGOs at the forefront of this effort are IAmGurgaon, the Gurugram Nagrik Ekta Manch, Agrasar, Janata Rasoi (a community kitchen being run out of DLF3), and Rasoi on the Wheels, in addition several smaller citizen initiatives at a neighbourhood level, and the city’s civil defence personnel, who have taken the reigns on distribution efforts. In rural areas, it is the local panchayats who have become involved, as per a Sunday press release issued by the administration.Latika Thukral, founder, IAmGurgaon, said, “It is extremely necessary to streamline the distribution process now, as the administration and citizens together will have to take care of the city’s underprivileged for at least the next two months, if not longer. We are actively trying to raise funds to ensure a constant flow of supplies.” According to an estimate by Agrasar, it will take approximately Rs 3250 per family, per month, in order to ensure a daily supply of cooked food to the city’s needy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-civic-body-identifies-250-slums-for-supply-of-essentials-number-six-times-initially-estimated/story-KoAa1vFORUQJxGfYfpHMAN.html
06-04-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram Labour dept seeks industry feedback on how to resume operations post lockdown||With the country halfway into the 21-day lockdown, the state government is working towards creating a strategy to restore operations of various sectors across Haryana after April 14. In this regard, high priority has been accorded to the industrial sector to ensure supply of essentials is not hit across states. The district labour department has sought the opinion of industry owners to suggest if industries should be allowed to restore operations in phases or fully after April 14. The industry owners have been asked to submit their replies by Monday.The industries have been closed since March 21, a day before the voluntary Janata Curfew was observed. For industries, mainly for small and medium scale industries, the complete shutdown of operations has been damaging in many ways.The officials of district labour department spoke to various industrial associations on telephone on Saturday.“The government wants feedback from every stakeholder on whether lockdown should continue after April 14 or not. The government wants to know directly from the industry owners about what they feel would be effective ways to restore operations. We have asked the industry owners to submit their replies on Monday. We have asked them to share their views on what are the difficulties they are currently facing and the problems they anticipate after the lockdown is lifted or if it is continued. We will send industry owners suggestions to the Union government,” said Ramesh Ahuja, deputy labour commissioner, Gurugram.Industry owners HT spoke with had a mixed response. While some of them wanted lockdown to continue to till the pandemic is under control, some said prolonged lockdown would be damaging for small and medium industries, and another section backed restoring operations of industries involved in manufacturing of essential goods and raw materials.Industry owners also pointed out that many workers left in the migrant exodus in the initial days of the lockdown and those still around might not return to work in fear of the coronavirus disease, which is highly infectious.“Many industry owners live in Delhi, Noida, Faridabad and nearby cities and we do not know if the lockdown will be lifted at once or state-wise. Delhi or Noida, for instance, are under lockdown, how will the owners reach their factories? Similarly, factories are interdependent on goods supply within the states and nation and many clients are foreign based and most of nations are under lockdown. So we are not in a position to say anything,” said Ashok Kohli, president of Chamber of Industry Udyog Vihar.For small- and medium-scale industries continuation of the lockdown could end of operations altogether.“We are small-scale industry owners with fewer than 100 workers, who are dependent on us. We cannot distribute salaries as our clients are affected. We are very much indecisive and confused. We want the government to help us with a relief package as we will be overburdened with GST, income tax, electricity bill surcharge, bank loan interest and many other expenses. We will submit our reply on Monday,” said Deepak Maini, chairman Industrial Welfare Association of Sector-37.Some like Pawan Yadav, the president of IMT Industrial Association Manesar, said, “Lockdown should continue, as our priority is the nation. Cases of coronavirus are increasing and the government should not take a risk.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-labour-dept-seeks-industry-feedback-on-how-to-resume-operations-post-lockdown/story-vcFeBC6bFx1ghXJkuMIbQM.html
06-04-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Ivy Apartment residents use ‘smart’ solutions for social distancing||Amid the ongoing national lockdown, announced to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease, Ivy Apartments in Sushant Lok Phase 1 has come up with a ‘smart’ solution to ensure that residents are able to buy essential items without crowding the grocery store within the complex. Residents in the condominium use a mobile application to book a 30-minute slot for buying groceries and other essential items from the store.The mobile app allows only six residents to book a particular slot which ensures that not more than six people enter the shop in one go and maintain social distance.Vijay Chopra, president of the RWA, said that the condominium was using a similar mechanism to manage bookings for the tennis court before the lockdown was imposed, and decided to adopt the approach to abide by social distancing norms at all times. “We have also marked circles on the floor at a distance of 2 metres so that social distancing is maintained when people wait outside the shop,” Chopra said.Apart from relying on the service of the grocery shop on the premises, the condominium’s resident welfare association (RWA) has also tied up with vendors who provide residents with vegetables and fruits on a daily basis. “The fruit and vegetable vendors come everyday between 9am to 11am, this has been a great help in procuring food items. For medicines, there is a network of people who have been provided with curfew passes, and we place requests for these necessities with the management and those with the passes procure it for us,” Neel Mason, a resident, said.In view of the lockdown, the apartment has cut down the strength of its staff and is managing with a small number of staffers to keep essential services such as diesel generator (DG), maintenance, STP (sewage treatment plant) and waste disposal running. The staff has been provided with boarding and lodging facilities within the condominium to reduce the chances of exposure to the outside world.“We have reduced the staff members on the premises since the lockdown started. The housekeeping staff, security guards, technical team, and even the grocery shop owners are staying inside the premises. We have collected money through a donation drive and provided ration and other essential items that the staff may need. They cook for themselves and we don’t want them to go back to their villages since everyone is scared of the pandemic spreading further,” Chopra said. He added that the staff members were also provided with Vitamin C tablets and an in-house doctor was monitoring their health every day.The condominium has also put in place a volunteer network to cater to the needs of residents, especially senior citizens that may require special assistance during the lockdown. Similarly, an emergency response team comprising doctors who live within the complex has also been formed. The RWA has roped in the housekeeping staff to ensure that apartments of senior citizens who do not have full-time domestic helpers are cleaned and sanitised at regular intervals.“We had asked part-time helpers not to come to the society amid the lockdown and had anticipated that the temporary suspension could severely affect the elderly senior citizens who live on their own. In order to help them, we are some estate housekeeping staff clean the identified flats on alternate days,” Chopra said. The condominium has compiled a list of the elderly residents who’d need these services. The residents are required to pay a nominal fee for the service.The condominium has barred the entry of part-time domestic help such as maids, cooks, drivers, car washers, and dog walkers among others. Entry for external vendors such as food delivery persons, meanwhile, has been restricted till the tower gate. Food and courier delivery agents are allowed til the entrance gates of the towers and the deliveries are made in a marked area that is disinfected regularly. All those entering the towers are screened by thermal scanners and are required to wash their hands in a portable wash-basin placed at the gate entrance, and use hand sanitizers. Within the condominium, common areas are regularly sanitised. The RWA has purchased a chemical solution and undertakes daily disinfection and fogging exercises regularly. Further, plastic sheets have been placed on buttons inside the lift and the sheet is disinfected every few hours.“We have also shared a format for practicing social distancing within the lifts. People using the lifts have been advised to stay at a distance and face the walls of the lift. Not more than four people are encouraged to use the lift at the same time. The lifts are sanitised on a daily basis,” Chopra said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-ivy-apartment-residents-use-smart-solutions-for-social-distancing/story-XMXU5pRPiZ5muCN4UzHJfO.html
06-04-2020||Gurugram||Coronavirus: Four from Sri Lanka who attended Tablighi Jamat gathering test positive in Haryana’s Nuh||Four men from Sri Lanka, who had allegedly attended the Tablighi Jamaat Markaz in Delhi’s Nizamuddin last month, tested positive for Covid-19, in the Nuh district on Sunday, said officials. Eight people have been confirmed to have Covid-19 from Nuh and seven of them had visited the congregation in Nizamuddin, held mid-March.Virender Yadav, chief medical officer (CMO), Nuh, said: “Two of the patients were found near the Palwal border on March 31while entering Nuh and the other two were traced to Umra village. They were quarantined and their samples were collected which have come positive,” he said.Police said all those who had attended the event and those who had come in close contact with them have been identified in Nuh. All samples will be collected by Sunday night, they added.“There were 270 people who had attended the Jamaat in March, who then went to Palwal. They had started moving to Nuh after the lockdown was announced and were identified within a week,” said Yadav.Meanwhile, the 600-bed Shaheed Hasan Khan Mewati Government Medical College at Nalhar in Mewat district has been declared an exclusive hospital for Sars-Cov-2 cases and more than 300 people have been admitted there in isolation and quarantine wards.On Friday, three people from Kerala, who had allegedly attended the event last month, had tested positive in Nuh, said officials.The superintendent of police of Nuh, Narender Bijarniya, on Sunday, said the four men from Sri Lanka were in touch with people from Palla and Rehna village in Nuh. “We have identified all the people and most of the samples have been collected. Our priority is to choose the highest risk persons. The teams start collecting samples by 8am and the process goes on until 11.30pm. All officials, including medical teams, are working round the clock,” he said.Nuh had received test reports of 41 cases until Sunday, out of which eight have tested positive for coronavirus, including a truck driver who had visited Gujarat last month.Most of the villages have been sanitised and the survey was completed by Sunday afternoon, said officials.One of the medical officers, who is part of the sample collection team, said the villagers are not cooperating and that they find it difficult to get the tests done. They have reported the matter to the police regarding a few incidents where a police team accompanied them, said an officer on condition of anonymity. The seven people who have tested positive for coronavirus had attended the event and stayed in Palwal for nearly 10 days before starting for Nuh, said the police.Bijrania said the situation in Nuh is under control and all suspected people are quarantined and under surveillance. Police teams are keeping a close watch on the people hospitalised and their family members to ensure that the infected persons do not come in close contact with anyone else.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/coronavirus-four-from-sri-lanka-who-attended-tablighi-jamat-gathering-test-positive-in-haryana-s-nuh/story-wP89qPQiiO4aLlWQZeV5SJ.html
06-04-2020||City||Patient count in Gzb reaches 23; health dept orders PPE and test kits||The increase in the number of Covid-19 positive cases in Ghaziabad has led the health department to order for more personal protective equipment (PPE) as well as testing kits. The officials said that they may soon run out of the stock as the number of Covid-19 cases so far has reached 23 till Sunday evening.“At present, we have about 350 PPE kits, while the daily usage is about 35-50 of such kits. Therefore, we have placed an intermediate order for procuring 300-400 of these to meet the present requirement. Another order of 5,000 has also been placed. We are also running short of testing kits. Presently, there are 150 kits available. Our daily usage is about 100-150 kits per day. We have placed an order of ₹1 lakh for the testing kits,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer (CMO).“The orders have been placed as more people are being admitted to isolation wards, and the number of positive patients has also increased.We have 23 Covid-19 positive patients, while three have been discharged. A large number of the patients are said to have attended religious congregations. So far, we have 233 people who were traced after attending religious congregations. Test reports of 127 have been received. Of them, 13 have turned positive for Covid-19,” he added.He added that 35 out of the 233 people are those who attended religious congregation at Delhi’s Nizamuddin. Of them, five have tested positive so far.Concerned about the rise in Covid-19 cases, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, on Sunday evening, via video conferencing connected with nearly 377 religious leaders across 75 districts in UP and sought their support in spreading the word of social distancing and expedite efforts to observe it further in the coming days till the lockdown period till April 14.Awanish Awasthi, UP’s additional chief secretary (home), said during a press briefing in Lucknow that 31 industrial units involved in manufacturing of PPE, 99 related to the production of sanitiser, and another 410 involved in the manufacture of medical equipment have started their operations.“The figures have spiked on the account of people turning positive due to their attendance at the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi. Till Sunday evening, 1,499 of them were identified and 1,205 were sent to quarantine. Apart from them, 315 foreigners were also identified and 249 passports were seized. Forty-two FIRs have been filed so far,” Awasthi added.UP’s principal secretary (health), Amit Mohan Prasad, said that about 50% of the total number of positive cases constitute people related to the Tablighi Jamaat event.“Till Sunday evening, there are 276 positive cases of Covid-19 reported from 31 districts of UP. About 138, or nearly 50% of total cases, are people related to the Tablighi Jamaat event. Out of 276, 21 people have been discharged and three deaths have also been reported so far,” he added.In Ghaziabad, the police on Sunday booked 15 persons including 10 Indonesian nationals, who were allegedly hiding in religious places and at a house in Shaheed Nagar locality.“FIR was filed against 15 persons, including a guide who was with the group. All the 15 persons were sent to a quarantine facility on Saturday,” said Rakesh Mishra, circle officer (Sahibabad).ersons were sent to a quarantine facility on Saturday,” said Rakesh Mishra, circle officer (Sahibabad).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patient-count-in-gzb-reaches-23-health-dept-orders-ppe-and-test-kits/story-c5o0rK9G35WBH8HvAr85XI.html
06-04-2020||Noida||Covid test result delayed, patient from Ghaziabad appeals on Twitter||A few patients in the isolation ward of the MMG Hospital in Ghaziabad are a worried lot as their Covid-19 test reports have been delayed by five to six days, so much so that one of them took to Twitter and tagged the Prime Minister’s Office, among others, to highlight his plight.Ghaziabad chief medical officer (CMO) Dr NK Gupta said generally, Covid-19 test reports are received in two to three days and his department was trying to expedite the process in the case of these patients.A 29-year-old IT professional said he came to the hospital voluntarily after he developed fever. He said he arrived at MMG Hospital on March 31 and his sample was collected the next day.“It’s been five days but I am yet to get the report. I had developed a mild fever and I came here for tests on March 31. There are 11 others like me whose samples were collected on April 1 and they are also yet to get their reports,” the 29-year-old man, who resides in Indirapuram, told HT over phone.“My family stays in Punjab and they are also worried about me. If our tests are negative, we should be allowed to go home. But the doctors say they are yet to get the reports,” he added.A patients also took to social media with his grievance. The IT professional posted on Twitter about the delayed test reports and tagged Rashtrapati Bhavan, Prime Minister’s Office, Union Minister Smriti Irani, Delhi CM’s office, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, among others.He also posted his mobile phone number and stated that the staff and doctors will be responsible if anything happens to him. He said if the government wants to save people, then it should start looking into what is happening at the government hospitals as by keeping positive and negative suspects together will not help contain the virus.Another IT professional, who lives in Vijay Nagar, said he had arrived from Nigeria on March 22.“On March 29, I developed a mild fever and cold. So I decided to get myself tested. My sample was taken on March 30. I was told that the report will come in 24 hours. But , it is April 5 and I am yet to receive my report. My family in Varanasi is worried,” he said.“The officials told us that as per the revised policy, three samples will be taken from each patient and we will have to remain in isolation for 14 days. I am ready to stay for 14 days. But if I am negative, I should be shifted to the quarantine ward,” he said.Another patient who lives in Vijay Nagar and works with Noida-based company, Ceasefire, said that he arrived at the isolation ward with four others on April 1.“We, too, are yet to get our test reports. Our samples were taken on April 1. None of us has symptoms at present,” he said.Dr Gupta said it generally takes three days to get the results. “Some reports are received in a day while others arrive within two or three days. Some reports may also take up to fie days. However, we will enquire why the reports are delayed. Patients should not worry. We will also ask our counselling team to speak to them,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/test-reports-delayed-patient-in-isolation-vent-his-worry-on-social-media/story-MD5gt99hsl330htasKlr5I.html
06-04-2020||Noida||Noida: Schools, colleges not to ask for fee from parents during lockdown period||Taking serious note of parents’ concern regarding fee notices from various schools and colleges in the midst of the nationwide lockdown to curb the Covid-19 outbreak, the Gautam Budh Nagar district administration has directed all schools and educational institutes not to ask for fees from parents till the 21-day lockdown is over.District magistrate Suhas LY said if people are not able to submit their wards’ fees during the lockdown period, it won’t affect the students’ enrollment to online classes, being offered by different educational institutes.“If any school is found to have compelled guardians to pay fees during the lockdown period, the school head will either have to face one year’s imprisonment or will have to pay monetary fine, or both. If the fee notices appear to be causing loss to the masses, the jail term could be extended to two years for the errant school heads,” he said.Welcoming this order, Yatendra Kasana, president of Noida parents’ association, said the step will provide respite to the parents who have repeatedly been asked by schools to deposit the fees. “We have raised this demand with the district administration that parents must be given some exemption from paying the fees for the first quarter of the present academic session in this time of crisis. It has come as a big relief as schools had been asking for fees which were hiked exuberantly, beyond the permissible limit of 8%. This order will certainly bring relief to the thousands of people who are facing a financial crisis due to the Covid-19 outbreak,” he said.Kasana added that this order will also give respite to all those parents who were apprehensive about getting permissions for online classes for their wards from their respective schools.When contacted, Kamini Bhasin, the principal of Delhi Public School in Sector-30, who is also the president of Noida unaided schools’ association and a member of the district fee regulatory committee, said her school is following all guidelines issued by the district administration. “We have neither compelled the parents to deposit the fees nor has it been hiked beyond the permissible limit,” she said.When asked about other unaided schools of the district, she said the unaided schools’ association is a platform to discuss various issues. “We can’t force other schools to follow us. However, I do not know whether other schools are following the district administration’s guidelines,” she said.The DM, earlier, had also asked landlords in the district not to compel tenants to pay their monthly rentals and urged them not to ask the renters to vacate if they fail to make payments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-schools-colleges-not-to-ask-for-fee-from-parents-during-lockdown-period/story-gWjm88c20R5JJKwR5O370L.html
06-04-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s Alaknanda turns to digital artis, meditation to stay connected||At 5pm daily, a small group of residents of Mandakini Enclave in south Delhi’s Alaknanda meditate and then later share their experiences with each other. This has been their routine for over a week now. The participants of this group, however, have not met each other physically ever since Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a 21-day nationwide lockdown last month. Anshu Bhandari, president of Mandakini Enclave residents’ welfare association, says he started this group on WhatsApp to help people stay calm in “these tough times”. Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemic “We share an audio or video clip related to meditation on the WhatsApp group and listen to it together while sitting at our homes. We then share our experience in the group. This has been really helpful, as most of us have not stepped out of the house or the block.”Almost 500 metres away, in Aravali Apartments, one of the 12 residential societies in Alaknanda, which largely has DDA flats, Poonam Arora has been connecting with people while practising social distancing. Taking a cue from Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s initiative asking people to come out in their balconies to clap and clang utensils to thank doctors, nurses and those at the frontline on the battle against COVID-19, Poonam organised an aarti (a prayer) on the third day of Navratri. “I have a loudspeaker, so I called people to their balconies and we sang the aarti at 7pm,” she said. On Ram Navami (last day of the Navratras), Arora and her 10-odd friends participated in a joint celebration online. “We all downloaded a mobile application and sang bhajans. This is helping us stay connected and most importantly, stay calm,” said Arora. Spread over an area of nearly 1 square kilometre, Alaknanda has over 12 residential apartments, mostly DDA flats and is surrounded by Chittaranjan Park, Greater Kailash-II and Govindpuri. As the number of Covid-19 cases began to increase in the national capital and after the lockdown was announced, the RWAs in the area decided to stop entry of vendors, domestic helps, online delivery and courier service people; banned evening and morning walks and even restricted the number of entry gates that are open. “We have got arterial roads barricaded to ensure minimum movement in the area. The entry to all residential societies is restricted. Also, we have been coordinating with the local councillor to get disinfectant sprayed in all the societies,” said Saurabh Mishra, president of the federation of Alaknanda RWAs and a resident of Shivalik Apartments. Several societies have procured thermal scanners to screen those entering the society, including their sanitation and security staff. As for guards and sanitation staff coming to the residential neighbourhood, the RWAs have provided sanitizers and facility to wash hands at the gates. The restriction on entry of domestic helps, residents admit, has posed a problem for some senior citizens. Bhandari said that the RWAs are in constant touch with the elderly people living in their localities. After the lockdown, Mandakini Enclave, which has 600-plus flats, has formed a ward-wise or block-wise WhatsApp group. “Though we have common WhatsApp group for all the residents, a ward-wise group was formed after the lockdown was announced.. Each block member looks after senior citizens in their ward or block,” she said. Most societies have just kept one or two gates open and temporarily suspended door-to-door collection of waste. In some societies, waste is collected from homes of elderly people while others have to come down and hand over their waste to the garbage trucks. “This has been done to minimise the chances of spread of the infection. So far, there are no positive cases from Alaknanda, though there were a few people in home quarantine,” said Ajay Kumar Lal, a resident of the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/alaknanda-turns-to-digital-artis-meditation-to-stay-connected/story-u8fPmICWipE0QhlNnMkbpI.html
06-04-2020||Delhi||Many health workers in Delhi infected by Covid-19||In just over a month since the first Covid-19 case was reported in Delhi, at least 24 healthcare workers—doctors, nurses, sanitation staff—have tested positive for the disease in the city. While a couple of them had a history of international travel, some of them—like the doctor couple who worked in two mohalla clinics in north-east Delhi and a resident doctor of respiratory medicine in Safdarjung Hospital—were infected via their patients. For the others—like the two doctors and six nurses from Delhi State Cancer Institute and the resident doctor from AIIMS—the source of infection is unclear. Around 108 staff members from Sir Ganga Ram Hospital had to be quarantined after coming in contact with two Covid-19 cases unknowingly. Similarly, around 81 people from Maharaja Agrasen Hospital were quarantined after two of the patients admitted to the hospital for almost 20 days tested positive for the disease. One doctor, three nurses, and a member of the housekeeping staff have also tested positive at the hospital. Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicAll hospitals, including private ones, have been screening every patient for fever, cough and travel history before they are allowed in. So far, Delhi has reported 503 cases of Covid-19, of which 320 are linked to Tablighi Jamaat. So many healthcare workers have taken ill, at a time when the Delhi government is preparing for a surge in the numbers of up to 1,000 cases a day. Why are so many healthcare workers getting infected? Experts believe it is because they are out and about during the lockdown. “Currently, most people are at home so they are not being exposed to the infection. However, doctors are out and about. They are also more likely to come in contact with people who have the infection at hospitals and clinics. And, no matter how much screening you do, there is bound to be 20 to 30% of the people who will not have fever or cough yet will be able to transmit the infection to the doctors,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung Hospital.So, what can be done? Virologist Dr Jacob John says universal respiratory protection is what will keep the doctors safe for the upcoming surge.“I have been saying this. Everyone needs to wear a mask. Patients—even if they are going to a hospital with a broken toe—should wear a surgical mask. The doctors should all wear N-95 masks. But that is not all, they should also wear goggles that can be sanitised every day to prevent the infection from entering through their eyes. This is for every doctor, even in clinics. As for those in Covid-19 wards, the government has to ensure proper protection. We need all our doctors when the numbers shoot up,” he said.For judicious use of the limited personal protective equipment (PPE) stock and to ensure no cross-infection, the Delhi government has dedicated two of its hospitals only for Covid-19 patients.“No other patients will be seen in these two hospitals. This is a great step by the government to prevent cross infections. This also ensures that our PPEs are used judiciously, at the same time all our doctors and healthcare workers get adequate protection,” said Dr JC Passey, medical director, Lok Nayak Hospital campus, which is one of the two centres to become dedicated Covid-19 hospitals. No doctor from the hospital has got the infection so far, even though it has the highest number of Covid-19 positive and suspected cases.The government has also ensured that after working for 14 days at a time, all the healthcare workers in the Covid-19 wards get to stay in hostels on campus or in luxury hotels so that they do not go home and pass on the infection.Central government hospitals like Safdarjung and Dr RML, which also have isolation wards, have arranged for accommodation for healthcare workers in hostels on campus. The 28-year-old Covid-19-positive senior resident from the physiology department at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences had passed on the infection to his wife who was nine months pregnant. She delivered a healthy baby boy at the hospital on Friday. The sanitation worker from AIIMS trauma centre, who tested positive for Covid-19, had passed on the infection to his wife, another sanitation worker in Charak Palika Hospital.The shortage of quality PPEs—full-body suit, goggles, mask, gloves, and shoe covers—is another problem that the governments are facing in their Covid-19 fight. “Due to the shortage in the market, several small manufacturers have come up and their products are not always quality, but one or two out of five manufacturers can give us decent PPE kits,” said an official from Lok Nayak Hospital.The Delhi government has asked the centre for around 200,000 PPE kits and their Central Procurement Agency (CPA), which is responsible for buying all medicines, consumables and equipment for Delhi government-run hospitals, already has a tender in place for 1,20,000 PPE kits with three companies, which are being supplied piecemeal. Most hospitals have just about enough and are working on using them judiciously. “We have around 1,800 kits in our store, around 500 are needed in a day. But, there is another shipment scheduled to arrive on Tuesday,” said a doctor from Safdarjung Hospital.“The doctors are a part of our society and they are susceptible to the infection like everyone else. We need to examine where all of them got the infection from. Plus, we also need to ensure not only the availability of PPE kits but also that they are being used and taken off properly,” said Dr DK Sharma, medical superintendent, AIIMS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/why-are-so-many-doctors-infected-in-delhi/story-xrQY3VQkKO18yo9uNLnccJ.html
06-04-2020||India||Anti-malaria drug is the best bet against Covid-19 until a cure is created||A cheap, safe and widely available drug that has been used to treat malaria for at least a century has emerged as the most sought-after medicine in the world after preliminary trials from China said it boosted recovery and lowered the severity of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), which has sickened 1.2 million and killed 65,000 around the world within four months.India on Saturday completely banned the export of hydroxychloroquine, of which it is the world’s biggest producer, even as President Donald Trump urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to send the medicine to the United States, which has reported at least 300,000 cases and close to 8,500 deaths.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicA blanket ban on the export of hydroxychloroquine and its active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs), which are the chemicals used to manufacture the drug, will help India stockpile and ramp up production at very short notice. India has approved the use of the drug as prophylaxis to protect health workers and close contacts of Covid-19 patients from infection.What majorly boosted the global demand for hydroxychloroquine were the results of a small placebo-controlled clinical trial in China that demonstrated the anti-malarial drug shortened the duration and reduced the severity of cough, fever and pneumonia in patients with mild and moderate disease. Hydroxychloroquine also prevented the illness from worsening in patients given the drug, compared to the placebo group, said the study, which was published on medRxiv, which publishes studies before peer-review to expedite access to new research.A placebo-controlled trial is done with two groups of patients, one of which is given a placebo with no drug action, while the drug is tested on another group. This method rules out bias in the outcome and ensures the drug’s effects are actually caused by the treatment and not external factors.Since the Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, is about four months old, clinicians worldwide have been depending on experimental therapies using existing drugs in different permutations and combinations to treat symptoms and stop disease progression.Repurposing medicines with established safety and drug action on the human body is the fastest way to treat new diseases against which there is no clinically proven treatment. It allows clinicians and public health specialists to begin treatment until drugs and vaccines with specific action against Covid-19 are approved. China, France, South Korea, Italy and now the United States are using antimalarials with some success to treat people severely ill with Covid-19 even though to a recent paper published in the Annals of Internal Medicine said “data to support the use of hydroxychloroquine and chloroquine are limited and inconclusive”. It added there was an urgent need for well-done, randomised clinical trials to test potential therapies, including hydroxychloroquine.No drug has been approved to treat Covid-19, which leads to potentially fatal complications in about 5% of the people infected. India has approved the combination of two antiviral drugs used to treat HIV, lopinavir and ritonavir (400 mg and 100 mg, respectively), to treat Covid-19, but the first major study of Covid-19 treatment published in the New England Journal of Medicine (NEJM) found it did not work on severely ill patients in China. “Treatment with lopinavir-ritonavir was not associated with a difference from standard care in the time to clinical improvement,” concluded the study based on randomised, controlled trial on 199 hospitalised patients in China.Globally, there are 332 registered clinical trials, of which 188 are open for recruitment and 146 trials are preparing to recruit, found review of clinical trial registries as of March 24, published in the scientific journal, The Lancet. Most of these trials are taking place in China, South Korea, and high-income countries in Europe and North America. In the absence of an evidence-base therapy, there is a critical need for large, multi-centric controlled clinical trials in limited-resource settings. India’s Empowered Committee on Covid-19 Response is boosting national innovation in the development of vaccine, drugs and diagnostic kits in the country. India is part of the World Health Organization’s multi-country solidarity trial to study potential treatments for Covid-19 to be conducted in Asia, South Africa, Europe, and the Americas. A Covid-19 Therapeutics Accelerator was launched on Friday to bring together global multidisciplinary expertise and clinical trial capacity to accelerate multicentre trials of the safety, efficacy, and effectiveness of drugs and vaccines. But until we have a specific drug, therapy or vaccine against Covid-19, drugs like hydroxychloroquine are the best bets to treat and protect patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/healthwise-using-anti-malaria-drugs-to-treat-and-protect/story-7CpCOklOgvPdDTBSWGdOPP.html
06-04-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt may start taking over private hospitals for treating Covid patients||Delhi Lieutenant Governor (L-G) Anil Baijal has directed the state health department , as part of a contingency plan, to identify private hospitals which can be taken over by the government ‘if needed’, in light of the increasing number of Covid-19 cases in the Capital, senior officials said on Sunday.The direction was issued during a review meeting on Saturday and an identification process is underway, an official in Delhi chief minister’s office confirmed.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicA senior officer in L-G’s office said, “It is a contingency plan. In government hospitals, treatment for patients suffering from diseases other than Covid-19 cannot be stopped. In view of this, private hospitals can be engaged for the same. Officials have been asked to prepare a list of private hospitals, that can be taken over if needed.”Till Sunday evening, Delhi had recorded 503 Covid-19 cases and seven deaths, the government said.Delhi currently has at least 24 private hospitals which cumulatively offer more than 300 isolation beds for treating Covid-19 patients.Max hospitals in Saket and Patparganj opened up a total of 40 isolation beds this week, the healthcare group had earlier said in a statement.On Sunday, a spokesperson of Max Healthcare group told HT: “We are in a position to quickly scale-up the number of beds across our facilities. In fact, the hospital is working towards creating a dedicated Covid-19 hospital if needed.”A spokesperson of BLK hospital in Rajendra Place said: “We have already streamlined numerous processes, such as isolated designated areas, for first-level the screening process of patients suspected of having the virus. We can scale up our efforts if needed.”Indraprastha Apollo hospital in South East Delhi’s Sarita Vihar has created a 12-bed isolation facility which is likely to be increased to 30 beds in the coming week, an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/govt-may-start-taking-over-private-hospitals-for-treating-covid-patients/story-PuoJIn9vhKiGsGbD9UWMxM.html
06-04-2020||Delhi||All Covid patients in Delhi to be shifted to 2 designated hospitals||To contain the spread of Covid-19, the Delhi government has moved to bring all such patients to two of its hospitals dedicated to treat the disease in the city.After the Nizamuddin Markaz gathering came to light, the Delhi government began preparations for a possible surge in cases and designated five of its tertiary care hospitals as Covid-19 centres on March 31. However, the government has now worked out that enough beds were available in two such hospitals and that it would be better to marshal its resources and dedicate them solely for the treatment of Covid-19.A total of 177 Covid-19 patients — 38 in Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital in Hari Nagar, 30 in Dr Baba Sahib Ambedkar Medical College and Hospital in Rohini and 109 in Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital in Dilshad garden — are being moved to Lok Nayak Hospital near Delhi Gate, which is treating 319 such patients, and Rajiv Gandhi Super-speciality Hospital at Tahirpur, which is treating 155 such patients. These hospitals treat both confirmed and suspected patients.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicDelhi currently has 503 confirmed patients, some of whom are being treated in other private and public hospitals.At present, the three hospitals were treating patients with other conditions too, although Covid-19 patients were being treated in an isolated ward. They will remain among the designated hospitals to treat the disease in case numbers surge.“There are about 2,000 beds in Lok Nayak and associated GB Pant hospital and another 450 in Rajiv Gandhi hospital, these are enough to treat the number of Covid-19 patients that are there currently. The decision was taken to completely stop intermixing of Covid-19 and non-Covid-19 patients in all the hospitals thus reducing the risk of transmission to other people coming to these hospitals,” said a senior official from the Delhi government.In turn, Lok Nayak Hospital has been directed to shift all its services, including maternity and paediatric care, to Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital. Some of the critical paediatric surgery patients will be moved to Chacha Nehru Bal Chikitsalaya.Some surgical emergency services of the hospital will be run from Sushruta Trauma Centre in Civil Lines.Indoor patients from the superspeciality hospital Govind Ballabh Pant, included in the Lok Nayak hospital complex, will be transferred to government hospitals like AIIMS and to other private hospitals.Lok Nayak hospital had earlier shifted its out-patient clinics to the separate orthopaedics block and finally shut it down Saturday onwards.“Our out-patient clinics were right in the middle of two blocks where Covid-19 patients were being treated, which increased the chances of people with Covid-19 coming in contact with those who did not have it, increasing the risk of transmission of the disease. So, we had moved the clinics to the ground floor of the orthopaedic block, which has a separate entrance and is not connected to the main hospital building. It was later decided to close the services altogether,” said Dr JC Passey, medical director of Lok Nayak hospital campus, which includes the government’s superspeciality hospital GB Pant.The hospital had also moved its surgical emergency to Sushruta Trauma Centre in Civil Lines.With around 2,500 beds dedicated for the treatment of Covid-19 patients, the health secretary has also directed various departments to start scaling up isolation beds outside the hospital. According to the minutes of the meeting, the Sarin committee report had estimated that for every 2,500 patients admitted to the hospitals, the requirement of isolation beds outside the hospital for people with mild symptoms would be 10,000.“The facilities outside hospital may be created either in hotels, dharmashalas, or banquet halls,” the minutes of the meeting say.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/to-stem-infection-risk-all-covid-patients-being-moved-to-two-designated-city-hospitals/story-Mg9KUXnzOYYv6pR9qGljwO.html
06-04-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s homeless children having tough time in lockdown||Kuldeep Singh, 15, who calls a patch of footpath under a flyover near Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium his home, has been dependent on others for his meals since the lockdown. “Outsiders or NGOs get khichdi for us daily and it causes stomach ache. Due to the curfew, we cannot step out to collect wood and cook our meals or earn a livelihood. There have been times when my family has gone to sleep on an empty stomach,” he says.Kuldeep is among the thousands of street children in Delhi who are bearing the brunt of the lockdown. Often, neither them nor their families are aware of the government relief measures.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicSanjay Gupta, director of Childhood Enhancement Through Training and Action (CHETNA), says, “Many of these children live in inner lanes and bylanes of the city and it has been difficult to reach out to them considering how our movement has also been restricted.” The non-governmental organisation works for homeless street children.Last year, a survey conducted by the Delhi Commission for Protection for Child Rights (DCPCR) across the national capital had identified over 70,000 children who were found to be in ‘street situation’. Most, according to the survey, were either found engaged as labourers in factories and stalls or found begging or indulging in substance abuse.“Even before the lockdown, these children struggled in getting their daily meals and often relied on leftovers found in trains that arrived at Nizamuddin station. Now, with the lockdown, that option no longer exists for them,” says Gupta, adding that the lockdown will lead to behavioural changes in the children, which can only be assessed at later stages.Social workers and activists are also finding it difficult to contact the street children living near Nizamuddin or Sarai Kale Khan. Nizamuddin has become one of the biggest cluster for Covid-19 in India.“Local RWAs prevent movement in their area fearing the spread of the virus. Besides, the Nizamuddin issue has made them more cautious. So far, we haven’t been able to establish a connection with these children ,” says Gupta. Though the government has converted over 500 schools into hunger relief centres, the street children are yet to benefit from them.Indu Prakash, member of the Supreme Court-appointed state-level shelter monitoring committee and a member of the advisory panel on food relief work, says, “The nutrition of children has been hit. The children in many areas can’t access these centres because of police personnel beating them.”Sanitation issues is also a major challenge. “We know we have to wash our hands to protect ourselves against the virus. But we don’t get so much water,” says Kuldeep. “Even the public toilets are not clean.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/homeless-children-having-tough-time-in-lockdown/story-XyK6iSyinlRocNEz5MUfgM.html
06-04-2020||Pune||In act of solidarity, to light candle of hope, Pune switches off at 9pm||The ‘9 pm for 9 minutes’ call from Prime Minister Narendra Modi was followed through by many residents in the city.Most saw it as an act of unity to stand together to fight against Sars-cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 (coronavirus) infection.Several street lights were switched off in many areas, while people stood out in their balconies, waving their mobile flashlights, some lighting diyas and candles, and children shouting ‘Go Corona’ at the top of their voice.Parmar society in Salunke Vihar, which has 200 flats, observed diya ceremony with fanfare. Ashita Pillai, a resident said, “We are following the tradition set by the PM to ward off Covid-19. Last time, we clapped hands as told by the Prime Minister and this time it was lightening of diya to dispel darkness.”While another society Ganga Kingston in Wanowrie where there are 2,000 residents, felt that this act was a part of the oneness of this nation against deadly Covid-19.Rutuja Pawar, a committee member of Ganga Kingston Society, said, “We observed it as it was aimed at removing depression and fear from the minds of the people.”In Phursungi, 400 families of a society came together lighting candles and standing in their balcony. “It is a symbol of showing unity and augmenting the leadership of the country, where we are standing with mobile / lights in the balcony to show solidarity,” said Satya Natrajan, a resident oF Phursungi.Some residents felt residents like Megha Shimpi of Gokhalenagar felt, “By doing shows of solidarity, one is not going to scare Covid-19, instead I am donating to the chief minister’s relief fund, for that is the need of the hour, where our doctors are fighting a battle against this disease and need all the protection they can get to help save lives.”Arvind Mishra, a resident in Pashan, said, “I don’t think, by switching off electricity for nine minutes will help in the fight against the coronavirus. Instead, if the people unite together and follow rules and maintain social distancing, that will help reduce the cases.”Vedant Patkar, a student living in Aundh, “We switched off the lights and took a break for ten minutes. We need to respect our prime minister and hence I followed it, despite me having project submissions online.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/in-act-of-solidarity-to-light-candle-of-hope-pune-switches-off-at-9pm/story-Cj9GzZfmlzvmMs1vKOqE6K.html
06-04-2020||Delhi||Delhi MCD workers subjected to taunts||Forty-four-year-old Lekhraj Singh has been suffering shoulder pains at nights over the last week. A field worker of the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC), he carries a 10-litre backpack tank of disinfectant to spray at quarantined households every day. “Even the heavy laptops you carry on your back to office don’t weigh more than three kilos,” he says, with a smile.Singh has been spraying mosquito larvicide in drains for the last 13 years, for a monthly salary of ₹13,300, which, he says is meagre, compared to what the abroad returns, whose houses he is spraying disinfectant in, make.“I have been provided a list of addresses, of those who have recently returned from abroad or a visit to the airport. I have been asked to cover the Khel Gaon (CWG) Towers near Akshardham and Mayur Vihar, particularly. My job is to reach their doorsteps, inform them of my purpose and spray the sodium hypochlorite solution on their doors, especially the knobs/handles, doorbells and vehicles,” he says.When asked if the residents acknowledge his efforts, he says that some people appreciate it. “About 10% of the people offer me water or tea, and I really appreciate that. The rest peek through their doors and then shut it, after which I do my job. Maybe they are just scared,” says Singh, shrugging it off.The weather, though, hasn’t been kind to Singh or the 124 other field workers deployed by the EDMC to do this job. “Most people are staying indoors due to the lockdown and don’t realise that it has become quite hot already,” he says.“It’s just the beginning of April, but the afternoons are hot and sunny. We (the field workers) move about on our bicycles. Some of us have motorbikes, but the corporation doesn’t compensate us for fuel expenses; so this is more economical. By the time I finish my work, which goes on from 9am to 5pm, I am drenched in sweat,” he says.The lockdown has created such a circumstance that in case of a tyre puncture, there is no repair shop to be found, he says. In a few instances, workers’ bicycles have been stolen while the workers are disinfecting an area inside a building. “This happened to my colleagues last week. Thankfully, it hasn’t happened to me so far,” Singh says.Besides, Singh says that the workers have to put up with misbehaviour quite often. “On March 31, I was leaving the house of a quarantined family when a man shouted at me from his balcony — ‘O Macchar! Yahan bhi spray maar ja.’ (Hey mosquito! Spray the disinfectant here as well),” he says, about name-calling, which has become common.However, he says that he will continue to do his work meticulously. He says that the happiest part of his day is when he can spend time with his family. “My wife Sunita keeps badgering me to stay home, but I feel one must not turn their back on their duty. Besides, when my two sons, both of whom are in college, find employment, I can enjoy my time at home,” he says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/mcd-sprayer-doing-back-breaking-work-with-a-smile/story-GFFkWQSETJWdg4tCcKRBPK.html
06-04-2020||Delhi||Suspected Covid-19 patient in Delhi attempts suicide, fractures legs||A 37-year-old suspected Covid-19 patient tried to kill himself by jumping off the third floor of the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital building in central Delhi late Saturday, the police said.The man’s legs were fractured. He is being treated at the hospital, they said. They added that the man, a shopkeeper, does not have any travel history abroad, and his test reports are awaited.“Prima facie, it appears that he was depressed and feared being infected with Covid-19,” a police officer said. The police said the man is not from the Nizamuddin Markaz, from where more than 2,300 people, including foreigners, were evacuated by authorities after many across the country who had attended a religious congregation there were found Covid-19 positive. Sanjay Bhatia, the deputy commissioner of police (central), said the man, who lives with his family in a residential area not too far from the hospital, had walked into the hospital on March 31, complaining about cold and cough. After initial medical tests, the doctors said he was suffering from regular flu and had no symptoms of Covid-19.“They discharged him but he returned the same day and insisted on being admitted so that his tests could be done again. The man was admitted,” Bhatia said, adding that the result of the man’s test for Covid-19 test was awaited.On Saturday around 11.30pm, DCP Bhatia said, the man jumped from the third floor of the hospital. He first fell on the metal roof below and then landed on the ground, because of which he survived, but fractured his legs.“Doctors have told us that his condition is stable,” Bhatia said.An official from the hospital, which has been converted into a dedicated Covid-19 hospital, also confirmed that the suspected patient jumped from the building. “We do not know the reason yet. He is alive and his injuries are currently being evaluated and treatment is being given,” the official said.“Whether it was a suicide or accident is being investigated,” another senior official from the hospital administration said.On March 18, a 35-year-old man who had returned from Sydney and immediately moved to Safdarjung Hospital on suspicion of being infected with Covid-19 allegedly killed himself by jumping from the hospital building. An official from the hospital had said that the man was suspected of being infected with the virus, but the disease was not confirmed, as his test result was awaited. His test reports later showed that he didn’t have the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/suspected-covid-19-patient-attempts-to-kill-self-fractures-legs/story-9zXfVlXnWGvyA3viNlm7cK.html
06-04-2020||Delhi||Delhi man arrested for impersonating customs official to circumvent lockdown||A 30-year-old man was arrested for impersonating a senior customs official and using a forged identity card to avoid the lockdown restrictions on the movement of private vehicles across Delhi-NCR, the police said on Sunday.The police seized a Swift Dzire car from the man along with the forged identity card. The man, identified as Suraj Singh Bisht, was driving the Dzire car which had “Government of India” written over it, the police said. They also seized a police uniform from him.Bisht is private driver by profession and used to work for a government official, a senior police officer, who did not wish to be named, said.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicOn April 3, the officer said, a police team from the Patparganj Industrial Area police station was deployed at Anand Vihar to implement the lockdown and prosecute those motorists who were violating the prohibitory orders. Around 6.30 pm, the policemen stopped the white Dzire car and asked its driver to show his “curfew pass”-issued by Delhi Police and Delhi government for the movement of essential service providers. The driver produced a government identity card in the name of Suraj Singh Bisht which mentioned his designation as an assistant commissioner from the customs department. The police said that the identity card looked suspicious and the driver was asked to furnish another identity card.“The driver then produced his driving license. When the policemen looked at the minute details mentioned on the identity cards, they detected that date of birth mentioned on both the identity cards was different. When the driver was questioned, he confessed that the identity card showing him as ‘assistant commissioner’ was forged. He said he got it prepared by scanning the original identity card of a government official,” a statement by the police said.During questioning, Bisht also confessed that he had got forged the identity card to cross toll plazas and was using it to drive around Delhi-NCR amid the lockdown, the officer added.A case was registered in the matter at the Patparganj Industrial Area police station under sections 419 (Punishment for cheating by personation), 420 (cheating), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471(using as genuine a forged document or electronic record) and 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/30-year-old-man-impersonates-customs-official-to-avoid-lockdown-restrictions-arrested/story-ugbkYvjCGxOeWZgIMR0u9O.html
06-04-2020||Pune||23 new coronavirus cases reported in Pune||The city recorded its highest jump in the number of Covid-19 (coronavirus) positive cases, as 23 fresh cases were reported on Sunday. The total count is now 84 in the city, and 105 in Pune district, according to district authorities. No new cases were reported in Pimpri-Chinchwad on Sunday.The Jamaat Tablighi cases have become a contributing factor, but residents not following the social distancing norms, especially in congested pockets on of the city has also led to a surge in the number of cases, according to officials.Naval Kishore Ram, district collector, said, “In some slum areas and congested pockets of the city, the social distancing norm is not being followed and so, this is one of the reasons for the rise in the number of cases.”“There were five fresh Covid-19 infections reported due to the Delhi’s Tablighi Markaz event which is a contributing factor too,” added Ram.As of Sunday 6pm, there were 61 cases in PMC, eight in rural areas of the district and 15 in Sassoon hospital, according to Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC).The five people who spent their incubation period and tested negative twice for the infection after 24 hours were discharged from Naidu hospital. Out of the 1,306 admissions up until now, 1,217 have been tested negative while 15 have been discharged in Pune city after being cured of the infection, according to PMC.There are 71 people still admitted at various hospitals of the city and are in stable condition while two are in critical condition. Out of the 53 positive patients, 39 are at Naidu, one each at Bharatiya hospital, Sahyadri Karve road, Sahyadri Ahmednagar road, Aundh hospital, Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital and Pune Adventist and two at KEM and Poona Hospital and three at Jehangir. In addition, there are 15 positive patients at Sassoon out of which three are in critical condition, according to PMC officials.Till now out of the total 2,711 passengers who have come into the city post the outbreak of the virus, 927 are still under surveillance while 1,739 have completed their surveillance period of 14 days, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/23-new-positive-cases-reported-in-pune/story-o4AzB1U1laDLC9YuUb6qdM.html
06-04-2020||Pune||Eight Tanzanian nationals who tested Covid -ve twice; booked for violating assembly prohibition orders in Pune||The Pune police booked eight nationals of Tanzania of the Tablighi Jamaat for allegedly carrying out community-related services during the lockdown period. Among the eight, four are women and four are men. They were sent to the Naidu Hospital for a Covid-19 test twice - on Sunday and once on March 24. On both the instances, they were found to have tested negative for Covid-19, according to assistant police inspector PR Shikalgar of Samarth police station who is investigating the case.They were all found at Chand Tara Masjid in Nana peth which is the local head office of Tablighi Jamaat, according to API Shikalgar.“They were found by the Wanowrie police station officials once on March 24 and a test was conducted on them. They had tested negative then and were advised to remain in home quarantine. However, since then, they visited multiple other masjids, against the advice. They have tested negative today as well. However, now they are in institutional quarantine at Draupadibai Khedekar Hospital in Bopodi,” said API Shikalgar.Their passports were seized and a case under Sections 188, 269, 270 of the Indian Penal Code along with Section 14 of Foreigners Act, 1946; Section 3 and 4 of Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, and Section 21 of Maharashtra Covid-19 regulations has been registered at the Samarth police station against the eight people. The police have found that the eight arrived in India at the Mumbai airport on March 5 on tourist visa, which is valid. From the Mumbai airport, they travelled to Delhi and roamed in the Nizamuddin area which is also a hub of Tablighi Jamaat. However, they were not present in the organisation’s meet held in Nizamuddin area of Delhi, according to officials. Scores of people who attended the meet in Delhi have been found to have contracted Covid-19.The Tanzanian nationals then came to the Chand Tara Masjid on March 11 and went to various masjids in the city. After testing negative once, instead of staying quarantined, the eight people have stayed at Masjid-e-Rehmaniya in Kasewadi area of Pune; Rizwani Masjid in Mominpura; Bhagyodaynagar area of Kondhwa; Abu-Bakr Masjid in Kondhwa; Ayesha Masjid in Sayyednagar; Hadapsar; Daulit Masjid in Hadapsar; Madari Chawl in Ghorpadi; and Khadki Madari Masjid in Pune, before arriving back at Chand Tara Masjid on March 29, according to the police. The order prohibiting assembly in Pune under Section 144(1)(3) of Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) was issued by Ravindra Shisve, joint commissioner of Pune police, on March 22. The order came into force on March 23 and was renewed on March 31 and will be in force till April 14.The information about these eight people was provided to the local police station officials by the officials of the Special Branch of Pune police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/eight-tanzanian-nationals-who-tested-covid-ve-twice-booked-for-violating-assembly-prohibition-orders-in-pune/story-G7UMJSsjU0mcj4GLebKIaM.html
06-04-2020||Noida||Bhutanese students stuck in Greater Noida to be evacuated via special flight||In light of the coronavirus pandemic, the Royal Bhutanese Embassy in Delhi has written to Sharda University in Greater Noida to make arrangements for students to reach the Indira Gandhi International (IGI) Airport on April 9 so that they can be flown back to Bhutan in a special flight.University authorities said the university and the Bhutanese embassy have been in touch for the past one month to ensure the safety of Bhutanese students. The embassy has asked Sharda University to make arrangements for the students to reach the IGI airport from the university campus. “Due to the Covid-19 situation, the Royal Government of Bhutan is planning to evacuate its citizens from India to Bhutan on a special flight. The students will have to travel from their current location to Indira Gandhi International Airport in New Delhi so that they can all travel together in the same flight,” said Dolay Tshering, education attache, Royal Bhutanese Embassy in his letter to the Sharda University authorities.The Bhutanese government is sending its national carrier Druk Air to evacuate the students and its other citizens. A total of 41 students from Gautam Budh Nagar will go back to Bhutan in the special flight that will leave at 2pm on April 9. Out of 41 students, 39 are from Sharda University while two are from other colleges. “We have been in touch with various embassies since the Covid-19 outbreak started to ensure that no student or their family member gets worried. The Bhutanese embassy has asked us to make arrangements for vehicles so that the students can reach the airport. We will take all the required permissions to drop these students to the airport,” said Ashok Daryani, director, international relations, Sharda University.Over 94 Bhutanese nationals study at Sharda University, out of which 60 have opted for staying the university hostel. Currently, 25 students are living in the hostel, while 14 are staying outside the campus. Few of the students had left before the national lockdown was announced, the university officials said.“The students will leave in a Druk Air flight from Delhi to Paro on April 9. Recently, the government had also taken over Sharda Hospital to treat Covid-19 patients, and we are in touch with the concerned officials to get the required permission to facilitate the students’ travel to the international airport amid ongoing lockdown. The Bhutanese Embassy is also trying to get the permission for hassle-free movement of students from our campus to the airport,” Daryani added.Students who will leave for Bhutan want to get back to their families soon and said they are scared that it will take months for everything to get back to normal. “It looks that it is going to take a long time before things get back to normal so we are happy that our government has made arrangements for us to go back home. I am not sure about when I will come back to India as we don’t know how long it will take for the situation to come under control. The university authorities are providing us all the facilities, but we want to go back to our families,” said Tenzin Drakpa, 24, a third-year BBA student.“A lot of our friends have gone back home. Few of us are left behind, and some of us are inside the campus. University authorities are taking the pandemic seriously and our following the lockdown instruction strictly, nobody is allowed to leave the campus or to come inside. We are hopeful that the situation gets normal soon,” Ugyen Dema, 20, another third-year BBA student, said.More than 3,000 foreign nationals study in Greater Noida, out of which, over 2,000 students are pursuing various courses at Sharda University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/bhutanese-students-to-be-evacuated-in-a-special-flight/story-tTpAAsgWjU5KO68lCrqM5I.html
06-04-2020||Pune||Pune division’s PPE, mask supply for doctors shows little margin for error||With at least seven Mumbai doctors testing positive for the Covid-19 (coronavirus) infection caused by the Sars-Cov-2 virus, as of Sunday, April 5, the safety of front-line medical practitioners in Pune is now in the spotlight.Data released by divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar’s office shows that the Pune division has access to 2,282 personal protective equipment (PPEs) kits; 29,600 N-95 masks; and 1,93,365 triple layer masks.These are currently available in government hospitals across the Pune division of western Maharashtra. Is that enough?Dr Sanjay Patil, former president of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Pune chapter, says, “There are 200 doctors in government hospitals in Pune city alone; 200 in the rural areas of Pune district; and 300 in Sassoon hospital. IMA has 4,800 doctor members in Pune district. Most of these doctors need basic masks and those in the high-risk departments like ENT, ophthalmology, pulmonary and infectious diseases, need PPE, while other doctors need at least masks. With increasing cases in children, paediatricians also need the PPE. “While private doctors are willing to pay for the kits, the problem is that there are no kits or masks available in the market. Even when we give bulk orders to traders we have to pay four times the cost of the kits to vendors and deposit the entire amount in advance,” Dr Patil says.In Pune district, the number of Covid-19-positive patients has crossed 100, while city has witnessed a total of six deaths attributed to the virus, till Sunday evening. Currently, patients infected with the Sars-Cov-2 virus are being treated at 24 hospitals in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad, including Naidu hospital, Sassoon hospital and the YCM hospital. Indian Medical Association (IMA) Maharashtra chapter president, Dr Avinash Bhondwe said, “We have asked the government to provide us with safety kits for private doctors and those who run small clinics, as all doctors are equally exposed to the risk of infection. Currently, only government hospital staff is being provided the kits, but if the government wants private OPDs to function then the private doctors need to be supplied with these kits.”District collector Naval Kishore Ram said, “We are prepared with enough stock of the kits and we are working with the state government to fulfil our requirements.” Dr Bhondwe says, “We have submitted a list of doctors who will require the masks and kits because currently doctors at OPDs are working without masks and risking their lives. The government has promised to supply the stock whenever possible.” Pvt donations build up PPE, mask stocks Responding to a Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) Pune appeal, to donate /contribute with requisite materials needed for the prevention, protection and testing of Covid-19, the following donations have been made: •Sany Heavy Industries donated 16,000 N95 Masks on March 28,•Starcke Abrasives India donated 5,000 pairs of gloves on March 28 •Elkay Chemicals donated 200 PPE (full kit) on March 31•Kion India donated 450 PPE (full kit) on April 1 GE India donated to Pune Police and Pune Municipal Corporation on April 2 •3-ply surgical masks - 20,000 nosN-95 masks – 1,000 nosHand sanitizer (500 ml bottles) - 100 nosDisposable surgical hand gloves - 100 boxes, 50 pairs in each box||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-division-s-ppe-mask-supply-for-doctors-shows-little-margin-for-error/story-MWMSrfjZGVkwtgOh0PCtEN.html
06-04-2020||Pune||On the Frontline: People’s participation vital to conquer Covid-19, says mobile dispensary coordinator Shashikant Munot||Shashikant Munot of the Bharatiya Jain Sanghatana (BJS) is the project coordinator of the mobile dispensary service, one of the projects undertaken by the sanghatana. He is also a social worker, a banker and hails from Ahmednagar. He speaks to HT about the work the BJS has undertaken and hurdles faced while reaching out to patients affected by Sars-cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 (coronavirus) infection.What is the ground-report for the services BJS is involved in?We have undertaken three projects. In the first project, we have set up a quarantine facility for 2,000 patients at the hostel of Bharatiya Jain Sanghatana at Wagholi, which has been handed over to the Maharashtra government. Under the second project, we are collecting 20,000 units of blood because a massive need for blood will arise after April 14. All the surgeries which have been put on hold will begin. With the resumption of traffic, there will be road accidents and overall, there will be a high demand for blood. We have prepared for that situation. The third project the mobile dispensary service along with Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) with the support of Force Motors.Personally, how does this determine your average day?At the start of the day I call and coordinate with the drivers of all 15 mobile dispensaries. We wash all the vehicles and sanitise them, which I personally overlook. I also have to make sure that all the vehicles have enough medicines and surgical equipment like thermometers, stethoscope, blood pressure operator, make sure everyone has N95 masks - the health care workers and drivers. Doctors also need personal protective equipment (PPE) which is vital. I also have to check whether the PA system is working and the tanks of the vehicles are full. I also coordinate with the doctors and we discuss the spots we have to visit for that particular day.I am also incharge of material procurement which includes medicines,PPEs and mask kits. In the evening I have to collect the data and make a record of the day’s work - number of patients and doctors reports.What precautions are you taking personally?I perform yoga daily for 45 minutes when I get up at 5.15 am. Then I sit to plan my day and make sure I have my breakfast on time and my medicines, as I have a heart ailment. It is imperative that I stay fit. While working with my staff, I always wear the mask and every half an hour use sanitiser to wash my hands.What is your assessment of the Covid-19 situation in Pune? The authorities in the city have taken many preventive and containment measures and are on their toes to stop the spread of Covid-19.What gaps do you see in health and relief work?The crisis is well contained in the city. People from all walks of life are stepping out to help the needy with food packets and even many are feeding stray animals. The only problem is the complete participation of the general public in this fight. They should comply with rules put in place by the government and take all the necessary precautions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/on-the-frontline-people-s-participation-vital-to-conquer-covid-19-says-mobile-dispensary-coordinator-shashikant-munot/story-ebU7N9JFzy1YkBe2la4QqO.html
06-04-2020||Pune||Lockdown gameplan: Swimmer Mihir Ambre’s 2 breakfasts, 2 workouts, one online gameplay strategy||Winning medals in the pool is a habit for Mihir Ambre. The 20-year old, an international swimmer, has repeatedly showcased his talent at the Khelo India Games –winning five gold medals at Khelo India Guwahati (youth games), followed by three gold, one silver and one bronze medal at Khelo India Bhubaneshwar (university games).Ambre has also won one gold, one silver and one bronze at the South Asian Games in Kathmandu in 2019. Ambre started swimming at the age of 10 and till date, he has won 12 international medals. Ambre trains at Champions Aquatic Club, Kothrud, and Dolphin Aquatics, Bengaluru, stays at Mayur colony, Kothrud. Morning sessionCurrently my day starts at 9am. I have divided my breakfast in two parts –after waking up, I have a light breakfast of eggs and coffee, and then I work out – which includes all types of static and dynamic exercises on our terrace. These exercises are very important to keep yourself fit when you are not getting chance to train in the pool.Once these exercises are done, I have my heavy breakfast. I shift my focus to studies as I am currently in my second year of International Business Management. Giving time to study becomes very important as I have regular assignments and projects which are to be submitted on regular basis in the college.Afternoon sessionIt is all about leisure, as I spend time on the internet watching informative videos on YouTube. It is something which keeps me updated. Then, I rest for two hours.Evening sessionThis time is dedicated to fitness and after having my afternoon coffee, I do core stability, abs, flexibility, stretching and balancing. The session lasts for an hour and 30 minutes.Once it is done I have my dinner and then I play games like Counter Strike – Global Offensive and PubG, with my family and friends. Since these games are multiplayer games - I spend quality of time with my friends or family. Sometime I also play these games during the night.One thing which has happened during the lockdown, is I am able to play online games which I had not played for more than a year. In regular time, the schedule is so tight that I cannot spare time for all these activities.No gym, no poolI cannot have all the equipment at home so yes, the gym is missed, but I am keeping myself fit with the home work outs. The biggest missing is training in the swimming pool as replicating the swimming technique and stroke is difficult.We swimmers do have set of activities in the pool and which is completely missing due to the lockdown. HobbyI like listening music and it is in my daily schedule as it soothes my mind and body. And, then, the online games.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lockdown-gameplan-day-10-swimmer-mihir-ambre-s-2-breakfasts-2-workouts-one-online-gameplay-strategy/story-StuGta2hKOaNRNh0bXVTnN.html
06-04-2020||Education||CovidGYan portal launched by premier research institutes for latest information on coronavirus||With a rising number of Covid-19 cases in India and an overwhelming amount of information about coronavirus across various platforms, the country’s premier scientific institutes have launched a multi-institutional and multi-lingual science communication portal – CovidGyan (https://covid-gyan.in) – to filter out misinformation.The initiative to create the website is led by the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR), Indian Institute of Science (IISc) and Tata Memorial Centre (TMC) along with six other partners which include the Bangalore Life Science Cluster (comprising InStem and C-CAMP, in addition to NCBS-TIFR).The content in the portal, which is targeted towards general citizens and those with a scientifically curious mind, comprises latest research and up-to-date information on the pandemic, short videos or webinars in 12 languages on how to tackle the spread of novel coronavirus, and interviews with experts in the form of podcasts to understand various aspects of the Covid-19 outbreak.“The mandate of the CovidGyan initiative is to create, curate and communicate scientifically credible and authentic Covid-19-related content and resources,” said Professor Rajesh Gopakumar, centre director, International Centre for Theoretical Sciences, a TIFR centre in Bengaluru Bangalore.The portal also dispels misinformation by presenting factual data through articles, colourful posters, infographics, FAQs and myth-busters.“Reliable information based on science is an urgent need due to the infodemic of misinformation about Covid-19. This compels us to realise that, similar to climate change, ignoring science can quickly intensify problems to a global scale,” said Professor Arnab Bhattacharya, who leads the TIFR Mumbai science communication initiative Chai and Why?.Partner institutions in CovidGyan initiative have diverse capabilities in scientific research, science communication, and science education. “It is extremely important to localise reliable scientific information, which takes into account the individual complexity of Indian conditions,” said Professor K. Subramaniam, director, Homi Bhabha Centre for Science Education.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/covidgyan-portal-launched-by-premier-research-institutes-for-latest-information-on-coronavirus/story-HmqdXEki0KrQtj1rxrfXgP.html
06-04-2020||Delhi||Steep drop in pollution since janta curfew, lockdown||Since the janta curfew was announced on March 22 and the country-wide lockdown two days later, particulate matter concentration in the Capital showed a significant fall, according to a central pollution control board (CPCB) report.Between March 22 and 23, PM10 concentration(coarse pollution particles with diameter less than 10 microns) fell by 44%, while that of PM2.5 (ultra fine particles) fell by 8% from peak values recorded on March 21. After lockdown, PM2.5 levels fell by 34%.While the March 22 curfew was a voluntary event on a Sunday, orders from the Delhi government prior to it had already shut down most schools and gyms, and advised citizens to remain indoors as much as possible. On March 23, the Delhi government clamped a lockdown in the city shutting all but essential services.The measures between March 22 and 23 are significant as there was a steep reduction in the number of vehicles on the road and aided by favourable weather.On the days, there was 51% drop in oxides of nitrogen (NOx)and 32% reduction in carbon monoxide (CO) levels compared to March 21.CPCB analysed the trends based on hourly PM10, PM2.5, NOx and CO data in the national capital region. Its scientists said favourable meteorological factors like rain and moderate wind speed also helped with dispersal of pollutants. “Air quality monitoring data reveal that during the lockdown period, PM10 and PM2.5 levels were reduced by about 35% to 40%, which may be explained as a possible reduction from industries (10% considering continued operation of power plants with 7% – 8% share), transport ( 15% with essential service vehicles and a small part of fleet still plying on roads), dust (10-15%; with continued contribution due to soil and wind-blown dust because of high surface winds),” the report reads.Experts say the steep reduction could be because the country-wide lockdown cut off most sources of pollution not just in the city but surrounding areas as well.“Janta curfew was only for a day when the PM level started dropping but the maximum effect of restrictions were seen during the lockdown. The question is how can we achieve similar air quality targets even after the outbreak resolves. We need systematic solutions that will help us to sustain this kind of air quality. Collective community action during this pandemic can help us to reinvent longer-term solutions to reduce our vulnerability to toxic risk,” said Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director, Centre for Science and Environment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/steep-drop-in-pollution-since-janta-curfew-lockdown/story-I0MexTklti9DOWsWa6JJMJ.html
06-04-2020||Delhi||Liquor shop looted in Delhi amid lockdown||Amid the nationwide lockdown, some unidentified persons broke into a wine shop here and decamped with liquor bottles, police said on Saturday. During patrolling on Saturday morning, police found that the shutter of a wine shop at the Roshnara Road in north Delhi was broken. “The shutter of the wine shop had been forcibly pulled up and some liquor bottles and crates were stolen,” a senior police officer said. A case under relevant sections of the IPC was registered at the Sabzi Mandi police station, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/liquor-shop-looted-in-delhi-amid-lockdown/story-AEA98sXMQ9Uso4W0mMUNVO.html
