07-04-2020||City||Do not fall for discount and job offers online: Cops||Cybercriminals are cheating people by sending them malware-loaded link, said the police.One such is being circulating on social media, claiming Rs3,500 will be given to the unemployed under 2020 Prime Minister Unemployed Allowance Plan.The police said another trick by fraudsters is to call up people and inform them that date for their easy monthly installments can be extended. After getting the person’s details or making a financial transaction in their name, cybercriminals share an OTP which is used to siphon off money from their bank account, said the police.“There has not been a single case in Navi Mumbai but we want residents to be alert,” said Pravin Patil, deputy commissioner of police, crime.Cybercriminals also use a phishing link, claiming to give free subscription of Netflix if one forwards it to their friends on social media. The police suspect either the link has a virus or can get the personal data of phones when someone clicks it.Free mobile recharges are also being used to lure persons into downloading applications which can compromise your data, officials said.In Thane, the police team is alerting residents to not fall for any employment offers or free Netflix. The police said many residents have been repeatedly getting messages about various offers and asking them to click on a link. An officer from Thane cyber cell said, “Many callers offer insurance policy, or lure people with free Nexflix. We are appealing to residents to not open dubious links and share bank details. We are also asking people to not forward such messages.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/do-not-fall-for-discount-and-job-offers-online-cops/story-wJ11DXiODW0GOjbGvSfvTN.html
07-04-2020||Mumbai||18,000 N95 masks seized||Mumbai Police’s crime branch on Tuesday arrested two men and seized a total of 18,000 N95 masks; 1,000 personal protective equipment (PPE) kits worth ₹1.15 crore; and sanitiser in two separate incidents.Unit 12 arrested two in Goregaon for seeking to profit from and illegally storing 9,950 masks worth ₹24.87 lakh and 200 litres of sanitiser worth ₹2.75 lakh. Unit 10 intercepted three tempos in Marol and found sanitiser worth more than Rs 40 lakh, 6,000 N95 masks worth ₹15 lakh, and 1,000 PPE kits worth ₹20 lakh. The drivers of the tempos are being interrogated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/18-000-n95-masks-seized/story-yWBIvdxpCW2jOdYx7wzvaI.html
07-04-2020||City||Against lockdown violators: 292 FIRs against 548 people on Monday||MUMBAI: On Monday, Mumbai Police lodged 292 first information reports (FIRs) against 548 people, which is almost five times the daily average between March 20 and April 5.“We are taking stringent action against those who are violating the lockdown. We keep receiving hundreds of complaints through people on the 100 phone number and on Twitter, on violation of lockdown orders. The strict action will continue,” said Mumbai Police spokesperson and deputy commissioner of police (operations) Pranaya Ashok.Between March 20 and April 5, 1,039 FIRs were registered in Mumbai and on Monday, 292 FIRs were filed, raising the total to 1,331 FIRs against 2,518 people. Of these, 739 charge people with gathering in public and 438 are for illegal use of vehicles. Eight FIRs are against those who violated home quarantine orders and the remaining 153 FIRs are against hotels, shops and hawkers that were operational during lockdown. Of the FIRs filed on Monday, 106 were registered in eastern parts of the city, which includes slum pockets in Deonar, Mankhurd, Govandi, Trombay, Ghatkopar (East) and Vikhroli. The police said it is coming down heavily on public gatherings in slums. To deal with the growing number of containment zones, Ashok said additional manpower has been kept in reserve and three new drones have been ordered to monitor crowds. In all, six drones are being used.Kishor Sawant, senior inspector, Sakinaka police station, said the police were helping those in containment zones. “We have asked people to prepare lists and then we arrange it for them. We have hired a cook and my staff help cook food for at least 300 migrants and beggars in this area. We distribute food to them daily.”Search on for Tablighi Jamaat attendeesDCP Pranay Ashok said about 150 Mumbai residents who attended the Tablighi Jamaat held in New Delhi in March, have been traced. “We are tracing the rest and have appealed them to approach us,” said Ashok. Though an FIR has been registered, Mumbai Police clarified no arrests would be made due to the prevailing situation and attendees would be tested so that appropriate action — admitting to hospital or isolation — may be taken.State home minister Anil Deshmukh also tweeted on Tuesday, “About 50 to 60 people from Maharashtra who are members of the Tablighi Jamaat...are hiding after switching off their phones. I appeal to them to report to the nearest police station...”No inquest for Covid-19 casualties in hospital Keeping in mind the safety of police, doctors and medical staff, Maharashtra home department has said that an inquest (official process to find out the cause of death) will not be carried out in cases where a person has died of Covid 19 in a hospital.FIRs for home-made liquor, theft of cigarettes Sakinaka police on Monday caught four men with 10 litre home-made liquor. The police traced the source of liquor to Aarey Milk Colony and caught the villager who was making the liquor at his home. Another 10 litres were seized from his residence. A pan shop owner filed a theft case at Andheri police station on Monday after a thief broke the side metal sheet of his shop and stole cigarettes worth Rs 60,000. (Inputs from Pratik Salunke, Suraj Ojha)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/against-lockdown-violators-292-firs-against-548-people-on-monday/story-mmKnJ8ceTr1Xi5n7A8CcFM.html
07-04-2020||Mumbai||Close to 160 security staff of Maharashtra CM quarantined||More than 160 members of Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackery’s security squad have been quarantined, a day after a tea seller near Thackeray’s residence tested positive for the coronavirus, in the Uttar Bhartiya Sangh building in Bandra (East) and their swab samples have been taken for testing.The tea seller was admitted to the Hindu Hriday Samrat Balasaheb Thackeray Trauma Care Municipal Hospital in Jogeshwari.“Around 160 staffers in the CM’s security squad, who possibly came in contact with the vendor, have been quarantined,” said Dr Daksha Shah, deputy director, health department of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).“However, there is no need to panic; this is our procedure in the protocol to identify possible high-risk and low-risk contacts to avoid further spread of the disease,” she said. Shah did not confirm whether any member of Thackeray’s family will also be tested for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Following this development, the state government has replaced all staffers deployed at Matoshree and asked that all employees’ temperature be checked daily.The civic body has also identified four high-risk contacts of the tea seller, including a six-month old baby.As a precautionary measure, the security staff of Union minister of state for social justice, Ramdas Athawale, were replaced on Tuesday. Athawale’s residence is also in the same locality of Bandra (East).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/close-to-160-security-staff-of-maharashtra-cm-quarantined/story-UJAH1S1ObgJBM9IicnWzIP.html
07-04-2020||Mumbai||Virus cases cross 1,000 in Maharashtra; 64 deaths||Maharashtra, on Tuesday, breached the 1,000-mark with 150 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases taking the tally to 1,018, the highest for any Indian state. Tamil Nadu has 690 positive cases, while Delhi reported 525 cases until 9 pm on April 7.This is the steepest one-day rise in Maharashtra since the outbreak, state health department officials said.Of the 150 new cases reported on Tuesday, 116 are from Mumbai, which accounts for 642 cases, the highest among Indian cities. Pune recorded 18 cases on Tuesday, while Nagpur, Aurangabad and Ahmednagar reported two each.Maharashtra recorded 12 Covid-19 related deaths on Tuesday, taking the state’s death toll to 64. Six of the 12 deaths were reported from Mumbai, followed by three in Pune and one each in Nagpur, Thane and Satara. According to the state health department, 34,695 people have been put in home quarantine, while 4,008 are in institutional quarantine. The department said 20,877 tests (5,564 of them in private laboratories) have been carried out so far across the state, resulting in 1,018 positive cases. Seventy-nine patients have been discharged after complete recovery, officials said.The rise in numbers necessitated a state cabinet meeting on Tuesday, held via video conference as some of the ministers were in their constituencies. Senior government officials told HT that ministers pressed for additional testing facilities to understand the spread of Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. “The government is likely to seek permission for more labs for testing,” an official said. A private laboratory can start testing only if it is certified by the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR).In March, Maharashtra had applied for and received permission to set up at least seven private laboratories, in addition to the National Institute of Virology in Pune and Kasturba Hospital Lab in Mumbai. “We have increased the number to more than 1,500 tests per day,” a state government official said.According to a minister who attended the cabinet meeting, chief minister (CM( Uddhav Thackeray said the lockdown in the state is unlikely to be lifted on April 14. He said, quoting Thackeray, “The lockdown has helped Maharashtra contain the spread of the virus. Maharashtra was the first to impose restrictions in the second week of March. When the number of patients is rising, we cannot lift the lockdown next week.”Thackeray also clarified that even if the government decides to partially lift the lockdown, after reviewing the situation early next week, it would be within districts and only for unaffected areas. He said that the district borders will remain sealed and the resumption of train services was unlikely.A senior Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) official said on Tuesday that the financial capital’s high numbers are also because the city has tested around 10,500 people since the outbreak. “We have screened nearly 1.5 million people and conducted around 10,500 Sars-Cov-2 tests. This is why the numbers are high,” the official said, requesting anonymity. Mumbai recorded 99, 81 and 68 cases on April 4, 5, and 6 respectively.“Out of the six deceased patients, four had pre-existing respiratory illness, hypertension, diabetes, chronic kidney disease and other comorbidities,” a city health officer said. “One of six patients had died on March 30, but the cause was confirmed only on Tuesday. None of the deceased had a history of international travel.”According to data compiled by the state’s Medical Education and Drugs Department, Maharashtra’s Covid-19 mortality rate is 5.99%. A senior Mantralaya official said that the cabinet also discussed how Kerala managed to keep its mortality rate low. Kerala had 336 Covid-19 cases until Tuesday, but reported only two deaths. Officials added that the state health department is considering getting in touch with the Kerala government to understand its measures to keep the mortality rate low.A few cabinet colleagues expressed concerns over the high mortality rate. Thackeray however, said the high rate was because of the underlying illnesses the deceased had. “Out of the 52 who died, only 11 had no underlying illnesses. Rest of them had many chronic and serious ailments. The percentage of viral infection against the state population is 0.077% and hence the situation can be said to be under control. The high mortality rate and rise in cases is due to the exclusion of countries like Dubai from the protocol issued by the Centre for monitoring at airports. The initial cases had a travel history of Dubai and had the country been included in the protocol list for monitoring, the cases would have been lesser. Similarly, the state has the highest number of people with the Tablighi Markaj programme, leading to a sharp rise in cases,” a presentation made before the cabinet stated.The presentation before the cabinet members was made by chief secretary Ajoy Mehta, public health secretary Pradeep Vyas and Mumbai municipal commisioner Praveen Pardeshi.The cabinet members also demanded more number of testing laboratories at the district level. The ministers were told that the laboratories are approved only after complying with strict protocols and the capacity of 5,500 samples a day was sufficient in the current situation. Pardeshi apprised the cabinet about the aggressive testing being done in Mumbai through portable testing centres and the rapid testing mechanism. The state cabinet on Tuesday decided to widen the scope of thepublic distribution system (PDS) in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak to distribute rice and wheat to orange-card holder families, left out of the National Food Security Act (NFSA) benefits. Around 3.08 lakh people are expected to get 5-kg food grains for May and June at subsidised rates of ₹8 for wheat and ₹12 for rice per kg.Around 7 crore people, holding 1.60 lakh ration cards, get food grains at ₹2 (wheat) and ₹3 (rice), under the NFSA. 25 lakh card holders get 35kg of food grains a month, while the remaining 1.25 lakh card holders get 5kg per person per month. The families are with an annual income of ₹59,000 in urban areas and ₹44,000 in rural areas. There are about 71 lakh families that hold orange cards, like the one covered in the NFSA, but exceed the income limit and have been excluded from the PDS. The state cabinet on Tuesday decided to include these families under the PDS, by announcing to avail them the grains at subsidised rate.“The 71 lakh families or 3.08 lakh people, who had been left out of the scope of NFSA, will now get the food grains at subsidised rates. It will burden us with an additional ₹250 crore in two months,” said an official from the food and civil supplies department. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray wrote a letter to prime minister Narendra Modi and demanded that the additional stock of 1.54 lakh metric tonnes of the grains be provided at the minimum support price in the backdrop of the Covid-19 outbreak. The state government is expected to buy the wheat at ₹23 a kg and rice at ₹27 a kg to distribute through the PDS to the additional families holding the orange cards.State cabinet also decided to widen the scope of the Shiv Bhojan Thali, the meal thali made available at ₹5 through more than 281 centres, by taking it to the tehsil level. The state government has decided to set more such centres in rural areas to ensure that the poor get meals easily available. Currently, around 61,000 such thalis are made available through centres per day to the poor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/virus-cases-cross-1-000-in-maharashtra-64-deaths/story-gp1lyweKq02j8ZDPCitkaM.html
07-04-2020||Mumbai||BMC’s focus areas to battle Covid-19: Test, distance, front-liners||While the spiraling number of Covid-19 cases and deaths is the biggest challenge for the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), civic chief Praveen Pardeshi said they are looking at the way forward to bring down the numbers through aggressive testing, stricter compliance of social distancing, and safeguarding front-liners – doctors, nurses, hospitals’ other employees, municipal and law enforcement staff.Mumbai has recorded (642) over 60% of Maharashtra’s 1,018 Covid-19 cases. “We are aggressively testing and need to continue to do so for early detection of Covid-19 cases. Testing is being carried out even in fever clinics on a war footing. I have now authorised ward officers to engage private laboratories to conduct tests, because government laboratories are going to be overburdened. If a ward officer feels testing on a large scale is needed in any area in his ward, say for example where a Covid-19 positive patient has been found, the BMC will subsidise private lab tests the ward suggests,” said Pardeshi.Currently, 13 laboratories in the city conduct Covid-19 tests, eight of which are private. More than 11,500 tests have been conducted in Mumbai so far, and roughly 4.2% of these cases threw up Covid-19 positive results, according to BMC. More than 5,000 home visits have been conducted so far to screen persons.For stricter compliance of social distancing, the BMC has barred selling of fruits and vegetables on footpaths and in open markets in containment zones. Pardeshi said, “This will cause discomfort. People may have to eat grains for the next 10 to 12 days, but if we want to break the chain in the outbreak, we have to strictly follow this. The BMC noticed purchase of fruits and vegetables on footpaths led to crowding, and became a form of transmission of Covid-19 in high-risk areas.”There are presently 241 containment zones in the city. Sale of vegetables in Dharavi, and Worli was stopped on Tuesday.To reduce the mortality rate, early detection of the infection is crucial. About 70% to 75% of the 40 persons who died in the city due to Covid-19 came to the hospital for medical aid in the advanced stage. They died within a day or less than a day of being admitted. “If the infection was detected earlier, there would have been a better chance of medical assistance for these patients. With more testing, the BMC will be able to detect the infection early, save more lives, and reduce chances of transmission,” the commissioner said.As of April 6, when 490 positive cases were reported in Mumbai, 361 were reported stable, 36 were critical, 59 were discharged, and 34 deaths were recorded.Special care is also needed for patients who have an additional health condition such as heart ailments, diabetes, hypertension, leukemia, among others. “We need to fight the infection in these patients much in advance,” Pardeshi said. The BMC’s one strategy is testing and early detection, the other is caring for these cases in advanced hospitals. There are dedicated Covid-19 hospitals, like Seven Hills, Kasturba, Saifee, Nanavati, Sushrusha and Sai hospital. However, a Covid-19 patient without co-morbidity is not at high risk. “I cannot mix high-risk patients who also have co-morbidity, with other Covid-19 patients who do not have other health issues. When that is happening, I am not able to pay proper attention to these critical patients. So I need to separate them from the other patients and pay better attention to them,” Pardeshi said.Patients with co-morbidity and elderly patients will be moved to sophisticated hospitals with specialised wards only by reference of the doctor treating them.Moreover, high-risk and low-risk persons who have come in contact with Covid-19 positive persons from densely populated areas in the city will be forcefully moved to institutional quarantine facilities. The BMC has up till now traced over 18,305 persons who came in contact with Covid-19 positive persons, and over 1,500 of them were shifted to institutional facilities for quarantine.To safeguard front-liners, the BMC has started administering hydroxycloroquine tablets (HCQ). Mumbai has a stock of over 1 crore tablets for front-liners and patients. The BMC is also procuring rapid testing kits, to determine who is safe to go on field, and who is not, and also determine a person’s susceptibility to the coronavirus. A senior civic officer said, “These can be used in containment zones, and preliminary detection, before a laboratory test is done. The BMC aims to get 50,000 such kits.”It has also begun airlifting of personal protective equipment (PPEs) for all medical staff, from a manufacturing unit in Coimbatore in Tamil Nadu. While 12,000 PPEs have already been airlifted, 30,000 more will be brought on Thursday. The BMC aims to target getting 35,000 PPEs per week for its doctors and nurses. A senior civic officer said, “It is important to equip all doctors working everywhere in the city with PPEs, because a person with mild symptoms of flu, visiting a nearby dispensary can turn out to be a Covid-19 patient. So not just doctors in dedicated Covid-19 hospitals, but all medical professionals should get PPEs.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-s-focus-areas-to-battle-covid-19-test-distance-front-liners/story-yC86cyvUG0BewMpa4JAGGO.html
07-04-2020||City||Covid-19: After woman’s death, KDMC to seal borders of twin cities||A 55-year-old woman, a resident of Kalyan’s Manisha Nagar who had tested positive for Covid-19, died on Monday. She was admitted to Kalyan’s Railway Hospital on April 3. After she tested positive for coronavirus, she was shifted to Byculla Railway Hospital, where she died.Dombivli recorded another Covid-19 positive case on Tuesday. A 30-year-old woman, a resident of Ayregaon in Dombivli, tested positive but the health officers have failed to trace the source.“We have quarantined her family members. Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation has also taken measures to ensure that the areas they live in are sealed,” said Raju Lavangare, health officer, KDMC.On Tuesday, KDMC said it will seal the border of the twin city and also identify clusters for containment. Around 175 teams are keeping a watch on containment areas. “We have asked the police to seal the border of the twin cities of Kalyan and Dombivli. This will help us check the spread of the virus,” said Vijay Suryavanshi, KDMC commissioner. Two more positive cases of Covid-19 were found in Thane on Tuesday. The 41-year-old wife of the Kajuvadi doctor, who has already tested positive, and a 57-year-old Mumbra man are the new cases, taking the total Covid-19 positive cases in Thane to 24.(Inputs from Megha Pol)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-after-woman-s-death-kdmc-to-seal-borders-of-twin-cities/story-OyCZtPwIyNjChcPyLcZnoL.html
07-04-2020||City||One Jamaat attendee among 2 new Covid-19 cases in Gurugram||Gurugram: The city on Tuesday reported two Covid-19 positive cases, including a 22-year-old man from Pataudi who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat event held in Delhi’s Nizamuddin last month. Samples of seven of the Jamaat attendee’s family members have been taken and they are admitted to the quarantine facility in Sector 9, health officials said. The patient is currently admitted to the Civil Hospital, Sector 10, the officials said, adding that it is the third case of a Jamaat attendee in Gurugram. Earlier this week, a 27-year-old man from Pataudi and a 38-year-old man from Devi Lal Colony in old Gurugram, who attended the Jamaat congregation, had tested positive for Sars-Cov-2 virus. Four immediate contacts of the former and 11 of the latter were taken to the quarantine facility, where they will be under observation for 14 days.“Since two cases have been reported from Pataudi, we are preparing a containment strategy for the block. Door-to -door screening will soon start. We will also take more samples from the area,” said an official of the health department.In the other positive case reported on Tuesday, a 50-year-old man from Sector 28 got infected with the deadly virus after coming in contact with his son, who had travelled to Bengaluru. Dr Jaswant Singh Punia, chief medical officer, said, “The boy, who studies in Bengaluru, returned to Gurugram on March 15. He had symptoms like fever and cough, and took medicines. He did not get himself tested. The 50-year-old father, however, got infected. He went for testing on April 4 and was confirmed positive. We have tested the son, who is the coronavirus carrier, and his mother, but both were negative. The father is currently undergoing treatment at a private hospital in the city.”The total number of Covid-19 cases in Gurugram has reached 18, of which nine have been are discharged and the rest are undergoing treatment in the Civil Hospital and some private hospitals of the city.To prevent infection from spreading in the Civil Hospital, the health department has created an artificial ‘disinfection tunnel’ on the entrance of the hospital. It will spray a mixture of sodium hypochlorite and water on those who will pass through it. According to the statement released by the district administration, all those who enter the hospital will have to walk through this tunnel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/one-jamaat-attendee-among-2-new-covid-19-cases-in-gurugram/story-09wWbPw3uhZynDDxLp3ucM.html
07-04-2020||Gurugram||Mustard, wheat procurement to start in Haryana from April 15 onwards||The Haryana government has decided to set up 2,000 mandis and procurement centres across the state to purchase wheat in phases. The state government has also asked the farmers to get registered by April 19. Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, on Tuesday, said that the entire harvested lot of wheat and mustard crops will be purchased by the state government. It has also asked the central government to approve an incentive for the farmers as holding charges for the delay in the procurement.The government also said that it will start the procurement of mustard from April 15 and wheat from April 20. The farmers can register themselves on an online portal called “Meri Fasal-Mera Byora” from till April 19.Khattar, who was addressing a video conference, also asked the farmers to make voluntary contributions of 1-5% of the money they make after selling the produce towards the CM relief fund. “Instead of centralised procurement, the government has decided to set up smaller mandis and purchasing centres at different places where farmers can come at an appointed day and time to sell their produce. I request all farmers to get registered with the government by April 19, which will ease the process of procurement,” he said.Referring to the voluntary contributions, the CM said that if farmers are willing, they can make a contribution at the mandi itself. “They will be asked for a contribution and if they give a nod, the payment will be deducted,” he said, adding that the arhatis (commission agents) will also have to play a crucial role in ensuring smooth procurement and loading and unloading of the produce at newly set-up mandis.The CM also said that, in line with the decision of the Centre of diverting the MPLADS (member of Parliament local area development scheme) funds for fighting the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, the Haryana government has decided to divert ₹51 crore from the discretionary funds of the CM, ministers, Speaker and the governor to the Consolidated Fund. “This money will be used to provide food, medicine, and other essential required by the distressed workers. Since the lockdown, the government has distributed 55 lakh food packets and 3.5 lakh dry ration packets to those in need,” said Khattar.Residents of the state, who hold BPL and other cards will be given double the entitled ration and that too free of cost for the next three months. “Those who are above the poverty line can also buy flour, rice and oil from ration shops at discounted prices,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mustard-wheat-procurement-to-start-in-haryana-from-april-15-onwards/story-WUplTwVzC9BgrVvvKvRF9K.html
07-04-2020||Gurugram||Surya Vihar: Residents of one of city’s oldest condos are self-sufficient, help each other out||One of the city’s oldest condominiums, Surya Vihar, in Sector 21, is harnessing the potential of its residents and staff both to deal with the ongoing lockdown that was announced to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Located at the Delhi-Gurugram border, the condominium has sought support from residents who are readily volunteering in different capacities to cater to the needs of fellow community members.Sanjiv Bhargava, president, Surya Vihar Residents’ Welfare Association, said that community members at the over 30-year-old complex were extending a helping hand to each other. “We have a good number of senior citizens living with us. Both members of the RWA and other volunteers make it a point to stay in touch with the elderly regularly, in case any assistance is required by them. Residents keep a check on each other and the staff,” said Bhargava.He added that the condominium has put in place a kitchen service for residents. “We have young people staying with us who can’t cook and are dependent on external sources of food. We reached out to one of our residents who used to work as a chef with a hotel chain and he came on board to start a kitchen service for the community,” said Bhargava.Residents can place orders for vegetarian food for lunch and dinner. For lunch, the order has to be placed by 11am and the orders are delivered from 12.30pm to 2.30pm. For dinner, the order has to be placed by 7pm and the orders are delivered from 8.30pm to 10pm.Sony Yadav, former RWA president, said that the kitchen service was proving to be useful in the time of limited or no app-based food delivery. “The in-house food facility is beneficial for bachelors or students who are not adept at cooking. It also ensures that exposure to the outside world is reduced. So far, the service has been working smoothly, said Yadav.The condominium has two grocery stores and vegetable shops within the premises that cater to the needs of the residents. While social distancing markers have not been created on the ground, shopkeepers ensure that people maintain a gap of two metres while purchasing commodities.Given the lockdown, the apartment has cut down the strength of its staff and curtailed services. The condominium is managing with a skeleton staff that keeps essential services running, and the size of the maintenance team has been reduced to five people per shift. The staff has been provided with boarding and lodging facilities within the condominium to reduce the chances of exposure.“We have curtailed our staff and provided boarding and lodging facilities to them within the complex. We don’t want our staff to be exposed to any kind of risk. They are staying within and providing services with the support of the community,” said Bhargava. The RWA has also asked women employees to stay home. “We decided that it was better for women in the support team to stay back home. We wanted to ensure that their families are taken care of and children are not left unattended,” said Bhargava. The condominium has also advised residents to minimise garbage generation since the majority of the cleaning staff at the condominium stays in Delhi, and only a skeleton staff is staying within the complex.The condominium has restricted the entry of part-time domestic help such as maids, cooks, drivers among others. Residents were advised to give paid leaves to their domestic help. Both food and courier delivery services at the condominium are continuing and have been restricted to the entrance of the condominium gate. Residents are required to collect their parcels from the gate. All persons entering the building with deliveries are thermal-scanned and mandatorily required to use sanitisers. Within the condominium, common areas are regularly sanitised and disinfected daily. The lifts are disinfected twice a day. Newspapers are being delivered at the condominium but not until the doorsteps. Residents are required to collect the papers from the guards’ desk in respective blocks.For medical assistance, the condominium has turned to a resident doctor for help who can be consulted in the evening during a fixed slot. The facility is aimed at ensuring that residents avoid venturing out for minor illnesses and be given timely treatment, as the situation may demand. Additionally, paramedics and other medical professionals are allowed entry into the condominium.“The condominium used to see a daily footfall of around 300 people earlier, but now, it has dropped to less than 25 people a day. People are abiding by the measures and helping each other out. Everyone understands the gravity of social distancing,” said Bhargava.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/surya-vihar-residents-of-one-of-city-s-oldest-condos-are-self-sufficient-help-each-other-out/story-QRXmIAYv0GqNnXJq4qdNcO.html
07-04-2020||Gurugram||Pataudi Covid patient with Tablighi Jamaat link booked; second such case in two days||A man from Pataudi, who had tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Saturday, was booked for allegedly hiding information, the police said on Monday. This is the second such case in two days—the police had registered an FIR against a 38-year-old man from Old Gurgaon, who had tested positive for Covid-19, for allegedly concealing information.Both the patients were among 25 people who had attended a Tablighi Jamaat congregation in March in Delhi. Last week, the police had said that 22 of 25 identified persons were sent to a quarantine facility in Sector 9 while the remaining three were yet to be traced.The police said the second FIR was registered against a resident of Pataudi under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Pataudi police station for allegedly disobeying an order promulgated by a public servant by leaving his house under complete lockdown.Earlier, on Sunday, the police had lodged a case against a resident of Devilal Colony under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the IPC, Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act and Section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act at Sector 9 A police station.A police officer privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said that in both the cases, the persons had failed to inform the authorities regarding their participation in the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi and risked the potential spread of infection to others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/pataudi-covid-patient-with-tablighi-jamaat-link-booked-second-such-case-in-two-days/story-Mj6k8w2hE6hsEfDiNj0lGJ.html
07-04-2020||City||‘Haryana in Stage 2, elaborate containment plan in place for each district’||As the number of Covid-19 positive cases in Haryana reached 119, with 79 of them linked to the Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi’s Nizamuddin, the state health department has geared up to increase testing to prevent further local transmission. Rajeev Arora, Haryana’s additional chief secretary, health department, talks to Archana Mishra about the measures taken to deal with the contagion, local transmission, testing facilities and safety of front-line healthcare workers. In the last few days, there has been a spike in the number of cases in the state. As per the state health bulletin, Gurugram, Faridabad, Palwal and Nuh are among the worst affected. At what rate is the number of cases increasing and what is the current status?Till today, the number of positive cases in the state is 119, of which 15 have been discharged. We have 102 active patients. Of these, 79 are Jamaat attendees while 23 are either overseas travellers or those who came in contact with Covid-19 patients. These 79 cases are from Palwal, Nuh and Faridabad. We are undertaking extensive screening, sampling, and testing in the state to trace cases and prevent local transmission. The sample and testing size is increasing in the state and based on that, we are putting people in quarantine and isolation wards. We have also traced 105 contacts of the 79 patients who took part in the Jamaat. As per the information shared by the home department, 1,528 Jamaat attendees have been identified in the state. Irrespective of their symptoms, we have tested 1,100 of them so far. The process is ongoing. Are there any Covid-19 hot spots in Haryana? Earlier, the Central government placed Gurugram in the Covid-19 hot spot category after it reported the maximum positive cases in Haryana. Now, Hathin in Palwal and Nuh are the two hot spots, while Faridabad, because of its population density is a potential hot spot. Some villages in Palwal and Nuh were sealed. At which stage of transmission are we in the state and what is the containment strategy? I would still say we are in Stage 2, as we can identify symptomatic persons and their contacts. We have an elaborate containment plan for each district, being handled by the deputy commissioners. We are doing contact tracing along with a door-to-door screening of people in the defined containment villages. On Monday, we identified 37 critical villages in Nuh and on Tuesday, identified 14 more villages where screening and testing are a priority. Extensive screening and sampling are being done in Ambala and Panchkula too. It will continue for now. How many people in the state are under quarantine and what percentage of it tested positive for the coronavirus?After the Tablighi Jamaat incident, the number of patients has increased rapidly. At least 12-14% of people, who are currently under quarantine, have tested positive for Covid-19. We have to contain the disease and ensure the entire population is protected. Public health experts have said that extensive testing needs to be done in cities like Gurugram, having a high number of overseas travellers. According to them, vigilance and contact tracing is relatively successful, but testing asymptomatic patients is also crucial. What is your take on it? We are ramping up testing and sampling in the state. As per the state health bulletin, only 750 samples were being tested until three days ago. Today, the number is more than 2,300. It shows we are thoroughly testing people, especially knowing the gravity of the Jamaat incident. How many labs are actively doing PCR (polymerase chain reaction) tests in the state? Two government labs — PGIMS, Rohtak, and a medical college in Sonepat — are conducting testing. They are directly procuring kits from manufacturers and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Five private labs are also authorised to conduct testing. Since the rate of sampling has increased, we are sending samples to private labs., with more than 150 samples sent from Palwal and Nuh in the last few days. To speed up testing, a government lab has been set up in Faridabad’s ESIC Hospital from Monday. Also, by Wednesday, a CSIR lab in Chandigarh will be functional. The state government is also authorised to send samples to Dr Lal Path labs and Dr Dangs lab in Delhi. The ICMR has said that these two labs approved for Delhi can take samples from Haryana.The state is soon going to start the rapid antibody test. How many kits is the state expected to receive in phase 1? What are the protocols for its usage?We will be procuring it in the next two to three days. PGIMS, Rohtak, is setting up the protocol for its usage — how it will be used in hot spots to check community transmission and sample size of the population for testing. By Wednesday, we will have clarity on the usage of the antibody test kits based on the number of kits we receive. How is the state addressing the issue? How many personal protective equipment (PPE) kits are available against the total demand? PPE is a consumable item. The important thing is to have stock available so that it can last for a few days even if there is a delay in the supply of kits. We have enough PPE kits as the state government has been procuring it and flexibility has been given to do on-spot purchase through Haryana Medical Services Corporation Limited (HMSCL) as they are floating e-tenders.What is the current line of treatment for Covid-19 patients in the state?We are following the ICMR guidelines. Also, we have enough stock of hydroxychloroquine, with at least 12-13 lakh tablets. So far, how many Covid-19 patients have been put under critical care? How prepared is the state to provide tertiary care to positive cases? Luckily, all the Covid-19 patients are being treated in isolation wards. Nobody, as such, has required critical care, but we are concentrating on ventilators and the supply of other equipment required for treatment. We have 1,100 ventilators in the state and 400 more will be arriving shortly.Officials have said that the state government plans to release the lockdown in districts that are presently free of infection on April 14. Could you elaborate on the plan?Nothing can be said, as of now. The health department has shared its inputs with the state and central governments. It is up to them to decide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-in-stage-2-elaborate-containment-plan-in-place-for-each-district/story-eQ3MaGWPzVr33NeTeksoQM.html
07-04-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Maharashtra looking to create more no-go zones||With the total number of Covid-19 cases breaching the 1,000-mark, the state government is now focused on containment and increasing testing capacity. The state officials said the positive cases are increasing in urban areas – mainly Mumbai Metropolitan Region, Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad – and so the focus will be on creating containment zones in these areas.In the past four days, Mumbai has seen a jump of 265 cases from 377 positive cases on April 4 to 642 on April 7. While Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad saw a rise of 69 cases between April 4 and April 7, Thane and Palghar districts have seen a steady rise from 77 positive cases on April 4 to 99 cases on April 7. The state government is working on the 3-Ts mantra –tracking, testing and treatment. The state health department has made a strong case for testing more people as a proactive step. State officials said the other municipal corporations in the MMR will now replicate the containment zone that the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) started to curb the spread of the virus outside of a cluster. Soon, Navi Mumbai, Thane, Mira-Bhayander, Vasai-Virar, Panvel, Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad will have containment zones and areas will be sealed if positive cases are found.On Tuesday, BMC commissioner Praveen Pardeshi gave a presentation during the state cabinet meeting on the containment zones in Mumbai. So far, Mumbai has 241 containment zones, including Worli Koliwada and parts of Dharavi, which have been sealed. A portion of Kala Nagar in Bandra East, where chief minister Uddhav Thackeray resides, has been sealed after a tea vendor tested positive for coronavirus on Monday.“The shutdown by the state government and subsequent lockdown announced by the Centre has helped us control the spike that was expected in the first week of April. The figures that we see today are under control. However, we are prepared to tackle the growing numbers,” an official said. The state government through various agencies has taken over hotels, hostels, schools, universities to be converted into isolation facilities.Another Mantralaya official said the cases are increasing in densely populated areas. “Besides tracing, we want to start testing aggressively. We are soon starting antibody tests to ascertain how many people have been infected by the virus, but developed antibodies to fight it. The BMC has started Safe And Fast Evaluation Swab Technique’ (SAFEST) machine at Kasturba Hospital, allowing for safe and rapid testing for Covid-19. Through this, we can collect 1,500 swab samples for increase testing capacity. Similar machines would be set up elsewhere,” the Mantralaya official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-maharashtra-looking-to-create-more-no-go-zones/story-K6MH80DWpdmxnshGNnMAUL.html
07-04-2020||Mumbai||Experts: ‘Need more checks in Covid-19 containment zones’||As the number of Covid-19 cases across Maharashtra continues to rise past the 1,000 mark, experts from across the country have suggested more testing and limited surveys in containment zones to understand the prevalence of the virus.“Given the scale of the city and its high population density, certainly more testing is called for. We know that for every symptomatic case, there is a much larger number who remain asymptomatic,” said Gautam Menon, professor of physics and biology at Ashoka University, Sonepat (Haryana) and adjunct faculty at the department of biological sciences, Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, Colaba. “One expects that the current numbers of positive cases don’t accurately reflect the true numbers of those infected.”Experts have pointed out that inadequate testing can result in asymptomatic cases silently spreading the disease. “The less testing we do, the less we know about the reach of the epidemic. Of course, it is also unfortunately true that widespread testing has its own logistical/financial difficulties,” said Dr Satyajit Rath, retired scientist from the Delhi-based National Institute of Immunology and adjunct faculty at the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Pune.In addition to civic and government-run hospitals and research institutes, four private laboratories in Mumbai have been approved by the Indian Council for Medical Research to conduct real-time polymerase chain reaction testing for RNA virus (coronavirus). However, asymptomatic individuals are being discouraged from undergoing tests because the focus is to first test people displaying Covid-19 symptoms.“Testing asymptomatic people would support and facilitate a general panic-driven tendency of those who can afford it to test themselves repeatedly, leading to a shortage of tests for those who need them, and also a false sense of security from a so-called ‘negative’ test,” said Dr Rath. “Testing asymptomatic people is probably best done, under the current circumstances, by state health care systems in a carefully planned fashion with epidemiological utility, rather than ‘on-demand’.With Worli Koliwada emerging as the hotspot for Covid-19 cases in the city, the civic body has sealed over 280 containment zones. While family members, neighbours and those who have been in close contact with the Covid-19 patient undergo tests in containment zones, the remaining populace also has to observe the 14-day quarantine period.Stating that it is not feasible to test everyone in containment zones at the moment, Menon also suggested undertaking limited surveys in that region, to understand the prevalence of the disease.“One can then zoom in on regions where the infection appears to be larger, or where a cluster of cases have been reported, and test extensively there while trying to maintain some level of physical distancing in other areas so that spreading is prevented,” said Menon. “High-density urban regions are a particular nightmare when it comes to containing an epidemic. Mumbai is no different.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/experts-need-more-checks-in-covid-19-containment-zones/story-ay5IOVhIbufF7UdkgWlb3M.html
07-04-2020||Delhi||Duo in Narela quarantine facility booked for defecating in open||The Delhi Police have registered a first information report (FIR) against two persons for allegedly defecating in a corridor of a quarantine centre in outer Delhi’s Narela, where those who had attended Tablighi Jamaat congregations have been placed. They were evacuated from a Markaz in Delhi’s Nizamuddin on March 31. The police said the two men had defecated on the second-floor corridor, outside the flat where they are staying. A case was registered on April 4 on the complaint of the in-charge of three housing blocks of Delhi Development Authority (DDA) that have been re-purposed as quarantine centres. The DDA flats, yet to be occupied since construction, were the first to be re-purposed as quarantine centres.“...the persons residing in 212 second floor...are the suspect of the above said act and not following the instruction of health department/government and helping the spread of Novel Corona Virus and put the life of people at risk and jeopardize the entire containment measure,” the FIR read.The official said that on April 4, sanitation workers reported the incident in B-block to the housekeeping supervisor. “The housekeeping staff complained that people in quarantine often created a commotion, misbehaved with them and were not following the social distancing norms. After the open defecation incident, we filed a complaint with the police,” a government official said. Joint commissioner of police (northern range), Manish Kumar Aggarwal, said, “We registered a case under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease danger­ous to life) of the Indian Penal Code after the matter was brought to our notice.”According to a senior Delhi government official, this is not the first time such an incident has been reported. “We asked the police to register a FIR, as these people had defecated in the corridors earlier as well. We had warned them, but some of them continue to misbehave and not follow quarantine rules,” said the official.Nearly 1,000 people of more than 2,350 people, including foreigners, who were evacuated from the Markaz, where they had assembled for religious congregations last month, are at the Delhi government-run quarantine facilities and hospitals in the city. Earlier, The Uttar Pradesh government invoked the stringent National Security Act against six quarantined persons, after staffers of a hospital in Ghaziabad had alleged harassment by those placed in quarantine after attending the congregations. Health officials had accused them of making lewd remarks and roaming naked on the hospital premises. They were later shifted to an isolation ward in a private educational institution.Four days ago, two inmates at a quarantine facility, set up in an institute, in Narela had managed to escape, prompting the police to register a case and launch a search operation. They were found at their houses in east Delhi’s Patparganj village and brought back to the quarantine centre. “We had immediately informed the police and the two men were brought back to the facility,” said an official, on the condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/duo-in-narela-quarantine-facility-booked-for-defecating-in-open/story-slWuX3HekkH4kNJBS8JFmJ.html
07-04-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19 lockdown: Retailers allege shortage of essentials, APMC promises enough supply||While there may not be an actual scarcity of vegetables and grocery items in Mumbai, various factors like relocation and demolition of several markets, irregular transportation, as well as lack of manpower have impacted the supply chain of essential goods and contributed to some lag and shortage in essentials. Speculation that the lockdown may be extended further has also led to panic buying that has added to this perceived shortage. To add to this, the Mumbai civic body has now decided to ban the selling of vegetables in all the 241 containment zones in the city.While Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) in Vashi, where the city sources most of its vegetables from, confirmed that there is no shortage of vegetables, smaller vendors and retailers are finding it difficult to source and sell their produce. APMC wholesale market director (vegetable market), Shankar Pingle said that close to 100-150 trucks of vegetables arrive at the Vashi market every day. “There is absolutely no shortage,” he said. However, a local vendor from central Mumbai said that the stock of potatoes, onions, ivy gourds, and some leafy vegetables are less.“Supply from the Vashi market is restricted. Authorities have also shut the Dadar market from where we used to get the main supply,” the vendor said. Similarly, a vendor from Shastri Market in Matunga, Avinash Verma, said that before the lockdown, he would get stock for a week but now getting an adequate supply for a day is also difficult. Many leading grocery outlets undertaking regular supply are facing the brunt. Most Hyper grocery outlets are not offering home delivery options unless in bulk to mega complexes. “There is no guarantee of what you will get. It is very erratic supply,” said Binita Shah, a resident from Parel. “We are now buying in more quantities since we anticipate the lockdown will be extended.”To avoid crowding at markets, several housing complexes are either getting produce directly from farmers’ groups or asking vendors to set up bi-weekly stalls in their premises. Farm to Home, a Nasik-based group of farmers, supplies vegetables and fruits directly to housing complexes in the eastern suburbs, from Vikroli to Chembur. A vendor who sets up stalls in housing complexes, Mahesh T, said, “Earlier, I would get vegetables from Vashi but now it is a time consuming and tedious process to buy vegetables from there. I am getting vegetables directly from farmers in Nasik now.” Despite complaints from retailers, APMC grain traders said that food grains and pulses stock is also adequate. “It will easily last for one month to 45 days but people must refrain from panic buying,” said Umang Sejpal, who supplies wheat in wholesale. The food grain market is now letting in retailers on alternate days for crowd control. “We have also asked our traders to limit work between 10am and 5.30pm,” said Nilesh Vira, APMC director (food grains). The Maharashtra government has provided helpline numbers through which citizens can call in case of a shortage of food grains or other essential services. An official from the control room said, “We are getting close 2,500 calls related to supply shortage every day. Once we get a complaint, we direct it to the district authorities. In the last few days, there has been a shortage of oil but we are resolving most complaints.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-lockdown-retailers-allege-shortage-of-essentials-apmc-promises-enough-supply/story-wn4Zu6M4eIAYW1EBkAbVsI.html
07-04-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: 50K rapid testing kits, 30K PPEs ordered||Prepping to face a major challenge of ensuring testing in densely-populated areas, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will procure 50, 000 rapid testing kits to identify people infected with Covid-19. The finger prick antibody test provides results within 30 minutes.The BMC has also decided to airlift personal protective equipment (PPE) for all medical health professionals and frontline staff.The rapid testing kits are said to be helpful in slums and other congested areas in the city which can be hot spots or containment zones. Civic officials said that the kits will also be used for medical staff, to ensure their safety. Nearly 15, 000 frontline workers across the city have to be screened on an immediate basis. While 12,000 PPEs have already been airlifted from Coimbatore, 30,000 more will be airlifted on Thursday. To ensure smooth transport and quick availability of the PPEs, a manufacturing unit is being set up in Navi Mumbai to supply the equipment. Officials said that a major concern is the safety of medical staff in constant contact with patients. “The requirement of PPEs is 35,000 to 40,000 per week. The unit to be set up in Navi Mumbai will hopefully ensure ease in meeting the requirements. All of this is being done free of cost, using corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds,” said a civic official.The BMC also has plans to procure nearly 400 ventilators to deal with the shortage. Recently, 35 ventilators were procured through CSR. “We have placed orders for more ventilators but due to unavailability in the market, we will have to wait a little longer,” said the official. Around 450 Mylab kits that can conduct 45,000 real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) tests are also being supplied through CSR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-50k-rapid-testing-kits-30k-ppes-ordered/story-IzKczc2LsGISj9Aaong2ZK.html
07-04-2020||City||Containment exercise in Deenpur village and Dwarka Sec 11 after cases emerge||New Delhi: The Delhi government stepped up containment measures in southwest Delhi’s Deenpur, a rural village in Najafgarh area, on Tuesday after three family members of Santosh Shokeen, the south corporation’s councillor from Nangli Sakrawati ward tested positive for Covid-19. According to a senior Delhi government official, houses in a one-kilometre radius will be screened, and a containment plan is in place, though the area has not been officially been declared a ‘containment zone’.Similar measures were put in place in a housing society in Dwarka’s Sector 11 after two people in the society tested positive for the disease. The two people, who are being treated at Lok Nayak hospital, had visited the Tablighi Jamaat headquarters in Nizamuddin. They were living with six other people in a rented apartment, all of whom have now been shifted to an institutional quarantine facility in the sub-city.Though the two areas have not been declared containment zones, all containment measures are being taken in these two areas, said a senior Delhi government official. In Deenpur village, which has one of the first few cases of Covid-19 reported from a rural area in Delhi, the person who tested positive is a former area councillor, Sukhbir Shokeen, and husband of sitting area councillor Santosh Shokeen of the Congress.“His mother and daughter have also tested positive. His wife and others who were in contact have been placed in home quarantine. We have started door-to-door screening of people,” said the Delhi government official. The district surveillance staff is trying to trace the contact history of Sukhbir Shokeen to ascertain from where he contracted the infection. As he is a public figure, the government agencies are screening all his contacts in the last few days.Santosh Shokeen, who lives in a joint family, said, “Close to 10-15 members of our family are in home quarantine, while the three affected are in hospital. Ever since the lockdown, he used to daily go out to give food to needy people. I think he contracted the infection there.”Though Deenpur is a rural village, there are several unauthorised colonies in the area.A resident of the village said, “The police have been going door-to-door to find out the number of people living and whether they are owners or tenants. Now that a person has tested positive, we want each household to be screened.”According to two senior Delhi government officials, the two who had tested positive in Dwarka were visiting a couple who live in a housing society along with four others.According to the Delhi government officials, the two people were taken for testing following a complaint by locals.“The two people who have tested positive had visited the Markaz in Nizamuddin. They have been sent to Lok Nayak hospital and others have been shifted to a quarantine facility in Dwarka,” said a second senior government official. “It will take four to five days to screen all households in the two areas. We have deployed our staff and asked for additional hands from the South Delhi Municipal Corporation,” said the official.Another official added, “We got the information on Monday and have prepared a containment plan for the two areas. We have not declared the two areas containment areas, as there is no community transmission reported so far. But measures are being taken to ensure there is no further transmission of the disease,” said a senior government official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/containment-exercise-in-deenpur-village-and-dwarka-sec-11-after-cases-emerge/story-qCta1KBRE9uLN8C8dR2NwO.html
07-04-2020||City||Markaz’s neighbour, Nizamuddin East is fighting hard against anxiety||From releasing a bulletin of everyday updates to creating a book bank to reaching out to its frontline workers, residents of Nizamuddin East are leaving no stone unturned to keep the Sars-Cov-2 and the anxiety it has caused at bay. The upscale south Delhi neighbourhood is separated only by a road stretch from Nizamuddin West, which houses the Markaz (Tablighi Jamaat’s headquarter)—now the biggest hot spot of the coronavirus pandemic in the country.Though the situation is far more settled now, the residents’ association here said since Nizamuddin East shares its name with its neighbour across the road—which has now come to be known more for the coronavirus cluster— a number of food and grocery delivery apps have stopped catering to the area. “We have been taking all precautions and the only repercussion we are now facing in the aftermath of the Markaz episode is that delivery apps have completely stopped taking orders from the area. I received calls from many residents in the colony that they are not able to use these online services since the spread of the disease at the Markaz came to light. This is probably because of the similarity in names. We have tried to reach out to the service providers, but there has been no word from them so far,” Sushmita Bakshi, secretary, Nizamuddin East Colony Association (NECA), said.She added that initially when the news about numerous Jamaati members testing positive for Covid-19 broke out, there was a lot of panic among the residents. This was mainly because the Markaz is just next door and some of the essential service providers such as banks are located there. The area has been sanitised routinely since then and Nizamuddin East residents feel a less vulnerable now. The Markaz is the headquarters of the Tablighi Jamaat, the outfit that held a congregation of over 2,000 pilgrims, including many international travellers, in early March.At least 331 people who attended the congregation have tested positive for Covid-19 in Delhi so far. Established post-partition, Nizamuddin East is home to several politicians, authors and expats. Both Nizamuddin East and West are located amid Mughal-era monuments and share a common heritage. Ever since the lockdown was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 24, Nizamuddin East residents who would otherwise go to the Nizamuddin Dargah or visit the Basti (adjoining the Markaz) for social work have not been to Nizamuddin West except for maybe visiting the banks. “The colony is within a 3km radius of the hot spot, and so there is still some anxiety among residents. We have been trying to send all updates in the matter to all residents so that they have a reliable source of information,” Bakshi said. In one such circular issued last week, the association had requested residents who may have visited the Markaz or had come into contact with anyone who attended the congregation to identify themselves to the authorities and get tested. It also urged the residents to suspend all activities in the Nizamuddin Basti and the neighbourhood. “We get updates on day-to-day developments from the association. Usually, there would be many who would visit Nizamuddin West for offering Friday prayers, but nobody has been there since the lockdown. Recently, some residents also received a call from the police to check on their travel history,” Ursila Ali, a resident, said.A senior police officer, who did not wish to be named, said that based on data from the health department, the police are devising different strategies including tracing six-month travel history of residents to identify people who may have come in contact with Covid-19 positive patients. He added that there is no movement across the road and barricades have been placed on the road leading to the Markaz.Meanwhile, to ensure that workers in the colony including the twelve security guards, the sanitation staff, and the vegetable vendors are taken care of, the association provides them cooked meals everyday. “We have made a roster assigning different families with the responsibility of providing a day’s meal to all the 15-20 workers. Also, a small group of residents here remains in constant touch with senior citizens to provide them any essential item they may need so that they don’t have to step out themselves,” Nina Chatrath, a resident, said.Out of the 10 gates in the colony, only one gate has been left open for essential service providers such as delivery agents and sanitation staff to be let in. The colony is also sanitised regularly.The residents have also roped in the local councillor with whose help a book bank at the colony’s community centre has been set up. Councillor Yasmin Kidwai, who is also a colony resident, said that since all book shops are closed, it might be a good idea to have a place where one can go and pick up a book to read. “We thought of creating a book bank to engage children, as it’s hard to keep them indoors. All residents are free to donate books. Even adults can come over and read at a distance. We will follow all the social distancing measures in the exercise,” Kidwai said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/markaz-s-neighbour-nizamuddin-east-is-fighting-hard-against-anxiety/story-iEOjUz77Kurp54Pw4O16RP.html
07-04-2020||City||UP initiates psycho-social counselling, patient pooling to tackle Covid crisis||The Uttar Pradesh (UP) health department, on Tuesday, initiated a number of measures to tackle the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak in the state. These measures include patient pooling, alternate facilities for asymptomatic patients, and psycho-social counselling to help people deal better with the disease. The officials said that figures of UP till Tuesday afternoon stood at 314, while 168 of these included people linked to the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi.The officials said that there has been a lot of emphasis over the concept of psycho-social counselling of people, who feel mentally stressed in the present scenario. As such, the health department has roped in a team of 100 counsellors, who will be taking up calls and speak with callers seeking psychological counselling.“There has been a lot of emphasis on psycho-social counselling of patients and people amid the present Covid-19 scenario. For this purpose, we have already opened up our helpline number, 18001805145, which solves queries of people regarding Covid-19. Now, this helpline will be more fruitful as we have a team of 100 counsellors, who will help people deal with mental stress in the present circumstances,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, UP’s principal secretary (health). “From Tuesday onwards, anyone calling for counselling will be connected to our counsellors and the caller can speak to them,” he added.Additionally, the UP government has recently floated the Covid care fund in order to strengthen the medical and healthcare infrastructure in the state to deal with Covid-19 cases and also for any future upsurge.To deal with Covid-19 cases, the government has also started with dedicated hospitals and has introduced a three-layered hospital system for Covid-19 positive patients.The L1 category hospitals (in every district) will be at the lowest end, where all Covid-19 patients will be treated. In case, they face some complications, the Covid-19 patients from L1 category hospitals will be shifted to L2 category. In case of critical cases, the patients from L2 will be shifted to L3 hospitals, which have super specialty facilities.“It is seen that there are districts where Covid-19 positive patients are fewer in number (for instance 2-3 patients). Even for smaller number of patients, we have to rope in resources, fill staff and also bring up a new hospital for their treatment. As such, we have given special powers to the divisional commissioners to pool in patients. Under this scheme, the divisional commissioner can shift a certain number of patients from one district to another under his/her division,” Prasad said.“This way, patients can come under one bigger hospital where staff and resources are already available. This can save our manpower and resources as well,” he added.In another initiative, Prasad also said that it has come to light that about 75% of Covid-19 patients were asymptomatic but found to be positive for Covid-19 in the test results.“In order to lodge asymptomatic patients away from symptomatic patients, we have decided to hire lodges, hotels or hostels near the hospital complex. In such places, all the asymptomatic patients will be kept and they will be treated by a dedicated team of health and paramedical staff. Once these asymptomatic patients move to hotels, lodges or hostels, their beds in the hospital willbecome vacant. These can be used up for treating other Covid-19 positve patients, who have complications or need immediate help,” Prasad said. He added that a government order to this effect will also be issued by Tuesday night and sent to all district magistrates in the state.Meanwhile in Ghaizabad, the number of Covid-19 positive cases stood at 23 on Tuesday evening. The officials said that figure has stood at 23 since Saturday evening and no new positive cases have emerged in the district.“On Tuesday, we received 112 test reports and all were negative. So the count since Saturday evening has stood at 23. So far, we have quarantined 263 people who attended various religious congregations. The containment exercise has also been taken up vigorously in different areas of the city,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer (CMO).On Tuesday, the health department also installed a new machine with the help of which people can come and give their samples to check for Covid-19. “The setup contains a shield between the person who takes samples and the one who comes for giving the sample. There is a windscreen in between the two. The person collecting the samples will put his hands in gloves attached to the screen and take samples without any chance of getting infected,” Dr Gupta added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/up-initiates-psycho-social-counselling-patient-pooling-to-tackle-covid-crisis/story-SsvdqhYI4vk7ylC68sjKYK.html
07-04-2020||City||Migrant held for sending false alarm to Bihar govt||Hailing from Bihar, a labour contractor in the district sent an e-mail to the Bihar government claiming that he has nothing to eat at home and is starving due to the lockdown.When the police reached his home at Kohara village following a communication from the Bihar government, they found that the man had hoarded grocery, which is sufficient for his family for at least one month.The Focal Point police arrested the accused, identified as Bharat Singh, 47, who hails from Siwan district of Bihar. They registered an FIR against him for furnishing false information.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/migrant-held-for-sending-false-alarm-to-bihar-govt/story-0a2gAoZ1I8N6s4AYWPdMdK.html
07-04-2020||City||Ghaziabad civic body advises high-rises to install incinerators to dispose of masks||In order to scientifically dispose of used masks, the Ghaziabad municipal corporation has installed 50 incinerators at public toilets in markets and 23 more will be installed soon. The officials have also advised high-rises to install incinerators on their premises to dispose of masks and sanitary pads, which are termed hazardous waste.The city has about 300 high-rises in different areas of Indirapuram, Vaishali, Crossings Republik and Raj Nagar Extension, among others.“In the meantime, the RWAs and apartment owners’ associations can collect the used masks at a single point in their building and then alert our zonal officers to collect them. A door-to-door collection vehicle will transport the masks to the incinerators. People should also understand that throwing away used masks could be hazardous for others,” Dinesh Chandra, municipal commissioner, said.The corporation has also arranged for 10,000 cotton masks for all its officials and cleaning staff.“The cotton masks are beneficial as they can be washed and reused. We are also taking precaution that no masks disposed of in public places are taken to the landfill. All masks are destroyed in the incinerators,” Chandra said.Apart from the daily garbage collection, the corporation is also engaged in sanitization work of Covid-19 hot spot areas and quarantine centres.The civic body has roped in five big machines to spray a mixture of water and disinfectant besides 17 other smaller spraying machines to sanitize different areas. The spraying activity has been taken up in 100 residential wards.On Tuesday, chief minister Yogi Adityanath also stressed on the use of cotton masks to prevent the spread of the virus.“These are less expensive and provide better protection. Their use has also been recommended by the World Health Organization. We have also roped in a number of women self-help groups for making these cotton masks,” Adityanath said.Environmentalists said masks should not be left in public places or thrown away casually.“They can spread the infection to others. People should also avoid throwing masks in with their daily garbage. Otherwise, used masks will land at the landfill from where they can further infect scrap collectors,” Akash Vashishtha, a city-based environmentalist, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-civic-body-advises-high-rises-to-install-incinerators-to-dispose-of-masks/story-cp1MnXWj0OyfbioaXS2AwO.html
07-04-2020||City||Review on lifting lockdown only after consultation with Centre: UP CM||The Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday said that any decision on lifting of the lockdown after April 14 will be taken after consultation with the Centre. He, however, said that a review on lockdown is expected after April 12.CM Adityanath was speaking during a video conference with mediapersons of all 75 districts in the state. He raised concerns about the rising number of Covid-19 positive cases which have surged in Uttar Pradesh in the past four-five days, ever since a few people returned after attending a religious congregation in Delhi.“The lifting of the lockdown will depend on the number of Covid-19 positive cases and the Centre will be consulted. As of now, we have about 314 positive cases and 168 of these are linked to members of the Tablighi Jamaat. We have increased surveillance and even reached interior areas in different cities to trace people who are in hiding,” the chief minister said.On Monday, Telangana chief minister K Chandrashekhar Rao had said that he would appeal to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to extend the lockdown.“We are also trying to trace the contacts of Covid-19 positive people linked to the Tablighi Jamaat. Had these cases not taken place, we would have been in control of the situation,” Adityanath added.He said that to check the spread of Covid-19, clusters have been identified and surveillance systems have already been activated. As per the number of Covid-19 cases, Gautam Budh Nagar, Ghaziabad, Kanpur and Meerut, among other districts, have emerged as hotspots with high numbers of Covid-19 positive cases.“Through the CM’s helpline (1076), we have reached the Gram Panchayats and are seeking information about people who have returned. Many of them have been quarantined for 14 days and they will further be kept in home-isolation. People from the Tablighi Jamaat are still in hiding and they should come forward. We are working on identifying them,” he added.Adityanath, on March 30, had visited the Gautam Budh Nagar district to review the health and medical facilities in the district and rapped officials on their knuckles. Following this, former district magistrate BN Singh was transferred out and new district magistrate Suhas LY was brought in.The CM also visited Ghaziabad the next day but cut his visit short and flew back to Lucknow to take stock of the situation when reports of thousands of people who attended a religious congregation at Delhi’s Nizamuddin came to light.On Monday, Awanish Awasthi, UP’s additional chief secretary (home), said that the lifting of the lockdown after April 14 would not be possible until there was a single Covid-19 case pending in the state.“So it cannot be said that lockdown will be lifted after April 14. Our health teams, police and officers are putting in a lot of effort and they will have to work for a longer period. People’s participation is also required now,” he had said.Initially, the Uttar Pradesh chief minister had announced a lockdown of 16 districts in the state on April 22. The 16 districts included Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar. Thereafter, in his address to the nation, Prime Minister Modi, on the night of March 24, had announced a countrywide lockdown for 21 days, which is scheduled to end on April 14.CM Adityanath also said that he has appealed to the management of schools not to ask for fees during the lockdown period.“We have also appealed to them to give salary to their staff and teachers. We cannot force them but we are taking steps to defer the payment of fees for a couple of months,” he said in response to a query raised over the issue.He also added that the state health department will also get about 10,000 portable ventilators in another 10 days’ time from a Noida-based company and each set will cost only about ₹1.5 lakh to ₹2 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/review-on-lifting-lockdown-only-after-consultation-with-centre-up-cm/story-8zyAXE3GGyorqJ8xfbdobL.html
07-04-2020||Noida||HCQS sale regulated in GB Nagar after people and doctors start hoarding drug||The guidelines to procure antimalarial drug hydroxychloroquine (HCQS), which is in huge demand across the world owing to reports that the drug can be used to pre-empt the onset of Covid -19, has been tightened in Gautam Budh Nagar to prevent its hoarding and ensure its availability to patients who are in need of them.The antimalarial drug is also used in the treatment of auto immune conditions such as rheumatoid arthritis, lupus, and porphyria cutanea tarda. The district health department has already procured over 7,000 tablets for its usage as a prophylaxis (medicine to prevent the onset of a disease) in the Covid-19 treatment. Another medicine which is being used in Covid-19 treatment is tamiflu, which is used to treat influenza types A and B.According to the officials, 15 days ago, HCQS went out of stock as many private hospital doctors had hoarded the medicine in large numbers after the government approved its use as a prophylaxis. The public also rushed to buy the medicine as a precautionary measure.The medicine was notified as a Schedule H1 drug by the central government in the third week of March, making a physician’s prescription mandatory for purchase of the medicine. Previously, it was not necessary to show a doctor’s prescription to buy HCQS.“We have asked wholesalers to first check the retailer’s stock details before giving them new stock. The retailer has to show the quantity sold, the patient’s details and the doctor’s credentials to ensure that no hoarding takes place. We have also asked the wholesalers to give only half the quantity of what is asked for by the retailer,” AK Jain, assistant commissioner, food safety and drug Administration department, said.“We had come to know that a lot of doctors had bought the medicine in huge quantities, creating a temporary shortage in the market. Most of the wholesalers are in Ghaziabad and they have been given the required instructions to ensure that there is no shortage,” Jain said.The chemists’ association of Gautam Budh Nagar said HCQS is going out of stock at most of the places following the increased demand and restrictions in place. There are around 2,500 medical shops in the district and currently only about 600 of them are open. Many aren’t able to open as they are situated in the interior areas and supply has been affected following the lockdown. Most of the shops don’t have hydroxychloroquine because many have kept it for themselves and their families,” Anoop Khanna, president, chemists’ association, said.The Indian Medical Association (Noida) is also going to raise the issue of hydroxychloroquine shortage with the authorities. “In the next meeting with the DM and the chief medical officer, we will discuss the issue of availability of the tablet. We need to ensure that private hospitals don’t face any shortage as the malaria season has also arrived,” Dr NK Sharma, president, IMA, Noida, said. “Doctors are taking hydroxychloroquine as prophylactic while treating Covid-19 patients. We are also giving this and tamiflu to patients and they have been responding well to these drugs,” Dr Saurabh Shrivastava, head, department of medicine, Government Institute of Medical Science, Grater Noida, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/hcqs-sale-regulated-in-gb-nagar-after-people-and-doctors-start-hoarding-drug/story-0FjLhr9hwbQyHhLpNtpRyL.html
07-04-2020||Noida||GB Nagar to follow Agra and Bhilwara models of containment exercise||The Gautam Budh Nagar administration will adopt the containment model of Agra and Bhilwara, Rajasthan. The first case of Covid-19 to be reported from Noida on March 12 was that of a tour guide.The 300 surveillance and containment teams started conducting a survey of 12 clusters in the district from where Covid-19 cases were reported.One of the first clusters of six Covid-19 patients in India was of those who had come in contact with a Covid-19 patient from Delhi with a travel history to Italy. He tested positive in Agra on March 2. Within 10 days, 350 teams of health and other government officials surveyed over 12 lakh people in Agra, and 1,000 suspected patients were identified and their samples collected. Agra has a total 62 positive cases until Tuesday.According to the official, who handled the first cluster of Covid-19 in Agra, there was no set model at that time to contain the spread.“When the first cluster was identified in Agra, we had immediately constituted 350 teams to survey and screen people. Immediately, the next day, a group of 16 Italians tourists was found positive for the infection and they had stayed in a hotel in Agra. Our teams stayed in the hotel to sanitize and trace all persons who visited the hotel during the stay of the Italian group. We provided training to all hotels in Agra to handle the situation,” Dr Vikasendu Agarwal, state surveillance officer, Lucknow, said.“There was no model for us to follow when we devised our own containment process. Agra hosts lakhs of foreign tourists, so it was a difficult task but we did it successfully,” Agarwal said.In Bhilwara, the first Covid-19 case, of a private hospital doctor, was reported on March 19. The district since then have gone on to have the second highest number of Covid-19 cases in Rajasthan. But only one case was found positive after March 31. All positive cases are linked to the hospital which includes 19 hospital staff and their relatives.Within eight days of the first case, 1,135 teams were constituted which surveyed over 75,000 houses, screened 365,600 persons in Bhilwara district. By March 31, samples of around 1,400 people were collected and tested.The surveillance officer from World Health Organization (WHO) who was part of the core team which contained the spread of Covid-19 successfully in Bhilwara said quick contact tracing, social distancing and mass sampling are the only ways to contain the spread of the virus.“Within eight days, our teams had surveyed over 73,000 houses in Bhilwara. Repeated survey and screening of the same houses and people are important to keep a tab and see if anybody has developed symptoms of the virus. Bhilwara was the first place where the Covid-19 outbreak had taken place in Rajasthan. So all the support required to conduct mass sampling was provided by state government which helped us in identifying infected persons quickly,” Dr Rajesh Gupta, surveillance medical officer, WHO, posted in Kota, Rajasthan, said.“As a result of quick and intensive contact tracing, only one positive case has been found in Bhilwara since March 31. Over 3,000 samples have been sent for testing in Bhilwara till now,” Gupta said.Gautam Budh Nagar reported its first Covid-19 case on March 12. By Tuesday, the total number of cases has risen to 58, of which 39 are linked to fire safety firm Ceasefire in Sector 135.Last week, former district magistrate BN Singh was pulled up by chief minister Yogi Adityanath for failing to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the district. The new district magistrate Suhas LY joined on March 31 after which 300 surveillance and containment 300 teams were constituted. A call centre was also started to address the queries and concerns the public has and also to undertake contact tracing of positive patients. “In six days, we have constituted 300 teams and they started work on Tuesday. We have increased the number of sampling to screen suspected patients. Recently, we have started a new call centre to streamline the whole system of fighting Covid-19 in the district. Our patients are continuously getting discharged after treatment. We are expecting good results in the coming days as the procedure of contact tracing has been intensified,” Suhas said.“We are also focusing on increasing the number of persons tested,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/gb-nagar-to-follow-agra-and-bhilwara-models-of-containment-exercise/story-6mkCcFK5aAO0QeUK3lQugO.html
07-04-2020||Noida||Covid-19: Nurse of a private hospital found positive; 2 patients discharged||A 20-year-old nurse from the dialysis department of a private hospital in Sector 62 has been found to be positive for severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2). This is the first case of a medical professional getting infected with SARS-CoV-2 in the district. The woman is a resident of Maujpur in Delhi but is working in the Noida hospital. The total number of positive cases in the district stand at 58.Another lab technician of the hospital was found positive for the infection in Delhi after which samples of the woman and other medical staff were taken last week. The girl was living in a paying guest(PG) accommodation with a friend in Sector 62 since the lockdown was announced.Officials have sealed the PG and the area around it for containment as per the protocol. The woman has been admitted in the Sharda Hospital in Greater Noida. The wing of the hospital where the nurse worked along with the lab technician has been sealed and complete sanitisation of the hospital premises has been carried out.“We had tested the medical staff of the hospital as a precautionary measure after a lab technician was found positive in Delhi. After this, the woman was found positive. The medical staff of the hospital who came in direct or indirect contact of the woman and the lab technician has been asked to undergo home quarantine. All the required measures have been taken as per the protocol to contain and sanitise the area,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate.In another development, a 39-year-old man from Sector 150, who was admitted along with his 33-year-old wife, was shifted to Sharda Hospital after his condition deteriorated on Tuesday. The couple has been shifted to Sharda on late Tuesday night. The blood count of the man has come down drastically, making his condition serious.According to the health officials, it is difficult to use the single donor platelets procedure with him as it can put the donor at the risk of getting infected with COVID-19 as they have to be seated on two different beds next to each other during the process. Single donor platelets are prepared by the platelet aphaeresis machine.Doctors can explore the option of random donor platelets (RDP), which are prepared from donated blood.In another development, two patients were discharged from the Government Institute of Medical Sciences on Tuesday evening. One discharged patient is an employee of the Ceasefire company in Sector 137, who was admitted along with his wife and daughter for COVID-19 infection.Another discharged patient is a 35-year-old man from a residential society in Zeta-1 area of Greater Noida who had a foreign travel history.“We are happy to see that 10 Covid-19 patients have been discharged after responding successfully to the treatment given. In the coming few days, we are expecting that more people will be discharged,’ said Dr Saurabh Shrivastava, head of department, medicine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/covid-19-nurse-of-a-private-hospital-found-positive-2-patients-discharged/story-yQNh1mTPYiaRvphslrri2H.html
07-04-2020||City||Deliver food to labourers at construction sites or face action, Noida authority tells developers||NOIDA: Amid the ongoing nationwide lockdown, the Noida authority on Tuesday directed all real estate developers to provide essential commodities such as food and medicines to migrant construction workers at their respective sites in the city on a daily basis. If the realtors fail to follow the directions, they will have to face legal action, officials said.The move comes after the authority realized that some developers are not taking care of construction workers staying at their sites properly. According to the authority officials, about 50,000 labourers are staying at various construction sites in sectors 150, 143, 117, 118, 122, and 78, among others.The authority has issued instructions to builders in accordance with the guidelines of the UP government, which state that all the developers in the state will have to take care of the labourers rendered jobless after the 21-day lockdown came into force, the officials said. “Construction work at many builders’ sites was underway when the lockdown was announced. So, many construction workers got stuck at the sites in the city. And they are facing problems to get food and other essential services. In view of Covid -19 pandemic crisis, it is the responsibility of the respective builder to provide essential services to these workers during lockdown. Those who do not obey these guidelines will face legal action,” said Ritu Maheshwari, chief executive officer of the Noida authority.In Noida, there are at least 100 housing projects where construction was underway, and labourers are living at the sites. Some big builders are providing food at the sites to labourers, but others are not providing food and other required essential services, said the officials.“The builder should ensure that construction labourers get food in morning and evening regularly till the lockdown is lifted,” said Maheshwari.The Noida authority has written to builders’ groups -- Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (Credai) and National Real Estate Development Council (Naredco) -- in order to ensure compliance of the instructions of the government. The authority has directed Credai to inform each member to follow instructions to avoid legal action.The builders’ body said that most of the developers are already providing food to the labourers. “We are regularly providing food to around 3,000 construction labourers daily at different sites. But we will ask those, who are not doing it, to do the same,” said RK Arora, chairman of Supertech Limited and member of Credai. Arora is also the president of UP chapter of Naredco.The Credai president for Western UP wing, Prashant Tiwari, said, “We will pass on the authority message to all builders for compliance. However, most of us are doing it already.”The Noida authority, with the help of the police and local volunteers, are providing food to the needy regularly since the lockdown started, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/deliver-food-to-labourers-at-construction-sites-or-face-action-noida-authority-tells-developers/story-kP3DLh7njY6YdWanVcOiIN.html
07-04-2020||Noida||Online classes, WFH raises computer repair demand, a non-essential service||With most offices giving its employees the option to work from home and educational institutions conducting online classes in light of the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) crisis, the demand for the purchase and repair of electronics has gone up. However, this continues to remain a non-essential service.When the three-week lockdown was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 24, the movement of only essential services like groceries, telecommunication, pharmaceuticals, etc. was allowed. Electronics and their maintenance and repair did not make the cut.However, with daily life now depending on laptops and computers due to the current situation, people are facing problems.“There are four of us at home. My wife and I work on laptops provided to us by our offices and have a spare one. From April 1, both my children started their online classes. They are in different classes but their online sessions are at the same time. I needed another system but nothing was available in the market or even online. Luckily, a friend who owns an electronics showroom in Nehru Place, Delhi, could help me with a second-hand system. The four of us now work on four laptops,” said Deepak Kumar Jha, a resident of sector 77.People have also complained about the increased load on the internet services but as telecommunication is a part of essential services, those issues have been resolved.“My wife and daughter are both working on one shared laptop. My daughter had to start a new job but the lockdown was announced before she could join so she never received the office equipment. Now she has to manage with what we have at home. They both have conference calls which put pressure on the bandwidth, making the system slower. But right now there is no other option,” said Rajiva Singh, a resident of Sector 50.Vendors said that they started seeing a spike in the repair complaints as soon as organisations started going for the work-from-home option, which was days before the lockdown was announced.“There was a sudden rise in those requests. Another spike came around when schools and colleges started there classes in March-end and the beginning of April. But by then we could not help out people as the movement of our technicians is restricted. There is nothing we can do about the various requests for maintenance and repairs that are coming in daily,” said Gaurav Kumar Seth, the owner of a maintenance lab in Sector 59.Even though they are not on the essential services list, laptops and other such electronics have become a necessity in today’s scenario. “Computer repair and maintenance are not on the list of essential services. However, the UP government has put a provision in place that if a demand for a particular service arises, it can be taken into consideration. So far no major requests have come in but if they do, we can consider them,” said Anil Kumar, deputy commissioner, industries, Gautam Budh Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/online-classes-wfh-raises-computer-repair-demand-a-non-essential-service/story-kOMsOPbCOZX9tVxLOvIw3M.html
07-04-2020||Chandigarh||Khattar govt coercing state employees to donate to Covid fund: Surjewala||Senior Congress leader Randeep Surjewala on Tuesday accused the Haryana government of coercing its employees to contribute towards Covid relief fund.In a virtual press conference, Surjewala said instead of ‘extorting donations’ for the fund from the employees, the top brass of the state government — including the governor, chief minister and cabinet ministers — should pitch in with substantial amounts from their personal funds.“The CM should persuade industrialists, mining and liquor companies to make contributions,” he added.The Congress leader said sharing had always been a part of the Haryanvi culture and the employees had always made voluntary donations. “But, the way this regime is mounting pressure on them is unheard of,” he added.As an evidence, Surjewala shared an education department communication asking the school principals to ensure registration of Group B and C employees for making donations towards relief fund failing which their March salary will be held back. “I have seen a WhatsApp group where the heads of departments have pressured the employees to make donations,” he said.“It cannot be a mere coincidence that salaries of lakhs of government employees have not been disbursed by the Khattar government till April 7,” he added.“Will the government bring transparency about the expenditure from the relief fund,” Surjewala said.Meanwhile, chief minister ML Khattar clarified that no employee was being coerced to donate towards the relief fund. “It is a voluntary contribution. Everyone will have to give information on a website about how much they wanted to contribute,” he said during a digital conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/khattar-govt-coercing-state-employees-to-donate-to-covid-fund-surjewala/story-IDY1iSswyxh44GZsa1NRCN.html
07-04-2020||Chandigarh||Teams set up to check black marketing, over pricing of essential commodities||The Haryana government on Tuesday constituted special teams of food, supplies and consumer affairs department and local administration to keep a check on black marketing, hoarding, and price inflation of essential commodities.A department spokesperson said that the price capping of 25 essential commodities including pulses, sugar, salt, wheat, flour, potatoes and onions has been done by all deputy commissioners in their districts. Every shopkeeper has been strictly directed not to sell any product above the capped rate. Shopkeepers have also been told to display the rate list outside their shops to ensure no overcharging is done. It is also being ensured that masks and hand sanitisers are not sold above the maximum retail price. During checkings, 277 challans and 13 criminal cases have been registered due to irregularities done by wholesalers and retailers.The spokesperson added that directions have also been issued for ensuring the adequate availability of mustard oil, pulses and other essential items in the state. “The officers are in regular contact with the National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India (NAFED) and the demand of the required stock for pulses and mustard oil has been sent to the federation.“Supply and availability of all essential items are being ensured through wholesalers,’’ the spokesperson said, adding that under the public distribution system, wheat, fortified flour, sugar, mustard oil are being distributed free of cost to consumers during this month. Soon, 2880 metric tonnes of pulses per month will be made available by the central government to all the eligible 27 lakh families covered under Antyodaya Anna Yojana, BPL and Other Priority Households (OPH) for distribution in April, May and June. Apart from this, 5kg additional wheat per member per month will be made available free of cost by the Union government for April, May and June. Thus, during this period, double ration will be made available to the consumers.He said that under the Public Distribution System, directions have been issued to open ration depots for a longer duration for maximum distribution to the consumers, ensuring social distancing at each depot. In Ambala, Bhiwani and Kurukshetra districts, the ration was made available to consumers at their doorstep and now arrangements are being made to implement the same plan in the entire state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/teams-set-up-to-check-black-marketing-over-pricing-of-essential-commodities/story-YvfxMXfGwm6Kjxu6RjKR4O.html
07-04-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana accuses Delhi govt of concealing details of cop’s infection||The Haryana government on Tuesday lodged a protest with the Delhi government, alleging that they failed to inform them about a state police sub-inspector who died on April 4 at a hospital in the national capital after contracting Covid-19.Charging some of the deceased’s family members and the hospital with concealing information, cases have also been registered against them. Haryana home minister Anil Vij said the sub-inspector from Sonepat was admitted to a private hospital in Delhi last month after he suffered a brain stroke. Neither the Delhi government nor hospital authorities or even the deceased’s family gave any information that he had tested positive for the infection, the minister said.“On Tuesday, we lodged a strong protest with the Delhi government and our state chief secretary talked to her counterpart in this regard. A sub-inspector of the Haryana Police died in Delhi, but we were not informed,” Vij said. The minister said they handed over the body to the family, which also concealed the information.“Many people participated in the deceased’s last rites in Sonepat and several of his colleagues from the police station where he worked also took part in the funeral. He was also given a gun salute. Later, we learnt that he had tested Covid positive,” Vij said. “I enquired from my officials about this, but they said they had no information. This is a big lapse on part of the Delhi government that they failed to inform us,” he said.Vij said 30-40 people, including police officials and some members of the deceased’s family have been quarantined after the revelation.“A case has also been registered against some of the deceased’s family members under Sections 269 and 270 of the IPC for concealing the information. We have also registered a case against the Delhi hospital,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-accuses-delhi-govt-of-concealing-details-of-cop-s-infection/story-KSzhBXUYH61omwkS1M80fI.html
07-04-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana to open 2,000 wheat purchase centres||Haryana government on Tuesday announced that it would open 2,000 wheat purchase centres. The decision came amidst the growing worries among 40 lakh odd farmers about the fate of upcoming mustard and wheat procurement operations under the lurking uncertainty due to the lockdown and shortage of labourers.In a bid to firm up its fresh procurement plans, the Manohar Lal Khattar-led BJP-JJP coalition government held a series of meetings in past two days with multiple stakeholders, procurement agencies and the commission agents (arhtiyas). The state government has also urged the Centre to give incentives between Rs 50 and Rs 125 to encourage farmers for staggered arrival of the wheat. From opening 140 mustard purchase centres (against 67 last year) to raising the number of wheat procurement centres from previous 477 to 2,000 and using every possible covered place — like sheds owned by various sects and empty spaces of rice millers — the state government will begin the massive wheat procurement exercise in a staggered manner from April 20. The objective of the new procurement plan is to open purchase centres in the proximity of villages. As Haryana has over 6,000 villages, one procurement centre will cater to three villages. This is expected to check the issues of transportation of the grains and glut in the market. Usually, wheat and mustard procurement begins on April 1 every year. Due to the 21-day nationwide lockdown that will end on April 14, the procurement was deferred. PREFERENCE TO REGISTERED FARMERSAs per chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, produce of the registered farmers will be procured first. He has asked the unregistered farmers to register themselves by April 19.“We will procure every grain even as there is a possibility of delay,” Khattar assured the peasantry.Deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala, who also holds the portfolio of food and civil supplies, said Dera Sacha Sauda, Dera Jagmal, Dera Bhumanshah and rice millers spread across 13 districts have offered their covered premises for procurement. The government is also approaching Radha Soami dera and other sects to convert their covered shed into temporary purchase centres.Last year, 80% of the total procured wheat had arrived in the mandis in 25 days, but this time, the government plans to complete the procurement in two months in staggered manner. “We will use every resource, including MGNREGA labourers.”Over 15,000 migrant labourers currently staying in government-run shelter homes are willing to join the procurement operations, Khattar said. “Arhtiyas will play a big role...Wheat MSP will be transferred to the farmers through the arhtiyas, while mustard MSP will be transferred directly to the account of farmers,” Khattar said.INCENTIVES TO FARMERSThe state government has asked the Centre to give incentives to farmers to delay and stagger food grain arrival. On March 26, additional chief secretary (food and civil supplies) PK Das wrote to Union secretary (food and public distribution) Ravikant, saying that Haryana government wanted wheat procurement to be done in staggered manner to ensure smooth procurement. “This can be facilitated by incentivising farmers,” Das said.A farmer from Kanheri village, however, said, “Our biggest worry is if the wheat will be procured. The government should fix the dates when the farmers of a particular area should bring the foodgrains to mandis.”Hisar-based agricultural university V-C Prof KP Singh said, “Farmers can only delay harvesting up to a limited extent and long delay may affect them. If the lockdown extends, then we need specific arrangements and alternative measures to save our farmers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-to-open-2-000-wheat-purchase-centres/story-UbqtTKX3cS1wvHeUUwI7SN.html
07-04-2020||City||30-member control room to coordinate wheat harvesting, procurement||CHANDIGARH The Punjab government has set up a 30-member control room at the mandi board for coordination and providing logistic support during the upcoming wheat harvesting and marketing season amid the COVID-19 clampdown.The information was shared during a video conference on Tuesday in which chief minister Amarinder Singh reviewed the arrangements for the rabi operations with top officials from various departments, including food and civil supplies, agriculture, police, among others, according to an official release. The CM ordered the food and agriculture departments to immediately come out with standard operating procedures (SOPs) for the mandis and purchase centres. He directed the departments to scale up the number of purchasing centres to 4,000, from the current 3,761, which is already double that of last year.Amarinder also wrote to his West Bengal counterpart Mamata Banerjee, seeking her personal intervention to revive manufacturing and loading at the jute mills in her state against the pending indents for gunny bales placed by the Punjab government.He said indents had been placed for 3.4 lakh jute bales from December 2019 to March 2020, and approximately Rs 1,000 crore had been transferred in advance in the escrow account of Jute Commissioner of India, Kolkata.The CM was informed that there was no shortage of labour as 14.2 lakh workers were available to join the operations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/30-member-control-room-to-coordinate-wheat-harvesting-procurement/story-GCgNYIlCdoamswFyO0RPxL.html
07-04-2020||Lucknow||‘Consider age factor while releasing children in conflict with law’||Although the women and child welfare department has prepared a list of around 1000 children, who are in 24 observation homes in UP for being in conflict with law, for interim bail in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak, the high-powered state panel has said those delinquents should not be released whose juvenility (whether they are minor) was in dispute.The Supreme Court had on April 3 asked Juvenile Justice Boards to consider releasing these children to prevent spread of pandemic. It came after over 11, 000 prisoners were released recently on the apex court order. The majority of children listed for release have disputed juvenility. Around 2,000 children in conflict with law are lodged in the observation homes. The number of children lodged is much more than the capacity of the UP observation homes.“The apex court had directed states to decongest prisons. Observation homes should have been decongested in the same line. In UP, there are several cases with disputed juvenility. We will flag this issue with the high powered panel again,” a senior government official said on the condition of anonymity.“As per the high powered panel’s order, we are releasing children in conflict with the law. Their parents or guardians have been issued a letter that would work as a pass so that they could take children along for 8 weeks,” director, women and child welfare, Manoj Kumar Rai said,“We have around 2, 000 children in 24 observation homes and almost half falls in the category suggested by the Supreme Court. We will act as per the high powered panel’s directions,” he added.A child rights activist Deepika Singh said, “Decongesting shelter homes is need of the hour. There is no point considering the age when the apex court has taken the gravity of the crime into consideration. The high powered panel should review their decision.”After the Supreme Court order asking all states to release prisoners on either parole or interim bail to reduce overcrowding in jails, the state government on March 26 prepared a proposal and sent it to the high-powered committee formed to ensure implementation the apex court’s orders.On March 28, national commissioner for the protection of child rights (NCPCR) asked the state governments to prepare a list of children in conflict with the law lodged in observation and special homes so that they could be released.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/consider-age-factor-while-releasing-children-in-conflict-with-law/story-6u9XUWXHNq2TJn5NdteIxH.html
07-04-2020||City||Rain adds to wheat farmers’ woes||JALANDHAR With farmers already fearing losses due to delay in harvesting and procurement of wheat amid the ongoing lockdown, the unseasonal rain in Doaba region has added to their woes.Rain, accompanied by high-speed winds, lashed parts of the region on Tuesday. On Monday night also, the region experienced heavy rain, accompanied by winds.Besides, the farmers are staring at a shortage of labour and combine machines due to the lockdown.Sukhwinder Singh, a farmer of Bholath, said there is panic among farmers due to coronavirus and acute shortage of labour. “Besides, combine machines that have gone to other states have not returned yet. This will delay harvesting. The wheat grain is now vulnerable to shrivelling, blackening and discolouration.”“If the lockdown remains in force, we don’t know how we will arrange for combine harvesters or even manual labour. Moreover, shortage of gunny bags will also be a problem this time,” said Amarjot Singh of Kartarapur.Jalandhar agriculture officer Naresh Gulati said, “The state government has allowed free movement of combine harvesters from other states for harvesting, which is likely to begin on April 15.”Admitting shortage of gunny bags, district mandi officer Davinder Singh said, “Several units from where agencies procure bags are closed due to lockdown. We are planning to use plastic bags to tackle this problem.”The state has 35 lakh hectares area under wheat cultivation.‘GOVT WILL PROCURE EVERY GRAIN OF WHEAT’Meanwhile, housing and urban development minister Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria said the state government will procure every grain of wheat. He made the statement in Barnala after reviewing the arrangements made by the district administration to prevent the spread of coronavirus outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rain-adds-to-wheat-farmers-woes/story-KksBBTjnENBimdas5mXapI.html
07-04-2020||City||Residents concerned as community spread danger lurks in Amritsar||AMRITSAR The fear of Covid-19 community transmission looms in Amritsar following two recent positive cases, who had no recent foreign travel history and their source of contracting the infection is unclear. The city has recorded 10 Covid-19 patients and two deaths to date.Among the 10 positive cases, a 67-year-old man of Krishna Nagar was tested positive on April 3 and he has no recent foreign travel history and had not travelled outside Amritsar for long. The man’s wife too was tested positive for the virus on April 5.Former municipal corporation official Jaswinder Singh, 65, of Chatiwind Gate died of coronavirus at a private hospital on Monday. He was tested positive for the virus and he too had no recent foreign travel history, making him another community spread case. Singh’s wife has also been tested positive in her preliminary test.“Both the cases are community transmission cases as the patients had no foreign travel history. The patients had not even met any known coronavirus patient. The patients’ source of infection has not been traced yet and health department is working on it. This is worrisome. This is a warning sign for residents to stay indoors,” said Amritsar civil surgeon, Dr Prabhdeep Kaur Johal.Dr Rakesh Sharma of the GNDH said, “The community transmission is already on, although not declared officially. Sometimes an early third stage can be halted then and there. Next 10 days are very crucial to control the spread.”Fearing community transmission, some residents have been urging government to step up surveillance and enforce the lockdown. “The administration has not been able to trace the source of infection in two cases nor has it given any official statement on the community transmission. We have definitely entered third stage,” tweeted a city resident. “Kindly look into the matter urgently. Despite community spread, people are still not serious about the lockdown in Amritsar. Vehicles are passing by and people are wandering on the streets without wearing masks. Please start patrolling in the by-lanes,” tweeted another resident on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/residents-concerned-as-community-spread-danger-lurks-in-amritsar/story-Mvd73rnN2UFWYYzHpbbMkJ.html
07-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab announces cut infixed electricity charges||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday announced reduction in fixed charges for electricity consumers, along with deferment of deadline for payment of bills.The Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) will have to bear additional burden of Rs 350 crore due to the various reliefs announced for the consumers, according to an official statement.No new disconnection will be carried out against non-payment till restrictions are withdrawn by the authority, it said.Also, due date of electricity bills of all domestic and commercial consumers, having current monthly/bimonthly bills up to Rs 10,000 payable on or after March 20, 2020, has been extended up to April 20 without levy of late payment surcharge. Besides, 1% rebate will be given to the consumers (exclusive of any previous arrears) who will pay electricity bills online through digital modes by original due date.“The fixed charges of the industrial consumers will also be exempted for the next two months with effect from March 23, and energy charges may be fixed commensurate with reduction in fixed charges (single rate),” the spokesperson said.He added, “Since the revised energy charges will be paid by consumers and will not be considered for subsidy, the medium supply (MS) and large supply (LS) industrial consumers whose units remained closed during this period will not be required to pay any electricity dues”.The CM also directed A Venu Prasad, principal secretary, power, to provide uninterrupted supply 24X7 to all healthcare institutions such as medical colleges, hospitals, dispensaries, other medical establishments and quarantine centres across the states for their smooth functioning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-announces-cut-infixed-electricity-charges/story-m0JXZtr3iMRtYYvPGErJBN.html
07-04-2020||Lucknow||Hindu Mahasabha leader sent to jail for making provocative statement||National secretary of Akhil Bharat Hindu Mahasabha (ABHM) Pooja Shakun Pandey was on Tuesday sent to jail in Aligarh for allegedly using provocative language against members of the Tabhlighi Jamaat.The police also arrested her husband Ashok Pandey, national spokesperson o ABHM, and sent him to jail in a different case pending against him.“National secretary of Akhil Bharat Hindu Mahasabha Pooja Shakun Pandey and her husband Ashok Pandey were presented before the magistrate and sent to jail,” said SP Dhama, inspector, Gandhi Nagar Park police station, Aligarh.Earlier on Sunday, the case was registered against Pandey under Section 153A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion) and 505 (2) (statement conducive to public mischief) of Indian Penal Code after a video purportedly showing her making provocative comments against Tabhlighi Jamaat members went viral.Her husband, Ashok, had on Monday condemned the registration of case and alleged that the police took action under pressure.Kumud Vivek, the lawyer of ABHM leaders criticised the Aligarh police for also arresting Ashok Pandey even when his name was not in FIR registered on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/hindu-mahasabha-leader-sent-to-jail-for-making-provocative-statement/story-2kNZgqZUEBfGlxHj6Dw2VN.html
07-04-2020||Chandigarh||Half of Punjab’s positive cases reported in rural belt||A little more than half of the coronavirus cases in Punjab have been reported in the rural belt, in contrast with a majority of Indian states where the spread of the disease is concentrated largely in urban centres.Till Tuesday evening, of the 99 positive patients in Punjab, 49 belong to villages whereas 39 are from towns and cities. The rest of the 11 patients, all belonging to the Muslim community, are from outside the state. Of these, 5 have been tested positive in Mansa, 4 in Moga and 2 in Fatehgarh Sahib. Barring the four Moga cases, others attended the Tabligi Jamaat in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area last month. While the patients found infected in Moga are from Andheri district in Maharashtra, those in Mansa are from Chhattisgarh. Two women found positive in Fatehgarh Sahib belong to Maharashtra’s Aurangabad.Of the 49 positive cases in the rural belt, 32 are from the Doaba region comprising Jalandhar , SBS Nagar, Hoshiarpur and Kapurthala.Interestingly, 28 of them got infected after they came in contact with Punjab’s first corona casualty, Baldev Singh, and his associates Gurbachan Singh and Daljinder Singh, who returned from Germany via Italy on March 7. Baldev, 70, died on March 18.Also, Mohali district has a significant concentration of Covid-19 patients in villages. It topped the tally among all Punjab districts on Tuesday with 26 cases of which 12, including 11 from Jawaharpur village alone, were reported in rural clusters.A village panchayat member, a local Congress leader, is believed to have transmitted the virus to most of those infected. The health department is trying to trace the source where he got the infection.A WORRYING TREND?State nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Gagandeep Singh Grover, an epidemiologist, says it is too early to spot a trend in Punjab as the total cases are not that high.“Moreover, if you will see the figures in rural areas, the majority of those infected were either direct or indirect contacts of SBS Nagar’s Baldev Singh and the Mohali panchayat member. The virus spread is happening in urban areas too,” said Dr Grover.Of the 39 cases reported in urban centres, 15 were direct or indirect contacts of those with foreign travel history whereas the source of infection in other cases is still unknown, reveals the data.A total of 16 persons found Covid-19 positive in the state attended the Nizamuddin congregation.Special chief secretary KBS Sidhu in a tweet said the number of total jamaat attendees identified by the state government rose to 599, of whom 559 were traced.Of these, 430 are still in Punjab with 289 having been found negative and the results of 125 are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/half-of-punjab-s-positive-cases-reported-in-rural-belt/story-wTyj8L6CstxlRQQoLqTUJK.html
07-04-2020||City||Lockdown: Vasai NGO adopts 30 transgenders||A Vasai based NGO, Samadhan Foundation, has adopted 30 transgenders who are residing in Khan Compound chawl, in Sagpada, Vasai. Avinash Kuse, a member of the organisation said, “We have provided them essential commodities like rice, wheat, oil, spices etc., and also provide them meals twice a day. We will continue to help them until the lockdown is called off.” Aliya Pawar, a transgender, said, “Usually each of us make around ₹200 a day but now due to the lockdown we are struggling to make ends meet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lockdown-vasai-ngo-adopts-30-transgenders/story-6Ay9efrdfGqOKMtO1lkclL.html
07-04-2020||City||36 US nationals evacuated from Dharamshala||Thirty-six US nationals stranded in Himachal in the wake of the lockdown imposed to arrest the spread of novel coronavirus disease (Covid-19) were evacuated from Dharamshala on Tuesday.The tourists were evacuated by the embassy of the United States of America in collaboration with the district administration.The travellers were putting up in hotels and guest houses in McLeodganj and Dharamshala since curfew was imposed in the district on March 23.Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said an embassy officer had arrived in Dharamshala on Monday to oversee the evacuation.The tourists were first sent to Chandigarh in two buses arranged by the embassy. From there they will be flown to the US in special flights, he said.131 tourists including 31 foreigners stranded in HPOne hundred and thirty-one tourists, including 31 foreign nationals, are currently stranded in Himachal Pradesh amid the lockdown imposed due to coronavirus, the state government said on Tuesday.Principal secretary (revenue) Onkar Chand Sharma, who also heads the Covid-19 task force, said all the foreign nationals in the state are being taken care of and are safe. He said a total of 160 foreign tourists were stranded in HP when the curfew was imposed in the state on March 24.“So far, 109 foreign nationals have been evacuated by embassies of their respective countries and 31 are still stranded in the state,” he said.Sharma added that tourists are being evacuated by the concerned embassies. The state government is coordinating the embassies in the evacuation process. He said the embassy evacuated 24 Spanish tourists on April 4.“Authorities are in regular touch with stranded foreign nationals and all possible help is being provided to them,” he said.Meanwhile, Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said that initially 122 foreign nationals have been evacuated from the district since the curfew was imposed.Eighteen foreign nationals from four countries left the state from March 24-30, while as many as 51 travellers from 11 countries were evacuated on March 31 by their respective embassies. Fifteen foreigners left the state district from April 1 to 4 and a batch of 37 US nationals was evacuated on Tuesday.Of the evacuees, 42 were from the USA, 31 from France, 10 each from Russia and Germany and six from Spain, five from Israel, three each were from Japan and Canada.Two tourists each were from Switzerland, Slovenia, Croatia and one each from Malaysia, Mexico, Netherlands, Britain, Philippines and Hungary. “All the foreign nationals who are still in the district are being provided every possible help,” Prajapati said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/36-us-nationals-evacuated-from-dharamshala/story-qouXShIHbz2lT4pF9AyITJ.html
07-04-2020||City||No Baisakhi celebrations at Gurdwara Panja Sahib||Amid the coronavirus pandemic, the Pakistan government has cancelled Baisakhi celebrations scheduled to begin on April 14 at Gurdwara Panja Sahib in Punjab province, in which 3,000 Sikhs from India and 2,000 from elsewhere were to participate. Evacuee Trust Property Board (ETPB) deputy secretary shrines, Imran Gondal said a meeting of the ETPB and the Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbadhank Committee (PSGPC) unanimously decided that there would be no Baisakhi celebrations at the shrine in Hassanabdal city this year and the scheduled visits of Sikh pilgrims has been cancelled, reports Dawn news.The Akal Takht -- the highest religious authority in the Sikh faith -- have already announced that Baisakhi celebrations around the world would be smaller in scale due to the coronavirus epidemic.GURDWARAS SHUT IN KHYBER PAKHTUNKHWA Pakistan’s Sikh community has shut down gurdwaras in Swat district of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KPK) after the provincial government banned gathering of more than five people for worship in religious places to stop the spread of the coronavirus which has infected nearly 4,000 people and killed 55 in the country.The Sikh community leaders in the province, where around 500 people have been tested positive, have asked worshippers to pray inside their homes. The step has been taken to prevent spread of the pandemic as some cases of the COVID-19 have been reported in Swat district, a community leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-baisakhi-celebrations-at-gurdwara-panja-sahib/story-sffO4V3atu5hC8oXSF3VUN.html
07-04-2020||City||HP cuts ministers, MLAs salaries by 30% for one year||The Himachal Pradesh cabinet on Tuesday gave the approval to slash salaries of most public representatives in the government and the state boards by 30% for a duration of one year to tackle the financial loss due to coronavirus pandemic.Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said this in a meeting held with cabinet members through video conferencing. Agriculture minister Ram Lal Markanda and social justice minister Sarveen Chaudhary were present at CM’s official residence Oak Over.Chief secretary Anil Khachi and additional chief secretary Prabodh Saxena also attended the meet. The cabinet decided to deduct 30% salary/honorarium etc. of the chief minister, speaker of HP Vidhan Sabha, ministers, deputy speaker, members of the legislative assembly, chairmen and vice-chairmen of various boards and cooperations and all political appointees for one year.It also decided to suspend Vidhayak Kshetra Vikas Nidhi Yojana for a period of two years.These funds will be used to strengthen the government’s efforts in managing the challenges and adverse impact of Covid-19 in the state.The cabinet paid tributes to martyred paratrooper Bal Krishnan of Puyed village, in Kullu district and Subedar Sanjeev Kumar of Dehra village, Hatwad panchayat in Bilaspur district. They were martyred during an anti-infiltration operation in Keran sector of North Kashmir. On World Health Day, the cabinet expressed their gratitude to the doctors, nurses, paramedical staff, sanitary workers and police for their dedicated services during the coronavirus crisis.Ex-serviceman corporation donates ₹51 lakh towards Covid-19 response fundBrig. Khushal Thakur, chairman-cum-managing director, of ex-Servicemen corporation, Hamirpur on Tuesday donated ₹51 lakh towards ‘HP Covid-19 Solidarity Response Fund on behalf of the cooperation. Contributions of ₹51,000 by Mata Mansa Devi Temple, ₹51,000 by Brahman Sabha, Shimla and ₹21,000 by Madan Medical Store were also made towards this Fund.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hp-cuts-ministers-mlas-salaries-by-30-for-one-year/story-Q1njDGQRiJ70oUmgsFzK9I.html
07-04-2020||City||Faridkot’s first patient’s wife, daughter among 29 contacts test negative||Forty-one of the 62 samples sent for Covid-19 testing were found negative in Faridkot district on Tuesday. Of these are 29 of the 45 samples of the contacts of the first coronavirus positive patient, including his pregnant wife and their seven-year-old daughter. Also, 12 of 14 members of the Tablighi Jamaat were tested negative. Three more samples were sent for testing. The results 21 samples are awaited. Civil surgeon Dr Rajinder Kumar said the result shows there is no community transmission threat in the district as 29 contacts of the man who tested positive for Covid-19 were not infected. “The positive patient’s pregnant wife and daughter tested negative. Their two maids were also tested negative. We are waiting for the test reports of 16 other contacts, including his mother, while reports of four members of the Tablighi Jamaat and three samples collected by Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital, Faridkot are awaited,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/faridkot-s-first-patient-s-wife-daughter-among-29-contacts-test-negative/story-cnZdlw42rgJl4mvLyHFJ4M.html
07-04-2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Doctor among 3 corona patients discharged from KGMU||Amid continuous rise in number of COVID-19 cases, three patients were discharged from the King George’s Medical University on Tuesday taking the total number of successfully recovered patients to five in the state capital. The first one to be discharged during the day was a resident doctor of KGMU, who was a contact of the first positive case of Lucknow, a woman doctor admitted to the KGMU. He was admitted since March 17. The second patient was the brother of the first case and was admitted since March 14. The third case was admitted since March 18.In all, KGMU admitted nine patients and discharged four of them.“None of them required intensive care during the treatment and their condition remained stable all through,” said Prof SN Sankhwar, chief medical superintendent, KGMU.“This is an indication that treatment was on correct lines and that patients also cooperated with doctors for their recovery,” said Prof MLB Bhatt, vice chancellor, KGMU.A team of 20 doctors, including senior faculty Prof D Himanshu and medical staff is on duty at a given time at the KGMU for the coronavirus patients and is replaced by another 20 when their shift gets over. “Away from the family as patients are required not to meet anyone during treatment, the medical team becomes their family and recovery of patients shows the dedication of the team,” said Prof Vinod Jain, dean paramedical sciences, KGMU.Those discharged will remain in quarantine for next 14 days and will keep informing about their health condition to doctors.Till now, 25 patients have been discharged in Uttar Pradesh, including eight in Agra and Noida each and three in Ghaziabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/lucknow-doctor-among-3-corona-patients-discharged-from-kgmu/story-gSb0HPX9bhLNyzNfogG4vK.html
07-04-2020||Lucknow||UP: COVID-19 test lab inaugurated in Sangam city||A dedicated lab, equipped with requisite equipment and protection standards, was inaugurated at MLN Medical College’s microbiology department on Tuesday.With the opening of Covid-19 testing lab in Prayagraj, not only valuable time would be saved but contact tracing for curbing spread of the coronavirus would also be expedited.The Covid-19 testing lab, which has been set up on the instruction of chief minister Yogi Adityanath, was opened at the MLN Medical College’s microbiology department after it received the mandatory go ahead from Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). District magistrate Bhanu Chandra Goswami inaugurated the lab in presence of MLN Medical College principal Dr SP Singh and other officials.Till now, all samples of COVID-19 suspected patients were being sent to the labs at King George Medical University in Lucknow and also to Institute of Medical Sciences, Banaras Hindu University (BHU). In such a situation, even if the tests were conducted quickly, it took at least one to two days for the results to reach doctors and health department officials, informed MLN Medical College officials.“After opening of this lab, the test results will become available quickly—in mere 8-odd hours”, said MLN Medical College principal Dr SP Singh.He said that more and quicker test results would help health department officials contain spread of the virus and also treat infected people with a greater speed. “The lab will function strictly as per the ICMR guidelines,” he added.The newly opened facility has two labs-Biosafety level (BSL)-2 and BSL-3, officials informed.BSL–2 biosafety level covers laboratories that work with agents associated with human diseases (i.e. pathogenic or infections organisms), posing a moderate health hazard while BSL-3 laboratories are designated for indigenous or exotic agents that may cause serious or potentially lethal disease through the inhalation route of exposure, they explained. The lab will function with its own staff and MLNMC experts, working in coordination with Dr Amita Jain of King George Medical University, who will be the nodal officer, said Dr Monica Singh, head of the microbiology department of MLNMC. The patients will not be required to visit the lab.“A collection room has been set up near the isolation ward for COVID-19 patients at SRN Hospital where the samples would be collected from all three levels of setups, put in place for the coronavirus suspected patients as per the set procedure and then will be sent to the lab for tests”, she elaborated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-covid-19-test-lab-inaugurated-in-sangam-city/story-SBy4O1Qr75Ie5O9ptseOQI.html
07-04-2020||City||Lockdown: NRIs leave for US, Canada through special flights||Out of the hundreds of NRIs from United States (US) and Canada stuck in Punjab amid the nationwide lockdown, 300 took chartered Air India planes on Tuesday from Amritsar to New Delhi where they will board planes to their respective destinations abroad.Embassies of the above mentioned countries arranged the flights on demand of their citizens stuck in Punjab. Around 96 passengers were on way to the US, while 204 were headed for Canada. The NRIs were taken to Indira Gandhi International Airport, New Delhi, from where they will take flights for San Francisco (US) and Toronto (Canada). Amritsar deputy commissioner Shivdular Singh Dhillon said the Punjab government issued them special curfew passes so that they could reach the airport. “Most of these passengers have completed 14-day quarantine period but still medical teams examined them again inside the passenger terminal,” he said, while overseeing the arrangements at the airport. He said more NRIs will leave through chartered planes on April 9.The DC said the UK government is also gearing up to airlift 4,000 NRIs from Punjab. However, the high cost of travel due to indirect flights has irked many of the NRIs, especially from Canada. Some activists are tying up with the airlines to facilitate the Canadian citizens in getting a direct flight from Amritsar airport. Approximately, 2,600 NRIs from Canada are stranded in Punjab, as per the #CanadiansStuckinPunjab online initiative. Blurb: UK government too gearing up to airlift 4,000 NRIs from Punjab||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lockdown-nris-leave-for-us-canada-through-special-flights/story-eot3ZYoSN2J5yMbb2Lem7J.html
07-04-2020||City||Obeying govt curbs social, religious responsibility: Ahmadiyyas||Expressing concern over the spread of coronavirus Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi, the Ahmadiyya Muslim Jamaat on Tuesday said obeying government restrictions is not only the social responsibility for Muslims, but also a religious binding.In a release issued from its office at Qadian town in Gurdaspur district, Tariq Ahmad K, Ahmadiyya Muslim Jamaat’s spokesperson in India, said: “Governments and private institutions are devising new schemes and adopting precautionary measures to check the spread of the deadly virus. But, at the same time, some recent incidents in the country have resulted in blaming Islam for the spread of the virus.”“The community expresses its gratitude towards the central and state governments that they adopted precautionary measures to control the spread of the disease and provided various guidelines to people on how to deal with the situation. Being Muslims, it is our religious obligation to obey government instructions as guided by Islamic teachings,” he said.By obeying the government instructions, a Muslim is not only saving himself from the disease, but he is fulfilling his social responsibility and expressing his affection towards mankind, which is the core of Islamic teachings, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/obeying-govt-curbs-social-religious-responsibility-ahmadiyyas/story-ovC3MW8zjx1tHd3XDMphrL.html
07-04-2020||City||16 new Covid positive cases recorded in Pune||PUNE Pune recorded 16 new Covid-19 cases, caused by the Sars-Cov-2 virus, on Tuesday, taking the total number of positive cases to 128.Of the 16, 14 were reported in Pune city, while two are from Baramati, which comes under Pune rural.The final count for Pune district on Tuesday stands at 158. The area-wise bifurcation of the cases shows that of the 158 , 128 are from Pune city, 20 are from PCMC, one is from Pune Cantonment, four from Baramati, two from Haveli taluka, and one each from Junnar, Shirur and Mulshi talukas. The two fresh cases from Baramati have been admitted to the Aundh civil hospital.Of the 14 fresh cases in Pune city, three are from Bhavani peth, while others are from Guruwar peth, Nana peth, Parvati gaon and Hadapsar. Nine of these patients have been admitted to Naidu hospital and three are at KEM and Sahyadri hospital, Hadapsar.Two are admitted to the Aundh civil hospital and the rest are at Sassoon hospital. Senior officials at the PMC health department confirmed that all of them are first contacts of already positive Covid-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/16-new-covid-positive-cases-recorded-in-pune/story-u2u82vf8EMPt2D6nnKMhHP.html
07-04-2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Corona Warriors to lend teeth to lockdown, boost awareness||The police is roping in locals in Lucknow to collect feedback on the lockdown, the services offered by the district administration, as well as to enforce strict implementation of lockdown in their localities.Calling them ‘Corona Warriors’, four-member panels are being formed by the police under each police post. “The three or four-member panel will have at least two locals and one civil defence person and will be coordinated by a sub-inspector of the local police station or police post in-charge,” said police commissioner Sujeet Pandey.Such panels will be entrusted with different responsibilities. “These panels will ensure complete lockdown. Though people are adhering to the orders of prohibition, the panel will strengthen their execution,” he said.The police as well as the district administration have been distributing ration and other relief material to families. “These panels will give feedback on the services. There may be some issues people are coming across. That feedback should reach us for the improvement of services,” Pandey added.The police are also launching an awareness drive to sensitise people about Covid-19, with a special focus on Tablighi Jamaat members who are not coming out for a medical examination. “We are roping in these members for the awareness drive. They will report to us if they come across a suspect,” he added.The Lucknow Commissionerate has 40 police stations and more than 200 police posts. Police have put barricading, besides other arrangements to ensure the lockdown. Around seven localities of the town have been sealed after Covid-19-positive cases emerged especially in the last one week.Besides advising people to stay home, police have asked Tablighi jamaat members or those who have come in contact with them, to go into quarantine and call at 0522-2780880, 8005192677.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/lucknow-corona-warriors-to-lend-teeth-to-lockdown-boost-awareness/story-cS6nBPRdunJuSYCR3jnpxK.html
07-04-2020||Chandigarh||Notice to 16 pvt schools in Punjab for demanding fee during lockdown||As many as 16 more private schools across Punjab were issued show-cause notice for demanding fee during lockdown, said state education minister Vijay Inder Singla in Sangrur on Tuesday.Singla said that action was taken following complaints lodged by parents on his personal email account. Six private schools were served notices a couple of days back.The notices have now been sent to The Gurukul World School in Zirakpur and Mohali, Shishu Niketan Public School in Mohali, Dikshant International School in Zirakpur, Green Land Convent School in Ludhiana, Dehradun Public School in Patiala, Sunflower Public School at Tripuri in Patiala, Milestone Smart School at Tripuri in Patiala, Dasmesh Public School at Mukerian and Siprian in Hoshiarpur, Dalhousie Public School at Badhani in Pathankot, LRS DAV School in Abohar, APJ Public School in Jalandhar, MCM Public School at Dugri in Ludhiana, Cambridge International School in Phagwara and SD Model School in Mandi Gobindgarh.“The state government had issued directions to all schools to reschedule admissions for the 2020-21 academic session and not to charge any late fee from parents for not submitting fee during lockdown. We have issued show-cause notice to total 22 private schools so far,” Singla said.Meanwhile, Jalandhar district education officer Harinder Pal Singh said due to curfew, all private institutions were asked to reschedule last date of depositing fee.“The state government had said that once the lockdown is over, the educational institutions should provide one month extra without any fine. However, violating the orders, the school reportedly asked parents to deposit fee,” he said.The school authorities have been asked to give a written reply within seven days. Further action, including suspension of NOC of the schools, will be taken after the response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/notice-to-16-pvt-schools-in-punjab-for-demanding-fee-during-lockdown/story-AzhOALY2ABGLjteUpifpnJ.html
07-04-2020||City||‘Fake VIP’ held for violating curfew in Nabha||Amid curfew to prevent the spread of Covid-19, a man was arrested by the Nabha police for violating the curfew restrictions.The accused, identified as Bhuvesh Bansal alias Bhashi, was allegedly impersonation a VIP and had beacon and siren installed in his car. He was booked by the Nabha Kotwali police on Tuesday.Varinderjit Singh Thind said the beacon and siren re only allowed for emergency vehicles and police. “Earlier, the accused had acquired a curfew pass ‘to volunteer as a social worker’ and was seen violating curfew restrictions,” he said.“His car was stopped on hospital road by the Nabha Kotwali SHO. They found a fake press ID cards and ‘Press’ sticker on the car. He was booked under Sections 419 (punishment for cheating by personation) and 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC),” the DSP said.Meanwhile, the Nabha police have started drone surveillance of the roads to keep check on curfew violations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fake-vip-held-for-violating-curfew-in-nabha/story-wlGsBfgw5PMt6Nmvzm2GVI.html
07-04-2020||Mumbai||Lockdown: 172 people booked for attacking police, doctors||Police have lodged 52 cases and arrested 172 people for attacking police and doctors. They have also registered 113 cases for the foul posts leading to communal disharmony through social media. State home minister Anil Deshmukh said that the state government will take stern action against 50 people with the link of Tablighi Markaz, for not coming forward to report to the authorities.Deshmukh said that maximum of the 1,400 people who had attended Tablighi Markaz event last month at Delhi, have been traced. “There are 50 to 60 such attendee have still not reported to the authorities despite of the repeated appeal. If they do not cooperate the authorities, we will take appropriate action against them,” he said.The home minister said that the police have been directed to seize the two and four wheelers of the people who come out of their homes without any reason. He said that 4,000 such vehicles have been seized across the state. He said that that 172 people have been arrested in 52 cases in the state for attacking police and doctors.The police have also registered 113 cases against the people for posting the messages spreading communal disharmony and wrong message during the challenging times amid Kovid-19 outbreak. Of them highest cases (15) are in Beed district followed by 11 in Pune, 9 in Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/lockdown-172-people-booked-for-attacking-police-doctors/story-cR0mwsqPlPNxbKN2dMrryN.html
07-04-2020||City||Zilla Parishad schools conduct classes online amid lockdown||Teachers of Zilla Parishad schools are connecting with students through video calls to give them assignments or help them with activities. Students use their parents’ smartphone to get in touch with their teachers. “We help students remain occupied and give them assignments. We have asked principals of all Zilla Parishad schools to assign homework to students and also conduct classes. We share and discuss topics through video calls,” said Sangita Bhagwat, Education Officer, Zilla PArishad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/zilla-parishad-schools-conduct-classes-online-amid-lockdown/story-Mv13dypAtkw4QbKqEMpkCM.html
07-04-2020||Lucknow||On UP govt’s call, pvt hospitals begin treatment on appointment||Responding to the state government’s call, private hospitals in the state capital have started attending to limited number of patients after prior appointment. The appointments are scheduled in a manner so that there is no overcrowding. “I do follow up of my patients between 11 am and 1 pm every day. The timing has been informed to all my patients over the telephone,” said Dr Anoop Agrawal, secretary of the UP Orthopaedic Association, who owns a hospital in Faizullaganj.“Even if the OPD hall can accommodate 50 people we ensure only 5 come at a time and sit at a distance from each other,” said Dr Sandip Kapoor, director Health City Hospital in Gomti Nagar.EMERGENCY OPDs ATTENDING TO LIMITED PATIENTS KGMU is treating 100 patients in emergency OPD against 7000 odd patients who were treated on normal days. In Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences 120 patients are being treated. On regular days 8000 patients are treated here. Similarly 70 to 80 patients are being treated in Balrampur hospital against 4000 odd patients it would treat on normal days. Civil hospital gets 5000 patients usually. Now, only about 50 are being treated in emergency OPD.Private hospitals/clinics usually attend to 25000 patients. Now, the number is limited to little over 2000.“Every day appointment is given over the telephone to ensure keeping in view only one patient comes every 25 minutes. Hence one patient and one attendant remain in OPD at any given time,” said Dr Adarsh Kumar a senior plastic surgeon in Indira Nagar.For urgent operations the doctors have devised a new plan. “After following all protocols we perform only one such operation on a day,” said Dr Vaibhav Khanna, a microvascular surgery expert.“We have ensured that apart from all emergency departments the diagnostic facilities like CT, x-ray , MRI remain open 24x7 right through the lockdown period,” said Dr Mayank Somani, CEO Apollomedics super speciality hospital, in Alambagh.The operations that can be postponed are being scheduled tentatively for April end. Many hospitals have offered their entire set up to the government to be used for isolating patients suffering from novel coronavirus. This move would help the state health department acquire them at five day notice.THE ISSUESThose suffering from chronic ailments of liver and kidney or respiratory problems aren’t able to get relief immediately for they require a doctor who is free to attend to them. Not all hospitals have a big OPD area.There are about 400 single doctor clinics too in the city with small waiting area. “Such doctors are either not seeing patients or doing so after prior appointment. A doctor who usually visits two to three clinics is going to just one these days,” said Dr PK Gupta, former president IMA Lucknow.“This is causing trouble for many patients as against the 40000 odd patients who would turn up at various OPDs, at present only 10000 are getting medical treatment,” he said. “Also those hospitals where the staff is not trained in maintaining highest sanitation protocol are avoiding to see patients in person,” said Dr Anoop Agrawal. Doctors also said that majority hospitals do not have PPE kits for doctors or medical staff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/on-up-govt-s-call-pvt-hospitals-begin-treatment-on-appointment/story-k0DKsXZxWau2P4JdtmaG2H.html
07-04-2020||City||Man arrested for playing a prank amid lockdown||A 32-year-old man was arrested for calling up Regional Disaster Management Cell (RDMC) in Thane, and giving them false information about people in need of food. The RDMC officials later found that the person played a prank. “Mohammad Hussain informed us about 40 poor people who wanted food. The RDMC team reached at the address at Ashar building but didn’t find anyone. We called up Hussain who said there were no such people and that he had dialed the number to play a prank. We handed him over to the police,” said a senior official from RDMC, Thane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-arrested-for-playing-a-prank-amid-lockdown/story-SYwbTXJgmu8g5KKkI9qURJ.html
07-04-2020||Lucknow||More prospective Covid-19 hotspots on admn watch list in Lucknow||While seven localities in Lucknow have already been identified as Covid-19 hotspots and sealed, the administration is identifying more such areas where they fear people affected with the deadly virus could be staying.All such prospective hotspots are on the watch list of police and administration authorities, said senior police officials.These places include localities where COVID-19 positive patients were found staying, or where Tablighi Jammat members were found staying for past three weeks as well as localities where close contacts of those found positive had been staying, said officials.Lucknow joint commissioner of police (JCP), law and order, Naveen Arora said a total of seven localities had been sealed since last Friday. “The first locality to be sealed was Kasaibada of Sadar area on Friday. Four others, including localities around Peer Baksh Masjid in Talkatora, Rahmaniya Masjid in Qaiserbagh’s Phool Bagh, Mohamadi Masjid in Wazirganj’s Astbal Charbagh and a house in Saadatganj’s Yaseenganj were sealed on Sunday,” he added.Besides, Nakkhas locality was sealed on Monday and one locality in Madiaon was sealed on Tuesday, he added.He said the locality in Gomti Nagar near the house of a family, whose four members, including a toddler, were found COVID-19 positive, is likely to be sealed.Another senior police official said some other localities from where Tablighi Jamaat members were found staying and their close contacts have been found positive are also on the watch list.He said the contact list is divided into two categories— the first category is of primary contacts means family members and close relatives of the positive patients while another category is the secondary contacts means people who have come in contact with patients’ family members and relatives.“We have prepared a map of the sealed localities before locking it down completely. Similarly, the mapping of prospective localities is also been done so that the complete lockdown could be immediately imposed if required,” he explained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/more-prospective-covid-19-hotspots-on-admn-watch-list-in-lucknow/story-iSQkFPkarC7pvN3TXhKDgO.html
07-04-2020||City||42 docs, 50 para-med staff of DY Patil hospital to remain in quarantine for 14 days after negative tests||PUNE Forty-two doctors quarantined at the DY Patil Hospital in Pimpri will remain quarantine for the next 14 days, after test results for all 42, for the Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 (coronavirus) infection, came back negative on Monday night.The doctors, along with 50 para-medical staff, were placed under observation after a trauma patient attended to in the hospital tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday.On Tuesday, the Covid-19 tests for all 50 para-medical staff also came back negative.The D Y Patil Hospital’s official statement said: “There were 50 para-medical staff whose swabs were sent to NIV for testing. All these are negative.”The hospital quarantined 92 of its staffers, shut down its surgical unit and fumigated the entire premises after the patient, who underwent an emergency surgery, tested positive for Covid -19.Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) assistant commissioner Anna Bodade confirmed, “These doctors have been quarantined in the hospital for the next 14 days as a precautionary measure.”A hospital source, requesting anonymity, said, “If they (doctors) develop any symptoms during the quarantine period only then a second test will conducted.”The patient that sparked the Covid-19 lockdown was a 30-year-old man, residing at Khadki, who was admitted to the emergency section after having blood trauma on March 31. Immediate surgery was performed on him and, on April 2, he developed a fever. The doctors sent his samples were sent for testing to NIV (National Institute of Virology) on April 3. He tested positive for Covid-19 on April 4. The patient was immediately shifted to the Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation’s Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial (YCM) Hospital in Pimpri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/42-docs-47-para-med-staff-of-dy-patil-hospital-to-remain-in-quarantine-for-14-days-after-negative-tests/story-UBkxyXfE3Z2DgiPw1A3l4I.html
07-04-2020||Lucknow||UP ministers to take salary cuts; pledge funds for covid care||Uttar Pradesh ministers would take salary cuts, even as many ministers and lawmakers announced to pledge their entire Rs 30 million (Rs 3 crore) local area development fund to the newly set-up ‘Covid-19 Care Fund’ in the state. A formal decision on salary cuts of ministers, possibly lawmakers too, could be decided at the meeting of the state cabinet on Wednesday. The lawmakers, who were entitled to spend Rs 20 million (Rs 2 crore) from their development fund each year, will from now get to spend Rs 30 million to spend each year, a decision that was taken by the government in February.It’s still not clear if, like the centre, which has already suspended the MP local area development fund (MPLAD) fund for two years, the state government too would come up with a similar move.Eight ministers, including MSME minister Siddharth Nath Singh, minorities welfare minister Nand Gopal Nandi, law minister Brajesh Pathak, panchayati raj minister Bhupendra Chowdhary, minister of state for Haj and Waqf Mohsin Raza, minister of state for electronics and information technology Ajit Singh Pal, minister of state for urban development Mahesh Chandra Gupta and minister of state Atul Garg announced pledging their entire MLA fund for covid care.More like Jal Shakti minister Mahendra Singh, who have already announced pledging their Rs 1 crore from their local area development fund, could announce more from their funds, a minister said.He added that many of them like, state’s deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya had along with contributing from their fund and going for salary cuts, are also funding community kitchens.“We will do whatever it takes to defeat the pandemic. As public representatives we all should so whatever we can,” the ministers said. On Tuesday, UP BJP general secretary Vijay Bahadur Pathak, who is also an MLC, had announced donating his entire local area development fund for two years. He had also been the first lawmaker to announce 30 per cent salary cut for a year. After the union cabinet decided that Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his entire team of ministers would take 30 per cent salary cuts, UP governor Anandiben Patel too had announced a similar move.UP BJP lawmaker from Noida Pankaj Singh has announced that he would donate four months’ salary to covid care, the only lawmaker in the state to have made such announcement.More lawmakers joined the campaign with UP BJP general secretary and MLC Vidyasagar Sonker, Somendra Tomer also announced donating Rs 10 million (Rs 1 crore) from their fund. “The party is firmly backing the government in taking whatever steps it needs to take to fight the pandemic. We have sought contribution and support from all, including opposition parties and others,” UP BJP media in-charge Manish Dixit said.BSP chief Mayawati has already asked her party MPs to donate Rs 10 million for covid care, a decision that came in for praise from chief minister Yogi Adityanath. The Samajwadi Party as well as the Congress as well as BJP’s ally Apna Dal too has announced contributions to the covid fund.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-ministers-to-take-salary-cuts-pledge-funds-for-covid-care/story-6aemMU0axMQVaY7UfPmZhK.html
07-04-2020||Lucknow||UP Shia, Sunni Waqf boards ask Muslims not to visit graveyards on Shab-e-Barat||Clerics of both Shia and Sunni sects on Tuesday urged members of Muslim community to not visit graveyards on the upcoming occasion of Shab-e-Barat in view of the lockdown imposed due to the coronavirus outbreak in the country.Shab-e-Barat, also known as the night of forgiveness, will be observed on April 9. On the day, members of the Muslim community visit graveyards to pay homage to their dead kin.President of UP Shia Central Waqf Board, Waseem Rizvi in a press statement, said the board has decided to keep all their graveyards closed to avoid congregation of people. He has appealed to members of the sect to offer prayers at home and said illumination at the graveyard like lighting of candle at every grave will be done by the waqf staff.Prominent Sunni cleric Maulana Khalid Rasheed Farangi Mahali too appealed to the community members to stay indoors and offer prayers on the day.In his 9 point advisory, Farangi Mahali has advised people not to visit graveyards or light crackers on this solemn occasion. He said even the programme at Islamic Centre, Aisbagh Eidgah has been called off due to the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-shia-sunni-waqf-boards-ask-muslims-not-to-visit-graveyards-on-shab-e-barat/story-2EW5TFTyMCxQRx2N5WVTTN.html
07-04-2020||Lucknow||Kanpur Ordnance Factory makes special medical tents||In what could prove to be a much-needed resource to fight coronavirus pandemic, the Kanpur-based Ordnance factory has come up with special medical tents, which could be used as isolation wards for suspected and positive cases of the Covid-19 virus.The tent has enough space for two beds and placement of the medical equipment. Made of poly visco 410 fabric, it is sturdy, waterproof, provides ample ventilation and could be easily sanitized.“More than that, the tents have their relevance in remote and inhospitable terrains which lack infrastructure,” said SN Pathak, president, All India Defence Employees Federation, adding that Ordnance Factory Board (OFB) has pitched in all resources to help the country fight the pandemic.Already, Arunanchal Pradesh has procured 50 such tents for coronavirus patients and has ordered more, which would be supplied soon, said Pathak.In six states, the OFB has planned to set up 10 hospitals with combined capacity of 280 isolation beds.A senior official of Ordnance factory said as the number infected people were rising there was an apprehension that isolation bed could go scarce. In such a situation, the special tents would alleviate the crisis and comes up as a cost effective solution for quarantine purposes in this fight.At the moment 100 such tents could be made per day but if need be the production could be ramped up to provide thousands of them from all the five defence factories in Kanpur.The length of the tent is 2050 mm, width 4660 mm and height is 2850 mm. The total area the tent covers is 9.55 sq metres.It weighs merely 10 kilograms unlike the traditional tents whose weight is around 70 to 80 kg.In addition, the Board has asked Ordnance factories in Kanpur, Shahjahanpur, Hazratpur and Chennai to start industrial production of masks, overall covers, gloves and other essential items.Each week, said Pathak, 6,000 overall covers would be churned out from these factories where upgraded heat sealing machines have been installed recently.Also, the Small Arms Factory (SAF) in Kanpur was producing 200 litres of hand sanitiser and making it available to the people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/kanpur-ordnance-factory-makes-special-medical-tents/story-KQT9EQGMV66aj4PJGmCWKM.html
07-04-2020||City||Kallyan gets autorickshaw-on-call facility||Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) and Regional Transport Office, Kalyan, have introduced autorickshaw-on-call facility. Around 25 auto drivers will be available across the city for emergency. Auto drivers have to maintain a record of passengers. “Auto drivers will charge according to meter. Residents can avail of the facility only in case of an emergency,” said Madhvi Pophale, public relations officer, KDMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kallyan-gets-autorickshaw-on-call-facility/story-GUNR7B188iFGrnlusYdoEJ.html
07-04-2020||City||Bengaluru hospital placed order for masks, cheated||The Taloja police have registered a case against an unknown person for cheating a Bengaluru hospital. Last week, a man called up the hospital claiming to be calling from a firm in Taloja which manufactures personal protective equipment (PPE), including N-95 masks. The hospital placed an order for around 100 masks and made an online payment of Rs7,500. Later, when a hospital employee called the company’s helpline number, he learnt the company has not accepted any such order. “We have registered a case under sections of Indian Penal Code and Information Technology Act,” said Kashinath Chavan, senior inspector at Taloja police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-hospital-placed-order-for-masks-cheated/story-o9rAwwpZc1tUTOw7843bHO.html
07-04-2020||City||TMC’s command centre will keep watch on markets||Thane Municipal Corporation will use the command and control centre to keep an eye out for people roaming unnecessarily or crowding. A TMC officer said, “More than 2,500 cameras are integrated with the command and control centre, out of which 1,080 cameras are equipped with face and number plate recognition device. The cameras can help us keep a watch on markets.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tmc-s-command-centre-will-keep-watch-on-markets/story-4Z54rgLrlGVI4mnxRad5aM.html
07-04-2020||City||Fake sanitisers worth ₹20 lakh seized from Palghar, owner held||The local crime branch, Boisar, has raided a pharma unit in Hamrapur, Palghar district, and have seized spurious sanitisers worth over ₹20 lakh. The owner Sultan Nooruddin Lokhandwala has been arrested under section 420 (cheating) of Indian Penal Code and Drug and Cosmetic Act, 1940. The unit had licence to manufacture chlorine liquid (used to disinfect swimming pools and water tanks), but Lokhandwala started to manufacture the spurious sanitisers said a senior police officer.Police is investigating further and have sent samples for testing at its lab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fake-sanitisers-worth-20-lakh-seized-from-palghar-owner-held/story-a8ToIhCRQpq7J4kjE0pjtO.html
07-04-2020||Mumbai||Man dies in hit-and-run accident||A 45-year-old man died after he was crushed by an unidentified vehicle at Sion-Trombay road on Monday.According to the police, the deceased was found near Punjab Wadi junction in Trombay at 4.15am. The usually busy Sion-Trombay road is now deserted owing to the lockdown. The accused driver fled from the spot without rendering help with the victim. “No one has come forward to identify the deceased yet,” said Siddheshwar Gove, senior police inspector, Trombay police station.The police took sou moto action in the case and have registered an FIR against the unidentified suspect||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/man-dies-in-hit-and-run-accident/story-uotrgXk44eRUKUFUTshiPP.html
07-04-2020||Mumbai||Can’t stretch 20-week pregnancy termination limit for unreasonable period: HC||While the Bombay high court (HC) can grant permission for medical termination of pregnancies having crossed the statutory limit of 20 weeks, it recently stressed that it cannot stretch the legal limit for an unreasonable period. The HC said as much while rejecting a plea for medical termination of a 30-week-long pregnancy of a 19-year-old rape survivor.“Undoubtedly this court can exercise its jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution and grant permission for medical termination of pregnancy even if the pregnancy has crossed the statutory limit of 20 weeks,” said the bench of justice KK Tated and justice Sarang Kotwal.“But, this power can be exercised only in exceptional cases and in conformity with the basic requirements of the MTP (Medical Termination of Pregnancy) Act, 1971,” said the bench, adding that, the outer limit of 20 weeks laid down by MTP Act “cannot be stretched to an unreasonable period”.The 19-year-old woman had moved the HC seeking permission for an MTP, claiming that she was forced to carry the unwanted pregnancy and it was causing her huge mental and physical agony. She further claimed that if she was compelled to deliver the baby, the child would also have to carry the stigma and face harassment as it would not be accepted in society.Acting on her petition, the bench had sought a report from the medical board established at Sir JJ Group of Hospitals. The board submitted its report on March 6, stating the foetus suffered from a serious cardiac anomaly and could be allowed to be terminated.The bench, however, refused permission, primarily because the pregnancy had advanced much beyond the statutory limit.The bench also took into consideration the fact that though the rape survivor realised she was pregnant in August 2019 and lodged a complaint with the Wai police in Sahara district only on January 18, 2020. She approached the HC a month later, on February 28.The rape survivor had claimed that two persons gave her a drink laced with sedatives and took turns raping her. When she discovered she was pregnant she approached one of her rapists, who offered to help get the pregnancy terminated. She approached the police on January 18, only after the accused started threatening her.The bench said the delay could have been easily avoided if the petitioner had taken steps for her examination immediately after becoming aware of her pregnancy. “Even taking into account the reluctance of rape victims to seek help, the delay on her part, in this case, is quite unreasonable,” the court said.It has now directed that this being an exceptional case, the state government shall bear the expenses for the medical treatment of the rape survivor and shall also look after her child.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/can-t-stretch-20-week-pregnancy-termination-limit-for-unreasonable-period-hc/story-ecdStQ3AtBtWdAyMT9h5xN.html
07-04-2020||Pune||Pune police book 10 shopkeepers for selling essential goods at hiked rates||The Pune police are cracking down on shopkeepers selling essential commodities at exorbitant rates.According to data released by the Pune police crime branch, at least 10 shopkeepers have been booked between April 2 and April 4 for selling essential goods at increased rates. They were all booked at respective police stations under the relevant sections of Essential Commodities Act and Indian Penal Code.On April 4, a shopkeeper in Shivajinagar was booked for selling essential items like groundnuts and moong dal at hiked rates. The shopkeeper was identified as Mishrilal Polaji Parmar, 53, who owns Adarsh Super Market in Shivajinagar.On the same day, Mularam Keraji Chaudhari, 40, owner of Om Super Market in Chatuhshrungi area was also found selling essential food items at hiked rates.Meanwhile, two people identified as Ahok Dattatray Varkhade, 34, and Dattatray Khandu Kangude, 42, were booked for selling cooking gas at hiked rates in Rajiv Gandhi slum area in Shivajinagar.On April 3, Natharam Balaram Devashi, 45, was booked for selling essential items at am increased rate at his shop Mahesh Market located at Gera Harmony Society, Kalyaninagar.On April 3, two other shopkeepers identified as Bhavarlal Bhairaji Chaudhari of IG super market in Shivajinagar, and Ganesh Devram Dabhade, of Gajanan provisional stores in Kasturba slum were also booked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-police-book-10-shopkeepers-for-selling-essential-goods-at-hiked-rates/story-GVx5cSu6D8tNJGD88VSGhJ.html
07-04-2020||Mumbai||160 of CM’s security staff quarantined||Over 160 members of Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackery’s security staff have been quarantined in the Uttar Bhartiya Sangh building in Bandra (East) and swab samples have been taken for coronavirus testing, said a civic health official.The decision was taken after a tea seller close to Matoshree, Uddhav Thackeray’s residence in Kalanagar, tested positive on Monday. He was admitted to Hindu Hriday Samrat Balasaheb Thackeray Trauma Care Municipal Hospital in Jogeshwari.“Around 160 staffers in the CM’s security squad who possibly came in contact with the tea seller have been quarantined for necessary tests,” said Dr Daksha Shah, deputy director, health department of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).“However there is no need to panic; this is our procedure in the protocol to identify possible high-risk and low-risk contacts to avoid further spread of the disease,” she said. Shah did not confirm whether any member of Thackeray’s family will also be tested for Covid-19.Following this development, the state government has replaced all staffers deployed at Matoshree and asked that all employees’ temperature be checked daily.The civic body has also identified four high-risk contacts of the tea seller, including a six months old baby.As a precautionary measure, the security staff of Union minister of state for social justice, Ramdas Athawale were replaced on Tuesday Samvidhan’ bungalow, Athawale’s residence, is also in the same locality of Bandra (East).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/160-of-cm-s-security-staff-quarantined/story-Ip9U5KtVDVyZL3OgIx12tO.html
07-04-2020||Mumbai||Will lose war against coronavirus with thali, taali, and diyas: Sena mouthpiece attacks Modi||Taking a jibe on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s “applications” to fight coronavirus, Shiv Sena mouthpiece Saamana stated on Tuesday that the war against the disease will be lost with “claps, thalis and diyas”. “Trump sought medicines...not thalis, claps, bells,candles or diya (lamps) from India,” it read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/will-lose-war-against-coronavirus-with-thali-taali-and-diyas-sena-mouthpiece-attacks-modi/story-sjnn5crneLIJE19L2m4PDI.html
07-04-2020||India||23 new Covid-19 cases with Tablighi Jamaat link in Haryana push count to 119||All 23 new Covid-19 cases detected in Haryana on Tuesday are connected to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation held in Delhi last month. With this, the total number of positive cases in the state has reached 119.According to the health department’s bulletin, of the 23 patients, 16 are in Nuh and the remaining seven in Faridabad.With this, Nuh has the maximum 30 coronavirus cases followed by Palwal with 26, Faridabad 21; Gurugram 18; Karnal five; Panipat four; Ambala and Sirsa three each; Bhiwani and Panchkula two each; Charkhi Dadri, Kaithal, Rohtak, Hisar and Sonepat; one each.The bulletin said that 15 of the total infected people have been cured and discharged so far from across the state. Of the 15 discharged, nine are from Gurugram, three from Panipat and one each from Faridabad, Palwal and Sonepat.A total of 15,626 people are under surveillance, while 2,285 samples have been sent for testing so far. Of the total samples, 1,697 tested negative and the report of 469 is awaited.The bulletin said that two deaths have been reported in the state so far, one each at Rohtak and Karnal, while a resident of Ambala died at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh.Of the total 119 confirmed cases, six are from Sri Lanka, one each from Nepal, Thailand, Indonesia and South Africa. Forty-five people are from other Indian states such as 11 from Uttar Pradesh, six from Tamil Nadu, four from West Bangal; five from Kerala; seven from Bihar; three each from Maharashtra and Jammu; two from Telangana; and one each from Punjab, Karnataka, Chennai and Assam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/23-new-covid-19-cases-with-tablighi-jamaat-link-in-haryana-push-count-to-119/story-MLgDxD3L8D8R5BacQqWtnO.html
07-04-2020||City||Tortuous 250 km trek and then home sweet home||From the long and tortuous 250 km, two day walk home, empty-stomach, to binge eating, family reunion and peaceful relaxation – here’s the life story of eight migrants, seven days apart.During the lockdown on March 24, the eight migrants embarked on a walk from Kanpur to their village Lalla Beli in Bahraich.While passing through Lucknow on their way home on March 25 they shared their exasperation at their helplessness and the ordeal they were going through to reach home. On April 1, Hindustan Times tracked them to their village where Ram Achal, 28, said: “There’s no better feeling in the world than being home. We do not regret the walk now. Our families and fellow villagers treated us like heroes.”The village -- with just about 50 huts -- is by the Ghagra river.Manna Lal, 48, who had led them on the walk, was not nearby. “He is now obsessed with swimming in the river. He eats, swims, stays home and does nothing. All of us are just idling around. In two weeks we will look for wheat harvesting job in the nearby farms. It could get us Rs 250 per day against Rs 450 per day construction work that we were doing in Kanpur. This wage difference makes us migrate,” said Bechu Lal, 30. All the migrants -- nearly 100 -- in the village are construction workers in Kanpur or Pithoragarh (Uttarakhand). “All barring three came back home after the lockdown. They (the three) are stuck in Pithoragarh,” said Nanku, who claimed to have walked nearly 450 km from Pithoragarh in four days. They said they were thermal scanned for Covid-19 on Bahraich boarder.During the March 24 Lucknow conversation, smiles were alien to these eight migrants; now they are all smiles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tortuous-250-km-trek-andthen-home-sweet-home/story-m4qAJ512BuOQbeHVhOBJtI.html
07-04-2020||City||Covid-19 positive woman recovers, gets warm welcome in Hisar||The only 56-year-old woman who was tested positive of Covid-19 in Hisar, gets a warm welcome from the local residents of her area as she returned to her home, after her three other tests found to be negative.The woman and her husband who had a travel history of USA, had returned in Hisar on March 22, and was tested positive of Covid-19 on March 30. However, her husband tests continue to be negative and the woman got admitted at the Maharaja Agrasen Medical College, Agroha at the isolation ward.On Monday, after the woman’s rest three test found to be negative, she was sent back to home here in a colony in Hisar city. A video also surfaced on social media where, other residents nearby her house, welcome the man and the woman and everyone seen clapping for their safe return in their house.Covid-19, nodel officer Dr Jaya Goel said that three other tests of the woman found to be negative and the woman was sent back to her home. Though, the health department have asked the couple for home quarantine.According to the media bulletin, total 359 persons who were put on surveillance out of which 126 persons completed surveillance period of 28 days. Total number of samples have been sent by the health department is 56, out of which 43 are negative and five results are awaited. According to the PGIMS Rohtak seven samples does not fall in category of suspected case of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-positive-woman-recovers-gets-warm-welcome-in-hisar/story-OoEmvQyo3HGm5RDOGDCxGP.html
07-04-2020||City||Amarinder turns down Sukhbir’s request, says no time or need for all-party meeting on corona curfew||CHANDIGARH: Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday rejected Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal’s request for an all-party meet to resolve issues faced by people due to the curfew restrictions in the state.“There is neither any time nor the necessity to hold an all-party meeting,” Amarinder said in a statement while thanking the SAD chief for giving suggestions to combat the current crisis.He said the state government was already taking all possible steps effectively on the issues raised by the Akali leader.Sukhbir had, in a letter on Sunday, asked the chief minister to convene the all-party meet, saying that the extended curfew had resulted in a number of problems for the masses, including farmers, health workers, traders and daily wagers.“We need to find a solution to these problems before they spiral out of control,” he wrote.Responding to the demand, Amarinder said the state was passing through a difficult phase as the coronavirus pandemic had disrupted public life. The battle against Covid-19, which had posed a challenge for all, was at its peak, he said, adding that the state administration, NGOs, social and religious organisations, as well as all political parties and citizens were contributing towards the state government’s endeavour to keep the spread of coronavirus under check.Amarinder said he would welcome any suggestion to overcome the crisis and challenges ahead, and assured Sukhbir that he would consider all such suggestions with sincerity. He hoped that the SAD would continue to support and cooperate with the state government to combat the contagion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amarinder-turns-down-sukhbir-s-request-says-no-time-or-need-for-all-party-meeting-on-corona-curfew/story-uGmI0X8k2f0wWbACEP51aJ.html
07-04-2020||City||Four Mumbai men test positive for Covid-19 in Punjab’s Moga district||MOGA: Four residents of Andheri in Mumbai, who had recently travelled to Punjab via Delhi, tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Tuesday.Moga civil surgeon Dr Andesh Kang said that these are the first Covid-19 cases from the district and contact tracing has been initiated.“We had quarantined 13 people staying in a mosque at Chida village as 12 of them have travelled from Andheri to Moga via Delhi and stayed at many places in the state, including Bathinda and Faridkot districts. The four do not belong to the Tabhligi Jamaat and did not attend the Nizamuddin event,” he said.Dr Kang said that the sample reports of the 13 people came on Tuesday in which the four men were found positive for Covid-19, while the other nine tested negative. “As a precautionary measure, we will keep the negative patients isolated and their samples will be sent for testing again,” he said.The four positive men and nine other persons have been admitted to the isolation ward of the civil hospital.The police have sealed all entry points of Chida and Sukhanand villages, where they were staying.Senior superintendent of police Harmanbir Singh Gill said the 13 people, who belong to the Muslim community, were staying at a mosque at Chida, where they were quarantined for a couple of days.“Twelve of them are residents of Maharashtra, while one is a Muslim preacher from Chida village. The group of twelve men reached Moga on March 22 and stayed at Sukhanand village before shifting to Chida village on March 25,” he said.“They left from Bandra on March 12 and reached New Delhi on March 13, where they stayed at Kali Masjid till March 15. Later, they reached Bathinda and after that visited a mosque at Kotkapura in Faridkot district,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/35-year-old-mumbai-man-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-punjab-s-moga/story-wtfrER6bQn3BhID5kbVNQK.html
07-04-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra inch towards 900 after 23 more test positive, says state health department||The Maharashtra health department said on Tuesday that the total number of Covid-19 positive cases is inching towards 900.The health department officials said that 23 more people tested positive for coronavirus disease on Tuesday, taking the total number to 891.Giving the break-up of the 23 new cases, health officials said that 10 are in Mumbai, four in Pune, three in Ahmednagar, two in Buldhana, two in Nagpur and one each in Sangli and Thane. Seventy people have been cured of the disease, the officials said.So far, 52 Covid-19 linked deaths have been reported in the state.With these new cases, the total number of Covid-19 cases in Mumbai has reached 536, the health department officials said.On Monday, a tea vendor had tested positive in Kalanagar in Bandra (East), home to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, after which the police had sealed off the area.The tea seller tested positive after showing symptoms like cough, fever and cold for the last four days. He was admitted at the Hindu Hriday Samrat Balasaheb Thackeray Trauma Care Municipal Hospital in Jogeshwari. News agency ANI reported on Tuesday that four people who live in the same building where the tea seller lives, have been placed under quarantine. ANI further reported that some security personnel deployed at Thacekray’s residence Matoshree, who visited the tea stall, have been kept in isolation as a precautionary measure.According to the Union health ministry, Maharashtra is worst-affected by the coronavirus disease.With an increase of 354 Covid-19 cases, India’s tally of total positive cases rose to 4,421 on Tuesday, said the ministry. Out of the 4,421 cases, 3,981 are active cases while 325 cases have been cured or discharged and one migrated. The total death toll stands at 114.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-cases-in-maharashtra-inch-towards-900-after-23-more-test-positive/story-EnwJSwSv4gjJWfBGA4VWLM.html
07-04-2020||Mumbai||‘Colloportus your doors’: Mumbai Police’s Harry Potter-inspired lockdown message||The Mumbai Police have turned to the popular movie franchise Harry Potter to urge people to stay home during the nationwide lockdown in the wake of coronavirus pandemic which has affected thousands in India.“’Colloportus’ your doors, folks! A lot more than just 5 points will be awarded to all those who stay home during #lockdown and don’t create panic,” Mumbai Police said on Twitter on Tuesday. ‘Colloportus’ is a charm used in the Harry Potter movies to seal doors.‘Colloportus' your doors, folks!A lot more than just 5 points will be awarded to all those who stay home during #lockdown and don’t create panic.#DumbledoreSaysShutTheDoor #TakingOnCorona pic.twitter.com/9Gp6WZnc3EThe tweet also has a video clip from one of the Harry Potter movies where one of the central characters, Professor Dumbledore, is seen giving instructions to the students to not panic while being inside the premises of Hogwarts, the fictional school of magic shown in the movie series.Maharashtra is the country’s worst-affected state with 748 cases of Covid-19. Mumbai has the highest number of Covid-19 patients in the state, which saw its first case on March 9, and has reported at least 20 deaths.State health minister Rajesh Tope had recently said that the lockdown in Maharashtra is likely to be extended beyond April 14.Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray asked people to limit their movement outside their houses. He said people should use a mask if they step out to buy essential commodities.Thackeray also asked those suffering with symptoms such as pneumonia, cough, cold and fever not to visit private doctor or hospital. Instead, he suggested, they could visit dedicated hospitals started by the state government to treat patients infected with Covid-19.No religious, political and sports event will be allowed in the state till further orders, he declared.The BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), meanwhile, has arranged temporary shelters for 5,000 people, a municipal corporation official was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The shelter is available for migrant workers and homeless people in Goregaon, ANI reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/colloportus-your-doors-mumbai-police-s-harry-potter-inspired-lockdown-message/story-a81RuUjUlU655RoGkqjfUI.html
07-04-2020||Bangalore||Coronavirus: Bengaluru top cop warns social media hate mongers||City-based social media enthusiasts have been warned not to spread hate amid the Covid pandemic. “Lot of unwanted hate is being created on social media. Pray don’t be party to share, forward and liking such messages,” tweeted Bengaluru Police Commissioner Bhaskar Rao, here on Monday.Rao said stringent provisions of the National Disaster Management Act could be invoked for such offences.Calling for unity, the Police Commissioner said the world was fighting a common enemy.Underscoring the importance of life than a job, he said the social distancing would be enforced more stringently henceforth. “Social distancing will be enforced more stringently in public interest. Your life is more important than your job,” Rao tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/coronavirus-bengaluru-top-cop-warns-social-media-hate-mongers/story-Yfdu5R4oqYbdZicsClItRI.html
07-04-2020||Bangalore||Covid-19: Bengaluru civic body to screen women, kid at labour camps||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahangara Palike (BBMP) would check health of all pregnant, lactating mothers and children below five years at migrant labour camps, an official said here on Monday.“Mobile medical units (MMU) of the BBMP shall conduct the health checkup of all pregnant and lactating mothers and children less than five years of age,” said BBMP Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar.Amid the coronavirus lockdown, Kumar said a large number of migratory labourers from all across the country were in the city, who were being attended to by the civic body for basic amenities.He said the city civic body BBMP was supplying food packets and cooked meal, providing health screening and accommodation facilities to the migrant labourers.“The antenatal care, immunisation, supplementation with iron and folic acid for anaemia, multi-vitamins for micro nutritional deficiency, screening for high risk pregnancy and others will be conducted at these MMU camps,” Kumar said.If any pregnant or lactating mother needs hospitalisation, the mobile units will coordinate with the respective BBMP maternity homes. The civic body will also distribute free medicines to the women in these labour camps.The BBMP had six MMUs and if needed more would be arranged, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/covid-19-bengaluru-civic-body-to-screen-women-kid-at-labour-camps/story-S83pqoleFJhjKS4DwbVtqK.html
07-04-2020||Education||UNICEF, BEPC to hold online career counselling sessions from April 9 on YouTube||The Bihar Education Project Council (BEPC) in association with the UNICEF will provide online career counselling sessions to help the students, who have undertaken Class 10 and 12 examinations.Presently, most of the students are in the dilemma as how to choose the best career path after passing the board examinations. At a time when all educational institutes and other consultancy centres are closed amid nationwide lockdown due to Coronavirus (Covid-19) outbreak, the online counselling sessions will be useful for students.The sessions will start from April 9 on YouTube.BEPC State programme officer Kiran Singh said that it will be an hour long live counselling session and will be available on every Thursdays at 4pm from April 9 to May 7.The BEPC has proposed five sessions to apprise the students about multiple career options to choose after passing Class 10 and 12 examinations. “The experts will offer advise to students based on their inclination. Students can join the live session free of cost. Experts will speak on several traditional and vocational courses and elaborate on their scopes,” she said.Students can also ask their queries through comment box, which will be answered at end of the session, she added.As per the schedule released by BEPC, the topics for the sessions are: career portal orientation, what after school, vocational/ diploma oriented careers and its scope, career options in education and teaching and career options in medical. The students will also be informed about multiple scholarships that they can avail to financially support their education. Earlier in August last year, BEPC had launched state’s first career portal providing information about 460 professional careers, 955 scholarships, 1,050 entrance examinations and 6,400 institutions of higher education across the country for the students.Over 12 lakh students appeared in intermediate examination while 15 lakh in matriculation exam conducted by Bihar School Examination Board (BSEB) this year.HIGHLIGHTSAs per the schedule released by BEPC, the topics for the sessions areCareer portal orientationWhat after schoolVocational/ diploma oriented careers and its scopeCareer options in education and teaching Career options in medical. Students will also be informed about multiple scholarships||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/unicef-bepc-to-hold-online-career-counselling-sessions-from-april-9-on-youtube/story-yoik3VSoxtrMwXVwSgqEsL.html
07-04-2020||Bangalore||Bakeries exempted from coronavirus lockdown in Karnataka||The Karnataka government on Monday exempted bakery and biscuit, condiments, confectionery and sweet units from lockdown and permitted them to operate with minimum staff.The units shall not permit serving or dinning in the premises and only parcel and takeaways were permitted, a circular issued by State Nodal Officer, Essential Commodities & Supply Chain Management Rajender Kumar Kataria said.It noted the fact that bakery products and related items were being consumed by the patients, elderly people, children and general public.The centre in a notification has permitted the functioning of food units engaged in bakery & biscuit, condiments, confectionery and sweet for manufacturing, supply and operating retail outlets with minimum staff and labour, the circular said.It said, these units shall strictly follow the guidelines and instructions and the standard operating procedure issued by union the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and the state Department of Health and Family Welfare with regard to the preventive measures to be ensured for combating COVID-19.All employers shall ensure that these units maintain high standard of health, hygiene, sanitation and social distancing, it further said.Meanwhile, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa directed Ministers and officials to ensure ration is supplied to both BPL card holders and poor and the needy who don’t have it.The Chief Minister held meeting with top Ministers and officials in this regard, and directed them to see to that no complaints arise.Yediyurappa on Saturday had said his government has made arrangements to supply food grains to non-ration card holders, most of them are from other states, during the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/south/karnataka-govt-permits-bakeries-to-function-amid-coronavirus-lockdown/story-WevZmvXp6NHS5zYYSCiX5M.html
07-04-2020||Jaipur||Centre allows mineral production in Rajasthan||The centre has allowed activities related to mineral production and transportation during the lockdown period.In the wake of Covid-19 outbreak, the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) had issued guidelines to exempt industrial establishments that require continuous process during the lockdown. “Now, the MHA has issued an addendum to the guidelines, allowing ‘coal and mineral production, transportation, supply of explosives and activities incidental to mining operations’,” stated a letter by the ministry of mines.The letter, quoting the centre government order, says, “…it is hereby advised that the state government should facilitate measures that would ensure continuity of operations of steel, aluminum, copper, cement and other such plants during lockdown period. The related activities like supply of raw material and equipment, including imported ones through rail, air, ports can be similarly facilitated.”A senior official of the mines department said following the centre’s orders, the permission to start operations has been given to Hindustan Zinc Limited. “Other industries dealing with major minerals and willing to start operations will be considered,” said the official, on the condition of anonymity.The official said that the industries have been asked to adopt all protocols related to Covid-19 pandemic such as thermal screening and masks.There are around 182 major mineral and 33,000 minor mineral mines in the country. Rajasthan is one of the biggest producers of minor mineral such as sand stone, marble and granite and around 6-7 lakh labour work in the sector.Bhilwara has richest and largest single deposit of lead, zinc and silver in the country. Similarly, Banswara is known for manganese deposit, while Dungarpur has copper deposit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/centre-allows-mineral-production-in-rajasthan/story-coZH81mjqp1Czh0vtsMJnJ.html
07-04-2020||Jaipur||Covid-19 cases rise in Jaipur, but vehicle seizures show lockdown violations||The number of vehicles seized in Jaipur, which has become an epicentre of coronavirus, shows that people are not taking lockdown seriously, police said.Police department figures show that between March 23 and April 5, as many as 4230 vehicles were seized in Jaipur, 3694 people were booked under Motor Vehicle Act, 61 arrested for disturbing peace and eight held for violating lockdown orders.Jaipur city reported 39 positive Covid-19 cases on Sunday. According to the health department, 92 people have been found positive in the city till 9am on Monday.The Rajasthan government announced a lockdown on March 22, prohibiting public transport. The government banned private vehicles, too, from midnight of March 23 and closed all tolls on state highways. But people continued to move around.A senior police official of Jaipur city said that the figures on the seizure of vehicles and arrests reflect that many people are not taking this lockdown seriously.“Irrespective of appeal on a daily basis, many people are moving out and putting their and their relatives’ life in danger. The spread of the virus in Jaipur also tells the same story. Even after warning from government, a corona-positive man didn’t turn up for check-up and came in contact with more than 200 people. As a result the virus is still spreading,” the police official said on condition of anonymity.In Jaipur North, where curfew was imposed on March 27, as many as 157 people were booked under MV Act, 568 vehicles were seized, six were arrested for violating lockdown orders under section 188 of IPC and 15 were arrested under section 151 of CrPC.In Jaipur East, 32 were arrested under section 151 of CrPC , 1816 were booked under MV Act and 1360 vehicles were seized. In Jaipur West, 1754 were booked under MV Act and 1500 vehicles were seized and in Jaipur South, 14 were arrested under section 151 of CrPC, two for violating lockdown orders, 967 were booked under section MV Act and 801 vehicles were seized.Jaipur city police is divided into four districts -- Jaipur East, West, North and South.Additional director general of police (ADGP), crime, Bhagwan Lal Soni said vehicles were seized under section 207 (vehicles used without certificate of registration permit) of MV Act. All of them were commercial vehicles and were roaming without permit.“Those who were not following the guidelines of lockdown have been booked under section 188 of IPC,” Soni said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/covid-19-cases-rise-in-jaipur-but-vehicle-seizures-show-lockdown-violations/story-MayhW3GQa5NjySAXhirLxN.html
07-04-2020||Ranchi||UP-bound 13 bikers from Vizag caught in Jamshedpur, quarantined in PCTC||Police apprehended 13 bikers on their way to Uttar Pradesh from Visakhapatnam at Sundernagar check post here on Monday, violating 21-day nationwide lockdown to stop spread of Covid-19 pandemic, an official said. All of them have now been put in institutional quarantine at Police Constable Training Centre (PCTC) in Swaspur under Jadugora police station area in East Singhbhum district.This has, however, once again brought in focus how people have still been violating Covid-19 lockdown by crossing two states and several districts without being caught, tested and quarantined, defeating the purpose of arresting the spread of coronavirus and thus putting lives of lakhs at risk. India has so far registered 125 Covid-19 deaths, 4,565 corona positive and 4,098 active cases. Andhra Pradesh reported two deaths, 303 positive and 295 active cases, while Odisha reported 39 positive and 37 active cases.“We caught 13 persons riding motorcycles at Sundernagar check post around 10.45 am today. During interrogation, they told that they worked as cloth-hawkers in Visakapatnam in AP and were going to their native places in UP as they had no food and money to sustain in Visakhapatnam anymore. We have seized five motorcycles and sent all of them to PCTC quarantine centre in Swaspur under Jadugora PS. Further action will be taken against them as per the guidelines by the higher authorities,” said Jagdish Prasad, Sundernagar PS officer incharge. East Singhbhum additional deputy magistrate (ADM, law and order) NK Lal — who is also district nodal officer for corona surveillance cell — said the 13 people coming from Visakhapatnam and caught at Sundernagar check post have been put in 14-day quarantine and their throat and nasal swab samples were being sent for Covid-19 testing as they came from other states.Meanwhile, Bistupur police today arrested 25 people during morning walk at Beldih Golf Course and Dahtkidih area under Bistupur PS area. “We apprehended 25 people in Bleidh Golf Course and Dhatkidih this morning for violating lockdown. FIRs have been lodged against them and action will be taken on the basis of the same,” said Rajesh Prakash Sinha, Bistupur PS OC. The 25 people were, however, later released on personal bond with warnings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/up-bound-13-bikers-from-vizag-caught-in-jamshedpur-quarantined-in-pctc/story-qeS3hWxJfH2GvjpFnJGYDO.html
07-04-2020||Ranchi||Fourth case: Another woman from Hindpiri tested coronavirus positive||A 54-year-old ailing woman from Hindpiri who had allegedly come in contact with state’s first positive coronavirus case — a Malaysian woman who attended the Muslim religious congregation Tablighi Jamaat in New Delhi’s Nizamuddin — was on Monday found to be infected with Covid-19.Finding that two confirmed cases emerged from the same locality, the district administration completely sealed the entire Hindpiri area for next 72 hours. “Any movement in the locality has been banned for next 72 hours. All 15 entry and exit points will be closed. Every resident will be screened. People will remain in their house and volunteers will be deployed to provide them their essential requirements,” said Rai Mahimapat Ray, Ranchi deputy commissioner in an order.The affected woman is reportedly suffering from kidney ailment and is surviving on dialysis. Her family, however, declined that she had ever come in direct or indirect contact with the Malaysian lady.Speaking to media, along with Ranchi’s SSP Anish Gupta, he added, “Following the development, we have shifted the entire family to isolation centre for proper observation and contact tracing exercise has begun. A control room has been set up at Guru Nanak School adjoining Hindpiri. A team of doctors and ambulances will be stationed there. In any case, residents will not be allowed to come out from their houses. Strict action will be taken against those found violating the order.”The DC appealed to the residents to follow the government’s guidelines and cooperate with the ongoing health screening task. He asked them to report about the cases of illness if such thing come to their notice.The number of positive cases of coronavirus infection is gradually surging in the state, which registered its fourth case on Monday. Of the four, three are woman. This was the second consecutive day when corona-positive case came to the fore.On Sunday, a woman from Chandrapura block of Bokaro district was found infected with Covid-19. The woman had travel history as she returned on March 15 from Dhaka after attending Tablighi Jamaat event there. Besides the affected woman, her husband and two other couples of the same block had visited Dhaka.The state’s second case was reported from Hazaribag district when a 52-year-old man was tested positive for Covid-19. The man had returned to the district from West Bengal’s Asansol on March 29 amid nationwide lockdown. Confirming Ranchi’s second case, DC Ray said, “The woman, who was detected with novel coronavirus infection, has been shifted to dedicated Covid-19 hospital at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS). We are finding out if the affected woman had come in contact with the Malaysian lady.”On March 31, Jharkhand registered its first confirmed case when a Malaysian woman was tested positive. She was the part of 22- people group, including 17 foreign nationals, who were recovered from two mosques in Ranchi. The group had descended to Ranchi last month after attending Tablighi Jammat in New Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/fourth-case-another-woman-from-hindpiri-tested-positive/story-6sdxWJM0SdfZt90F3PudHL.html
07-04-2020||Patna||Amid Covid-19 fear, Patna zoo authorities heighten monitoring of inmates’ health||Sanjay Gandhi Biological Park, popularly known as Patna zoo, has heightened monitoring of health of its inmates, especially big cats, after a four-year-old tigress was tested positive for coronavirus in a United States zoo.The Patna zoo officials swung into action and intensified healthcare procedures for the animals and birds in the light of directions from the Central Zoo Authority (CZA), New Delhi.“We are following the standard operating procedures in accordance with the CZA directives,” said Amit Kumar, director of the zoo, adding that everything in the zoo is quite normal.A CCTV network has been set up near the cage of tigers to keep round the clock vigil on the big cats.“We will carry out frequent medical checkups of big cats along with other animals. As far as sample testing is concerned, the veterinary doctors have not observed any abnormal symptom yet. If we detect any abnormal behaviour, we would certainly go for sample testing,” he added.Patna zoo houses 17 big cats and around 30 small cats which include seven tigers and four lions. Patna zoo is home to more than 1200 animals including 338 mammals, 471 reptiles and 355 birds. Among them are Royal Bengal tigers, black beer, giraffe, chimpanzee, zebra and Sangai deer, fish aquarium and reptile house are main centre of attraction for the visitors.Around 80 workers are taking care of inmates in different shifts. The workers have been maintaining distance from animals. “The zookeepers are taking caring of hygiene and cleanliness. The enclosures and houses are disinfected regularly. The food coming from outside is washed properly”, said a zoo official.The Bihar government had announced on March 13 for closure of zoo till March 31, which was extended till further notice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amid-covid-fear-patna-zoo-authorities-heighten-monitoring-of-inmates-health/story-45wB9kiDfRBd4v8wPmV12L.html
07-04-2020||Patna||Covid-19:Bihar to expand testing facility to four more hospitals, no positive case in 24 hours||Though Bihar has so far apparently been able to contain COVID-19 spread, with no positive case out of the 537 samples tested in the last 24 hours ending 10 am on Monday and 28 districts reporting no positive cases at all, the state government is gearing up to expand its testing facilities to more hospitals to be ready for any future challenges post lockdown.The new testing facility could soon be started at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Patna, and three state government medical college hospitals at Bhagalpur, Gaya and Muzaffarpur.Principal secretary, department of health, Sanjay Kumar, said the government had already written to the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) regarding this and the facilities would be started once the approval was granted.On the possibility of using rapid antibody-based blood tests for COVID-19, the principal secretary said it was under the government’s consideration, though it had certain efficacy issues. “So far, the need for it has not been felt, but we will consider it,” he said.Kumar said the results of rapid test kits could be misleading. “Sometimes, it could give negative test reports of a COVID-19 positive patient also and if that person moves around freely, it could be dangerous, as many a time it takes time before symptoms get apparent,” he said.In view of risk potential for community spread of virus in vulnerable areas and limited capability of testing with PCR (polymerace chain reaction) kits, Bihar has already extended the facility to three of its premier hospitals – Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH), Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) and Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital (DMCH).Testing facilities are likely to be extended to AIIMS (Patna), Anugrah Narayan Medical College and Hospital (Gaya), Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital (Bhagalpur) and Shrikishna Medical College and Hospital in Muzaffarpur.AIIMS (Patna) director PK Singh said that the testing facility was likely to be started in a week’s time. “Some desired equipment is on way. It may take some time. So far, we have treated 80 suspected COVID-19 cases here, but only two were positive,” he said.Earlier, union minister of state for health Ashwini Choubey had said that efforts were under way to start testing facilities at AIIMS (Patna) at the earliest. Once AIIMS testing facility also gets functional, all the four medical college hospitals in the state capital will have the capability.Till 10 am on Monday, Bihar carried out 3,545 tests, with 28 active positive cases spread across 10 of the 38 districts in the state. The emphasis is on quarantine of suspected cases. At present, 7163 rooms, including 4012 with attached bathrooms, are available at 2018 functional quarantine centres, though the number of persons admitted is 870 only.“The government is constantly monitoring the situation. All we want is that people with any symptoms should come forward for testing and treatment, which may not include hospitalization in all the cases. Most people with symptoms and travel history will only need to follow the guidelines at isolation centres or at homes for their own good and that of their family members and society. People are cooperating,” Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bihar-to-expand-testing-facility-to-four-more-hospitals-no-ve-case-in-24-hoursat-present-3-hospitals-are-testing-samples-in-the-state-with-over-10-cr-population/story-yMjdJkTf3xXLo6qt1yzW7O.html
07-04-2020||Patna||Migrants move freely out of quarantine centres close to Patna||PatnaThe government has made elaborate arrangements to quarantine people coming from outside and suspected of any COVID-related symptoms, but a visit to a few of them in the riverine belt of Patna showed neither the people nor the authorities were taking it seriously despite alarm bells ringing across the world.Sample this: At the five quarantine centres in the riverine belt of Danapur along the Ganga river close to Patna, most of the inmates were missing when this correspondent reached there. They had been allowed to move out freely. They were themselves not taking the risk factor seriously.What is more, none of the centres had any arrangement for sanitizer, soap, masks and gloves. Beds have been made by attaching benches of schools. For others, there was arrangement on floor.At the Ganghara panchayat bhawan, where 39 migrants from Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh have been kept, none was present during the day time. An official present there said all the inmates had returned on March 22, but they were yet to undergo any medical test.The situation at the Habaspur middle school quarantine centre, where 50 persons have been kept, the situation was only a shade better, with only 15 persons present during the day. Most of the inmates worked in Kolkata as labourers or drivers.“Some of them have gone to take bath, while other may have gone to toilet. They don’t have any symptoms ever since they returned to their village on March 26,” said a villager.At Madhopur middle school quarantine centre, there are 20 persons kept – 13 from Rourkela and seven from Gorakhpur. However, just one person was present. He said that despite having no symptom, he had been kept outside.Kasimchak panchayat mukhiya Dinesh Rai said eight persons had been kept at the Manas centre, while four at another in Kasimchak. “But adequate supply of bleeching powder and sanitizers is not there,” he said.Danapur BDO Devendra Kumar, on the other hand, refuted the charge, saying doctors had been regularly examining the people kept at quarantine homes, though none of them has so far shown any symptoms.“Nobody is staying in our facility as of now but we have enough space,” said an official of district administration. “Each school has three or four rooms and all people coming back from outside the state will be kept together so we can handle a large number of people,” he said.“We have not been given any masks or gloves or anything to protect ourselves when we go out and visit families where people have returned from other areas,” said Anita Devi, an ASHA worker with the Hetanpur primary health centre (PHC) in Danapur Diara. “How are we supposed to go and meet people without any protection?”.The Bihar government has issued a circular on March 22, 2020, instructing district magistrates to make temporary arrangements in government schools and community centres to quarantine returning workers. The government has sanctioned Rs 100 crore from the chief minister’s relief fund for food and other arrangements at such locations.Around 1.81 lakh migrants returned to Bihar amid the lockdown, but only 27,000 among them have been quarantined in 3,200 government schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/migrants-move-freely-out-of-quarantine-centres-close-to-patna/story-uoOnLYwnR59LM9O8TtrccP.html
07-04-2020||Ranchi||‘Jharkhand doing everything to check pandemic with minimum resources’: CM Soren||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren says the pace of Covid-19 testing has been slow in his state because of a delay in procuring testing kits and personal protection equipment (PPE) from the Centre. In an interview with Aurangzeb Naqshbandi, he also spoke about his government’s lockdown exit strategy while underlining that a final call will only be taken after assessing the situation on April 15 when the lockdown ends. Edited excerpts:We got the first 5,000 [testing] kits on Friday and that is why our testing has been slow. We have been repeatedly, since March 21, requesting for PPEs from the Centre. There has been an inordinate delay in getting Central help. We are doing everything to contain the pandemic with minimum resources. We are gradually increasing the testing. Jharkhand is a poor and a tribal-dominated state and we are facing a huge shortage of money. The Centre is not helping us with any financial assistance. On top of that, public sector undertakings are not clearing our dues amounting to several thousands of crores. The high court has asked us to specify the measures we have taken to fight the Covid-19. In times like this, it becomes extremely difficult to fight multiple battles.It is difficult to say anything at this moment. Lockdown is a tough measure and equally tough is the exit. We cannot tell the people on April 14 {last day of the lockdown} that everything is fine now and they can resume their normal lives. We have to take appropriate measures to ensure that we do not undo what we have achieved by enforcing the lockdown. Much of our exit strategy depends on number of positive cases and whether we have been able to flatten the curve. We will take a call after evaluating the situation. We have started CM’s didi kitchens in 4,600 village panchayats and there is a daal bhaat scheme in urban areas to ensure nobody sleeps hungry. Under the daal baat scheme, a person would have a complete meal for ₹5 but now we have made it free. We have made 1,200 CM’s didi kitchens. The target is to feed 5,000 daily. But we have also received complaints. We have deployed flying squads and are trying to check people do not face food shortage. The government has also released two months of free ration to BPL card holders.You will be surprised to know that the people in our state are aware of the pandemic to the extent that they are being extra cautious. In many villages, residents have on their own enforced the lockdown and are not allowing any outsiders into their areas. You will find many such examples in rural areas. The problem may arise in urban areas and that is why we are taking extra precautions there.We have identified around 150,000 people who have come to Jharkhand since February 15. Out of those, more than 100,000 have been traced and stamped. We have also put in quarantine centres 5,000 people against whom lookout notices had been issued. We have set up control rooms, dedicated 70 phone lines for stranded people and deployed officials for better coordination. We are coordinating with those state governments. I cannot say that we have reached 100% people but our efforts to do so are ongoing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-doing-everything-to-check-pandemic-with-minimum-resources-cm-soren/story-CyXc2VqjxbbFfup8mSrmxI.html
07-04-2020||Jaipur||Covid-19 update: The ‘ruthless containment’ model of Rajasthan’s Bhilwara||Bhilwara district, which was once among the 10 coronavirus disease (Covid-19) hot spots in the country, is now being talked about for its ‘ruthless containment’ model.In the video conference with chief secretaries of states, India’s cabinet secretary Rajeev Gauba praised Rajasthan for the Bhilwara model, said Rajasthan chief secretary DB Gupta. “The government is planning to implement this model in other places, too, for effective containment of the infection,” he said.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe Bhilwara model of containment worked in phases. The first task was to isolate the district, second was screening strategy in city and rural areas and third was quarantine and isolation wards, followed by monitoring mechanism for rural areas, said Rajendra Bhatt, district collector, who led the team of government staff in this ‘war against Covid-19’.For isolating the district, curfew was imposed in the district on the day the first case was reported. This was from March 20 to April 2. During this period, essential services were exempted from the order.“We sealed borders of the district and set up check posts at all entry and exit points. Roadways and railway services were stopped and movement of private vehicles prohibited,” Bhatt said.After isolating the district, the administration defined the containment zone of 1km from the epicenter – Brijesh Banger Memorial Hospital (BBMH), a private institution, who doctors and staff were the first ones to test positive – and buffer zone of 3km. Similar, containment and buffer zones were also created around the house of a positive patient.“On the basis of cluster mapping, we identified six areas and deployed special teams for continuous screening of suspected cases in these,” the collector said.During this phase, disinfection of the following was done on a daily basis: containment zone and buffer zone; locality of positive cases; all ambulances and police vehicles; screening centre and quarantine centre; collectorate, police line and public dealing offices; and city wards.In the second phase of curfew, from April 3 to April 13, even essential services are prohibited in the city. “During this period, there’s no relaxation of any type. We are ensuring door to door supply of essential items such as vegetables, fruits and milk to residents and food packets to the poor,” Bhatt said.For screening, survey teams trained by specialized doctors regarding Covid-19 ILI (influenza-like illness) symptoms, checking persons having foreign travel history and prioritizing epicenter affected population as well as migratory population. There is a supervisor for every 10 survey teams.“Screening and testing was prioritized for Brijesh Banger Memorial Hospital. ICU admissions, doctors and nursing staff, IPD and OPD patients, persons who were identified to have had contact history with the positive cases, health workers and other staff were screened and all suspected cases told to be in home quarantine,” the collector said.He said a dedicated screening and testing centre was established at MG Hospital, which was dedicated as Covid hospital. People were brought to these cntres for screening and testing in government vehicles and dropped back. “In screening, doctors and nursing staff did thermal scanning and physical examination. If anyone had symptoms or was contact of a positive patient, his samples were drawn and he was sent in isolation,” Bhatt said. He said every day, government vehicles carried these samples to Jaipur for testing, thrice a day.For every positive patient, the close contacts were brought to isolation wards and the tier-2 contacts were taken to institutional quarantine facility. The district administration used 1,541 rooms of 27 hotels as quarantine centres.Apart from the hotel room, the administration also had 11,659 quarantine beds in 22 institutions and hostels. MG Hospital has 200 beds. The capacity could be extended up to 427 beds. Four private hospitals with isolation ward capacity of 25 beds each were also acquired.For monitoring, Bhatt said, corona fighters and corona captains were appointed in city and rural areas. In city, sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) is the corona caption and ASHA and ANM are corona fighters. In the villages, block development officers (BDO) and tehsildar are corona captains at the level of panchayat samitis and sarpanch, panchayat sahayak, teachers and ASHAs are corona fighters at village level.“Corona captains and corona fighters monitor people in home quarantine, ensure food supplies, food packets, flow of migrant labourers and law and order,” collector said.Bhatt said while in other cities, source of Covid-19 infection was known, in Bhilwara, it is unknown from whom the doctor got infected. Ask him to sum up his efforts in one line and he says, “Ruthless containment model and cooperation of people in our war against Covid-19.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/the-ruthless-containment-model-of-bhilwara/story-AKfS6V3WGaQd5n6vQNaXBJ.html
07-04-2020||City||Panjab University research scholars to get degrees online||Chandigarh Panjab University research scholars can get their degrees online this year if they register on the National Academic Depository (NAD).NAD is a digital database of academic awards provided by the Government of India facilitated by ministry of human resource development. As the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak has forced educational institutes to shut down, doubts have increased over whether PU will hold its annual convocation.Panjab University controller of examinations, Parvinder Singh said, “We have already started contacting scholars to get enrolled on NAD so that they can get online degrees. Keeping in mind the current situation, we are not sure if the convocation can be held or not.” In the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, PU suspended its classes on March 15 and has directed employees to work from home.The tentative date of this year’s convocation was April 20 but preparations have come to standstill amid the current lockdown. As many as 450 PhD scholars of PU are eligible to get their degrees this year, so far. The numbers might increase. The varsity has already written to college principals, making it mandatory for them to get students enrolled on NAD, so that they can get their degrees online.Controller of examinations said the university had recently got a confirmation from NAD that documents of 5,000 students from affiliated colleges were verified after the varsity had shared the data of 25,000 students for provision of online degrees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panjab-university-research-scholars-to-get-degrees-online/story-o0iUrG6gMEYUWljudTWbeI.html
07-04-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity’s first coronavirus positive patient recovers||A 23-year-old management student and resident of Sector 19, Chandigarh, who was the tricity’s first Covid-19 case, has recovered. She was discharged from Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, on Monday night, 19 days after testing positive on March 18. Another patient, a 21-year-old youth from Sector 38, was also discharged from the hospital, taking the total number of recovered patients in Chandigarh to seven.GMCH director-cum-principal Dr BS Chavan confirmed that the two have been discharged after testing negative for Covid-19. The management student had returned from the UK and landed at the Amritsar airport on March 15, following which she reached the city the same day. The 21-year-old patient had came in contact with her brother and was later hospitalised on March 23. Around 12 persons who had come in direct contact with her were identified. Her mother and brother, who had also tested positive, were recently discharged from hospital.“Today when I tested negative, I couldn’t believe that it happened finally. Along with the virus, I was fighting the stigma, as a lot of rumours were going around when I tested positive,” said the 23-year-old woman after being discharged. “You need to have support a system by your side to defeat the virus. My mom and I spent time in isolation in the same room and eventually things got normal,” she said. “It was a really bad phase. I overcame it by reading books related to my course work.”With six people who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in New Delhi testing negative for Covid-19 on Monday, no fresh case was reported for fourth consecutive day in Chandigarh. However, reports of eight suspects are awaited.The UT officials had identified a total of 123 contacts associated with the six people, who were quarantined at their houses in Manimajra, Mauli Jagran, Bapu Dham Colony and Daria. Also, no fresh case was reported in Panchkula on Monday, with the coronavirus count staying at two since March 31.However, the Panchkula health department on Monday collected samples of around 50 people, who had attended religious gatherings in different states. Civil surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur said some of the reports have come negative, while others are awaited. On Panchkula’s first case, she said a fresh sample of the 38-year-old woman salon worker was taken recently and she again tested positive. “As per protocol, her sample will be taken again after 14 days and after two of her samples test negative consecutively in the stipulated time frame, she will be discharged,” she said. (with inputs from Panchkula)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-tricity-s-first-coronavirus-positive-patient-recovers/story-UUhRHwFrkXUKG1tLIDj7lK.html
07-04-2020||Chandigarh||Gone with the tweets: The brief disappearance of UT adviser Manoj Parida from Twitter||After a flurry of tweets during the lockdown to prevent the coronavirus spread, UT adviser Manoj Parida’s brief disappearance from social media platform Twitter on Monday led to much speculation in some circles, especially as he had been interacting regularly with residents to coordinate supplies of essential activities here.Active till Sunday night, Parida had been tweeting about decisions by the administration and Centre to control the pandemic, even sharing videos of his making public announcements. He had also fearlessly engaged with the public venting its anger on the administration after the door-to-door delivery system promised during the lockdown failed to take off initially.By Monday, the account was not available, leaving many wondering what had happened to the man who recently courted controversy by posting what he thought were Chandigarh helpline numbers that turned out to be from Panchkula, or had wittily responded with “Mera job khatre mein mat dalo, bhai (don’t put my job on the line, brother)” when a fan posted: “We want Manoj sir as governor.”However, by Monday night Parida was back tweeting away under a new handle @manuparida1, cheekily adding “Back on public demand.”A technical glitch as of now seems have caused problems with his old account, though the jury is still out on that one.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/gone-with-the-tweets-the-brief-disappearance-of-ut-adviser-manoj-parida-from-twitter/story-qHDANPbZdRtwjR2LOKQMaN.html
07-04-2020||City||As countdown to Good Friday, Easter begins, Mohali churches conduct prayer services online amid lockdown||As the countdown has begun from Palm Sunday yesterday for Good Friday on April 10 and Easter on April 12, tricity churches have started conducting prayer services online for the Holy Week, encouraging people to stay at home following the Covid-19 outbreak.Even as the 25 churches in the tricity remained closed on Palm Sunday because of the nationwide lockdown, heads of various churches offered prayer services to the 20,000 members of the Christian community here through YouTube, Facebook live and WhatsApp in remembrance of the passion, suffering and death of Lord Jesus Christ.“Since the past two weeks we have been offering prayers through YouTube and have already crossed 5,000 viewers in our diocese. Directions have been given to priests of various churches to offer prayers and pass it on to the people through social media. We will be live streaming prayers on Thursday, Good Friday and Saturday,” said Rev Ignatius Mascarenhas, Bishop of Simla Chandigarh Diocese.The Holy Week is also a time to reach out to others, perhaps by contacting distant family or friends. “Consider calling someone who might be lonely or anxious during the pandemic,” Rev Mascarenhas advised.Setting up a sacred space at home for worship will help people stay at home during the pandemic and engage with the divine with devotion, said Lawrence Malik, adviser, Tricity Churches Association. Most of the church heads were offering prayers on social media, especially on WhatsApp and through YouTube, he added. Rev Brian Anderson, pastor, Light of the World Church, Zirakpur, said, “We are offering prayers through Facebook Live and YouTube. We are also using the Zoom app to talk to people and pray for them. Prayers are also being offered for people suffering from coronavirus,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/as-countdown-to-good-friday-easter-begins-mohali-churches-conduct-prayer-services-online-amid-lockdown/story-WreKtX0NIBw2DAv3hls92H.html
07-04-2020||Chandigarh||Mohali surpasses Chandigarh’s coronavirus positive cases’ count||Mohali’s Covid-19 count of 19 surpassed Chandigarh’s 18 cases as the son of man who attended the Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi’s Nizamuddin; and three family members of a panch, tested positive on Monday.In some good news for the city, however, three Covid-19 patients in the high-risk 60-plus category and aged 69, 73 and 81, were discharged from hospital on Monday. The 81-year-old woman from Phase-5, who tested positive on March 23, was discharged from Max hospital in Phase-6.Two sisters aged 69 and 73, who were residents of Phase 3A and tested positive after returning from the United Kingdom on March 13, were also discharged from Fortis Hospital, said Dr Manjit Singh, Mohali civil surgeon. Another 27-year-old-woman admitted to the Civil Hospital will be discharged tomorrow as both her reports are negative, he said. “All of them, however, have been asked to self-quarantine at home for 14 days,” he added.A 42-year-old resident of Sector 69 who was admitted to Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, Chandigarh, was discharged on April 3.The new cases include the 30-year-old son of a 62-year-old Jamaat attendee from Kumbra village in Sector 68; and the father, brother and wife of a 42-year-old panch from Jawaharpur village in Dera Bassi.The 30-year-old Kumbra village resident tested positive after his 62-year-old father was diagnosed with coronavirus on April 3 and admitted to the isolation ward of Gian Sagar Hospital (GSH) in Banur. The father (67), brother, (38) and wife (43) of the panch also tested positive. All the new cases have been admitted to GSH.“As far as the Kumbra case is concerned, we had taken samples of all family members but only the son tested positive. He has also been taken to GSH,” said Dr Manjit Singh. The samples of two more persons in direct contact with the 30-year-old man will also be taken, Singh added. The father had returned from Delhi on March 17 but did not quarantine himself.Two out of three men from the district who attended the Jamaat tested positive for Covid-19 on April 3. The district administration has asked eight of their family members to quarantine themselves at home 21 days. The second Covid-19-positive Jamaat attendee is a 42-year-old man from Mauli Baidwan in Sector 80. All three men were at the congregation between March 1 and 15 and returned to Mohali on March 17. After receiving the reports, the Mohali district administration sealed both Mauli Baidwan and Kumbra villages.“In the Jawaharpur village case we took around 25 samples and three family members have tested positive. The entire village has been sealed. Out of the total of 58 reports, we have received 38, out of which four tested positive. The rest are negative. Twenty more reports are awaited, Dr Manjit Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-surpasses-chandigarh-s-coronavirus-positive-cases-count/story-g0g2toDstaVwsHEFpkrz7H.html
07-04-2020||City||Curfew in Mohali: Four men arrested for duping migrant labourers of ₹40,000 on pretext of dropping them to Bihar||Four persons were sent to judicial custody on Monday after they were arrested for duping 36 migrant labourers of ₹40,000 on the pretext of sending them to their home state, Bihar.The accused have been identified as Satvir Singh and Ravinder Singh of Tarn Taran, Omkar Singh, alias Lucky, of Pathankot, and Harsh of Kathua.Desperate to return back home, 36 migrant labourers gave the men ₹40,000 for facilitation of transportation to Bihar, but were instead dropped at Shambhu Barrier on the on the Ludhiana-Ambala highway.Police said the complaint was lodged by one Arjun Kumar, a daily wager who lives in Kumbra and hails from Balrampur village in Bettiah, Bihar. Kumar told the police that he and 36 others, who got stuck due to the curfew, had been planning to travel back. Kumar alleged that accused Satvir Singh, who also stays in Kumbra, and his friends had assured them that they will drop the migrants back to their village in Bihar. They were asked to collectively pay ₹40,000 up front and additional ₹5,000 on reaching Bihar.Kumar said that on April 1, they were taken in two vehicles and dropped near the Shambhu Barrier. Satvir asked them to wait saying he will return after picking up a few more migrants, Kumar told the police. The migrants waited for one entire night and kept calling Satvir, who switched off his mobile phone. The cops deployed at the Shambhu Barrier noticed them and they were sent back to Kumbra in a truck.A case was registered under Sections 420 (cheating), 406 (criminal breach of trust), 269 (Whoever unlawfully or negligently does any act which is, and which he knows or has reason to believe to be, likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life) and 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code at Phase 8 police station, Mohali. Investigations revealed that the accused have other cases of cheating registered against them in different police stations of Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/curfew-in-mohali-four-men-arrested-for-duping-migrant-labourers-of-40-000-on-pretext-of-dropping-them-to-bihar/story-cAD8HzX0IDWLx8IzBSoWDJ.html
07-04-2020||City||Chhatbir Zoo animals stress-free without visitors; two-layer sanitisation system in place||With Nadia, a tiger at the Bronx Zoo in New York, testing positive for coronavirus, officials at Mahendra Chaudhary Zoological Park or Chhatbir Zoo — whis is closed since March 16 as a precautionary measure against the Covid-19 outbreak — are taking no risks.A two-layer sanitisation system is in place at the largest zoo in Punjab, where staff strength has been pared down with everyone working on rotation to minimise infection risk to animals. “Any staffer entering the zoo is sanitised once at the entrance and again just before entering the animal enclosures,” says zoo field director M Sudhagar.All the 25 employees working here live in the zoo’s residential colony and are on a staggered roster. No outsiders are allowed. Masks, gloves, shoes and sanitisers are provided to staff coming in direct contact with the animals while feeding and cleaning them and taking care of their health.The special diet given to the animals now includes meat. Immunity boosters are added. Supplements usually given to sick animals and those that have given birth are now given to all animals. “With disturbance from human beings reduced the animals appear happy and stress free. The feed intake is good and healthy,” says Sudhagar.Staff families to be screened tooThe Central Zoo Authority has already issued an advisory for 24-hour monitoring of animals through CCTV for any symptoms/abnormal behaviour. “We will also start screening the staff and their families with health questionnaires given out to ascertain if anyone is showing any symptoms,” adds Sudhagar. Meanwhile, the Chandigarh forest dept has closed all the nature trials in Nagar Van till April 15. Dr Abdul Qayum, deputy conservator of Forest, Chandigarh, took to Twitter saying, “Public entry to all forest areas were prohibited on getting positive Corona cases. It was a timely decision by the Chief Wildlife Warden, which not only helped in stopping in disease spread but also saved wildlife unlike reported in New York USA.”Tigress diya takes cubs for outingsWith the zoo closed for visitors following the Covid-19 outbreak, tigress Diya, who gave birth in November last year, has been allowed by zoo authorities to take her three cubs for well-deserved outings. Zoo officials for the last 10 days have been opening Diya’s enclosure where she has been isolated since November with the young ones to prevent infections. The tigress and her cubs now remain outside for two to three hours before going back.These are considered test trials and the animals will be on public display once the zoo reopens. Zoo authorities had earlier created a crawling gallery for the cubs to play and get sunlight. The cubs had been coming out of the cubbing area and enter the feeding cell that used to be earlier frequented only by Diya to get their share of meat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chhatbir-zoo-animals-stress-free-without-visitors-two-layer-sanitisation-system-in-place/story-YmBzcnqgSzNLl3blLfkPnI.html
07-04-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s Sector 26 mandi gets sanitised||Mechanical sprayers and sweepers were put to use by the municipal corporation (MC) on Monday to sanitise the fruit and vegetable market in Sector 26 to check the spread of Covid-19.Supervised by MC commissioner KK Yadav, mechanical sprayers were used to sanitise the area, which has been converted to a wholesale market during the lockdown.A fleet of 10 vehicles fitted with mechanical sprayers; water cannon mechanical sprayers loaned by Chandigarh police, two tractors fitted with mechanical sprayers donated by Punjab farmers and MC’s fire engines were used in the sanitation drive, said Yadav.He is currently overseeing the daily supply of essential commodities such as vegetables, fruits and milk products to the city’s residents.About 62 Chandigarh Transport Union buses and 20 vehicles have been pressed into service to supply vegetables and fruits from the market to residents, which was why the market had been sanitised, Yadav said.Routine sweeping activities were carried out early morning through mechanical sweepers and manually by the MC sanitation staff; following which fire engines cleaned the area with water. Chlorine was then used for disinfecting the place with mechanical sprayers.Buses and vehicles used for vegetable and fruit supplies to all parts of the city were also sanitised with water and chlorine sprayers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-s-sector-26-mandi-gets-sanitised/story-KvL4OzJ5ezOp07WsINYmQK.html
07-04-2020||City||Mohali Phase-9 hockey stadium converted into temporary jail||The district administration has converted the Hockey stadium in Phase-9 into a temporary jail till the prohibitory orders remain in force, informed deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan on Monday.The DC said that the main reason behind the move is to ensure that the Covid-19 is effectively contained and stopped from spreading in the district.In Mohali sub-division, nakas have been installed at Franco Hotel, Amrit Confectioners light point in Phase-5, Sohana Chowk and Phase 8, 9 lights, he informed, adding that since March 23 till April 5, as many as 289 FIRs were registered and 391 persons were arrested, while 410 vehicles were impounded. The DC exhorted the people to stay indoors in the larger interest of the society and clearly said that the violators of curfew would be strictly dealt with.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-phase-9-hockey-stadium-converted-into-temporary-jail/story-48cvoLHBOmlnJCsJ5ROS6J.html
07-04-2020||Chandigarh||In corona backlash, friendly neighbourhoods turn frosty in Chandigarh||After having recovered from Covid-19, people are facing a hardship of another kind. The virus has gone but the stigma has stayed on. Apprehensive stares, aloof attitude and harsh words are the new stumbling blocks for those who battled the novel coronavirus and came out winners. A 42-year-old man, who reached his Mohali home after spending over two weeks in an isolation ward, was left shocked by the indifference and frosty behaviour of his neighbours. “They look at me as if I am going to infect them all. If I come out in the verandah even for a minute I can see them immediately rush inside their homes. I have recovered and I am taking all precautions. But they think that merely by looking at me, they will be infected,” he said.He said they have a problem with his mother (who tested negative) taking a walk in the backyard of his house or washing clothes there. “One of my neighbours even threatened to complain,” he said. The epidemic is revealing the worst side of people who they once considered their friendly neighbours. Disappointed with the attitude of neighbours, he said, ”They have no right to torture us mentally. It’s not that they are not well read. These are educated people behaving like illiterates. If they don’t know how the disease spreads, they must google it and learn about it before showing such discrimination.” Mistrust, sometimes bordering on incredulity, is the new hurdle they are finding hard to get used to. A Sector 27 resident under home quarantine said, “The moment you are put under home quarantine, people think you have committed a crime and are being punished for it. Home quarantine is not punishment. The whole country is under lockdown.”He said the moment authorities paste the home quarantine sticker outside your house, neighbours start spreading rumours about you. “This is wrong. People should be supportive,” he said.One of the suspects whose contacts were released on social media said his details were leaked on social media and he faced a harrowing time after that. “I got so many random calls. People asked me details of my visits. When it got too much, I stopped answering unknown numbers. It was torture. One can handle the illness, but this behaviour is nerve racking.”To make matters worse for survivors, even those who are looking after them are being treated with mistrust. A nurse from Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) said that her neighbours, whom she has supported in the most difficult times, avoid her like plague. “They stay away from me, they don’t make eye contact, and all because I work in a hospital. It is appalling to see the way people are changing around you,” she said.The stigma attached with the virus is giving way to another fear. A health workers admitted in PGIMER’s corona ward is very worried, and not so much about the disease. “What if my landlord asks my wife and child to vacate the house? Its my only worry,” he said. According to the UNICEF, the level of stigma associated with Covid-19 is based on three main factors. One, it is a new disease for which there are still many unknown aspects. Secondly, we are often afraid of the unknown. And thirdly, it is easy to associate that fear with ‘others’.*Drive people to hide the illness to avoid discrimination*Prevent people from seeking health care immediately*Discourage them from adopting healthy behaviours||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/in-corona-backlash-friendly-neighbourhoods-in-chandigarh-turn-frosty/story-mrwBpIzTqz7apu7NCcctgP.html
07-04-2020||Lucknow||Smriti, Congress in twitter war over relief to Amethi poor||Union minister and Amethi MP Smriti Irani and the Congress have got into a twitter war over providing relief to the poor in Amethi, a bastion the Congress lost to the BJP in 2019 Lok Sabha polls.Incidentally, this bitterness came even as Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to opposition leaders seeking a united war against the coronavirus. Political experts say both parties have found the coronavirus outbreak a chance to propagate their connect with Amethi.Before its 2019 loss, the Congress had lost Amethi just twice in the past -- in the post emergency elections of 1977 and then again in 1998 when Captain (retd) Satish Sharma, a Gandhi family loyalist, got defeated.Three days back Congress posted a tweet, “Hamara dilon ka naata hai, haemin rishtey nibhana aata hai (It’s an emotional connect as we know how to honour relations)” and followed it up with another tweet on Sunday mocking BJP MP Smriti Irani’s efforts, who then took to twitter to target the Congress. Irani responded with a series of tweets that highlighted her contribution to Amethi while mocking at the Congress. “Why would you want to ensure safety of people by making them stay indoors? If people remain alive how would Rahul ji engage in politics? If you want to know about Amethi, ask Pradeep Singhal ji, your own (Amethi) chief as a week back I had spoken to him on how we need to focus on social welfare instead of politics,” she tweeted.Tagging the Congress’s tweet about her playing ‘antakshari’ while Rahul supplied essentials to the people, Smriti then posted a series of tweets on how the people of Amethi were being cared for.“In Amethi 25,221 widows found money in their bank accounts courtesy @myogiadityanath. This week money was transferred in the Jan Dhan accounts of 1,48,000 women because there is the government of @narendramodi and @myogiadityanath. Yes, you may be angry as you didn’t get the cut,” she said in a series of tweets.“About 75,413 elderly and 4,454 labourers got money in their bank accounts while 2,16,270 poor got rations but why should this be acceptable to you because you weren’t able to rob Amethi of its bite,” she posted in another tweet.BJP leaders as well as district officials in Amethi admit that Smriti was in regular touch with them, sending food and other essentials for the people of her constituency just as Congressmen, too, made a similar admission about Rahul Gandhi taking care of the people here.“After sending truck loads of dry ration for Amethi, Rahul ji has sent 12,000 sanitisers, 20,000 masks and 10,000 soap cakes which are being distributed to the poor through the district Congress committee,” said Amethi Congress chief Pradeep Singhal. The twitter handles of Amethi BJP and Amethi Congress, too, have been actively propagating how the present and former MPs of Amethi are engaged in people-connect. Both parties shared “photo proofs” of how the cadres were reaching out to the people, running community kitchens and taking care of the requirements of the poor and daily wagers hit hardest by the 21-day lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/smriti-cong-in-twitter-war-over-relief-to-amethi-poor/story-Otrbvx6E9kyZ9MYSyA1VqM.html
07-04-2020||Lucknow||Challenge is big, but we’ll overcome it, says UP health minister||Uttar Pradesh health minister Jai Pratap Singh keeps tabs on developments in the state from his make-shift office at home.“I talk to chief medical officers across the state on a daily basis,” he told HT on phone while admitting that the return of migrants to the state had posed a fresh coronavirus challenge, which his department was confident of meeting successfully. Singh had got himself tested for Covid-19 after attending a function in which Bollywood singer Kanika Kapoor was present. Kanika tested positive, but the minister didn’t. Excerpts: How is the state’s health minister managing the situation?I am doing it from home. Me, my principal secretaries, secretaries and directors general are all jointly taking stock of the situation. The files that need the chief minister’s attention are sent to the chief minister’s office (CMO). So I am in my office between 9.30 am and 10 am and once I log in, I am lost in a maze of responsibilities.The migrants posed a fresh challenge for the state fighting to check community transmission of COVID-19?  Yes, we are aware of this (challenge). I kept checking with district magistrates and chief medical officers about the return of migrants to villages. We have the names and contact details of all who have returned.But judging by the visuals of exodus to villages, the numbers could be huge, right?That is why in nearly all the districts we have got two community health centres (CHCs) ready for quarantine facilities. So our CHCs are there, then in hospitals adjacent to villages we have set up isolation beds. We are regularly reviewing the situation and taking required action.Any specifics, because the numbers appear to be huge?Yes, the numbers are big. We had appealed to them to remain where they are and the chief minister had spoken to his counterparts in other states urging them to take care of UPites stranded in their states, just as we are taking care of people from other states here. But, despite the appeal, they returned. To be fair to them (migrants), their problem is that they are very poor and fear being stranded with no food. And thus they felt that returning to their village was the best option. This of course, increases our challenge. It’s a huge task but we are up to it.You mentioned village heads; are they supporting you? Yes, they are. They have been told to report anyone showing symptoms (of COVID-19) or any migrant in quarantine either jumping isolation. The huge exodus to villages has created fresh challenges but we are doing our best. You are the health minister but from what we know each minister is also in-charge of one district or more. So are other ministers too keeping a watch? See, I am in-charge of two districts – Sultanpur and Gautambuddha Nagar. Then I come from Siddharthnagar. Naturally along with my overall responsibilities as the health minister, I have to be additionally alive to my duties in these districts from where people have expectations. For instance, as minister in-charge of Sultanpur we have a list of around 7,500 migrants who came and their list was readied and immediately the village heads were informed of their arrival. Then there were some others who had come there but belonged to adjacent districts and were sent to CHCs around those districts. We have to save our villages. Do you directly receive calls from villages?  In many cases, yes. For instance people like those from Siddharthnagar stranded outside UP call us. There are many from Siddharthnagar who are settled in Mumbai, Kerala or Bangalore. I keep getting calls from people stranded there. I pass these details to the state BJP chief who in turn galvanises the party cadre there to help them. Such coordination keeps going on. Then there are other calls, some seeking advice, some help. We have to attend to their issues. As people’s representatives we have great responsibilities. Most ministers are on work-from-home protocol. By when do you see normal functioning resuming?  Soon. Let’s hope for the best.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/challenge-is-big-but-we-ll-overcome-it-says-up-health-minister/story-mxzvuFym2aNY7ed3lF5z5H.html
07-04-2020||City||School principal among two held for fake WhatsApp post in Ludhiana||The Mudian police have arrested two women, including principal of a private school, for spreading rumours through a fake WhatsApp post. The police have also booked 15 others who endorsed the fake information.The accused have been identified as Kanchan Kumari, 20, of New Sundar Nagar at Mundiya Kalan, Pushpa (principal) of Sundar Nagar, Bunty, Rajnikant and 13 unidentified persons. Kanchan and Pushpa have been arrested.The case has been lodged on the complaint of Mohammad Hussain of New Ram Nagar, Mundian. The complainant stated that the accused forwarded the information on WhatsApp group that 25 Muslim men infected with coronavirus are barging into the houses in Pritam Vihar and shaking hands with people forcibly.They have also mentioned that announcement on the same has also been made from a gurdwara loudspeaker, urging people carry sticks with themselves in self defense.Assistant sub-Inspector Harbhajan Singh, in-charge of police post Mundian, said that a case under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered against the accused. The police have found that some residents of New Sundar Nagar, New Ram Nagar areas are spreading the fake news. The police will arrest other accused soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/school-principal-among-two-held-for-fake-whatsapp-post-in-ludhiana/story-0MDmkN4NiGoVcIk43iXTJL.html
07-04-2020||City||Ludhiana: CMCH resumes OPD services, takes all precautions||The Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) has resumed outpatient department (OPD) services with all patients and their relatives being screened at the entrance of the hospital. Patients and their relatives are also being asked to sign a consent document before entering the hospital, stated a communique issued by the hospital.The patients, suspected to have coronavirus symptoms, are being sent to the Flu OPD, where they are being treated with latest medicines as per guidelines, said the communique. The communique also stated it was heartening to see the overwhelming support extended by citizens of Ludhiana have given through donations.The hospital has also demarcated a section with all modern facilities to treat the Covid-19 patients and contain the spread of the virus within the hospital.This section has 20 beds with ventilators on eight of these beds. This section has been created to separate Covid-19 patients from those coming to the OPD and the emergency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-cmch-resumes-opd-services-takes-all-precautions/story-4jTQhavo9eH2Jd2KHIAz9M.html
07-04-2020||Mumbai||BMC seals area around Uddhav Thackeray’s home in Bandra||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) sealed off Kalanagar in Bandra (East) on Monday after a tea stall owner from the area tested positive for Covid-19. Kalanagar houses chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s residence, Matoshree, and the incident has sparked fears as his bodyguards and the police personnel deployed at his house frequented the tea stall. “The man [tea stall owner] was not well for the past four days. On Sunday, he was admitted to hospital and underwent a test. He has tested positive for novel coronavirus and has been kept in an isolation ward,” said Dr Daksha Shah, deputy director, health department, BMC.The man has been admitted to Hinduhridaysamrat Balasaheb Thackeray Trauma Care Municipal Hospital in Jogeshwari. The civic body, as a precautionary measure, put up notices in Kalanagar, warning citizens to stay indoors, and deployed a fire brigade team to disinfect the area. One of Thackeray’s aide, on condition of anonymity, said the security staff who would visit the tea stall are being examined for symptoms and all of them will be quarantined.As per protocol, Shah said, every person who came in contact with the tea stall owner will be tested for Covid-19.Deputy commissioner of police (Zone 8) Manjunath Singe said, “We have taken precautionary measures and the personnel have been home-quarantined.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-seals-area-around-uddhav-thackeray-s-home-in-bandra/story-SAAZznzQedYc5AgVd6MmMN.html
07-04-2020||Chandigarh||4 jamaat attendees among 11 new cases in Punjab||Punjab on Monday recorded 11 new Covid-19 positive cases, including four Jamaat attendees, taking the state’s tally to 79.The additions include four new cases from Tablighi Jamaat — two women from Fatehgarh Sahib, and a man from Ludhiana and a teenager from Kapurthala.Kapurthala made its entry to the list of district having at least one positive case. As per the media bulletin issued by department of health and family welfare department, among the positive patients, two patients are serious, and one is on ventilator.In the past three days, Covid-19 has spread its tentacles in seven more districts and Punjab now has prevalence of the virus in 14 districts out of 22.The new districts where cases have appeared since April 3 include Mansa, Ropar, Fatehgarh Sahib, Pathankot, Barnala, Kapurthala and Faridkot. Out of total 79 cases, 11 are attendants of Tablighi Jamaat. Punjab has identified 468 participants of the event out of which 416 have been traced. Figures shared by Punjab’s special chief secretary KBS Sidhu on Twitter revealed that 406 samples of Jammat participants have been collected out of which 276 have tested negative whereas reports of 119 are awaited.Two Fatehgarh Sahib women who attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in New Delhi last month tested positive for coronavirus on Monday and they have been shifted to isolation facility at Gian Sagar hospital in Banur. . As a precaution, the Fatehgarh Sahib administration has sealed three villages — Mainaili, Sahanipur and Sangol — in the Khamano sub-division, around 12km from the district headquarters. Moreover, the health department has indentified 145 close contacts of the two women, who are aged 50 and 65. Civil surgeon Dr NK Aggarwal said both the women attended Tablighi Jamaat in New Delhi from March 10 to 13 and came to Sahanipur village on March 14. “They hail from Aurangabad in Maharashtra and had come to Fatehgarh Sahib along with four other women and five men to meet their relatives here,” said Aggarwal. He added that their group stayed at Sahanipur village till March 17 before shifting to Sangol village and then moved to Mainaili village on March 22. The civil surgeon said the three villages have been sealed and door-to-door survey has been started. “We have identified and quarantined 145 persons who came in contact with them in these villages and collected samples of 17 persons for further testing,” he said. The department has quarantined 64 persons from Sangol, 46 from Mainaili and 35 from Sahanipur. In Kapurthala, a 17-year-old boy who recently attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation has tested positive for coronavirus. Kapurthala civil surgeon Dr Jasmit Kaur Bawa said the boy’s samples were taken by the health department with the help of the police on Friday and his report came on Sunday night. A total of 33 people from the district had attended the Nizamuddin congregation. Samples of 22 of them were sent for testing on Friday. The reports of 21 others were found negative. Bawa said the boy, who was staying in a mosque along with other jamaatis, has now been admitted to the isolation ward of the local civil hospital. People linked to the Nizamuddin gathering, which has emerged as a hot spot of Covid-19, have been quarantined in the mosque. In Ludhiana, a 59-year-old man from Chowki Mann village of Jagraon sub-division in the district, who had recently returned after attending the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi, tested positive for coronavirus on Monday. Ludhiana civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said it is the first Covid-19 case from Jagraon area. He said the test reports of nine family members of the patient are awaited. The patient and his family members have been kept in the isolation ward of the civil hospital in Ludhiana. The police have sealed all the entry points of the village. The district has so far recorded a total of seven Covid-19 cases. In Mohali, the son of man who attended the Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi’s Nizamuddin; and three family members of a panch, tested positive on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/4-jamaat-attendees-among-11-new-cases-in-punjab/story-sXvAeKtUOjhPKvTIs2AQDM.html
07-04-2020||Lucknow||Police trace 165 Tablighi Jamaat members in Lucknow, book 51||After a spurt in Covid-19 cases among Tablighi Jamaat members, the police traced 165 of them in Lucknow and booked 51 for various violations, a senior police official said on Monday. Forty-six of these members had attended the Delhi Markaz, the officer added. Last month, the Tablighi Jamaat group had organised a massive congregation at Delhi’s Nizamuddin area which has now emerged as a Covid-19 hotspot.“Twenty-three of the 46 are foreign nationals. So far, 51 (members) have been booked for different violations and more FIRs will be lodged,” Lucknow commissioner of police Sujeet Pandey said.Fourteen Tablighi Jamaat members staying in Peer Bagh mosque of Indiranagar under the Ghazipur police station limits and two caretakers of the same place of worship were booked for lockdown violations, another police officer said.Deputy commissioner of police, North, Sarvshreshth Tripathi said, “All of them and two mosque management people have been booked for (lockdown) violations. They were sent for quarantine.”INTELLIGENCE OFFICIALS ON THE JOBAs Tablighi Jamaat members were not coming forward to get themselves tested for Covid 19, the state government pressed the intelligence wing into service to trace them, a senior police officer said. Several intelligence sleuths were on the job while police were tracing the Jamaat members’ immediate contacts.The senior police official said intelligence personnel were asked to collect information about all Tablighi Jamaat members, who returned home to Uttar Pradesh after attending religious gatherings held outside the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/police-trace-165-tablighi-jamaat-members-in-lucknow-book-51/story-8xCtCQ0DIuQMstfTnXuQaK.html
07-04-2020||Lucknow||Two-and-a-half year-old son of Lucknow first Covid-19 patient tests positive||A two-and-half-year old boy became the youngest patient in the state to test positive for Covid-19 in Lucknow on Monday, about three weeks after his mother (a doctor) emerged as the first coronavirus case of the state capital, doctors said.“The sample of the child tested positive. He has been admitted (to KGMU) and doctors have started treatment,” said Dr Sudhir Singh, spokesperson for the King George’s Medical University.“His condition is stable at present,” said Dr Singh.“Very young children have been reported coronavirus positive in the country but this child is the youngest in the state to test positive,” said Dr D Himanshu, who is treating patients in the isolation facility at KGMU.Another doctor of the medical team looking after the child said, “The condition is stable but we are watching him closely. Hopefully, he will recover soon and be discharged.”The team attending the child comprises doctors from the departments of paediatrics and medicine. The boy’s mother had tested positive on March 11 after the family reached Lucknow from Canada. Samples of her husband and child tested negative at that time. The woman recovered and was discharged on March 22. A few days later, her parents tested positive. They are now under treatment at the Base Hospital here. A resident doctor, who was deployed to take care of coronavirus patients at the KGMU, also tested positive and is admitted for treatment. Three other contacts of the doctor too tested positive.Apart from the child, six others, all members of Tablighi Jamaat who had been staying in Sadar’s Kasaibada locality and the Chowk area, tested positive in the state capital during the day. They are admitted to different hospitals.Meanwile, two patients admitted to KGMU, including a resident doctor and a contact of the first patient of Lucknow, are likely to be discharged from hospital on Tuesday as their samples tested negative for coronavirus, said Dr Sudhir Singh, the KGMU spokesperson.‘Mother with him, child is playing in ward’The mother of the two-and-half-year-old Covid-19 patient is with him at KGMU so that she can take care of him. Doctors have asked her to wear a mask while being with the child. “The protocol says mother can stay with the child if he is very young in age. The child is playing in the ward and is stable at present,” said Dr D Himanshu.The medical staff too were taking care of the child and continuously monitoring his health.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/two-and-a-half-year-old-son-of-lucknow-first-covid-19-patient-tests-positive/story-Yp07ftbuHmepCNjLoIeBdK.html
07-04-2020||Mumbai||BJP legislator booked for violating coronavirus lockdown norms||A day after around 150 people gathered outside BJP MLA Dadarao Keche’s home in Wardha district, local police registered a case against Keche for allegedly violating lockdown orders. The legislator, who denied having invited people to wish him and blamed the ruling party on the incident, has not been arrested yet. On Sunday, Keche allegedly distributed food grains to locals in Arvi to celebrate his birthday, which violated lockdown norms as a large number of people had gathered outside his home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bjp-legislator-booked-for-violating-lockdown-norms/story-Adymtl1sXNFkiFDGFKMHDP.html
07-04-2020||Delhi||Delhi government steps up fight to contain coronavirus in 7 zones||With the number of Covid-19 cases rising in the national capital—20 new cases were reported on Monday taking the tally to 523—the Delhi government on Monday declared three new containment areas, taking to seven, the total number of such zones in the city. More will likely be declared, a senior official familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity. States have some leeway on defining such areas and according to senior officials from the Delhi health department, a containment area is declared when a bunch of cases with unclear history is reported from a locality. This is done to prevent the infection from being transmitted to other parts of the city. Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicApart from the Nizamuddin Markaz, four separate containment areas have been declared in Dilshad Garden -- all with different focal patients — and one in a slum cluster in New Moti Bagh. Another containment zone was declared in the Tibetan colony in Majnu Ka Tila in March, after a Covid-19 positive patient took a bus from there to Himachal Pradesh. A second senior Delhi government official said on condition of anonymity that the containment period for this area is almost over.According to officials, the separate focal patients — in one Dilshad Garden case, it is unclear where the patient got the infection from — have raised fresh fears about community transmission taking place. “In hot spots some community spread may be occurring,” said Dr Randeep Guleria, director, AIIMS and a member of the national task force on Covid-19.A locality in the Sadar Bazaar area is also likely to be declared one after four people from there tested positive for Covid-19, the first official added.Based on the number of cases, contact tracing history, population density, and type of locality – slums or plotted developments – a geographical area is declared to be containment area by the district magistrates or deputy commissioners, to physically keep people in. Delhi does not have a norm on how big a containment area has to be; this is decided by the district task forces depending on the information received from the district surveillance officers.“We cannot have the same guideline throughout Delhi because the geography is very different. If we say a 3 km radius (for instance) it will cover thousands of households. This is not feasible. We let the implementing officer decide how to demarcate the area,” said a senior official from the Delhi government. Although people providing essential services are allowed to go out from the area, registers are maintained to keep a track of who is going where and they are asked to use masks and sanitisers. And no one is allowed to enter the area. “Barricades are placed, all entries and exit to the area are sealed off, and police are stationed to ensure that no one gets in or out. Essential services can be delivered to the entry points from where local volunteers can take it in. The volunteers are also tasked with delivering all essentials to the doorsteps of people who have been asked to remain in quarantine,” according to a second official. ASHA workers and ANMs (Accredited Social Health Activist and Auxilary Nurse Midwife) from the dispensaries attached to the area are asked to carry out door-to-door surveillance in such areas. “They visit everyone in the neighbourhood and check them for symptoms such as fever, sore throat, cough, or difficulty breathing. They also take down detailed history of where people have travelled to check for possible exposure and contact with the confirmed cases. In case anyone has symptoms, the healthcare workers immediately report them to the district office and, if necessary, they are taken for testing,” said a third official. All decisions in a district are taken by a 27-member team headed by the District Magistrate. The team includes officers from the integrated disease surveillance programme, health department, municipal corporation, and Delhi pollution control committee.The district teams and the officials of the state Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme exchange notes, to share details of contacts of positive cases across districts. The DMs also coordinate with the police to ensure that people do not move around in containment zones and to bring back people who might have run away from quarantine facilities inside the zones. “There are multiple WhatsApp groups through which we are coordinating. We check with the health department officials in case some clarity is needed, else we inform them about the status,” said a third senior official.Once a positive case is reported, the five civic agencies in Delhi carry out the drive in their area. In Nizamuddin and Dilshad Garden, close to 65,000litres and 18,000 litres of disinfectant have been sprayed ever since the cases came to light.Every police station, including Nizamuddin has access to CCTV cameras in the locality, A C4I(Control, Command, Communication, and Intelligence) Centre at the police headquarters, connects CCTV footage of police cameras across the city.Station House Officers have to immediately inform the area Sub Divisional Magistrate if there is a possible case of a Covid-19 infection in the area . The SDMs then inform the DM. The DM takes a call and alerts the district Deputy Commissioner of Police to help with enforcement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-steps-up-fight-to-contain-virus-in-7-zones/story-KqDH3jtCSzKHKl2XqiCEbK.html
07-04-2020||Gurugram||Six held for assaulting Muslim family, threatening them to leave||Six men were arrested for allegedly assaulting a Muslim family and telling them to leave the place, after an argument during the nine minutes ‘lights off’ exercise on Sunday night in Manohar Nagar, Sector 8.The police said two members of the victims’ family, identified as Aatif Warsi and his cousin Mubin Khan, sustained injuries and were rushed to Civil Hospital in Sector 10 for treatment. They were later discharged and their condition was said to be stable.The police, however, denied there was any communal angle to the incident but arrested the men under sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for causing hurt and promoting enmity.According to the police, the incident took place around 9.15pm, when at least 20 men, including the victims’ two neighbours, assembled on a road behind their house to participate in the lights off exercise. In the police complaint, Warsi, alleged, “The group was chanting nationalist slogans when they noticed some people flashing lights on their phones on the second floor of our house. The group objected to videos being recorded and at least six men barged into the house.” He added that one of the suspects hurled abuses at them and threatened them to leave. The group dispersed and the men returned to their houses at the time, he alleged. A few minutes later, one of the suspects, who lives in the adjacent house, allegedly tried to throw a chair from his balcony at Warsi’s mother. “Some of the men jumped onto our balcony and threw bricks at us, which hit me and my cousin. My father hid other members of the family in a room and locked it from inside to protect them. The men threatened us and left,” alleged Warsi. Sumer Singh, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), west, said, “The police received information of the incident from the control room at 9.55 pm and immediately rushed to the spot. Six men were arrested on Monday from Manohar Nagar area. The investigation so far has revealed that there was some old enmity between the neighbours and there had been scuffles in the past. There is nothing communal in the alleged incident. The situation is completely peaceful. Further probe is on and we are verifying the allegations.”Warsi’s father, Akram, who hails from Etawah, Uttar Pradesh, said that he had been staying in the city since 2009 and had never faced discrimination on the basis of religion. “We were just recording videos of the lights off to send it to our family on WhatsApp,” he said.The police said Warsi sustained an injury on his right eye and his cousin, Khan, suffered an injury on his left cheek. A police officer privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said that a PCR vehicle rider had made multiple rounds of the area on Monday and the situation was peaceful.A case was registered against the suspects under sections 147 (rioting), 149 (unlawful assembly), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 452 (house trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint), 506 (criminal intimidation), 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult modesty of a woman), 153 A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language etc. and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Disaster Management Act at New Colony police station on Sunday night, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/six-held-for-assaulting-muslim-family-threatening-them-to-leave/story-mMpRZT6pd7rLjV10M95VdM.html
07-04-2020||Gurugram||Four arrested for shooting at mosque; cops say they were looking for Tablighi Jamaat members||A day after a group of men opened fire at a mosque in Dhankot village, the police on Sunday arrested four men. According to the police, the men were allegedly looking for Tablighi Jamaat members after they received a text message that some of the members who had tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) were nabbed by officials from the village. The arrested men were identified by their first names as Vinod, 40, and Pawan alias Fighter, 41 (both from Basai village), Aalam Khan, 39, from Devilal Colony, and Harkesh, 18, from Raebareli, Uttar Pradesh. The police arrested them with the help of crime branch, Sector 17, from Basai road, after receiving a tip. One of the arrested men, Vinod, was involved in multiple cases of assault and fighting, the police said. A case was registered against the men under Section 285 (negligent conduct with respect to fire or combustible matter) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant sections of the Arms Act at Rajendra Park police station on Sunday.The police said that the arrested men had allegedly received text messages on an instant messaging mobile application and seen posts on social media regarding the arrest of some Tablighi Jamaat members who tested positive for Covid-19. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), crime, said that the men were drinking together on Saturday evening. “After looking at the post on social media, they decided to go to the mosque in Dhankot village and check if any Tablighi Jamaat members were hiding there. They were travelling in a Gypsy jeep. When they reached the spot, they knocked at the gate of the mosque but no one came out. Vinod, who was carrying his licensed pistol, then fired two gunshots at the mosque.”On Sunday, the police had received a complaint from the Imam of the mosque regarding the firing of gunshots. The complainant alleged that he had found an empty shell casing near the spot and a bullet hole in the gate of the mosque. The Imam was sleeping on the terrace of the building and did not hear the sound of the gunshots during the incident which took place on Saturday night. He was informed by the residents of the village about the shooting the next morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/four-arrested-for-shooting-at-mosque-cops-say-they-were-looking-for-tablighi-jamaat-members/story-6ky6PC7ommrIqzOGWKKCBM.html
07-04-2020||Gurugram||Air quality in Gurugram reduces for the first time in 10 days due to firecrackers||After 10 straight days of ‘satisfactory’ air quality, largely due to the absence of vehicles from city streets and the closure of industries, pollution levels in Gurugram spiked on the night of April 5 after the use of firecrackers during a nine-minute candlelight vigil. The city’s average 24-hour air quality reading at 4pm on Monday was 106 (in the ‘moderate’ category of the air quality index), up from 91, the previous day. While the spike isn’t a steep one, it marks the first time since March 26 that the city’s air quality reading passed the 100-mark.All of the city’s four official air quality monitors recorded spikes in particulate matter beginning at 9pm on Sunday. At Vikas Sadan, the maximum concentration of PM2.5 between Sunday and Monday touched 170µg/m³, up from 83µg/m³ between Saturday and Sunday. At another location in Gwal Pahari, PM2.5 levels soared to a maximum of 276µg/m³ between Sunday and Monday, as opposed to 235µg/m³ the previous day. Yet another monitor in Sector 51, which has been recording PM2.5 levels between 60 and 100µg/m³ since March 26, saw PM2.5 levels touch as much as 284µg/m³ on April 5.Air quality experts and officials both attributed this spike to firecrackers which could be heard on the night of April 5. “While the spike wasn’t major, it shows just how prone air quality is to deterioration even with just a few firecrackers being burst,” Sachin Panwar, a city-based air quality scientist, said.Kuldeep Singh, regional officer, Haryana State Pollution Control Board, Gurugram, said, “We will check the data. In any case, with no vehicular movement happening these days, and with temperatures also rising, pollution levels will remain largely low. There is no need to worry.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/air-quality-reduces-for-the-first-time-in-10-days-due-to-firecrackers/story-emq8k8wfA8rJN4QPJBceiP.html
07-04-2020||Mumbai||Biker spits on Manipuri girl, police to file FIR||Vakola police have booked an unidentified biker for allegedly spitting on a 25-year-old Manipuri woman at Kalina on Monday afternoon. After the incident came to light on social media, the office of Mumbai Police commissioner had directed the local police station to register a first information report (FIR) against the biker, after which a case was filed under the Epidemic Diseases Act, said an officer. Kailas Avhad, senior inspector of Vakola police station, said, “We are recording the woman’s statement and will take action against the person who spat on her.” The complainant, Shonyo Kabai, had stepped out of her home along with her sister to purchase groceries, when a biker approached her, forcibly took off her mask and spat on her near Kalina signal. As the roads were relatively empty, the two sisters were unable to find help. “I was wearing a mask and a cap. I wonder what is it that bothered him to do such a thing,” said Kabai. “I don’t know if this incident has to do with coronavirus, but our community faces discrimination. There is name calling and some tease us,” she added. The incident received a prompt response from the police after Linda Newmai, a social activist from Delhi, tweeted about it. “A NE girl from Manipur is the new victim again here in Mumbai. This happened just an hour ago. A biker came & spat on her #stopracism. This is not done! We have to fight #Covid19 or these racial attacks? I request the @MumbaiPolice to immediately take action please!” read Newmai’s tweet. She said since the outbreak, those hailing from the north-eastern states claim they face discrimination and are not provided with essential goods.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/biker-spits-on-manipuri-girl-police-to-file-fir/story-2PgmXS9JqtVrJDzskeneeN.html
07-04-2020||Noida||300 teams to visit Covid-19 hotspots in GB Nagar||The district administration of Gautam Budh Nagar has constituted 300 surveillance and containment teams to visit all spots from where Covid-19 cases were reported. The teams will start functioning from Tuesday. In total, there are 58 Covid-19 patients in the district, of whom eight have been discharged after successfully completing treatment.No new case has been reported in Gautam Budh Nagar district over the past two days.According to officials, there are 12 major clusters in the district where initial containment activities were carried out. From Tuesday, teams will visit all these clusters.Each team will have a health worker, a revenue department worker and a policeman. These teams will cover all areas within a 3km radius of each cluster. Officials will be visiting each house to spread awareness on coronavirus.They will inform residents about precautions required to avoid the infection, techniques to sanitize the house nd hand-washing techniques. Officials will also be collecting information about people who have a travel history to foreign countries over the past one or two months. Officials will also be finding out if any of the locals have any symptoms of Covid-19.“As per the guidelines, we have to cover all areas within a 3km radius of the place from where a Covid-19 case had been reported. All officials involved in the activity have been informed about the procedure. The data will help us in keeping a tab on people’s health. This drive is called coronavirus awareness programme,” Dr Sunil Dohre, additional chief medical officer, Gautam Budh Nagar, said.By Monday night, the health department has notified 1,851 travellers, put 1,225 persons under surveillance, and collected samples of 1,030 persons. A total of 58 positive cases have been confirmed, while 678 samples have come negative and 300 results are awaited. The district administration has started a call centre to address various issues of the public related to the Covid-19 outbreak and the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/300-teams-to-visit-covid-19-hot-spots-in-gb-nagar/story-WWwyEOL1W3j9XFyGPtM8lN.html
07-04-2020||Noida||Man missing from old age home found dead 400 meters away||A 70-year-old man who had gone missing four days ago from an old age home in Dankaur’s Bilaspur area was found dead in a nearby farm under mysterious circumstances on Monday. The deceased, identified as Soran Singh, and his wife Kanchan Devi, both natives of Aligarh, had come to the old age home on February 28, since they had no children to look after them. Police said the elderly man went missing on April 2 and was found dead on Monday. Police have detained two caretakers of the home who were accused of assaulting the man.Rajesh Kumar Singh, deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said that on Monday, locals informed the police that an old man was found dead in a wheat field. “A team from Dankaur police station reached the spot and identified the man as Soran Singh. He lived at an old age home which is about 400 meters away from the spot,” he said.“A police team visited the old age home for investigation. Primary investigation revealed the man used to fight with his wife. On April 2, a similar incident took place and two caretakers intervened and tried to stop the elderly man,” he said.Kanchan Devi said that the two caretakers beat her husband. “They slapped my husband and also pulled him by the leg,” she said.The DCP said that in the process the elderly man fell on the ground and got injured. The same day, the man reportedly went missing from the shelter and did not return. Police said that the old age home management did not inform the police or file a missing person complaint on April 2. The victim’s wife has filed a complaint against the management of old age home. “The old age home management had said the man had left the premise saying he was going to collect his pension,” the DCP said.“We have registered a case against the two caretakers under Section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) and Section 201 (causing disappearance of evidence). We are investigating the matter,” said police.The body was sent for a post-mortem examination and report is awaited. No official in the management of the old age home was available for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/man-missing-from-old-age-home-found-dead-400-meters-away/story-YvOldO51gHxggJ86TXfYhP.html
07-04-2020||Noida||Security guard arrested for attempting to break open ATM in Noida sector 15||A security guard in his mid-thirties was arrested by the police Sunday for allegedly attempting to break open an ATM machine in Sector 15 on Saturday morning.The suspect, identified as Dinesh Kumar, is from Hamirpur and currently stays in Barola village, the police said. According to police officers, Kumar works as a security guard for the building in Naya Bans village, Sector 15 in the ATM kiosk is located. The ATM is run by a public sector bank. “The robbery attempt took place around 3.38am on Saturday, but the alarms went gone off after which the bank and the police were alerted. A police team was rushed to the spot, and the suspect was found on duty in the building though he had denied seeing anything,” RK Singh, station house officer, Sector 20 police station, said.The SHO said the bank officials filed a complaint on Sunday and handed over the footage from the CCTV cameras installed in the kiosk to the police. “When the footage was scanned, a man wearing a security guard’s uniform with his face covered by a mask was seen tampering with the machine with a screwdriver,” SHO Singh said.The camera outside the ATM kiosk had been disabled, while the one inside was functional, the police said.Police officers said Kumar returned to work the next day to avoid any suspicion, but when he was questioned again he confessed to attempting the robbery and was arrested. He had got scared when the alarm went off and left the ATM kiosk, they added.Based on the complaint from the bank officials, a case was registered under sections 379 (punishment for theft) and 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property) of the Indian Penal Code. The suspect was produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/security-guard-arrested-for-attempting-to-break-open-an-atm-in-sector-15/story-Ko8Sevds8AjY6XZxL8JYoL.html
07-04-2020||Delhi||Students await communication from recruiters, concerned about reduced offers||A final-year undergraduate student pursuing mathematics in a Delhi University college is “fairly anxious” these days despite landing an annual package of ₹17 lakh at a multinational firm at her college’s placement drive last year.The 21-year-old was set to start work in June after graduating. However, Covid-19 pandemic has made the situation uncertain. “There hasn’t been any communication from the company’s side over the job offer — whether it still stands or not. I am fairly anxious because a lot of money and my career are at stake,” she said, requesting anonymity.“I have to rethink my decisions if there is a salary cut in the offer, because, what if they lay us off eventually? I was supposed to join in June but now, we don’t know when our exams will be conducted,” she said.From Delhi University (DU), Delhi Technological University (DTU) to Jamia Millia Islamia (JMI), teachers and students at higher educational institutes across the capital are concerned about the impact of the global pandemic on placements and job offers. While many colleges and institutes had already conducted their on-campus placement interviews before the lockdown, which started on March 25, some had to cancel the interviews and tests.Rajeev Gupta, dean of student welfare and part of DU’s placement cell, said, “The short-term issue is that placement is closed everywhere. If the lockdown is extended, we may have to think of alternative arrangements for placement interviews, consisting of an online module. The long-term problem of the current crisis is that the requirements [in the job market] may go down.”DU sees most placements from English, Foreign Language and Management branches, Gupta said.Hena Singh, a colleague of Gupta’s, said that students are concerned over a possibility of salary cuts in the job offers they have already received. “Since the companies have not initiated any communication on the job offers [after the lockdown], it would be an overreach to approach them on this,” she said.Several institutes, such as Jamia and DTU, have been conducting internal meetings over the issue and are reaching out to companies to “honour their offers”.Rihan Khan Suri, placement officer at Jamia, said that while no company had rescinded an offer yet, the university administration, along with the vice-chancellor Najma Akhtar, had taken stock of the situation and were thinking of alternative ways to ensure students don’t suffer. “The economy was already struggling before Covid-19, which further worsened the crisis. We had already been discussing the placements and possible job crisis issue. Suggestions were made to rope in alumni networks from different courses on an individual level,” Suri said.Rajesh Rohilla, head of training and placement at DTU, said the IT sector was likely to continue hiring since more jobs are coming up in the digital arena. “A company revoked some paid internships but no job offer has been revoked till now. Since we have a single-placement policy, which means one student gets one job offer, we will be asking all 220 companies that came on campus, not to rescind any offer. We may ask them to consider delay joining dates, if it looks unlikely immediately,” he said, adding that DTU’s V-C, Yogesh Singh, has also initiated online classes to ensure the academic session isn’t disrupted and employment prospects are not affected.However, not all institutes are worried about the situation. “Our placement concluded in February and all our students were placed. We don’t think any job offer will be rescinded. However, there is a chance that the joining may get delayed,” said Madhu Vij, placement convener at the Faculty of Management Studies (FMS) of the Delhi University.On Friday, director of Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi, V Ramgopal Rao, had also appealed to recruiters “to be considerate and keep their promises”.“A few months of delay may be fine. Please do not complicate the lives of these brightest children in an already complex environment. If at all, they are capable of getting you out of recession faster than you can imagine,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/students-await-communication-from-recruiters-concerned-about-reduced-offers/story-iuhCY9L2fYEuWjXsiGQTvN.html
07-04-2020||Noida||Greater Noida contributes for fight against Covid-19||Several multi-nationals and infrastructure majors in the district have extended monetary and charitable help to the government and marginal sections of the society as the country braces to bear the impact of the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The Greater Noida authority chief executive officer (CEO) Narendra Bhooshan, who is also the CEO and managing director of the Delhi-Mumbai Industrial Corridor Integrated Industrial Township Greater Noida Limited (DMIC IITGNL) said that they have contributed Rs1.85 crore towards the fight against Covid-19 pandemic in India.“We have given Rs 95 lakh to the PMCares fund and Rs 90 lakh to the UP Chief Minister Distress Relief Funds. We have exhausted our entire corporate social responsibility (CSR) fund,” Bhooshan said.The CEO has appealed to all stakeholders including mobile makers, corporate houses and other businessman to come forward to contribute in this time of crisis.Apart from this Oppo, a mobile manufacturing company, has also donated ₹50 lakh towards the UP Chief Minister Distress Relief Fund to be used for Covid-19 measures being taken by the state government. Officials said that the Greater Noida authority, like other government bodies, is making all efforts to take steps to contain the spread of Covid-19 by conducting regular sanitisation drives in sectors, villages and other public spaces people visit for procuring essentials.“We are conducting sanitization drives in all markets, government offices, shops, community halls and villages to check further spread of Covid-19 in the district,” said Bhooshan.The authority has also decided to distribute masks to the needy who cannot purchase it on their own.“We have been distributing food to migrant daily wagers, their dependents and people from other economically weaker sections of the society so that they do not starve. Our volunteers and at least 500 staff members are engaged in daily distribution of food to needy staying at construction sites, slums and other areas of the city,” said an official requesting anonymity.Of the 58 cases of Covid-19 in Gautam Budh Nagar district, which includes Greater Noida, 39 are directly or indirectly linked with fire safety solutions company Ceasefire. Fear of community spread in the district heightened when the domestic help of a Ceasefire company employee, along with three of her family members, tested positive for Covid-19 late Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/greater-noida-contributes-for-fight-against-covid-19/story-W30kMGOX2qx2X9Q23GL5LJ.html
07-04-2020||Noida||Builders urge UP-Rera to extend dates to register housing projects, postpone coercive action||Noida builders have urged Uttar Pradesh Real Estate Regulatory Authority (UP-Rera ) to issue a notification postponing the implementation of old orders, including those related to compliance and registrations of housing projects, as all government and private sector offices are shut in view of the of the nationwide lockdown to prevent the spread of Covid-19.Builders said even after the government announced the lockdown, the old orders issued by UP-Rera are being implemented, thereby creating problems for respective builders. The issues, which are being faced by the builders are related to refunds orders by UP-Rera, obtainment of registration number for a housing project, continuation of escrow account for housing projects and submission of quarterly progress report of respective realty projects, among others.“As per the rules, UP-Rera has ordered refund in cases wherein the developer has failed to deliver a project as per the timelines promised. We have requested UP-Rera that the execution of such orders be postponed for the next three months as the financial condition of all builders is not sound, given the slowdown in the real estate sector,” RK Arora, president (Uttar Pradesh chapter) National Real Estate Development Council (NAREDCO), a developers’ lobbying body, said.Builders said as per rules, they have to renew the registration of a housing project once it expires. But builders, whose registration date has by now expired, cannot do so due to the lockdown and they cannot even continue with the process of obtaining registration for old projects. UP-Rera also has a role in managing escrow accounts, which were opened to regulate the use of funds collected from buyers. Builders requested that the escrow accounts operations should be continued as they have to pay salary of the staff and also taxes.“We have requested UP-Rera to issue a notification that all old orders stand postponed for the next three months. Once the lockdown is lifted, UP-Rera can again resume normal activities,” Harendra Yadav, member, NAREDCO, said.UP-Rera member Balvinder Kumar said, “We will look into their demands and take appropriate decision.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/builders-urge-up-rera-to-extend-dates-to-register-housing-projects-postpone-coercive-action/story-YoYAd5pcklTCL2qqbIOwqM.html
07-04-2020||Lucknow||UP CM’s Covid care fund: Barring BSP, other opposition lawmakers yet to pitch in||The Uttar Pradesh Covid Care Fund is yet to receive pledges of monetary support of Rs 1 crore each from many lawmakers of major opposition parties in the state, barring those of the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP).Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has set up the fund to buy medical equipment and provide facilities in medical colleges and hospitals to fight the coronavirus. A fund collection target of Rs 1000 to Rs 1500 crore has been set.Yogi Adityanath called BSP chief Mayawati last week to thank her for her directive to her party MLAs to allocate Rs 1 crore from the Vidhayak Nidhi to the Uttar Pradesh Covid Care Fund.The chief minister also allocated Rs 1 crore from his Vidhayak Nidhi and held a video conference with MLAs/MLCs and MPs on the issue. Several opposition leaders attended the two video conferences last week. The attendees included Leader of Opposition Ram Govind Chaudhary, SP MP Rewati Raman Singh, Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee president Ajay Kumar Lallu and Congress Legislature Party leader Aradhna Mishra.Ram Govind Chaudhary was not available for comment on the issue. When asked whether SP leaders will allocate Rs 1 crore from the MPLAD fund, Rewati Raman Singh said “SP chief Akhilesh Yadav will take a call on the issue.” Samajwadi Party spokesman and former minister Rajendra Chaudhary, said, “Samajwadi Party legislators have already committed or allocated a large chunk of their Vidhayak Nidhi for the fight against coronavirus in their respective assembly constituencies and so may not be left with sufficient amount for allocation of Rs 1 crore to the CM’s Covid Care Fund. They may have to meet other commitments as well. How can SP members withdraw their commitment and take back the amount already given for the cause? The SP legislators will release the remaining amount on the directions of Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav.”As for the Congress, while Lallu said the party will take a call on the issue, Mishra was not available for comment.Earlier, assembly speaker Hridaya Narayan Dikshit spoke to leaders of political parties, urging them allocate Rs 1 crore for the fund. Dikshit, who has allocated Rs 1 crore from his Vidhayak Nidhi, also spoke to most of the ministers and MLAs, seeking allocation of Rs 1 crore from the Vidhayak Nidhi. “Yes, I tried to speak to all the ministers and MLAs. I have received letters from many ministers and MLAs, informing me about allocation of Rs 1 crore from Vidhayak Nidhi to the UP Covid Relief fund. Those who have sent letters in this regard include minister for finance Suresh Khanna and about 20 legislators,” said Dikshit.The speaker also said, “Each MLA is entitled to spend Rs 3 crore every year from the Vidhayak Nidhi and the limit of allocating Rs 25 lakh per item has been done away with.” A state assembly functionary said although most legislators may agree to donate their salary for the fund, the assembly secretariat was yet to receive their letters of consent in this regard. This delay may be because of the lockdown, said the functionary, adding, “The state government has the powers to deduct Rs 1 crore from the Vidhayak Nidhi of all MLAs and this power should be used to allocate funds to fight the corona disaster.”UP legislative Council chairman Ramesh Yadav has also sent a letter to all the MLCs, urging them to allocate Rs 1 crore for the UP Covid Care Fund. “I request you to allocate Rs 1 crore to the fund to fight the coronavirus pandemic,” Yadav said in his letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-cm-s-covid-care-fund-barring-bsp-other-opposition-lawmakers-yet-to-pitch-in/story-6wLBTfVV9YvMBqzyTIOrMK.html
07-04-2020||Delhi||Delhi needs 3 lakh protective kits to fight Covid-19, has only 1.47 lakh||The Delhi government, gauging the current rate of hospitalisations for Covid-19 and those being sent to state-run quarantine centres, has projected a requirement of 3 lakh personal protective equipment (PPE) kits for the national capital.Of this, the government so far has been able to make arrangements for only 1.47 lakh PPE kits, which will be used from this weekend.A senior official in the Delhi government’s health department said that at present, the city has stocks that would last for around 4 days only. Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemic“We have 5,000 PPE kits at our warehouse and a total of around 4,000 kits available at various hospitals, quarantine centres, testing labs and so on. This is enough to last a week,” the official said.On an average, around 2,500 PPE kits are required for use in the city on a daily basis.To ensure adequate availability of PPE kits — which includes full-body suits, goggles, masks, gloves and shoe covers — for at least a month and to be prepared for any contingency, like the Nizamuddin Markaz case, the Delhi government has placed an order for 1.2 lakh kits and arranged for another 27,000 from the Centre, bringing the total to 1.47 lakh.An official in chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s office said that 27,000 kits are currently with the DRDO for disinfection.Kejriwal, in a digital address on Monday, thanked the Central government for allotting kits for Delhi and said they would be delivered to the Delhi government in a day or two.“This is a great step towards ensuring the safety of our doctors. The Delhi government, the Central government, and the people are collectively fighting the battle against Covid-19. I hope that we will overcome the virus very soon,” he said.The other 1.2 lakh kits are being bought directly by the central procurement agency (CPA), which is responsible for buying medicines, consumables and equipment for Delhi government-run hospitals.“The kits are now arriving in batches of 3,000-4,000 a day. Earlier, they were coming at a rate of 1,500-2,000, which was ramped up after several meetings with the concessionaire. Given the present scenario, the current rate of arrival of PPE kits is manageable. But, if there is another Markaz like case, then Delhi can slip into a crisis,” said a senior official in the Delhi government.At least 329 of the total 525 coronavirus cases in Delhi have been linked to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation, which took place in the Nizamuddin Markaz in mid-March. The demand for PPE kits has grown substantially among medical staff, after at least 24 healthcare workers — doctors, nurses and sanitation staff — contracted Covid-19 in the city.Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said that apart from arrangements made by the government, hospitals also now have the power to procure such kits on their own from private manufacturers.But, a senior official in Delhi’s Lok Nayak hospital said that the process was “time consuming”.“The issue is that the PPE kits have to meet the standards specified by the government and the rate per kit has to be either Rs 1087.47 or less. So, a lot of time goes in the verification process. Our staff is already working round-the-clock, tending to Covid-19 patients. Besides, only a few supply kits that are actually up to the mark,” the official said on condition of anonymity.The shortage of these kits, though not immediate, has forced the Delhi government to even change its appeal from seeking donations for the CM’s relief fund to asking MLAs, MPs, NGOs, private firms and other stakeholders to provide PPE kits instead.Kejriwal also did the same when Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) east Delhi MP Gautam Gambhir offered a total of Rs 1 crore to the Delhi government to buy PPE kits and masks for doctors and nurses.Thanking Gambhir for his initiative on Twitter, Kejriwal wrote, “Gautam, thank you for your offer. The problem is not of money but availability of PPE kits. We would be grateful if you could help us get them from somewhere immediately. Delhi government will buy them. Thank you .”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/govt-needs-3-lakh-protective-kits-to-fight-covid-has-only-1-47-lakh/story-uO6kgourXRIlYGIBtdWSNL.html
07-04-2020||Delhi||25,000 in quarantine under watch, 247 booked in Delhi||The Delhi Police, using mobile phone surveillance, have filed 160 first information reports (FIRs) against people in home-quarantine for violating lockdown orders, officials said on Monday. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced that the mobile phones of 25,000 people in home-quarantine would be monitored.Besides, the police have also filed 81 FIRs after physical checks at houses of the people under home-quarantine. Six more persons were booked on the complaints of their neighbours, the police said in a statement, taking the total number of those booked till Monday evening to 24x7.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicMost of them are being booked under the Epidemic Diseases Act and sections 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease danger­ous to life), and 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). First-time offenders or those who inadvertently stepped out of their houses are being booked only under Section 188 of the IPC, the police said.“People who are deliberately and frequently breaking the home-quarantine rule are charged with all the three sections of the IPC, as the maximum punishment they would be getting is up to two years of imprisonment, or fine, or both. Those found breaking the rule for the first time or unintentionally are booked only under Section 188 of IPC and given a warning that harsher sections would be slapped if they are caught violating the order again,” said a police officer, who did not want to be named.How the enforcement is being doneThe police are primarily using geofencing technology to identify the quarantined persons venturing out of their residences. “Since we know the address of the persons in home-quarantine, their house is considered the static location. We use software to carry out geofencing of their smartphones. If the person leaves the geofencing area, there is a change in their phone’s tower location and we receive an alert,” a senior police officer said.Each police district has formed a dedicated team, comprising personnel having technical expertise and those who carry out physical checks. “The phone numbers of all the home-quarantined people have been uploaded on the software that tracks the movement,” the officer said.“Any breach of the geofence is communicated to the police station staff concerned. The police then visit the quarantined person’s house and confront him/her with the technical data. If a satisfactory reason is not given, an FIR is registered. The person will be arrested and granted bail,” said the officer, adding that all the sections of the IPC are bailable.Officers said that they are also conducting surprise checks to ensure that those under home-quarantine don’t dodge the police by leaving their phones at home. The police are also scanning the CCTV cameras of the neighbourhood to track the violators, said Dinesh Kumar Gupta, deputy commissioner of police (Shahdara).The Delhi government has shared names, phone numbers and residential addresses of more than 25,000 citizens of Delhi who have been put under home-quarantine, to avoid the spread of Sars-Cov-2 virus, which causes Covid-19. A majority of them are people who have foreign travel history, senior police officers said.Delhi Police spokesperson, Mandeep Singh Randhawa, said that the number of FIRs will continue to increase. “Our police personnel are regularly conducting house visits and those found absent are being booked,” said Randhawa.The decision to use phones for tracking people in home-quarantine was taken in a meeting between Kejriwal and Lieutenant Governor (L-G) Anil Baijal almost a week ago.The use of phone location to track a person in quarantine started in China, and was quickly adopted in Singapore and European countries. To ensure that people who are ordered to stay in isolation do not move out, health departments and the police had initially started pasting notices outside their houses and encouraged neighbours to report violations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/cops-use-phone-surveillance-to-book-those-violating-home-quarantine/story-Gw3HHZzekCXtlTwQLRTXlL.html
07-04-2020||Delhi||Cracker bursting breaks spell of good air in Delhi||At 9pm on Sunday, Delhi’s 13-day spell of good air days was broken. A sudden spurt in firecracker burning on Sunday, coupled with low wind speed, pushed the city’s air quality further into the ‘moderate’ category on Monday.While environment experts said that the situation could have been worse if such unprecedented cracker bursting had happened in “normal circumstances”, authorities are ascertaining how large quantities of crackers were procured by people during the lockdown.Amid the Covid-19 outbreak, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had urged people to come out to their balconies and light candles, earthen lamps or torch lights for nine minutes at 9pm on Sunday to show their support for the government’s fight against the disease. However, on Sunday evening, while lamps glowed, the sound of firecrackers also echoed across the city.As per the data, the overall air quality index (AQI) of Delhi on Monday was recorded 142, up from Sunday’s 102, in the lower-end of ‘moderate’ zone. On Saturday, the AQI was 87 (‘satisfactory’), as recorded by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).By 4.30pm on Monday, the AQI at many stations in Delhi had slipped to the ‘poor’ category. Monitoring stations at Rohini, Wazirpur and Vivek Vihar recorded AQI levels above 200 at 4.30 pm.Since March 24, the air quality levels in the national Capital have consistently remained in the ‘satisfactory’ zone, and had even improved to ‘good’, with an AQI of 45 on March 28.Experts said that assessing real-time air pollution, the spike in the pollution levels between 9pm and 10pm on Sunday was somewhat similar to that seen in the early hours of Diwali night. If such cracker burning activity had happened in regular circumstances, with vehicles plying and industries operating, under similar weather conditions, the AQI would have dipped considerably, experts said.A senior CPCB official said that since cracker burning was consistent across the city and was the only polluting activity that happened, its impact on air quality was noticeable.“Since these circumstances are not normal and everything else is shut, the AQI levels remained in the moderate zone. The problem was that even the wind speed was not strong enough to neutralise the impact of cracker bursting. But Sunday’s cracker burning was more like a freak episode, which authorities were not anticipating. We can attribute the spike in pollution solely to cracker bursting because nothing else is happening,” the official said.Weathermen said that the wind speeds were low through Saturday, Sunday and until Monday afternoon.“The winds were calm on Sunday night and it was only by Monday morning that it improved to reach around five to six kilometres per hour (kmph). By Monday afternoon, the wind speed picked up to reach around 15kmph. This was not enough to blow away the pollution caused by yesterday’s (Sunday) cracker burning,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre.Srivastava said that the wind speed will pick up from Monday night. There is also a forecast of rain and thunderstorm on Tuesday, which is likely to improve air quality to acceptable levels.Delhi Pollution Control Committee’s (DPCC) hourly average data on particulate matter levels shows that at 9pm on Sunday, PM 2.5 (ultrafine particulate matter with diameter less than 2.5 micrometres) levels in Delhi’s air was 48.1ug/m3. This spiked to 49.5ug/m3 at 10pm and gradually to 57ug/m3 by 6am on Monday.Delhi Police officials said that considering that the city is under lockdown and only the sale of essential commodities is being permitted, chances are that the crackers that were burnt on Sunday night were hoarded by people since last Diwali. Senior officials said that no action was taken against cracker bursting. Officials also confirmed that no permission requests were received by them for licences to sell crackers over the last few weeks.“All shops selling non-essential commodities are shut and our teams are continuously monitoring areas. The crackers that were burst last night could be what people saved from Diwali,” said MS Randhawa, Delhi Police spokesperson.Wholesale cracker dealers said that sale has been completely shut during the lockdown. Narendra Gupta, president of fireworks and general traders association in Sadar Bazar, said that permanent vendors had also stopped distribution and sales. “Nobody had anticipated that there would be a call from the Prime Minister to light candles, let alone cracker bursting,” said Gupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/cracker-bursting-breaks-spell-of-good-air-in-delhi/story-Mxy3qc7ZuWZsk0SzPeZCqI.html
07-04-2020||Pune||Lockdown impact: Pune’s garbage generation nose-dives||Dyaneshwar Molak, head of the Solid Waste Management (SWM), Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). said “During the Covid-19 lockdown, we have seen 500 to 550 metric tonnes of garbage less than the usual daily intake in terms of daily collection. Many residents are managing garbage disposal at their end.”Garbage generated in the city on averagePre-lockdown daily– 2,100 metric tonnesCurrent daily average – 1,500 metric tonnes Waste management staff on daily dutyPMC staff - 14,267Swach staff– 3,500Not operationalGhanta gadi – 20 Garbage in public places “With few people on the road, garbage throwing has also gone down to almost nil,” Dyaneshwar Molak, head of the Solid Waste Management (SWM), Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) said.Hotels and restaurants“With most restaurants and hotels shut or operating with minimal staff for deliveries there is minimal garbage being generated here.” - Dyaneshwar Molak, head of the Solid Waste Management (SWM), Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) -Pre-lockdown - 180 tonnes of garbage generated daily by -Current figure not availableWaste locked down“Consumption has reduced drastically leading to a reduction in waste. Hotel waste, construction and demolition waste and litter waste has almost completely stopped. Sadly, recycling trade has also come to a halt and waste-pickers are not able to send waste in for recycling. We are asking citizens to clean and store dry recyclables - plastic, paper, metal and glass, till the end of the lockdown and then hand it over to waste-pickers - protecting the environment and helping the waste-pickers as well.”-Swach spokesperson||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lockdown-impact-pune-s-garbage-generation-nose-dives/story-iFIosHEI0UJW99HzVPFjfN.html
07-04-2020||Pune||37 new Covid-19 cases in Pune district takes total number up to 142||Thirty-seven fresh cases of the Sars-Covid-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 (coronavirus) infection were recorded in Pune district on Monday. This is the highest single-day number of new infections in the district.Of the 37 cases, 13 were reported until 1pm, and 22 positive tests were confirmed at 5pm, and two cases at 7pm, by the district administration.The total count for Pune district is 142, with 114 in Pune city, 20 in Pimpri-Chinchwad and eight in rural Pune.A senior official from the PMC’s health department requesting anonymity, said, “Of the 37, most are close contacts of already positive Covid-19 patients. Also, it is noticed that those who attended the Delhi Tablighi event are hiding their travel history which is making it difficult for us to isolate and detect people.”The official said, “It is better that all those who attended the event come forward otherwise they will be risking their lives and the lives of their family members.”Among the fresh cases is a four-year-old girl who has tested positive for Covid-19. Of the 37, 20 are admitted to Naidu hospital, seven are at Sassoon hospital, and one each at Deenanath Mangeshkar, KEM and Jehangir hospitals.Officials added that family members of the 60-year-old woman who was brought in deceased to Sassoon hospital on Sunday, and then tested positive, have also tested positive.The PMC official said, “Four family members of the deceased, including a nine-year old boy, 10-year old boy, 39-year-old female and 30-year-old female have tested positive and have been isolated now.” After a sudden spike in the number of cases the administration will now rigorously trace close contacts by conducting house-to-house surveys.Pune division has a total of 661 people who attended the Delhi Markaz Tablighi event, said divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar, of which 299 people have been quarantined, while 49 are from other districts of Maharashtra. A total of 205 are out of Maharashtra. The administration is yet to track 107 people of the 661 people who are on a list sent by the centre.City-wide breakdownOf the 37 fresh cases in the district, 21 in the city are from…6 – Shivajinagar5- Ghorpade Peth5 - Laxmi nagar, Yerwada5- Mominpura, Guruwar peth 5 - Kondhwa||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/37-new-covid-19-cases-in-pune-district-takes-total-number-up-to-142/story-a981B96MZAVyw0m8ZXS4lN.html
07-04-2020||Pune||Born in a pandemic: Hospital provides shelter to family of newborn in Pune||Two-day-old Laxmi turned red as she struggled to break into a cry when the summer heat irritated her tender skin. Her mother, 35-year-old Ranabai, tried to comfort her and in that moment she was oblivious to the imminent issue of homelessness and starvation that her family was facing. The Kamla Nehru Hospital has provided the family of four temporary respite by providing them shelter at the hospital until the lockdown is in place. The woman came to Pune with her partner from Pandharpur via a train before they were stranded at the Pune railway station for two days. They were picked up by the Pune police and brought to the shelter created by Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) at Mahatma Phule High School on Dhole Patil road. As the woman recovering from the child’s delivery, blew on her neck, the child smiled. “See, the gods made her smile for us,” she says as her partner frets about the last Rs 50 they were left with. As a native of Uttar Pradesh, the woman barely speaks any Marathi.Ranabai’s partner is Sahebrao Bhimrao Adagale, 50, who stands at the end of the corridor outside the postnatal care ward. Dr Lata Trimbake, medical superintendent at Kamla Nehru Hospital, had taken the decision to let the family stay at the hospital. The hospital has made an exception for the family in such unnatural times as Covid19 pandemic has gripped the world. During the routine rounds of PMC medical staff at the shelter homes, the doctors found the woman in labour on the afternoon of April 4.“The health department has appointed 15 teams and one of the doctors found Ranabai in the shelter. When the doctor reached, her labour pain had already begun. An ambulance was called and she was brought here. Primary investigation was conducted and a letter was given to her as she did not have an antenatal card. The baby was 2.7kg and has no complications,” said Dr Trimbake.The family is getting food from the service provided by a volunteer named Subhash Jadhav. The hospital has provided them with a babycare kit, bedsheet, and blankets for the mother and the baby. The couple is not legally married, they do not hold any document to prove their identity and only skill that the man-woman duo hold is that of cutting sugarcane and cooking, respectively. “I’m from a village near Georai in Beed. I met her when she was begging at the Pune railway station around 7-8 years ago. We never got married, but we have been together ever since. Cutting sugarcane was an honest day’s work for good 3-4 months in Pandharpur before it shut down. I picked scrapped for a couple of days, but could not make any money. Then, they picked us up and brought us to the shelter. Now, I do not even have money for a cup tea. How will I care for a newborn?” says Adagale.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/born-in-a-pandemic-hospital-provides-shelter-to-family-of-newborn-in-pune/story-eQjqkD7FLtP0MRVx1C5RHL.html
07-04-2020||Pune||800 Yerawada jail inmates approach Bombay HC with release request; threaten to go on strike if not heard||At least 800 inmates of the Yerawada Central Jail, who have been convicted for serious offences, have applied to the Bombay High Court for release from the jail due to the fear of getting infected by the Sar-Cov-2 virus, which causes the Covid-19 (coronavirus) disease. The inmates had sent a request to the Yerawada jail authorities seeking consideration of their plea to be released from the overcrowded jail in the last week of March. They have threatened to go on strike if their matter is not listed for hearing. Their demand comes after a high-powered committee had been constituted in Maharashtra following the Supreme Court (SC) order of decongesting prisons. The SC order decided that undertrial prisoners booked for offences with maximum punishment up to 7 years will be released on interim bail initially for 45 days.Yerawada jail superintendent UT Pawar said, “Nobody is currently on a hunger strike. We have received their application and the same has been forwarded to the Bombay High Court. We cannot release them as they are criminals convicted of serious offences.”In view of the Covid-19 (coronavirus) outbreak in the state, the Maharashtra prison department had requested judicial authorities to grant complete or provisional bail to undertrials in minor and moderate cases to reduce crowding in jails, Sunil Ramanand, additional director general (ADG) of prisons, had said at a press meet held in the city on March 17. The initiative has been proposed in 60 jails of Maharashtra spread across 45 locations. The 60 prisons, which have a capacity of 24,000, hold 38,000 inmates of which 40-45 per cent inmates are lodged in four central prisons including Yerawada, Arthur road, Thane, and Nashik prisons. The Maharashtra government has released 2,520 from 47 prisons till April 2 since it took a decision to release close to 11,000 undertrials who were facing prison terms of less than seven years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/800-yerawada-jail-inmates-approach-bombay-hc-with-release-request-threaten-to-go-on-strike-if-not-heard/story-iSPe7pQgUwnFjVIBwj4pgO.html
07-04-2020||Chandigarh||Insure staff deployed to fight pandemic: Punjab to Centre||The Punjab cabinet has urged the Centre to provide insurance cover to government staff engaged in the fight against the coronavirus in bid to boost their morale.An official spokesperson said the cabinet in a meeting on April 4 mooted a proposal to the central government to provide insurance cover to the employees of the departments of police, revenue, local government, rural development and panchayats, food and civil supplies, and women and child development, who are working in difficult circumstances.The cabinet reiterated that the insurance cover to these employees will motivate them to support the state government’s endeavour to combat the pandemic with dedication.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/insure-staff-deployed-to-fight-pandemic-punjab-to-centre/story-qyxonjGOgxERe6oJ25dntN.html
07-04-2020||Chandigarh||2,800 Rasin villagers living in fear after Karnal man succumbs to Covid-19||More than 2,800 residents of Rasin village in Karnal district are living in the face of fear after the death of a 58-year-old man from their locality. The village has been cordoned off and villagers have been locked inside their homes, while the authorities scramble to trace the source of infection that claimed the life of Gian Chand, the third Covid-19 fatality of the state. It is being claimed that neither the victim had any history of foreign travel nor he had come in contact with any coronavirus positive patient. This has mounted concerns of villagers, especially those residing in Chand’s neighbourhood. As soon as Chand was tested positive for the infection on April 1 at PGIMER, Chandigarh, 12 members of his family were isolated and their samples taken. Even his body was not handed over to his family members and was cremated at Chandigarh.“Our entire village is sealed and nobody is allowed to come out. Only one person from a household could step out to fetch fodder for cattle,” said Rasin sarpanch Ram Mehar. He said for vegetables and staples, local shopkeepers contact vegetable vendors and grocery retailers in Karnal, who deliver the order at the police naka from where it is collected for local sale.SIGN OF RELIEFThe villagers, however, have heaved a sigh of relief as samples of most of Gian Chand’s family members tested negative for Covid-19. Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Yadav confirmed that Chand’s 11 family members have tested negative. “But, as a precautionary measure, police deployment in the village will last for few more days even if all family members are tested negative,” he added. ‘Sirsa woman has no history of travel, contact with corona patient’ The 38-year-old Sirsa woman, who tested positive for Covid-19 on March 30, neither has any foreign travel history nor did she come in contact with any confirmed case, said Rohtak PGIMS doctors. PGIMS nodal officer for Covid-19, Dhruva Chaudhary, said the woman was the only positive case admitted to the isolation ward, along with two suspected patients, whose reports are awaited. “We are trying to find the actual source of infection. The woman’s husband tested negative, while their children aged 8 and 6 tested positive,” he added.The woman ran a PG facility in Sirsa, while her husband owned a similar business in Chandigarh.“We have taken 40 samples of the woman’s neighbours and contacts, all of which tested negative. The samples of 66 children, who were in contact to woman’s kids, also tested negative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-800-rasin-villagers-living-in-fear-after-karnal-man-succumbs-to-covid-19/story-6gUwpa1cCFBxKfPZKqhHbI.html
07-04-2020||Pune||42 doctors of Pune’s Dr DY Patil hospital test negative for Covid-19||The test reports of 42 doctors quarantined at Dr DY Patil Hospital, Pimpri, came negative on Monday night. The doctors, along with 50 para-medical staff, were placed under observation after a trauma patient they attended to was reported positive for Covid-19 on Saturday.The hospital at Pimpri had quarantined 92 of its staffers, shut down its surgical unit and fumigated the entire hospital after the patient, who underwent an emergency surgery, tested positive for Covid -19.“It is a big relief for us after we received the NIV (National Institute of Virology) reports. The families and management were worried after the patient was tested positive,” said an official spokesperson of DY Patil Hospital management.Jitendra Bhawalkar, dean, Dr DY Patil Medical College, Hospital and Research Centre, said, “A 30-year-old man, residing at Khadki, Pune, was admitted to the emergency section after having blood trauma on March 31. Immediate surgery was performed on him and, on April 2, he developed fever. The doctors got suspicious and his samples were sent for testing to NIV (National Institute of Virology) on April 3. He tested positive for Covid-19 on April 4.”Bhawalkar said the patient was immediately shifted to the Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation’s Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial (YCM) Hospital in Pimpri. “We then tried to find out all those who had come in contact with the man and quarantined our 42 doctors and 50 para-medical staff as a precautionary measure.”The surgical unit of the hospital was shut down and fumigation of the entire hospital was carried out in view of the high exposure to the Covid-19 patients, he said.Recently, YCM Hospital signed a memorandum of understanding with Dr DY Patil Medical College Hospital to shift all non-Covid-19 patients from YCMH to DY Patil Hospital after the civic body decided to reserve the 750-bed YCMH exclusively to treat Covid -19 cases.Pimpri-Chinchwad municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar had said that the swab tests of the 42 medical staffers who came in direct contact with the man were sent to NIV for testing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/92-medical-staffers-of-dr-dy-patil-hospital-at-pimpri-quarantined/story-AFnnirS9s0BqV9XLTnhgiL.html
07-04-2020||Chandigarh||3 Gurdaspur villages declared quarantine zones||Three villages, Jaffarwal, Rauwal and Varsal Chak, in Gurdaspur district have been declared as quarantine zones, after getting information that health camps had been organised from March 15-18 by some foreign Christian Missionaries here. According to a health department update of April 4, a resident of Rupnagar district, a contact of the organisers had coordinated with them to hold similar camps in Rupnagar villages, and had tested positive. There is no positive case in his district yet, Gurdaspur civil surgeon Dr Kishan Chand said. “The population of these villages has been screened, no one is symptomatic. Nevertheless, the villages have been declared as quarantine zones,” said Punjab special chief secretary, Karan Bir Singh Sidhu. Gulshan Masih, of Jaffarwal village, who had attended the health camp that pastor Randeep Masih had organised at the village on March 16, said, “Around 100 residents of Jaffarwal, including women and children, had attended this camp.” He added, “A team of doctors from Naushehra Majha Singh Community Health Centre on Sunday visited the village and screened all those who had attended the March 16 health camp. Then, a quarantine notice of 14 days was pasted outside 20 houses.”Civil surgeon Dr Chand said, “We conducted a check-up on 49 Christians from Rauwal village; six of Chak Yaqub; four of Kahnuwan and one from Warrainch village. All of them were found to be fine.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-gurdaspur-villages-declared-quarantine-zones/story-6SCGayZaO7iZFOEnFJbcsN.html
07-04-2020||Pune||On the Frontline: Single rural women and farm widows are worst affected by lockdown, says Seema Kulkarni||The Mahila Kisan Adhikar Manch (Makaam), Maharashtra, has been supporting 500 single and widowed women who do not have ration cards or bank accounts, access food supplies. These women are from across 11 districts of Maharashtra. Seema Kulkarni of the Society for Promoting Participative Ecosystem Management (Soppecom), Pune, which is handling donations and disbursement of funds for Makaam, spoke about this initiative. What is the situation of agricultural village economy in Maharashtra after the lockdown?Maharashtra has been facing an agrarian crisis for some time now. Post-Covid-19 and the lockdown the situation has only worsened. Harvesting operations have come to a halt as elsewhere, supply chains have been broken, so farmers are unable send their produce to the mandis. The curfew in Maharashtra is being implemented rather rigourously and police patrols in villages are preventing farmers from engaging labour to harvest the produce or for other farming activities. This has meant that the agricultural labourers are also without any work. Works under the National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (NREGA) have completely stopped. Livestock has also been impacted because movement for grazing has also been restricted. Poultry and meat sales have gone down because of some of the myths around meat and the coronavirus. Why are single women and farm widows disproportionately affected by the current situation?Women are affected deeply by the crisis on various fronts. Many of them engaged in agriculture wage work and now they are without work and hence without any cash flow. They would often buy their ration form the wages they earned on a daily basis. Most of them still do not have separate ration cards as their names are still included in their martial home rations. However, they are living separately with their children and do not get their share from the ration. So they need to buy all their ration at a higher rate from the market.We encountered two problems in our dialogues with the women a) no separate ration cards b) have ration cards but they are not digitally verified so cannot access food grains. This is something that needs to be brought to the attention of the government.Vegetable vending is another task that women engage in weekly markets. All weekly markets have been stopped after the lockdown and women are not able to bring their produce to these markets. Many of the women involved in cane cutting are still on field sites as sugar production comes under essential commodities and the crushing season is on. However, the conditions of work have not improved and no physical distancing, etc maintained. How is Makaam supporting single/widowed women farmers in the current pandemic?The immediate concern staring in our face is the access to food. We are providing direct relief in the form of food supplies to about 500 single and widowed women across 11 districts, primarily farm suicide affected districts. Our second and more sustainable support is through a process of dialogue with the government to ensure that these women benefit from the different schemes announced by the central and the state governments irrespective of ration cards or other forms of documentation. We are writing to state level officials and also district collectors to consider these women in their food distribution programme even if they do not have ration cards or their ration cards are not digitally verified. Secondly, we have also explicitly demanded that women who do get the widow pensions should get it as an advance for 3 months and all the arrears should be cleared as well. Irrespective of whether or not the JanDhan accounts are active or not women should get the Rs 500/month announced by the government. Most importantly, MAKAAM will soon share what support needs to be extended to these women in the post lockdown period as well in the form of work.How is Soppecom raising funds for this initiative? How will the funds be used?Soppecom has appealed to various people to contribute towards extending support to the single and widowed women in rural India. The funds are being used to provide basic food supplies that include cereals and pulses, peanuts jaggery all locally procured in consonance with their eating habits and soaps. The food supplies would help them to tide over the immediate crisis till the government is able to streamline its food distribution process. The support is primarily being extended to those who do not have ration cards as they would not be covered under the recently announced government scheme which caters to only ration card holders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/on-the-frontline-single-rural-women-and-farm-widows-are-worst-affected-by-lockdown/story-SGFeBlzpM0rYK8ntro3eOK.html
07-04-2020||City||Pune police use mist blowers as sanitising apparatus outside Market Yard, police stations||PUNE In the fight against Sars-cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 (coronavirus) infection the Pune city police have set up “mist blowers” at the entrance of Agriculture Produce Market Committee-run (APMC-run) Market Yard at Gultekdi on Monday.According to officials buyers and supply trucks are disinfected with the mist before they enter the market.The concept was ideated by DCP (Zone V) Suhas Bawache who holds MSc in agriculture from Parbhani.“The mist blower is a zero maintenance model and is battery operated set up which releases mist after being fed with the sanitising chemicals. A truck is easily sanitised in the showers which emanate from all the sides,” said DCP Bawache.Trader Rajendra Sanklecha lauded the efforts undertaken by the police and said, “The police have undertaken a noble cause for the safety of buyers and traders.”According to officials, six more mist blowers have been set up outside the entrance of police stations which come under the jurisdiction of ZoneV of the city police which comprises of Kondhwa, Wanowrie, Market Yard, Bibvewadi Hadapsar and Mundhwa police stations.DCP Bawache said, “The police personnel are at the forefront in this fight against Covid-19 (coronavirus) and they are at a risk to get infected with the Sars-cov-2 virus. So this initiative has been undertaken as a precautionary measure.”Additional Commissioner (Eastern Region) Sunil Phulari, “We ate taking these precautions for the safety of the residents and police personnel in this times of crisis.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-police-use-mist-blowers-as-sanitising-apparatus-outside-market-yard-police-stations/story-oTgBuUTe7gXQiJAE7CRtCM.html
07-04-2020||Pune||Get up to speed with sprint queen Avantika Narale’s lockdown gameplan in Pune||Avantika Narale, city’s sprint queen has not been able to hit the tracks due to the lockdown, but the 17-year old has numerous training drills up her sleeve to make sure the quarantine isn’t hampering her fitness. Narale had missed her training at the Baburao Sanas Ground since March 10, as activities had been suspended at the grounds and the hostel was converted into an isolation centre for Covid-19 patients, even before the lockdown started. Narale practices every evening on normal days under two coaches – Sudhakar Memane and Sanjay Patankar at the ground. The coaches have given Narale a routine to follow during the lockdown at her Wadgaon Sheri residence.Morning sessionMy first session of the day starts at 7am. First, I do warm-up exercises and then squats, push-ups, lunges, burpees and various running exercises in the courtyard of her house. The session continues for two hours. Once I finish training, I have a healthy breakfast and rest till lunch is served. I am fond of listening to music and I do that in my free time. Even while participating in tournaments, I take time out after my training, to listen to music, as it is integral part of my routine. Afternoon sessionAfter lunch, I spend time with my younger brother and we generally play games like ludo and cards. Watching movies on the television set is another thing which I like a lot. I generally prefer to watch old and new Hindi movies. Sometimes, I also take a nap for an hour in the afternoon.Evening sessionI practice from 5pm to 7pm. Jumping, stretching, ABC running drills, climber exercises and different types of running workouts are something I do in the evening. ABC running drills include high knee skips, butt kickers, ankle drill, skipping, high knee running, foreleg extension marching, straight leg running, high knee bounce skips, ankle bounce and bounding. I do all these drills every day and I am in touch with my coaches over the telephone.After finishing my workout, I prefer to watch videos on Youtube about different types of workouts. The videos help me understand different techniques of training. When I see any new type of drill over the internet, I prefer to discuss it with my coaches, before including it in my routine.At night, it is family time again and we prefer to play cards and ludo on alternate days. Gym I don’t have an everyday gym session even on normal days, so I am not missing the gym much. I have very good drills which help me stay active and fit. The drills are perfect for quarantine days. I miss running on the tracks, but at moment staying home is the best option for all of us. I am praying things become normal soon.HobbiesListening to songs and watching movies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/get-up-to-speed-with-sprint-queen-avantika-narale-s-lockdown-gameplan-in-pune/story-cbpCkZYMqWo6nciEpZJF3K.html
07-04-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai cyber police issues advisory on cyber crimes amid coronavirus lockdown||Mumbai cyber police on Monday issued an advisory for general public to inform them how cyber-fraudsters are taking advantage of the lockdown which has forced people to remain indoors. A study on trending cyber crimes shows fraudsters are taking advantage of the situation as many people are using online banking services to be updated with their banking activities.“Taking advantage of this, several cyber fraudsters have started calling up people posing as bank officials and asking them for their bank details and One Time Password (OTP) if they wish to delay their loan’s equated monthly instalment (EMI),” said Vishal Thakur, DCP, Mumbai cyber police station. Cyber police have received several complaints over the past 10 days and are helping local police stations probe such cases. “Fraudsters are also sending links by messages asking people to download applications like Anydesk, Quick Support, Airdroid and Team Viewer which provides remote access to your phones and enables the fraudster to hack your phone and steal your bank details,” said a police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cyber-police-issues-advisory-on-cyber-crimes-amid-lockdown/story-0tDnAdHq4u5w7fAcdsUz0O.html
07-04-2020||City||No observing quarantine? App to track, alert Mohali police, health officials||A Covid Control App to identify and mark quarantined spots and people, enabling easy tracking by health and police officials, has been launched by the district police and IT consultant Avinash Sharma in an attempt to gain technological advantage over the battle against Covid-19.The app, which runs on Android, has to be mandatorily downloaded by those who are quarantined. Their location is tracked via their mobile phone numbers through geo fencing technology that creates a virtual perimeter for a real-world geographical area.“Telecom service providers will help track the phone numbers,” says Mohali senior superintendent of police and nodal officer for Covid-19 Kuldeep Singh Chahal, who has been involved with the project along with deputy superintendent of police Amroz Singh .Every quarantined user will be geo-fenced within a 500 metre radius of his or her place of quarantine and will have to upload a selfie every hour. The system will then update the location and match it with the quarantine area. Anyone breaching the geo fence will get a warning message which will also alert the police control room, even if the phone is switched off.Penal action taken against those breaching norms include FIRs registered under Sections 188 (disobedience of orders duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).“Other app users will also be able to see, in real time, all the ‘red zones’ and quarantined or cluster areas on the app. People entering an infected area will get an alert,” Chahal said.The 24-hour control room has been set up near the Phase 8 police station with a dedicated team to monitor quarantined persons and bring the violations to the notice of the police station concerned.Also, WhatsApp groups have been formed at the police station level for immediate redressal of issues involving the local Saanjh (community) team, police teams and representatives of society to raise genuine queries and troubleshoot at the local level. Any issue which is beyond the scope of a group will be redressed at the district level. A 24-hour police helpline number (88720-90029,0172-292-0074,0172-227-0091) has also been up to resolve issues related to the lockdown through direct intervention.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-observing-quarantine-app-to-track-alert-mohali-police-health-officials/story-BptBVWxpqdTMjcNFTFpL2O.html
