08-04-2020||Mumbai||Wearing masks mandatory in mumbai or face arrest: BMC||Citing several studies pointing out that wearing masks can reduce the scope of spreading coronavirus, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) made it mandatory for citizens to wear masks in public places. Failing to do so may result in offenders getting arrested under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), the BMC said in a circular. Meanwhile, the BMC maintained that Mumbai has not entered stage three of the outbreak, which is community transmission, amid speculation owing to the spike in daily cases. A circular, issued by municipal commissioner Praveen Pardeshi, stated that the civic body has decided in public interest to make masks necessary for any person moving in public places. The circular stated that citizens must wear three-ply or cloth mask. The BMC circular read, “Any person moving around in his personal or official vehicle must be wearing masks. No person/ officer will attend any meeting/ gathering, workplace without wearing these masks.”The BMC circular said these masks may be standard ones available with the chemist or even homemade, washable masks and can be reused after proper washing and disinfecting them.The BMC circular further noted that those not wearing masks can be arrested. The circular stated, “Anybody violating these instructions will be punishable under section 188 of IPC and will be strictly penalised and arrested by police officers or officers appointed by the assistant commissioners of wards. All these officers are hereby authorised to take any actions to penalise such violators stringently.Earlier, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, in his address via social media, has appealed to citizens to wear masks while going out. Thackeray appealed to citizens to wear masks or even use a clean cotton handkerchief that can act as mask.According to the civic body, Mumbai reported 72 fresh cases and six fatalities on Wednesday. The city now has 714 coronavirus cases and 45 deaths.As of Wednesday, the BMC has tested around 14,000 patients for coronavirus, which is around 70% of the 20,000 tests done by Maharashtra. It has tested around 1,012 patients at fever clinics set up in 241 containment zones of the city. The BMC is also planning a drive-through sample collection plan for detecting coronavirus where patients drive in and get tested without getting out of the cars.Dharavi, India’s largest slum, saw six new cases of Covid-19 and one death on Wednesday, bringing the tally to 13 cases, including two deaths.The BMC is tracing and quarantining close contacts of the new cases, which include a 50-year-old cleaner working in KEM Hospital, a 25-year-old from Mukund Nagar slum and a 35-year-old in Dhanwada chawl.Mahim also saw its first two cases of coronavirus on Wednesday. This includes a nurse working at Breach Candy Hospital and staying in Mahim and a 43-year-old man, who has a mutton shop in Worli, which is one of the worst-affected spots in the city. In G-South Ward, which also includes Worli and Prabhadevi area, the number of cases stood at 138, and it has seen the highest spike in number of cases when compared to other wards in the city. In just one day from April 6 to 7, the cases went up from 78 to 133. Nearly 70% of the 590 coronavirus cases in Mumbai on Tuesday do not have any international travel history and were infected after they came in contact with those who travelled abroad. Dr Daksha Shah, deputy director, health department of the BMC said, “We are not in stage three of community transmission. According to the Central government, we are in the later phase of stage two. Out of 590 cases that we have detected up to Tuesday, only 20 to 25% have international travel history, and rest all are based on contact.”Shah added, “The high number of those being detected positive without any travel history is because we are doing rigorous contact tracing of those tested positive. Along with this, we are also doing community testing by setting up fever clinics.”The BMC has been tracing close contacts by classifying them as high-risk and low-risk contacts of those who tested positive. After tracing the close contacts, the BMC seals a particular area where the close contacts reside or work, and these areas are termed as containment zones. The Thane police commissioner has also issued a circular, making it compulsory for residents to wear a mask while going in a public place. Vivek Phansalkar, police commissioner, Thane, said, “People are supposed to wear a mask, while going out of their house. They will have to wear a mask even if they are commuting in their own vehicle and at place of work. They can use a mask available at chemist shop or a homemade cloth mask, which is reusable. People found not wearing a mask will be booked under section 188 for violations.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/wearing-masks-mandatory-in-mumbai-or-face-arrest-bmc/story-qHRfpD5N0mi27hLge6sSnJ.html
08-04-2020||Lucknow||Wearing masks compulsory, violation to invite action: UP government||The state government on Wednesday announced that people would compulsorily have to cover their faces while moving in public places.Principal secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said under the Epidemic Act, 1897 and UP Epidemic Disease (Covid-19) Rules 2020, covering of the face (mask) in public places had been made compulsory in Uttar Pradesh. The people would have to cover their faces while walking out of their house till the Act was effective in the state, he said.The people can use triple layer mask available in the market or can make mask at home using clean cloth. The three layer cotton mask is washable. If the mask is not available, people can use gamchha (light cotton towel), handkerchief and scarf. The face mask or cover should be washed before reuse.The N- 95 mask is only for doctors and para medical staff.If the people were caught moving outside their houses without covering their faces, it would be considered violation of the Epidemic Act, 1897 and UP Epidemic Disease (Covid-19) Rules 2020. Action would be taken against the people who violated the order, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/wearing-masks-compulsory-violation-to-invite-action-up-government/story-UpJvyEBVmR8uAP192XVaCP.html
08-04-2020||Mumbai||Cops connect via video conferencing||The city’s police department has started using video conferencing applications like Lets Huddle and Zoom to ensure social distancing within the force as they battle it out on the ground every day to curb the spread of Covid-19.The video conferencing apps allow senior police officers to connect with at least 100 police personnel at any given time, conduct daily meetings, and monitor the situation in real-time.Vinoy Kumar Choubey, joint commissioner of police (law and order), said, “We have to take extra precautions to avoid getting infected. All the 13 zonal deputy commissioners of police are proficient in the use of modern technology, and have adopted new ways to communicate with their staff on the field.”He said, “We have a video conferencing system available through which the commissioner connects with senior inspectors of all 94 police stations, assistant, deputy and additional commissioners of police. Now, deputy commissioners of police have been given the right to connect with their staff using video conferencing apps.”Zonal deputy commissioners of police have started to hold meetings with their entire staff through video conferencing facilities where important guidelines, plans of action to handle containment zones, and handling check posts are discussed, said a senior police officer.Manjunath Singe, DCP (zone 8), said, “This is a situation where many developments are taking place constantly. There are many plans of action that have to be devised and revised, and video conferencing applications have enabled us to connect with our staff daily.”Singe said his team has opted to use a paid and secure application through which he can connect with over 100 of his staff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cops-connect-via-video-conferencing/story-CsMMWeTXY4pxsaRWHGlhdL.html
08-04-2020||Mumbai||After daughters, filmmaker tests positive for Covid-19||Film producer Karim Morani on Wednesday tested positive for the coronavirus, days after his daughters, Zoa and Shaza, were found positive for Covid-19. He has been admitted to Nanavati Hospital, where Shaza was admitted after her reports came out. Morani is a producer of several of actor Shah Rukh Khan’s films namely RA.One, Happy New Year, Chennai Express and Dilwale.Shaza reportedly returned from Sri Lanka in the first week of March, while Zoa returned from Rajasthan around mid-March. “We were anticipating this [Morani’s reports coming positive] as they were living in the same house. The great thing is his wife and the staff members have tested negative. That is some relief,” Karim’s brother, Mohomed Morani told Hindustan Times, adding that the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has sanitised the entire premises and home after Shaza and Zoa tested positive.  Mohomed said Zoa, who was admitted to Kokilaben Ambani Hospital in Andheri, and Shaza will undergo tests on Wednesday. “They have to test negative twice to be sent home, so let’s hope for the best,” he says. Zoa took to Twitter to confirm the report on Wednesday evening: “Papa and Shaza have no symptoms, I have a few... it feels like a flu with an uneasiness in the chest…”Despite repeated attempts, civic officials were not available for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/after-daughters-filmmaker-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-akc1MOrg50InqFzHmnkwTJ.html
08-04-2020||Mumbai||Despite warnings, many violate lockdown norms||The Mumbai Police continued cracking down on people gathering in one place unnecessarily despite repeated warnings. The police have registered 328 FIRs against approximately 600 people for violating lockdown norms on Tuesday. Since Monday, the police have started stressing on lodging FIRs to ensure effective lockdown to curb the spread of Covid-19. As first reported by Hindustan Times, on Monday the number of FIRs lodged against violators rose from the daily average of 61 since March 20 to 292 on Monday. On Tuesday the figure further rose to 347, which includes 328 cases for unnecessarily gathering in public. Of these 328 cases, 104 were from north region (Goregaon to Dahisar) followed by south region (Cuffe Parade to Tardeo) with 67 cases and East region (Kurla East, Chembur to Mulund) with 68 cases. With G South ward being the worst-hit area by coronavirus in the city, Sukhlal Varpe, senior inspector, Worli police station, said Jeejamata Nagara in Worli has been sealed completely. Varpe said, “Around five police officers and 20 police constables are deployed round the clock to ensure people stay at home. We have started a helpline number where people can call in case of emergency. On Tuesday, we, along with an NGO, distributed around 4,000 ration kits to locals having 15 days’ ration. We are not allowing people to come in or leave the area.”In another incident, a restaurant owner and staff at Nagpada in south Mumbai was booked for running the restaurant in violation of complete lockdown after a video of the hotel allowing customers inside hotel premises went viral on social media. Kirit Somaiya stopped from travellingBJP leader Kirit Somaiya was stopped by the Mumbai Police from travelling out from his residence in Mulund (East) on Wednesday morning. Somaiya was taken to Navghar police station and was allowed to leave in the evening. Somaiya, in his tweets, had said he was detained and arrested, but the police denied his claims and said he was restrained from travelling.Action taken by Maharashtra Police till April 8 “We have lodged 15 FIRs for visa violation under the Foreigners Act against 156 foreigners across the state including 32 in Mumbai. We have made 977 cases of illegal transport arresting 1,886 people, seized 12,420 vehicles and collected a fine of ₹95.56 lakh from them,” said Special IGP, L&O, Milind Bharambe. A total of 27,432 FIRs have been registered against people for violating lockdown orders. Another 60 FIRs have been lodged for assault on police with 161 people arrested in these cases. A total of 12,420 vehicles have been seized unnecessarily plying on roads, said Vinayak Deshmukh, assistant IGP, L&O, Maharashtra police.Hate speech sees spike on social media: Maharashtra Cyber Balsing Rajput, SP, Maharashtra Cyber police, said, “Over the past four days, there has been an increase in hate speech and communal crimes over social media. A total of 27 FIRs have been registered over the past two days (Monday and Tuesday) for hate speech across the state. Since the beginning of the lockdown till Tuesday, about 113 cases have been registered for fake news, rumours and hate speech.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/despite-warnings-many-violate-lockdown-norms/story-8A7i0CAuo0xjvQpZt3cVZP.html
08-04-2020||Chandigarh||Only 100 farmers to be allowed to enter Haryana mandis per day||With social distancing being the key to success of the upcoming procurement season, Haryana government’s agencies on Wednesday decided that every day, only 100 farmers will be allowed to bring their farm produce to the state mandis.The mustard procurement will start on April 15, while wheat will be procured April 20 onwards. The process will go on till June 30 at over 2,000 procurement centres for wheat and about 135 for mustard. Haryana state agricultural marketing board issued guidelines to all market committees on Wednesday, stating that only 50 farmers each will be allowed in a mandi from 8am to 2pm and 2.30pm to 6pm daily to maintain physical distance in view of Covid-19 outbreak. MUSTARD, GRAM PURCHASE CAPS LIKELY TO GET RELAXEDWhile there is no daily limit on wheat buying, there is a cap on the purchase of mustard (25 quintal per day) and gram (20 quintal per day) from one farmer.However, officials said the state government on Wednesday requested the Union agriculture minister to raise the mustard and gram purchase limit to 40 quintals per day. The increase in daily quantity would mean lesser visits to mandis by farmers.“Also, we are seeking an increase in the quantity of mustard and gram procured by Nafed from 25% to 40%,” said an official. The procurement of mustard and gram is done under the price support scheme (PSS). It comes into operation when the prices in open market fall below MSP. As per the existing norms, only 25% of the mustard and gram crop can be bought under the PSS by the procurement agencies at MSP. CENTRES TO BE ARHTIYA SPECIFICOfficials are expecting to learn from mustard procurement. “We will be able to figure out whether the 50-50 farmer model is workable or we need to modify it for wheat,” said a top official. The officials said they have worked out a system to ensure that farmers affiliated to a particular arhtiya arrive with their produce at one particular centre. “This will save the commission agents from exhausting resources since every arhtiya will have an earmarked centre,” said an official.E-GATE PASS In order to regulate and stagger the procurement, the market committee will ensure that all produce —wheat, mustard and black gram — enters the mandi on the basis of online e-gate passes available only for registered and verified farmers. However, unregistered farmers have been asked to apply for registration up to April 19 on the Meri Fasal Mera Byora portal.The market committee in consultation with the mandi association concerned will issue a daily schedule to invite registered farmers with their produce. DEDICATED 24X7 HELPLINE A dedicated 24x7 toll-free helpline, 1800-180-2060, will get operational by April 13 to address issues related to procurement, infrastructure and Covid-19. To minimise the health risk to those engaged in operations and ensure that the mandis do not become a node of transmission, market committees have been directed to follow the sanitation protocols and safety procedures such as social distancing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/only-100-farmers-to-be-allowed-to-enter-haryana-mandis-per-day/story-MPlJim0iCUKFqfWsaFsA9H.html
08-04-2020||Mumbai||Byculla zoo stocks up on its supplies for animals||Amid broken supply chain and delay in getting essential goods, Mumbai’s Byculla zoo has made preparations to keep its animals well-fed by ensuring there will be no short supply of food. The freezers in the zoo are now equipped to store fish, meat, fruits, and vegetables that will be sufficient for 10 to 12 days in case of unavailability of fresh supply if an extended lockdown in implemented in Maharashtra. Dr Sanjay Tripathi, director of the zoo, said, “We can deep freeze food in larger quantities as contingency if the situation worsens. Otherwise animals are fed fresh food.” Byculla zoo currently houses 300 animals and birds. Tigers, leopard, hyena, and jackal are carnivores who need meat while birds, sloth bear eat fruits, berries and vegetables; and penguins eat fish. Tripathi said, “During the partial lockdown in early March, the zoo bought two deep freezers of 500-litre capacity each to store meat, fish, vegetables and fruits for our herbivores and carnivores. We already have one deep freezer with 500-litre capacity. This allows the zoo to store food to last 10 to 12 days, in case of emergency.” Zoo authorities are also disinfecting the food given to animals with a safe solution diluted in water. The food is dipped in this solution for less than a minute and then thoroughly washed with fresh water. There are 20 odd zoo staffers who live on the premises to take care of the animals round the clock.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/byculla-zoo-stocks-up-on-its-supplies-for-animals/story-0obruozblXYnuHkuhXxnpM.html
08-04-2020||Mumbai||6 new cases in Dharavi, 1 more death||Dharavi, India’s largest slum, saw six new cases of Covid-19 and one death on Wednesday, bringing the tally to 13 cases and two deaths.A 64-year-old patient, who was admitted with fever, cough and breathlessness on Tuesday died the same day, but his death was confirmed on Wednesday. The six new cases from the slum cluster includes a couple, a 59-year-old man and 49-year-old woman; a 50-year-old cleaner, 64-year-old patient who died and two men aged 25 and 35. The cleaner used to work in KEM Hospital in Parel, while the 25-year-old resides in Mukund Nagar area and the 35-year-old is resident of Dhanwada chawl. According to BMC, none of them had travel history. The police and the civic body have also tracked 20-25 people from Dharavi, who had attended the Tabligi Jamaat event in Delhi and quarantined them. Kiran Dighavkar, assistant municipal commissioner of BMC’s G north ward, said, “The police traced around 20-25 Tabligi Jamaat attendees, based on the list they received from the Centre. None has tested positive yet.’’ Meanwhile, in a statement issued on Wednesday, the BMC said it has identified a quarantine facility for around 11,000 people. The BMC has been scouting for space to quarantine those who live in small houses, where isolation is not possible. Till now, 900 such people have been identified. The 240-hectare slum pocket has 850,000 residents and a population density of 66,000 per square kilometre, making it one of the more cramped spaces in Mumbai, the world’s fifth most densely populated city. Activists and health workers had expressed concerns over how social distancing is practically impossible in an area where an average of 10-12 people stay in each of 57,000 housing units measuring around 250 sq ft.However, BMC, which runs the city’s nodal health department, said on Friday that its officers had a containment plan in place for Dharavi almost a month ago. “We ran a house-to-house survey to get the actual figure of the slum dwellers to keep our amenities ready,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner (health), BMC, told HT last week. “This helped us list high-risk people living with co-morbid issues such as cardiac ailments, respiratory problems, hypertension and diabetes, among others.”HT had reported on Friday that a group of 800 community health volunteers is in place. The first batch of 200 was trained by the BMC, and they are training 600 more to sensitise others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/6-new-cases-in-dharavi-1-more-death/story-WcrWI0kD6gX6JWXI7ivcsM.html
08-04-2020||Mumbai||40 staffers from Bhabha Hospital under quarantine||Around 40 staff members including nurses, lab assistants and paramedical staff of KB Bhabha Hospital in Bandra (West) have been quarantined after a patient, who tested positive for Covid-19, died at the hospital, an official said on Monday. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has identified only high-risk staff for possible exposure to coronavirus as of now. However, employees of the civic-run hospital demanded that the entire staff be quarantined as precaution without further delay.“As of now, we have identified our 40 staff members who have been exposed to a Covid-19 patient, and kept them in quarantine. Swab samples of these employees have been sent for test,” said Pradeep Jadhav, medical superintendent at the hospital.Dr Daksha Shah, deputy director, the health department of the BMC, said, “It is not necessary to quarantine those who were not exposed to patient. But we are ready to do it if required.”The 45-year-old woman was admitted to the hospital’s general ward on Saturday and died on Tuesday following severe breathing difficulty.Hospital staff, however, had mixed reaction to the BMC’s move, with many disappointed as their family members have not been put in quarantine as well. On Wednesday morning, over 150 nursing staff, paramedics and other workers of hospital also staged a protest.“Yes, it is good to move to quarantine 40 staffers. But, what about the other employees and our family members? We demand immediate quarantine of all staffers,” said Bharat Katare, a medical staff who was among the protesters.Bhatia Hospital stops non-emergency servicesAfter Jaslok and Wockhardt hospitals, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has stopped all non-emergency services at Bhatia Hospital after three patients were diagnosed with coronavirus. After three symptomatic patients, admitted there, tested positive for Coronavirus BMC collected swab samples from 70 hospital employees as per protocol. BMC has also taken swab samples of around 20 staffers from Hinduja Hospital in Khar after a Covid-19 patient got diagnosed. The patient is stable and has been to Seven Hills Hospital. “The OPD and emergency services will be functional. However, we have shut down the ICU, where the patient was admitted, temporarily,” said an official from the hospital.(With inputs from Rupsa Chakraborty)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/40-staffers-from-bhabha-hospital-under-quarantine/story-ubyFEwMlgqgA83k3wc31FP.html
08-04-2020||Mumbai||Why was Jamaat event permitted, asks Deshmukh||Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh on Wednesday raised several questions over the Ijtema (international congregation) organised at Tablighi Jamaat headquarters in Nizamuddin in Delhi last month, pointing a finger at the central government for the entire fiasco. The minister questioned why the permission was given to such a huge religious gathering even as coronavirus outbreak had begun in the country. He also questioned whether certain important persons had relations with Tablighi Jamaat, and why Maulana Saad, who is the main organiser of the programme, is absconding after National Security Advisor Ajit Doval visited the headquarters of Tablighi Jamaat at midnight of the event.Deshmukh’s remarks came in even as his party chief Sharad Pawar told the Prime Minister Narendra Modi that the focus of the government should be made on containing the epidemic rather than blaming a particular community for rise in Covid-19 in backdrop of Delhi’s Nizamuddin’s incident involving Tablighi Jamaat. He also suggested to PM Modi to put on hold his government’s central vista beautification project and also asked for release of state’s share in the central taxes.“What were the secret talks that took place between Doval and Maulana Saad past midnight (of the event last month) after the former visited the Jamaat headquarters in Nizamuddin. Why Maulana Saad is absconding day after their meeting and where is he now,” said Deshmukh in a statement issued on his letterhead and signed by him. In it he also questioned why both Doval and Delhi police commissioner maintained silence on the entire issue.“Most people have acknowledged the seriousness of Covid-19 epidemic. The Nizamuddin incident in Delhi raised concerns about the spread of the disease. Now, we need to focus on how to prevent the spread of the disease. It is not appropriate to blame or criticize any community,” Pawar said in his interaction with the Prime Minister held on Wednesday to discuss solutions to deal with the crisis following epidemic outbreak.The home minister had, on Tuesday, announced to take stern action against 50-60 attendees of the Tablighi Jamaat programme for not having reported to the authorities despite several appeals. He said that out of 1400 such attendees of the programme, rest have been traced out by the authorities.The group had organised a religious gathering between March 13 and 15 attended by more than 2000 people. The gathering believably led to a spike in the spread of coronavirus after the attendees went back to their hometowns across the country.Deshmukh has said that the union home ministry is responsible for this as it failed to stop the gathering organised by the religious group. Without naming anybody, Deshmukh has trained the guns believably at the union home ministry for giving permission to such a huge gathering after the outbreak of the Covid-19.Pawar also said that the central government should also look at how the state government’s income will increase. “States have not yet received their share of GST. It should be transferred immediately. Also, agriculture sector has been severely damaged. The central government should take steps to provide immediate relief to the farmers and those dependent on agriculture,” the NCP chief suggested the PM.Pawar opined that the government need take drastic steps to mitigate the financial crisis and hence non-plan expenditure will have to be reduced. “The central government has proposed to construct a new Parliament House. This plan should also be reconsidered or it could be postponed after examining the priorities,” he said.The veteran leader also objected to the orders issued by the governors directly to the bureaucracy and said that the instructions should be routed through the chief minister office or chief secretary to avoid multiple power centres. “It is heard that in some states the instructions are being issued by Honorable Governor directly to the bureaucracy. Though Hon. Governor has the authority to do so, the instructions have to be routed through Hon. @CMOMaharashtra and the Chief Secretary’s office in order to avoid multiple power centers and probable hindrances in the coordination of administration, Pawar tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/why-was-jamaat-event-permitted-asks-deshmukh/story-wr9oGBq64F9SA3y4dDOmBL.html
08-04-2020||City||Kalyan-Dombivli sees three new positive cases||Three new cases of Covid-19 were reported from Kalyan-Dombivli on Wednesday, taking the total number of cases to 38.A 38-year-old man, who attended the wedding in Dombivli, tested positive.A 40-year-old woman, a family member of an infected person from Kalyan, and a 44-year-old woman from Titwala, are the other two patients.This is the first case from Titwala, which is 12 kms away from Kalyan.So far, three deaths have been reported in Kalyan-Dombivli.Seven people have been discharged after treatment.“We have publicised contact numbers of clinics so that people can call if they show symptoms,” said Madhavi Pophale, public relations officer, KDMC.A total of 4,129 residents have been home quarantine in Thane commissionerate. The police officials are keeping eye on them by making video calls.The TMC app can alert if a quarantine person steps out.A police officer said, “We call them thrice a day to check on them. TMC officials too keep track on those home quarantined.”(Inputs from Anamika Gharat)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kalyan-dombivli-sees-three-new-positive-cases/story-kKymzYp3E3VpRfqTOcB4JI.html
08-04-2020||Gurugram||Vegetable shops at Gurugram’s Khandsa market to follow odd-even formula amid Covid lockdown||A day after the retail sale of fruits and vegetables at the Khandsa wholesale market was suspended, the district administration on Wednesday decided to allow bulk sales from odd and even-numbered shops on odd and even dates, respectively. The step has been taken to ensure that norms of social distancing are strictly observed in the city’s largest market, which is generally crowded, said officials.Officials said that strict action would be taken against traders and visitors who don’t follow social distancing rules. Barricades would also be set up at the entry and exit points of the market. “Only those who buy in bulk, or buy to sell on their vends and carts in villages or other parts of the city, will be allowed entry,” an official familiar with the matter said.The directions were issued by Jitender Yadav, subdivisional magistrate, on Wednesday, after a spot visit in the morning. Shopkeepers and visitors who were not maintaining social distance or wearing masks were penalised.“Directions have been issued to all commission agents and shopkeepers that from April 9, shops will be opened on the basis of the odd-even formula. On Thursday, which is April 9, the shops with odd numbers will be allowed to open and on April 10, shops with even numbers will open. The decision has been taken to ensure further prevention of coronavirus,” said Yadav.The move to introduce the odd-even formula for the wholesale market comes in the wake of the rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in neighbouring Faridabad, Palwal and Nuh, where the government has been forced to mark large containment zones to prevent the spread of the pandemic.Vinay Yadav, executive officer and secretary of the Khandsa Mandi association, said that there are 119 large and 53 smaller shops operating from the market. “The decision to introduce odd-even formula was taken on the direction of the deputy commissioner of Gurugram, to ensure social distancing norms are followed strictly. There would be no shortage of fruits and vegetables, as there is adequate supply and stocks in storage,” he said.Earlier on Tuesday, the Haryana Agricultural Marketing Board and Khandsa Market Committee had banned the retail sale of vegetables and fruits after large crowds gathered at different spots in the market. The committee has also decided that the market will remain operational from early morning till 9am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/vegetable-shops-at-gurugram-s-khandsa-market-to-follow-odd-even-formula-amid-covid-lockdown/story-wLzlbrDtOFd7GebM3TxI7M.html
08-04-2020||Delhi||Dr Lal PathLabs to start mobile Covid testing units||Dr Lal PathLabs, one of the leading private diagnostic laboratory networks in India, will soon start mobile units for testing people for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). It is one of 65 private laboratories across the country that have been approved by country’s apex biomedical research organisation, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to test for Covid-19.“We are setting up mobile testing units. The process is currently on to make it happen, and it should start in a week or so,” said Dr Vandana Lal, whole-time director, Dr Lal PathLabs. “We have to look for safer options. In other countries, telephone booth type set-ups are used, where only the technician’s arm sticks out while testing a suspect. In these mobile units, which will be going door-to-door, only the arm of the person testing will stick out. And since the patients will not be driving around the city to get tested, this option is safer,” she added.After a private laboratory in Delhi started a drive-through Covid-19 testing site, the ICMR came out with a detailed advisory on drive-through testing of Covid-19 patients. Delhi-based Dr Dangs Lab became India’s first Covid-19 testing laboratory to have started a drive-through sample collection site in its centre at West Delhi’s Punjabi Bagh area.The ICMR’s new advisory on sample collection said safety measures must be strictly followed. “The ICMR has no objection to the adoption of establishing convenient sample collection sites (drive-through centres for sample collection, etc.) by the respective State governments. However, the following advice is provided by the ICMR: the sample collection should be done using recommended personal protective equipment; these sites should be disinfected regularly as per recommended procedures; all recommended biosafety and biosecurity precautions should be implemented; sample transport to the nearest Covid-19 testing laboratory should be ensured under proper cold-chain conditions and with triple-layered packing,” the advisory read.“All our staff is well trained, and knows how to manage the testing modalities,” said Lal. In all, 139 government and 65 private labs are testing for Covid-19 in India. To date, 121,271 samples have been tested in government labs, and 2,267 samples have been tested in private laboratories, of which 5,872 samples have tested positive. India has seen 178 deaths related to Covid-19. Since the numbers are rising, the ICMR is preparing to scale up their testing capacity and bring it up to one-lakh tests a day, if required.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/dr-lal-pathlabs-to-start-mobile-covid-testing-units/story-u8GmVXcwkdpg4nsvC7XZuO.html
08-04-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: The first time they had a proper meal since Covid lockdown||For the first time in three days, more than 100 underprivileged families in Surat Nagar slept on a full stomach, on April 2. Their food was on the verge of running out when help arrived from the Gurgaon Nagrik Ekta Manch, a citizens’ group that has been working towards providing food to labourers and migrant workers left stranded in the city since the beginning of the 21-day nationwide lockdown, imposed to curb the spread of the Sars-Cov-2.The group is a collective of around 2,000 local residents who are using their resources to channelise food items and rations, reaching out to underprivileged families on a daily basis. For this, they have put in place a process to first scan appeals received personally or through social media to determine the urgency and choose recipients, pack rations, and then transport them to those in need.“We have a team of over 2,000, all regular residents of the city, each of whom contributed money for this initiative,” said Rahul Roy, a member of the Manch overlooking the operations said.Roy says the process of providing food usually begins some days before it reaches residents — the starting point is the appeals that come through “Whatsapp groups, mass organisations, NGOs and individuals.”In the hours that follow, a team of 10 verifies basic details over the phone to determine if the area indeed has a demand and whether it is getting ration supply from another volunteer group. Subsequently, a site visit is conducted by a volunteer to gauge the needs of the area, ascertain a point of local contact, the number of households in need of rations, and their addresses, along with basic identification details.Once this process is through, a procurement team works towards gathering the rations using contributions made by members of the Manch as well as residents of the city. These are then stored and packaged at a catering facility in Udyog Vihar which, prior to the lockdown, would sell food to offices and organisations.Each package given to a family by the group has five kilogram (kg) of rice, five kg flour, one litre bottle of mustard oil, one kg salt, 500 grams turmeric, some coriander and red chilli powder, one soap bar and 1.5 kg of pulses.“We volunteered to help the Manch supply food to those in need ever since the lockdown began. I have a team of six who pack all these items and when the volunteers arrive, they load the rations in their cars,” says Vipin Sharma, who runs the catering facility.It is around noon that these vehicles – usually around 10-15 in number – arrive at the facility to pick up the rations and deliver them to local contacts across the city.“It is the local contacts who are further responsible for overseeing their distribution to individual families,” said Roy, adding that the team of volunteers are divided a day in advance, as per the demand.For example, if 100 packets of ration are required in Sirhaul village then three members are allotted the task of delivering the rations in their individual vehicles. If it is a smaller number, such as 10-15 packets that need to be dropped near the Hero Honda Chowk, for instance, then one volunteer’s vehicle would suffice.On an average, members say ration is supplied to 250 to 300 families every day across areas that include Nathupur village, Khandsa road, Railway road, Sarhaul village, and Sikanderpur, which have a high concentration of migrant and daily wage workers who are out of work and hence have no money to purchase essential items for a living, and are on the brink of starvation.“Most of these slum dwellers work as daily wage earners, auto-rickshaw drivers, construction workers and domestic helps. The lockdown has left them in a lurch since they lead a hand-to-mouth existence. With no work, they do not have the money to procure food and feed their families,” said Gulaab, a member of the Surat Nagar Mahila Samiti, which coordinated the ration supply that reached the area’s residents last week.Located close to the Daulatabad flyover, sandwiched between the Dwarka Expressway and the railway tracks, Surat Nagar in Sector 104 is an area of contrast — concrete houses with winding, narrow lanes are set off against small slum clusters that appear unexpectedly, scattered across the neighbourhood.Hailing mostly from Bengal and Bihar, the migrant workers who reside in these slums say they have been struggling to find even one square meal a day ever since the 21-day lockdown was imposed, and were expecting to run out of rations by the second weekend of April.Salim Alam, an auto-rickshaw driver, said, “My earnings have come down to zero ever since the lockdown has been imposed. I cannot take my vehicle out on the roads, and there are no passengers even if I try. I have been feeding my family of five using whatever money remained, but I could not have continued in this way even until the end of this week. The rations we have received today have saved our lives.”For the volunteers engaged in distribution works, however, the task is not without its cons, with them risking themselves to infections as they visit highly congested areas to complete the job.“We take multiple precautions. The basics, of course, are that we all wear masks and gloves and carry hand sanitisers with us. In addition, the moment we enter our homes after completing the delivery, we go straight for a shower and put our clothes in the wash, to avoid any infection we may have caught from impacting our surroundings,” said Shehnaz Hussain, a member of the group who lives in Sector 5.In order to ensure that the process of delivery is smooth, the group members say they have given additional guidelines to their volunteers as well and cautioned them to ensure that they “don’t get mobbed”. Furthermore, considering the short supply of rations, volunteers have been advised to abandon the task if, while delivering, they sense that ration has already reached the people through other sources.The fight for the volunteers is, they say, not just a physical one against coronavirus as they expose themselves to risk of infection by roaming around the city and handling goods but also an emotional one, as they struggle to persuade their families on a daily basis to let them go out. Among them is Vipin, a caterer, who says leaving his house for the work is a daily struggle as he has to convince his family members that it is worth the risk.“My relatives are very concerned about me as I go out on a daily basis for this work. They keep on trying to dissuade me and tell me to stay in the house like everyone else but I cannot do that. The work I am doing is for the greater good. There are people who are not getting even one square meal a day for no fault of theirs; it is nothing short of my duty to help in any way I can,” said Vipin.HOW A PACKET OF RATION IS PROVIDED TO THOSE IN NEEDStep 1: A team of around 10 members from Gurgaon Nagrik Ekta Manch scan Whatsapp groups, or get alerts from mass organisations, NGOs and individuals about those in dire need of rationsStep 2: The team then identifies a local point of contact in the area and verifies whether there is an actual need, and also ascertains the quantity of which it is neededStep 3: A team of volunteers then collect packets of ration — each consisting of five kg rice, five kg flour, one-litre mustard oil, one kg salt, 500 grams turmeric, coriander powder, red chilli powder, one soap bar, and 1.5 kg pulses, from a warehouse in Udyog Vihar and loads the same in their private vehicles.Step 4: They then drop off the rations with their local contact, who is responsible for overseeing the distribution||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-the-first-time-they-had-a-proper-meal-since-covid-lockdown/story-cZZgKzRSfCQsroQDY2FUTL.html
08-04-2020||Delhi||AIIMS issues clarification on usage of masks||A day after asking doctors to reuse their masks four times, authorities from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi have issued a one-page standard operating procedure for doing so on Wednesday. After using a mask for a day, it has to be numbered and kept in a correspondingly numbered “big brown bag” for four days before reusing it; “sunlight is not necessary”.“On day 1, wear mask no 1 when you step out for duty. On day 2, use mask no 2. After you return home, place the used N95 mask in paper bag no 2 and let it dry out for the next four days. Do the same for day 3 and day 4,” the standard operating procedure reads.The fifth mask is a reserve. After the masks have been reused over 20 days, they have to be brought back in the paper bags and discarded as medical waste in the hospital, according to the document, which cites the US Centre for Disease Control (CDC). Guidelines for reusing masks have been issued by the CDC keeping in mind the shortage during the Covid-19 crisis, but that has come after many American hospitals reached near-capacity. The United States leads the world in the number of Covid-19 infections with close to 400,000 cases. In comparison, India has a little over a tenth of that number.The World Health Organization rules do not address the issue of how many times an N-95 mask must be worn but advises against wearing one respirator for more than four hours since it could lead to discomfort.So far, at least 35 hospital staff have been infected in Delhi. The hospital administration, however, clarified that only staff members in the non-infectious areas of the hospital have to reuse the N-95 masks.“This is a new virus; the doctors and staff members are scared. So, the N-95 masks have been issued to allay the psychological fears and give them confidence while working in the general patient-care areas of the hospital. The masks will also protect the staff in case there is some asymptomatic patient who comes in and later tests positive for the disease,” said Dr DK Sharma, medical superintendent of the hospital. He said the doctors who are in the high-risk areas such as the screening kiosk, the wards for suspected and confirmed Covid-19 cases, and the intensive care unit will get different personal protective equipment. “We have created three levels of kits for those working in the screening area, the wards, and the ICU. The staff will be allotted kits according to their area of posting. These do not have to be reused, just carefully removed and thrown away as medical waste,” said Dr Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/aiims-issues-clarification-on-usage-of-masks/story-eeFBCWFsBziuFaCMOofLAJ.html
08-04-2020||Delhi||Delhi police head constable posted at IGI airport immigration tests Covid-19 positive||A 38-year-old Delhi Police head constable, currently posted at the Bureau of Immigration, Indira Gandhi International Airport, Delhi, has tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Wednesday. Senior officials said that the man had been on leave since March 31 because the immigration department is working with limited staff as all international flight operations are currently suspended. Senior officers from the immigration said the policeman, who was attached with the Foreign Regional Registration Office (FRRO) and lives with his family in Rohini, got himself tested and his reports on Wednesday showed that he was positive for Covid-19.Deputy commissioner of police (Rohini) Pramod Kumar Mishra confirmed that the head constable has tested positive for Covid-19 and that he is currently at LNJP Hospital. With immediate effect, his family members and two of his colleagues who used to report to work with him have been asked to quarantine themselves at home, said a senior officer who did not wish to be named.“Since all international flight operations were suspended March 22 onwards there wasn’t much staff working at the immigration bureau at Delhi airport. This reduced the risk of infection to our other employees. As a precautionary measure, the medical screening of other staff members will also be carried out,” the officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-police-head-constable-posted-at-igi-airport-immigration-tests-covid-19-positive/story-wbJADGR9mS7RGAtdWo3biJ.html
08-04-2020||Gurugram||New Town Heights: Locked inside, Gurugram residents cook for needy in their neighbourhood||Stay home, stay safe. But for hundreds of migrant families in the vicinity of Sector 91, staying home means staying hungry. To ensure that neither coronavirus disease (Covid-19), nor hunger claim lives in their neighbourhood, residents of New Town Heights in Sector 86 have been, through a self-motivated group of resident volunteers, sending simple meals every day by cooking a little extra in their own kitchens. “We have placed a cardboard box in the lobby of each of the 12 towers. Residents were told that the collection will be made at 12pm every day. They can wrap the food in aluminium foils and place it there. It can be anything from roti-sabzi to paratha. The residents have picked up on the initiative and we are close to doubling the number of food packets we collected on the first day when we started,” said Bikas Jha, a resident.In the past five days, since the initiative started, the meal contribution from the condominium of 3,800 residents has doubled from 70 meals to 150, as on Wednesday. The packets collected are distributed to those in need in the low-income neighbourhood of Sector 91, where a large section of the population comprises of migrants mostly employed as domestic helps or daily wage earners. Jha added that the society, which is a part of the DLF Garden City township, has also collected about ₹17,000 to be distributed among nine families of women who work in the society and have been severely hit by the 21-day nationwide lockdown to check community spread of Covid-19. NO ‘WALK IN THE PARK’ THISAmong the several stringent measures taken to ensure social distancing, the society has been maintaining a strict no-walks policy. Residents have been advised to stay inside their apartments and those disobeying are given a strict warning and educated about the deadly respiratory disease that has infected about 15,00,000 people wordwide.“Thrice a day we announce on loudspeakers that residents should not be taking walks in the condominium compound. We have been doing this repeatedly to ensure residents’ safety,” said Yatinder Bhatiya, estate manager of the society. He added that to ease the boredom of staying inside all the time, the management plays soft music throughout the day through speakers placed around the compound.RELAXATION FOR PET PARENTSFor pet owners looking to take their pets for a walk, the society has created “relief areas” outside the society gate. Only one resident is allowed to walk one pet at a time. When they return, they have to mandatorily wash their hands. STOCKING UPThe society has put in place a list of stringent norms to avoid crowding at the departmental store that caters to their daily needs and a grocery vendor who arrives twice a week. “The vendor is here twice a week and we maintain social distancing. At the store, circles have been drawn at a gap of one foot for residents to stand in so as to avoid being too close to each other and crowd,” said Jigar Shah, a resident. Medical health experts recommend a gap of at least 1 metre or 6 feet between two people to ensure the virus cannot be transmitted while sharing a common space. The store staff wears masks and gloves at all times while on duty. All door-step deliveries have been discontinued. Orders placed on e-commerce sites or applications are delivered at the tower lobby. From here, selected volunteer residents deliver them to the apartments, Shah said, adding that people do not move out of their apartments unless absolutely needed. BOARDING FOR STAFFThe society, like many others, has provided accommodation to close to 75 staff members to ensure they do not go home and risk their lives or that of their families. This staff is responsible for housekeeping, cleaning, maintenance, horticulture and other tasks. Vacant townhouses and clubhouses have been furnished with basics to ensure they can stay comfortably, and all their meals are cooked in the now-shut club house. “Mattresses, bedsheets and pillows were provided to the staff. They are provided free meals three times a day. The meals are cooked inside the club kitchen,” Bhatiya said. KEEPING TRACK Residents wishing to step outside the condominium have to sign a self-declaration form stating their reason for going out. “We are maintaining record of residents stepping outside the compound. They have to declare their reason for stepping out,” said Bhatiya.The condominium has made it mandatory for all those passing through its gates, residents and support staff, to wash their hands before entering. Wash basins have been installed at the gate and everyone also has to sanitise their hands in the tower lobby as well.PARTY’S NOW ONLINE In the absence of social gatherings, virtual interactions have come alive among residents. Online groups on messaging platforms have become information exchange centres and play a key role in keeping residents engaged.“We often have residents share games or puzzles in the chat groups to keep spirits high,” said Shah.The society also has a ladies kirtan group which kept residents engaged and cheerful during the recently concluded Navratri festival.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/new-town-heights-locked-inside-gurugram-residents-cook-for-needy-in-their-neighbourhood/story-WkuvUI3y9WZL9GGB7frhAJ.html
08-04-2020||Delhi||Kejriwal holds e-meeting with MPs on Covid-19, seeks suggestions||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday held a meeting with all the MPs from the national capital on the Covid-19 outbreak in the city .During the meeting, held through video conferencing, Kejriwal urged all the leaders to work collectively in Delhi’s battle against coronavirus. The government later said that all the seven Lok Sabha members — belonging to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) — and the three Rajya Sabha members of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) had interacted with the chief minister and suggested ways to contain the spread of Covid-19.“Discussed the issue of coronavirus with Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha MPs via video conferencing. Several MPs have given good suggestions, which will soon be implemented by the government. We all will have to fight it together,” Kejriwal said in a tweet in Hindi.Delhi BJP chief Manoj Tiwari suggested that MLAs in Delhi also could take pay cuts similar to the MPs. Tiwari also urged Kejriwal to streamline the process of distributing ration for non-card holders. “The schools where ration is being given are facing large crowds, which is defeating the purpose of social distancing. People are facing a lot of trouble in getting the e-coupons to get the ration. I request you to appoint a few officials at every centre who can facilitate coupon generation at a faster rate,” Tiwari said.AAP Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh called the meeting fruitful and said, “The MPs suggested several things to improve our response to Covid-19, ranging from testing to sanitisation. The CM has assured he will work on every point,” he said. BJP’s east Delhi MP, Gautam Gambhir raised two issues. “Raised two issues with the CM. 1. Preparation of hospitals to deal with spike in cases and stock of equipment. 2. Waving off 2 months’ of electricity bills for small businesses across Delhi post-lockdown. Have to think about Delhi’s health and economy,” he said in a tweet after the meeting. New Delhi MP, Meenakshi Lekhi appreciated the chief minister’s decision of holding such a meeting and suggested that he urge people to remain at home during Shab-e-baraat. “Would like to thank Arvind Kejriwal who was gracious enough to take my suggestions into account during a video conference today. Today we rose above our differences to unite in our efforts against a common cause. Beauty of Indian democracy,” Lekhi said in a tweet.The meeting came a day after Kejriwal announced a five-point action plan which includes one lakh rapid anti-body blood test in hotspots to contain the spread of the virus.There are ten Members of Parliament, including seven of Lok Sabha from BJP and three of Rajya Sabha from AAP, in the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/kejriwal-holds-e-meeting-with-mps-on-covid-19-seeks-suggestions/story-IfXJXGfAJuaUbVLNxE4ytL.html
08-04-2020||City||Covid-19 crisis: GB University begins online counselling for depressed people||NOIDA: The department of psychology and mental health of the Gautam Budh University (GBU) has started online counselling to all its students, teachers, employees and other people of Gautam Budh Nagar district.Akriti Varshney, a teacher with the psychology department who was working as one of the clinical psychologists, on Wednesday said that her team provides counselling to get rid of anxiety, sleeping disorders, post trauma tension, depression and unknown fear caused due to the spread of Covid-19 pandemic. “Most of callers were students from GBU and other universities. They were complaining of examination anxiety, failure in time management and lack of self-confidence. We first tried to analyse their problems thoroughly and then suggested them to feel relaxed. They were also asked to do yoga and aerobics, besides enjoying their favourite musical numbers,” she said.Varshney further said that 12 teachers have been deployed for the tele-counselling. “The contact numbers of all the experts have been circulated and they will redress the problems of the callers from Monday to Saturday between 10am and 5pm,” she added. Students and people can call on the phone numbers 9811416863 and 9750257255, among others, she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-crisis-gb-university-begins-online-counselling-for-depressed-people/story-OijNMFqQu6LuQxGu7oOpSO.html
08-04-2020||Noida||Requests for water ROs, fans to rise with approaching summer||With the summer approaching, the demand for water ROs, fans, refrigerators, ACs, etc., and the maintenance of these electronic appliances is slated to go up in the district, even though they do not fall under the category of essential services.Residents are already coming up with individual requests for the repair of these services which are necessary for day to day life.“With most people staying at home during the lockdown and summers already here, water consumption is high. We have already received five to seven complaints about servicing or repairs of RO systems but the technicians cannot come due to the lockdown. Authorities should issue some passes at least so that we don’t face too many problems going forward,” said Amit Gupta, president, Apartment Owners’ Association, Prateek Wisteria.Residents said that these services don’t look essential at first, but are critical for life.“RO systems need periodic servicing, but mechanics have refused to come home to do so, which has forced us to use alternate methods. This in itself can become a health hazard in the long run, especially as the inherent quality of water in Noida is already poor,” said Preeti, a resident of Gaur City.The public feels that these services have been overlooked. “The Residents’ Welfare Association (RWA) is getting a lot of requests for electricians and plumbers. There were two blackouts in F block but the fault could not be sorted without a trained technician. This is a more serious issue for individual plotted houses located in several Noida sectors. All of these houses also have their own RO plants to get access to safe drinking water and they require frequent servicing. Many residents are facing issues and have resorted to bottled water, which in itself is a risk,” said Sanjeev Kumar, president, RWA, Sector 51.He also said the refrigerator of a family broke down so the residents are now pitching in with daily supplies. So giving access to technicians is important at this time, said Kumar.Residents feel that authorities should add at least authorised service centres to their essential list so that necessary precautions like social distancing can also be maintained.“For top-floor residents of a high rise, not having an AC is adding to the misery. The first two weeks of summer require all such services. Maybe different services can be scheduled sector-wise for ACs, refrigerators and ROs. Some societies have centralised RO systems. If they go down and are not repaired, the entire society may have to go without drinking water,” said Rajiva Singh, president, Noida Federation of Apartment Owners’ Association.Officials said that these services don’t fall under the category of essential services. However, if the need arises, the government can take the requests under consideration.“We have been approached by an RO company already and we have sent a recommendation for allowing this particular service. As far as the other requests are concerned, summer is still some time away and the lockdown is till April 15. In case it extends, a call can be taken then depending on the situation,” said Anil Kumar, deputy commissioner, industries, Gautam Budh Nagar.The administration and police had issued necessary passes to the personnel of essential services and their supporting industries and are taking action against fraudulent people.On Wednesday, the Sector 24 police had even arrested two men roaming around in the district with fake media I-cards, which comes under essential services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/requests-for-water-ros-fans-to-rise-with-approaching-summer/story-27k7CMTrzelNyoDTBsLo2L.html
08-04-2020||Noida||News of 15 districts being sealed triggers panic buying among residents||With many misunderstanding reports about the sealing of Covid-19 hot spot areas in 15 districts for a complete sealing of the entire district, residents once more went into full panic and came out on to streets to stock up on provisions and essential items.On Wednesday afternoon, the Uttar Pradesh government announced that all 105 hot spot areas -- from where Covid-19 cases had been reported -- would be under an intensive lockdown till the morning of April 14. During this period, a thorough sanitisation exercise will be carried out in the affected areas and all essential items will be delivered to the door step so that no one steps out of home. The news triggered panic among residents and huge queues were spotted outside all major grocery shops across the district with people rushing out to buy provisions.“A news channel was showing that there will be a complete lockdown till April 30. That is why we came out to buy milk and vegetables to last us for the next few days,” an elderly woman, outside a grocery shop in Sector 75, said.People could be seen stocking up on essentials. The situation was similar to what had happened on the night of March 23, when Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced the 21-day nationwide lockdown. Social distancing was forgotten, especially in rural belts of Barola, Harola, Salarpur and Greater Noida, as people clamoured to lay their hands on essential items.Even shop owners started panicking. A pharmacy shop owner in Sector 75 was seen urging customers to buy all they needed as his shop may also be closed.“We have even reduced the price of some commodities to clear out stocks before the shop is closed so that our produce don’t go wasted,” the owner of vegetable and fruits shop said.People blamed unverified news put up on social media for the panic situation. “I had not even switched on the TV. My wife just said that we would be out of potatoes soon so I should get some more. But when I went out, I saw this huge line of people, trying to stock up like crazy. Even if we have to go on a complete lockdown, the authorities will figure out a way to not let us go hungry. Why do people behave in this manner?” Anuj, a resident of Sector 75, said.Officials of the district later clarified that only 12 hot spots in the district will go under intensive lockdown. And while all services in their areas will be shut, online delivery of all essential goods would still be available.Video messages from senior officials in the district urged people to not fall prey to rumours and engage in panic buying.“According to government regulations 12 areas in the district have been identified as hot spots. I request all the citizens to not to resort to panic buying and maintain social distancing and stay inside homes. Even in hot spot areas, all essential items will be delivered to the doorstep. Please don’t believe rumours. The authority will continue to help citizens through its helpline and app for home delivery,” Ritu Maheshwari, CEO, Noida authority, said.Commissioner of police Alok Singh said, “People should stay at home. Daily need items will be delivered to homes and there is no shortage of any food items in the district.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/news-of-15-districts-being-sealed-triggers-panic-buying-among-residents/story-QqrghfWldRL2ggr98AXrAL.html
08-04-2020||City||Greater Noida golfer sells trophies to contribute to PM-Cares fund, earns accolades from PM Modi||GREATER NOIDA: Young Indian golfer Arjun Bhati, a resident of Greater Noida, has donated Rs 4.30 lakh towards Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (PM-Cares) Fund set up by PM Narendra Modi to deal with the Covid-19 crisis. Interestingly, the 15-year-old golfer raised the amount by selling his 102 trophies which he had won in the past several years. Bhati has earned accolades from PM Modi for his contribution to the PM-Cares Fund. “This wonderful feeling of Indian citizens is the greatest support for the country as it fights novel coronavirus,” the PM tweeted on Tuesday night while praising the young golfer. His trophies included three world golf championship titles and national championship title.Bhati, a three-time world junior gold champion, sold all his trophies to relatives and his father’s friends to raise the money. His trophies included three world junior golf championship titles and a national championship. The golf protege revealed that he was inspired to raise the fund from his grandmother, who has also donated Rs 2 lakh in PM-Cares Fund.“I thought if my grandmother can donate her pension, then I should also do something. So, I decided to sell my trophies to raise funds. I have given away my 102 trophies to raise Rs 4.3 lakh and donated the same to PM-Cares. I feel to do more as Prime Minister Narendra Modi inspires to work for the country selflessly,” said Bhati, a class 10 student of a private school in Greater Noida.Bhati has brought laurels for the family and the country since his early age. He defeated Taiwan’s Jeremy Chen to win the FCG Callaway Junior World Golf Championship 2019 in Palm Desert, California in July last year. Out of 637 golfers from 40 countries that participated in the tournament, Bhati secured the first position with a total of 199 strokes in the three-day final. Bhati has been playing golf for about eight years now. Until now, he has participated in a total of 150 tournaments out of which he has won 110, he said.The junior golf champion’s father Boby Bhati is proud of what his son has done off the turf.“We are proud of him. After his grandmother donated her pension, Arjun said I want to do my bit to fight Covid-19,” said Boby Bhati, whose father was an army officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/greater-noida-golfer-sells-trophies-to-contribute-to-pm-cares-fund-earns-accolades-from-pm-modi/story-IavBh2bidfUWd9wn7qnmuL.html
08-04-2020||Lucknow||‘Youths, middle-aged more vulnerable in UP’||Young and middle aged people in Uttar Pradesh are more vulnerable to Sars-Cov-2.Addressing a press conference, principal secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said after analyzing the Covid- 19 patients’ data, health department experts found that people in the age group of 21-40 years and 41-60 years were more vulnerable to Sars-Cov-2 than the elderly and children.Among the 361 positive cases reported in the state, 44% were in the age group of 21 -40 years and 27% in the age group of 41-60 years. Only 13% of patients were 60 plus and 16% in the age group of zero to twenty years. Earlier, the health department had sounded an alert that senior citizens were more vulnerable to coronavirus.“It seems that senior citizens are taking precautionary measures to protect themselves whereas the youths have ignored the guidance issued by the department for protection from coronavirus,” he said.To intensify the fight against Sars-Cov-2, the health department has decided to focus on tracking, screening and testing. The testing of the samples will be increased from 700 daily to 1500 samples daily. The aim is to identify the infected people and put them in the isolation wards. The health department will collect the samples of the people suffering from influenza or respiratory problems. The samples will be sent to the laboratories for test.The health department wanted to ensure that coronavirus was not spreading in districts that had reported zero positive cases, Prasad said. Out of the 361 positive cases, 195 are members of Tabligi Jamaat. The cases in UP increased after the identification of Tabligi Jamaat members in various districts. “Majority of the Jamaatis have been identified and quarantined, we hope that gradually the cases will come down,” he said.The samples of migrant workers and those who came from foreign countries are also being collected. The health department would also carry rapid antibody tests in various district to identify the positive cases, he said. Prasad said hydroxychloroquine tablets for protection from Sars-Cov-2 had been supplied to medical colleges and hospitals for use among doctors and para medical staff. The tablets had been also stored in the hospitals for the patients, he said.The state government has decided to reserve 20,000 beds in hospitals and private buildings to set up isolation wards. The health department has decided to keep asymptomatic people in the isolation wards for treatment. It has already reserved 10,000 beds in government hospitals and health centres in 75 districts of the state for admission of positive cases. The department has decided to reserve another 10,000 beds for the admission of people who are asymptomatic. These beds would be attached to the LI category hospitals established by the department in various districts, Prasad said. EXPERTSPEAK“The elderly are vulnerable because of their low immunity, hence it is advisable to keep them at home and safe from any chance infection,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, head ,Aastha Geriatric Hospital.“We have already undergone a couple of weeks of lock-down and if similar focus remains for a few more days we shall be able to bring down the cases to zero and also help cure all those who are presently under treatment. In the state, 31 patients have recovered which means the health teams are working hard,” said Dr Sandip Kapoor, director Healthcity hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/youths-middle-aged-more-vulnerable-in-up/story-If5u9gDv8UXw8albdpT8xI.html
08-04-2020||City||Covid-19 suspects complain about lack of facilities at Gzb quarantine centre||Ghaziabad: The suspected Covid-19 patients who were shifted from the MMG District Hospital to a new quarantine facility at BBDIT College campus at Duhai, Muradnagar on Wednesday morning took to social media to complain about the lack of facilities at the centre. Following the videos made viral by the patients, administration and health officials rushed to the spot.The 10 suspected patients, including two women, were sent to the new quarantine centre on Tuesday night. According to health department officials, they readied 23 rooms for patients and 10 others for stay of staff members.“We were brought to BBDIT College campus on Tuesday night. But this hostel lacks basic facilities. There was no electricity when we arrived and we had to use torch in order to move to our rooms on first floor. The officials said that they will bring some electrician soon, and we kept sitting on stairs for about one-and-a-half hours,” said a 32-year-old woman patient from Indirapuram.“The staff gave us food which was not proper and no one had their dinner. The doors in some washrooms are broken and there is no water. During the night, there was cold and we had to wrap ourselves in bedsheets. No blankets were available,” she added.Another woman from Loni who was brought to the facility from MMG Hospital complained of uneasiness ever since she arrived at the new facility. “It is very suffocating here. I came to MMG Hospital on Sunday and we were shifted here on Tuesday night. Two patients are made to stay in one room,” she said as she broke down.The patients prepared videos and made them viral on the social media platforms. After this, officials from district administration and the health department rushed to the spot.“There are no proper facilities for hand wash and no sanitizer is available here. We have made tweets about the lack of facilities and also sent videos of the issues at the facility. The facilities at MMG Hospital were far better than what we got here,” said a 22-year-old patient from Sanjay Nagar.Another man from Loni who is a college student also had his share of complaints. “My family had come with food but they did not allow them inside. They just gave us one water bottle. I have complaints of vomiting and fever but doctors take time to attend to us,” he added.District magistrate Ajay Shankar Padney did not respond to calls made by HT. Chief development officer Asmita Lal who rushed to the quarantine facility did not take calls either.However, chief medical officer Dr NK Gupta said that some shortcomings at the facility were rectified.“The patients were shifted to the facility at around 8pm on Tuesday. Around 10pm packaged drinking water was provided to them. Thirty food packets were also arranged by the Ghaziabad development authority and one bottle of sanitizer was given to each one of them. I myself listened to the patients and all the shortcomings were rectified,” Dr Gupta said.He added that the administration had made arrangement for the facility and the health department was roped in to provide health care facility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-suspects-complain-about-lack-of-facilities-at-gzb-quarantine-centre/story-ySRdB1Yqb9LHx6gfMycrVI.html
08-04-2020||Noida||Lockdown causes a ₹8,000 crore setback to handicraft industries in UP||Nusrat Begum, a 45-year-old weaver living in Chhajarsi area, has no work these days. She and her four children used to earn at least ₹75,000 a month during the period from March to July every year. “From the month of March every year, our suppliers started giving us orders for embroidery and stitching work. The four months that follow are the best season to earn more as suppliers get bulk government orders at the fiscal-end. But, this time we have no work and we are going through a very tough time. Our savings are almost over and we don’t know what the future holds,” she said.Like Nusrat, Gopal Karmakar of Labour Chowk area, works as a tailor with a small garments supplier company. He says his company has been closed as it could not get any orders this year. “My average earning was ₹20,000 a month, but now I am looking for some job; any job. I am even unable to go back to my native village in West Bengal,” he said.With all the overseas orders cancelled, and movement of containers carrying handicraft products curtailed, the handicraft industry in the state has suffered a loss over ₹8,000 crore during this lockdown so far. The officials fear that unless the state government announces a special package for artisans, the handicraft industries will collapse.Rakesh Kumar, the director general of Export Promotion Council of Handicrafts (EPCH), said after the outbreak of Covid-19, almost all orders from the overseas buyers were cancelled. “Imagine the plight of exporters, who invested a lot of money to meet the orders. The orders were cancelled, at a time when the items were being packed for shipment. Even for the prevailing orders, the exporters are keeping their fingers crossed as in the present scenario, the movement of containers has become difficult,” he said.He said the cancellation of 49th International Handicrafts and Gift Festival (IHGF) Spring 2020, scheduled to begin from April 15 at the India Expo Mart in Greater Noida, has dealt another blow to the industry. “This is a huge blow to this sector as the fair is the biggest platform for artisans to get orders from big overseas buyers. The crisis has caused an estimated loss of ₹8,000 crore in this sector so far,” he said.Kumar said since the exporters can’t stop the payments to artisans, they made full payments in March. “But, if the crisis continues, how can the exporters manage payments in the coming months? If the state government does not announce a special package to meet the monthly payments of artisans, the handicraft industries in Uttar Pradesh will hit rock bottom,” he said.Rajesh Jain, a Noida-based handicraft exporter, said since most of the overseas buyers are from US and Europe --two regions that are the worst affected by the Covid-19 pandemic -- the exporters have taken a huge hit. “Over 70% orders stand cancelled. Even for the remaining orders, buyers have extended the dates by four or five months. In cases where the shipments have reached their countries, buyers are bargaining for a credit period of three months. Back home, in the absence of cash flow and mounting interest from our hypothecating banks, exporters are finding it difficult to pay artisans. In fact, 90% artisans are now jobless. The government must launch a MNREGA-like scheme, which can provide minimum wages to them,” he said.Kamal Soni, an exporter from Moradabad, said the lockdown has broken the supply chain of the handicraft industries. “The handicraft industry caters to workers from both the organised and unorganised sectors. Unless the government provides a special package for MSME artisans, the lives of over 3 crore workers associated with handicraft sector will be in peril,” he said.At present, the UP government runs a One District, One Product (ODOP) programme, to encourage indigenous crafts in Agra (leather products), Amroha (musical instruments), Aligarh (locks), Ayodhya (jaggery), Bahraich (wheat-stalk), Bareilly (zari-zardozi), Bhadohi (carpets), Bulandshahr (ceramics), Firozabad (bangles), Gautam Budh Nagar (readymade garments) and Ghaziabad (engineering products). As per estimates, nearly two crore people are directly or indirectly involved in the handicraft industry in the state. Rashid Ahmad, an artisan associated with carpet industry in Bhadohi, said the income of artisans varies between ₹10,000 and ₹20,000 a month. “The other workers like rangrej (dyers), dhunia and cart-puller get around ₹8,000 a month,” he said. The EPCH director general said in order to provide relief to the handicrafts exporters and help them withstand the challenges posed by the current crisis, the EPCH put their grievances before the Central government.“Taking cognizance of our representations, the government has extended its foreign trade policy 2015-20 by another year till March 31, 2021. This extension will boost the morale of the handicrafts exporting community,” he said.The EPCH has made a contribution of ₹25 lakh towards the PMCARE Fund and the staff of EPCH have separately contributed a day’s salary to the fund.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/lockdown-causes-a-8-000-crore-setback-to-handicraft-industries-in-up/story-iuM5m8UzEzDEL7RehN37EP.html
08-04-2020||Mumbai||State to start fever clinics soon, says CM||The Maharashtra government has decided to start fever clinics for patients showing symptoms of the new coronavirus such as cough, cold and fever, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray announced on Wednesday, while addressing the state through Facebook Live.“We have decided to start fever clinics in all divisions of the state. Those having cough, cold and fever should visit them instead of visiting a private doctor or hospital. After the check-up, the patient will be guided on what to do next. The details of fever clinics will be shared very soon,” the chief minister said.Thackeray said hospitals, too, will be divided into three categories — for asymptomatic patients, symptomatic and serious patients with co-morbid conditions. The third type of hospital will be equipped with all equipment and expert doctors.The CM also asked people to start using a mask even when they step out to buy essentials, and burn the disposable masks at a safe place. “The rising cases is a cause for concern for us, but there is no need to panic. We have to follow social distancing and stay at home to be safe,” Thackeray said.He then appealed the retired army personnel worked in medical core, retired nurses, ward boys and other trained medical personnel who are not working in the sector to come forward to serve the state. They have been asked to send their details on Covidyoddha@gmail.com. “Maharashtra needs you,” the chief minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-to-start-fever-clinics-soon-says-cm/story-UbLS4joK4AjeFBc6LWIgxN.html
08-04-2020||Lucknow||Prayagraj: Quarantined people likely to return home after April 14||The district administration is planning to send all the persons, kept in quarantine and shelter houses, back to their respective homes after April 14.According to reports, officials of Uttar Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) have started preparing a list of such people, quarantined in different parts of city by district health officials as a preventive measure to contain spread of coronavirus.Senior UPSRTC officials informed that an order of the managing director of the state transport corporation Dr Rajshekhar had been received recently wherein officials were asked to keep buses ready for transporting people quarantined in shelter homes and other places to their respective districts after April 14.Regional Manager, UPSRTC, Prayagraj region TKS Bisen had also held a meeting in this regard on Tuesday wherein discussions were held to provide transport facility to people, put in quarantine owing to the Covid–19 pandemic.The UPSRTC had sounded alert to its staff and 10 drivers and conductors were being called on duty to every bus stand for dealing with any emergency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/prayagraj-quarantined-people-likely-to-return-home-after-april-14/story-IRmGcw3ywYaYeJ2Z5dnLJJ.html
08-04-2020||Delhi||20 corona hotspots sealed in Delhi, wearing of masks compulsory||The Delhi government on Wednesday announced that it has sealed 20 coronavirus hotspots across the city and no movement of people will be allowed in those areas. Delhi has recorded 669 positive cases so far with 93 cases reported today. There have also been nine deaths; however, no reports of any death in the last 24 hours.In another decision, the government made it compulsory for people to wear masks while stepping out of their homes. “Total 20 hotspots have been identified in Delhi and were sealed. Nobody will be allowed to enter or exit these areas,” Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said.These areas include Gali No. 6, L-1ST Sangam Vihar; Gandhi Park, Malviya Nagar; Mandawli Gali No. 1; Pandav Nagar H Block Gali No. 1; Khichdipur Gali No. 1-3; Kishan Kunj Ext Gali No. 4; two apartments in IP Extension -- Vardhaman, Mayur Dhwaj; and Mansara Apartment in Vasundhra Enclave,Krishan Kunj among others.The deputy CM said the decision was taken to prevent the spread of coronavirus infection.“The areas will be completely sealed while the administration will ensure door-to-door delivery of essential items,” Sisodia said.According to the Health Ministry, an area with 10 or more cases of an infection is called a cluster and if multiple clusters develop in any region it has the potential to spread the infection further and is called a hotspot.However, for coronavirus, it is an emerging term and even an area with one positive case can be called a hotspot, depending upon the possibility of the spread in that area, the Health Department said.After an area is declared a hotspot or has the capacity to be a hotspot, the authorities have the right to restrict the movement of the people and seal the area making it a containment zone -- locking down a defined geographic area to contain the outbreak of coronavirus.The containment zones, created to map the local transmission of the disease and prevent the contagion from spreading, are announced by the office of the district magistrate. It completely shuts the movement of the common people with the authorities taking care of the essential supplies.The area and the houses in it are sanitised properly. So far, several pockets in the city have been declared containment zones, including parts of Nizamuddin, Dilshad Garden, Vasundhara Enclave, Kalyanpuri, Pandav Nagar, Krishan Kunj, Khichripur, Malviya Nagar, Sangam Vihar and Patparganj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/20-corona-hotspots-sealed-in-delhi-wearing-of-masks-compulsory/story-uE73aJ2Y7538OHHDQgyzqK.html
08-04-2020||Lucknow||UP Cabinet cuts salaries of ministers, legislators by 30%||The state cabinet on Wednesday decided to cut the salaries of ministers, including the chief minister, and legislators by 30% and suspend the Vidhayak Nidhi for one year as part of measures to provide funds to fight the coronavirus pandemic. This amount will be transferred to UP Covid Care Fund.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath presided over the state cabinet meeting that also approved an ordinance to amend the Contingency Fund 1951,increasing the size from Rs 600 crore to Rs 1200 crore.Finance minister Suresh Khanna said, “The state cabinet decided to cut the salaries of the chief minister, ministers and legislators by 30%, resulting in a total saving of Rs 17.50 crore. This amount will be transferred to the UP Covid Care Fund. The cut in salaries of ministers will save Rs 2.21 crore while the cut in the salaries of legislators will save Rs 15.28 crore.”Rural development minister Moti Singh said an amount of Rs 1509 crore saved by suspending the Vidhayak Nidhi will be transferred to the UP Covid Care Fund.The state cabinet also decided to take the ordinance route to amend the Uttar Pradesh Ministers (Salaries, Allowances and Miscellaneous Provisions) Act and the Uttar Pradesh State Legislature (Members’ Emoluments and Pension) Act to effect the 30% cut in the salaries of ministers and legislators.“Yes, ordinances will be promulgated to enforce a 30% cut in the salaries of ministers and legislators. The Vidhayak Nidhi will remain suspended for one year,” said UP government spokesman and cabinet minister Sidharth Nath Singh.“Each minister’s salary will come down by about Rs 33,000 per month,” said Singh.”At present, a minister gets emoluments of Rs 1.10 lakh per month. This amount includes salary (Rs 40,000), constituency allowance (Rs 50,000) and secretarial allowance (Rs 20,000) As there are 56 ministers in the state, they get a total of Rs 2.21 crore for one year. A legislator’s emoluments include salary (Rs 25,000), constituency allowance (Rs 50,000) and secretarial allowance (Rs 20,000). As there are, 403 MLAs and 100 MLCs, a total of Rs 17.50 crore is paid to the legislators for one year,” said Khanna.The UP council of ministers has 56 members, including the chief minister, two deputy chief ministers, cabinet ministers, ministers of state (independent charge) and ministers of state.The UP assembly has a maximum strength of 403 members while the state legislative council has 100 members. Each legislator is entitled to carry out development work for Rs 3 crore every year with funds from the Vidhayak Nidhi.Earlier, union government decided to bring an ordinance to cut the salaries of its ministers and MPs by 30%.The chief minister had welcomed the union government’s move.“Every citizen of India should have a contribution in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic. The Union cabinet’s decision under the leadership of Prime Minister @narendramodi to have a 30 per cent cut in salaries of MPs is a just and welcome move,” the chief minister said in a tweet.‘FIRST-EVER’ VIRTUAL CABINET MEETING IN STATEThe state cabinet meeting on Wednesday was held through video conference, a senior officer said. This is the first time such a step has been taken in the state.In the past, cabinet decisions have also been taken by the circulation method wherein the file for cabinet approval is circulated from one minister to the other.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-cabinet-cuts-salaries-of-ministers-legislators-by-30/story-qrjb1ex0F4Ta2VQC8HwKbI.html
08-04-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Help students stranded in France return home, says Parents||With an increasing number of Covid-19 cases in France, city parents have requested the ministry of external affairs (MEA) and Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) to help them in bringing back their children to India.A parent who requested anonymity said that his daughter, along with 20 students from the EDHEC business school, need to be evacuated. “I had booked a ticket for my daughter in March, but it got cancelled owing to the lockdown. Air India will start with the bookings only after April-end. How will the students survive there for another month, especially when the cases in France are increasing?” He also added that the students are facing some trouble getting provisions. “The Indian High Commission had already asked the stranded students and Indians to register in this regard, but there has been no development after that,” the parent said. The EDHEC business school, on its website, has also asked all its international students to return home to their families and continue studies remotely.Another parent that HT spoke to, who also requested anonymity, said, “We have been making requests to all authorities via social media to help the students come back since there have been flights from India to take French nationals back to their country,” he said.Recently, 112 French nationals in Kerala were flown out on a special Air India flight to France owing to the lockdown. As on Wednesday, France has 78,167 positive cases with the death toll crossing 10,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-help-students-stranded-in-france-return-home-says-parents/story-Wujp3zkhDVTJwbicho5dOM.html
08-04-2020||City||Lockdown: Policemen’s wish list include chatting with children, movies with family||The lockdown to restrict the spread of Covid-19 has meant an increased workload for police officers for whom there is no ‘work from home’ option. An average shift runs from 12 to 14 hours, but can go on for longer, and as part of Covid-19 duty, police officers are on the front lines of tackling the disease.In a video released by Mumbai Police on Wednesday, the police talked about what they’d do if they had the option of working from home. Since the lockdown, police officers are often working longer hours than normal. Deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Pranaya Ashok said of Mumbai Police’s 50,000 police personnel, half are on Covid-19 duty. “An average of 12 to 14 hours are devoted [by those on duty,” said Ashok, adding that the shifts can go on for longer. “If a crowd gathers, one cannot leave just because his shift has ended,” he said.Being on duty in the city, in daytime temperatures that are around 33˚C, police work is demanding and requires many to make sacrifices. Assistant police inspector (API) with Navghar police, Deepali Kulkarni missed her eight-year-old son’s birthday on Wednesday. “I would have celebrated my son’s birthday with him,” she said. “He sits in the balcony and calls out to his friends in the society, saying he will celebrate it post-April 14.” Kulkarni travels from Kalyan to Mulund daily and is stationed at one of the busiest entry/exit points to the city­ – the toll plaza bordering Thane. She’s sent her younger son, who is two years old, to stay with her mother. Sunil Waghmare, a police inspector at Wadala TT police station, also had to miss his son’s birthday on March 31. “ We couldn’t celebrate the birthday at home as I barely got time when I reached home. I was not able to even have lunch or dinner with my son on that special day,” he said.In some police officers’ families, there are reversals in roles. DCP (headquarters-1) N Ambika said, “At times, my daughter cooks food for me when I return these days. My son and daughter’s schedules too have changed as they remain home, but they have been extremely understanding.”Jayashree Sawant, API, Sion police station, misses her normal routine of putting her two-year-old daughter to bed now that Sawant has to man different junctions. Sawant’s husband, Sunil Patil, is an officer with Thane rural police and has a daily commute of two hours. The couple decided to send their daughter to live with extended family in Sangli, around 375 kilometres from Mumbai. “She demands to see me daily during meals and before going to bed. I use video call to stay in touch. I would have spent all the time with her had I been at home,” said Sawant.When asked what he would do if he could stay home, Dattatray P Bhargude, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), Bandra division, said, “I would sit with my children, speak with them about life and share my experiences working as a cop. I would also refresh old memories with my colleagues as I am nearing retirement.” DCP, zone 10, Ankit Goyal also said he would like to reconnect with old friends if he had more down time. “I would have called my old college friends and relived those past days. Watching movies with family is also on the list. There are many books on my shelf which have been remained untouched and I would read them all. Last, I would catch up on sleep,” he said.Balasaheb Satpute, head constable, MIDC police station, said he would have liked to take over the cooking if he could have worked from home. “In this way, I would have been able to give some rest to my wife,” he said.The demanding schedules of Mumbai Police leaves most officers with little time to work on their personal projects and hobbies. “I hardly get time for myself,” said Navnath Chavan, police constable, Oshiwara police station. When asked what he would do if he could stay home, Chavan said, “I would have read spiritual books like Bhagavad Gita and Ramayana.” API Ratna Khandelwal, who travels from Mumbra to Pydhonie police station daily, said, “Had I been home, I would try out new recipes and spend time with my sister’s kids and my aging mother. Police officers overburdened with work never get enough time to do these things.”For Hriday Mishra, head constable with Mumbai Police’s crime branch, being able to relax at home would have been a good opportunity to go through old cases. “I would have revisited those cases, their written notes and study what could have been done better and what were the mistakes committed,” said Mishra. Ashok said there are initiatives to try and give officers much-needed breaks. “In a bid to ensure police personnel are not stressed, junior officers and personnel are getting a day off after working for two consecutive days at some police zones. Some police stations staff are rotated every three hours at check posts,” he said. At their individual levels, senior officers do their best to look out for their staff. Senior police inspector Lalita Gaikwad, who is in charge of Sion police station, said “As a senior police inspector, I see that my staff gets a weekly off so that they get time to spend with family.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lockdown-policemen-s-wish-list-include-chatting-with-children-movies-with-family/story-YJaKDwo5ZlP7AG7GHIlfxL.html
08-04-2020||Chandigarh||With restrictions in place, Baddi medicine production dips by 80%||Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) engaged in the manufacture of medicines in Baddi, the hub of this industry in the region, say that their production has dropped by 80% to only 20% of what it was before the lockdown and the curfew. “Despite being counted among essential services, the industry is facing the problem of transport and shortage of manpower,” said Rajesh Gupta, president, Himachal Drug Manufacturers Association, adding that the impact of such low production would be felt in June, once demand picked up. According to the association, there are 300 drug manufacturing units in Baddi, of which 225 (75%) are MSMEs and have between 70-500 employees. Gupta added that the association had also written a letter to Himachal Pradesh chief minister, which says, “Trucks are not available for MSMEs and as such units have not been able to send medicines to other states. Raw material procurement is also not happening after the lockdown was announced.” The letter adds, “Members of the managerial staff have also not been able to report on duty as they have not been able to cross the borders from the tricity of Chandigarh.” Gupta added that on their appeal, a one-time pass for 14 days was issued to such staffers, but now all hotels in the town were full and most units could not accommodate required number of employees. In some areas of the town, landlords and local residents were not allowing people to move out due to the fear of infection, he claimed. “There are practical problems which need to be resolved so that units become fully functional,” Gupta said, adding that demand had also dropped due to the discontinuation of Out-Patient Department (OPD) services across hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-restrictions-in-place-baddi-medicine-production-dips-by-80/story-eAhNQ5JklcRaSHLLEWUAmN.html
08-04-2020||City||‘Isolated from society’: These medics are committed to winning war against invisible enemy||All front-line health workers at Kurukshetra’s Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Hospital, be it doctors, nurses or sanitation ward boys, are engaged in a battle to defeat a common enemy — Covid-19. 35-year-old Suman, a nurse deployed at one of the hospital’s isolation wards, says she had never been in such a situation in her 12 years of service. Mother of three young girls, youngest of whom is just 18 months old, Suman says her eldest daughter looks after her sisters when she is at work. Her husband, too, is a health worker. “All of us are going through the toughest phases of our lives, where we have to fulfil many responsibilities and play multiple roles. We have a fixed time to reach hospital, but when would we return solely depends on the patient load in the isolation ward,” she says.“I cannot go near my children. I have been keeping distance from them in order keep at bay the slightest possibility of infecting them,” she adds. “But, we are confident that this too shall pass. We would win this battle,” Suman saysSimilar is the story of another senior staff nurse, Meenu Purthi. “The most difficult thing is to stay away from children. After going back to our homes, we have to spend two extra hours washing our clothes, bathing and sanitising our kits,” she says. “Covid-19 has not only brought isolation to patients, but even to us,” Meenu adds. Dr Arvind Chahal, who is also posted in the isolation ward, says, “This pandemic has changed the way we used to live our lives.” “Our responsibilities have increased as a small mistake could create a big problem for patients, staff and their family members,” says the doctor who has started living in a separate room on his residence’s ground floor after shifting his family to the first floor. Doctors examining patients in the OPDs are also exposed to similar risks. “My working hours have increased. Nowadays, I examine around 200 patients. But, we are committed to doing our duty and serving the people,” says Dr Shailendra Mamgain, senior medical officer and TB specialist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/isolated-from-society-these-medics-are-committed-to-winning-war-against-invisible-enemy/story-UNbTA2R13VOvYcyt68IsQP.html
08-04-2020||City||Retired personnel pitch in to help Rupnagar cops win virus war||RUPNAGAR: Setting an example of professional camaraderie and commitment to duty, 55 retired police personnel, including the father of a Kargil martyr, have voluntarily offered their services to assist the district police in its efforts to eliminate coronavirus.A deputy superintendent of police, along with 12 inspectors, 16 sub-inspectors, 21 assistant sub-inspectors, 11 head constables and four ex-servicemen are already manning 16 check-points, including diversions and isolation points from NFL Chowk in Nangal to Bannmajra and Rupnagar.For 74-year-old Gurmail Singh, who also served as crime investigation agency (CIA) in-charge for 12 years during his years as Punjab Police inspector, this critical juncture has come as an opportunity to pick up from where he left off in 2004. “It’s my luck that I got a chance to serve the society again. I may not have the same agility, but I possess experience and will to defeat this pandemic,” he said.“These are unprecedented times and we are willing to do our best to complement state efforts to mitigate this threat,” said retired sub-inspector Daleep Singh, who had arrested hardened terrorists during his service.The will to serve the nation remains as strong as ever in our hearts, said Kargil martyr Sarbjit Singh’s father Pritam Singh, who had retired as head constable. “It’s a new kind of threat that we are facing, and I am happy to render any service that could ease the burden of my brothers in khaki,” he said.Lauding their spirit, Rupnagar senior superintendent of police Swapan Sharma said, “The priceless experience and capabilities of these retired personnel would enhance our ability to ensure effective policing on the ground.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/retired-personnel-pitch-in-to-help-rupnagar-cops-win-virus-war/story-a6amdBuXSKuEsPadH6Iv8M.html
08-04-2020||City||Ludhiana: Contractor among three booked for violating curfew guidelines||A contractor, owner of house and his brother has been booked for violating lockdown guidelines in Guru Gobind Singh Nagar here, police said.Despite curfew following the coronavirus outbreak, a resident of Daba has engaged labourers for construction of his house. The police reached the spot and stopped the construction work.The accused have been identified as Dinesh Kumar of Dashmesh Nagar, his brother Mukesh Garg and labour contractor Gurjit Singh.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Meet Ram, who is investigating the case, said that the police received information that construction of a house was underway in Guru Gobind Singh Nagar. When the police reached the spot, they found labourers working on the site.The police lodged an FIR against the accused under Sections 188, 269 and 336 of Indian Penal Code (IPC). A hunt is on for their arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-contractor-among-three-booked-for-violating-curfew-guidelines/story-opon7zlKVK3qwoorz2h0yH.html
08-04-2020||City||Ludhiana: Police form 4 teams of Covid Commandos to tackle outbreak||Police have formed four emergency response teams comprising 20 personnel to ensure that the police follow the correct protocol while dealing with those found positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The teams have been christened Covid Commandos. The commandos have been selected on the basis of their physical fitness and their desire to deal with the pandemic on the forefront. Doctors at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) have imparted training to the teams regarding attending to infected patients, cremating dead bodies and how to protect themselves from contracting the infection. The teams had staged a demonstration at Police Lines on Tuesday.Commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal said the specialised teams have been provided safety gear, body kits, gloves, masks and sanitisers. Four teams of five police personnel each have been formed. Each team has a woman officer. The number of teams may be increased as per requirement.Head constable Neelam Rani, who is part of the team, says “Not everyone gets chance to serve on the force and still fewer get to be the part of a core team.” Rani, who has been serving in the police force for eight years, says the commandos have been provided quality equipment. Constable Jagdeep Singh, 26, was proud to get an opportunity to join the team. “My family was shocked when they learnt that I had joined the core team but I told them that I did not want to miss the chance of serving society on the frontline.” Jagdeep has been part of the police force for four years and has a seven-months-old son.A Ludhiana-based industry had provided 35 personnel protection equipments (PPE) kits to the police department in March. The police had ordered another 1,000 kits from the industry. The suits are made of a special fabric, which is fluid resistant, anti-microbial and reusable. The suits can be washed at least 40 times.Khalsa aid donates 200 PPE kits to policeThe Khalsa Aid donated 200 personnel protection equipment (PPE) kits to the Ludhiana police on Tuesday. Khalsa Aid managing director Amanpreet Singh handed over the kits to the additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, city 2) Jaskiranjit Singh Teja and ADCP city 4 Ajinder Singh.Teja said all police stations under Zone 2 and Zone 4 will be provided 10 kits each. The remaining kits will be stocked at the police headquarters and will be available to other police stations.“In case, someone is found positive for the coronavirus in the city, police personnel will wear the kits while sealing the area, quarantining family members, neighbours and taking them to the hospital. The teams will work separately from the Covid Commandos.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-police-form-4-teams-of-covid-commandos-to-tackle-outbreak/story-4BHjoztrAZSOSojTZfRwgO.html
08-04-2020||City||Covid-19: Recovered, 78-yr-old gets warm welcome||Kendriya Vihar society in Seawoods gave a warm welcome to a 78-year-old when he returned home on Wednesday after recovering from Covid-19.The 78-year-old had tested positive for Covid-19 and was admitted to Seven Hills Hospital, in Marol, for eight days. His wife, 72, tested negative, and was in home quarantine. Activist and Kendriya Vihar resident Sundeep Sharma said, “Though that wing was sealed, we ensured she did not feel alone and helped her with everyday needs. We all were in touch with her over phone and WhatsApp.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-recovered-78-yr-old-gets-warm-welcome/story-qGLu0uwb43oryvPLbIvffP.html
08-04-2020||Mumbai||Doctors on call, in this society in Parel||A co-operative housing society in Parel has set up a system by which its members get the medical help and medicines they need without leaving their homes. Residents have been encouraged to stay indoors and while maintaining a regular schedule for sanitising the premises, the society has cut down on its staff by 50%. The managing committee of Veda, a housing society comprising 254 flats, has a WhatsApp group for residents, which includes doctors living in the complex. “This system has helped senior citizens the most, because they are usually worried about basic medicines and even in case of routine discomforts, they don’t know whom to reach out to as most dispensaries are shut. Now they can put their request to the admin, and the doctor either calls them or visits them,” said Navin Agicha, a Veda resident.The committee also makes a list of medicines people require on a regular basis and has it delivered by a nearby pharmacy, which delivers the medicines at the complex’s gate every alternate day. Residents come down at designated times to collect deliveries and dispose waste. “By putting in all measures in place, we are trying to cut down on human interaction as much as possible,” said Pinky Parikh, chairperson of the society. Parikh said common areas, such as lifts and lobbies, are sanitised twice a day and members use toothpicks to press lift buttons.Additionally, residents are being supplied fresh, organic produce. “We get vegetables and fruits twice a week directly from Lasalgaon. At least this way, we are contributing in some way to help and aid daily wage earners and farmers in the current situation,” said Rohan Shah, a member of managing committee. A nearby vendor delivers groceries like bread and eggs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/doctors-on-call-in-this-society-in-parel/story-UPv7qJ3jnaxjt7ph2AassJ.html
08-04-2020||City||Ludhiana: Vendor hoards vegetables; police seek reply from market committee||While the city is facing shortage of vegetable supply and the residents are being fleeced, the police on Wednesday raided a godown in Salem Tabri area, where a vendor has been hoarding a huge stock of vegetables. The police have initiated an investigation into the matter and information has also been sought from the market committee asking whether it has granted the permission for the same.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP) Gurpreet Singh Sikand said that the raid was conducted following a tip-off that a huge stock of vegetables are being stored in the godown. Police also learnt that the street vendors purchase vegetables from this store, even when the administration has put a system in place for them to purchase only from the designated sites in every ward. The enlisted vendors with the market committee could also only sell the vegetables at the specified sites. ADCP Sikand said that the police are investigating the matter and required action would be taken after receiving information from the market committee. One of the ahrtiyas in the vegetable market requesting anonymity said that the godown belongs to a vendor who got himself enlisted for supplying vegetables in different wards. He was selling vegetables to other vendors at higher prices.Vendor caught fleecing residents Meanwhile, acting on complaints from the residents, councillor Mamta Ashu caught a shopkeeper in ward 74 fleecing the residents.Ashu said that the administration has allowed the vendors to keep a margin of around 20-25 per cent, however, the shopkeeper was selling the vegetables at exorbitant prices. A complaint has also been forwarded to the police for taking required action against the shopkeeper, she said. Ashu asked the residents to submit a complaint with police or the area councillor if any vendor is found indulging in malpractice and warned the vendors who resort to such practice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-vendor-hoards-vegetables-police-seek-reply-from-market-committee/story-KCYXoRiG0Pz8LwCzAyyAGN.html
08-04-2020||City||Vegetable markets in Kalyan to be open alternate days||Vegetable markets have been set up at eight areas in Kalyan-Dombivli and they will only open on alternate days. “The markets used to open every day but will now open on alternate days to stop people from coming out every day. Our officials will keep a watch at the market areas and take necessary action if there’s crowding,” said a KDMC official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/vegetable-markets-in-kalyan-to-be-open-alternate-days/story-SIRXQkceFHmogOPYBnUz6H.html
08-04-2020||Lucknow||AU starts counselling helpline for students||Following the letter of the UGC’s secretary dated April 5, Allahabad University has set up a helpline for mental health, psychosocial concerns and well-being of the students in the university with immediate effect. Names of experts and mobile numbers to be contacted have been provided on our official website, said AU’s registrar, Prof NK Shukla. In a first such move, the central varsity has set up a helpline for psychological counselling by experts free of cost for its students.Many teachers of AU would be present for helping the students. This includes the dean student welfare Prof KP Singh, the proctor, Prof RK Upadhyaya, Dr SK Agarwal of the university health center, senior teachers of the department of psychology and that of centre of behavioural and cognitive sciences (CBCS) etc. Besides, wardens and superintendents of various boys and girls hostel of AU have also been made members of the helpline and they can be contacted by the students in case of any need while handling their mental health.“Through the helpline, we will regularly monitor the students through interaction over phones, emails, digital and social media platforms and facilitate the formation of the Covid-19 help groups of students, headed by hostel wardens/ senior faculty members to provide immediate necessary help”, said Prof Shukla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/au-starts-counselling-helpline-for-students/story-86efdAqGXn509eSrmxrY8H.html
08-04-2020||City||Ludhiana: Coucillor’s husband accused of demanding commission from vegetable vendor||ludhiana@hindustantimes.comCongress councillor Sandeep Kumari’s husband Gaurav Bhatti has been accused of demanding commission from a vegetable vendor for allowing sale of vegetables in his ward.Raju Munjal, whose partner Suleman is enlisted as a vendor with the market committee for supplying vegetables in ward number 23, has submitted a complaint regarding it with additional deputy commissioner of police Ajinder Singh on Wednesday.Munjal alleged that his partner Suleman had also invested in the project to supply vegetables ward wise to the street vendors. When they went to supply the vegetables on Saturday, Bhatti allegedly charged ₹2 per kg commission on the vegetables sold by them. Bhatti allegedly also forced them to sell the rest of the vegetables to the vendors of his area at lower prices, which cost them a loss of ₹16,000.Munjal claimed that he also has an audio recording of Bhatti and he has apprised the police about the same. He said that they have demanded that the vendor be allowed to supply vegetables without any interference. Gaurav Bhatti, however, refuted the allegations. He said that the vendor and a few other residents of the area who are affiliated with the opposition party are trying to defame him. Bhatti claimed that he had demanded no commission and the vendor was selling vegetables at higher rates without displaying the rate list and that too in the absence of administration officials. Bhatti said that he had also submitted a complaint with the police demanding inquiry into the matter and seeking action against the complainant for defaming him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-coucillor-s-husband-accused-of-demanding-commission-from-vegetable-vendor/story-8fyzcfz3aRM19F6SjvC0tL.html
08-04-2020||Chandigarh||Contractual, outsourced employees to get full salary for curfew period||The Punjab government on Wednesday decided that full salary will be paid to all its employees, including regular, contractual, outsourced and daily-wagers, for the entire duration of curfew, which has been imposed to check spread of coronavirus.Instructions were issued to the special chief secretary, financial commissioners, heads of departments, commissioners of divisions, deputy commissioners, the Punjab and Haryana high court and the finance department.said that in view of the government’s decision to enforce the 21-day lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19, there may be cases where outsourced, contractual persons of daily-wage workers have been advised to stay at home which under normal circumstances would result in deduction of their wages.“In view of the current circumstances, it has been decided that whenever any person working in the departments or other organisations of the state government are required to stay at home in view of curfew orders, they will be treated as on-duty and full wages will be paid accordingly,” read the letter tweeted by special chief secretary, revenue, KBS Sidhu.The government has over 50,000 employees working on contract, engaged through outsourcing or daily wages, or in different departments.The instructions have been issued to avoid any hassle to the staff. The orders will also apply to all public sector undertakings, boards, corporations and statutory bodies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/contractual-outsourced-employees-to-get-full-salary-for-curfew-period/story-IPTHfvBuMVeIoFUeJc2vJL.html
08-04-2020||City||Covid-19: 7 more test positive in Punjab, tally 106||Seven more persons tested positive for the coronavirus in Punjab on Wednesday, taking the total number of those infected by the disease in the state to 106. Maximum four fresh cases were reported in Mohali’s Jawaharpur village which has emerged as the new hotspot of infection, with the district’s tally reaching 30. The four are the contacts of those found positive earlier as all 15 infected in the village so far are members of an extended family, the administration officials said. They claimed to have launched an extensive contact-tracing and sampling campaign in the district to detect the spread of infection. The village was sealed in a bid to contain the spread of infection.The state health department is trying to ascertain the primary source of infection in the village. Jalandhar’s Mitha Bazaar area sealedIn Jalandhar, two more patients tested positive on Wednesday, taking the total number of coronavirus cases in the district to eight. A 59-year-old resident of the Mitha Bazaar locality of Jalandhar city was found positive in a random test. The patient is a quack, it was learnt. District nodal officer Dr TS Sandhu said the patient got admitted to the local civil hospital three days ago with acute respiratory infection. The district administration rushed a team to seal the Mitha Bazaar area as per medical protocol. Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said civil and police administration teams will trace his contacts and put the family in quarantine. In another case, a 50-year-old male resident of Nijatam Nagar locality in the city also tested positive for Covid-19. He is the son of a 72-year-old woman who was tested positive on March 26 following which the entire family was put under home quarantine. She is undergoing treatment at the Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH), Ludhiana. He is learnt to have broken the quarantine norms by visiting a private hospital for check up on March 29. On Wednesday, six staff members, including doctors, of the private hospital he earlier visited were kept in isolation. They, however, were found asymptomatic for the infection. Punjab special chief secretary Karanbir Singh Sidhu tweeted, “Italian relatives visited them (at Nijatam Nagar) about 25 days ago.”Faridkot patient is contact of infected money exchanger In Faridkot, a 53-year-old man was also tested positive for the coronavirus on Wednesday, making his the second person to have been infected by the disease. Police sealed the Main Bazar area in Faridkot city where the patient lives. Deputy commissioner Kumar Saurabh Raj said, “The locality was cordoned off as a preventive measure so that no outsider enters the area.” Faridkot civil surgeon Dr Rajinder Kumar said, “He is the contact of the first Covid-19 patient of the district. His condition is stable now. The samples of 26 contacts of the second positive person have been sent for testing to Amritsar, while six samples of the contacts of first positive case are also sent for retesting,” he said.“On Wednesday, the samples of the other 19 contacts, including his mother’s, were tested negative, while the result of one is awaited. The samples of his 29 contacts were tested negative on Tuesday,” Dr Kumar added.On Saturday, a 35-year-old foreign money exchanger, who visited Delhi before the lockdown, had tested positive for Covid-19. However, his pregnant wife, mother and daughter were tested negative.Kotkapura MLA goes into self-isolationAam Aadmi Party (AAP)’s MLA from Kotkapura, Kultar Singh Sandhwan, quarantined himself at home, as had come into contact with the person who was found positive for coronavirus infection on Wednesday. “The person who has been tested positive is my relative and we met at recent gatherings. So I have decided to go into self-quarantine. This will also give a message to the people in my constituency about following the medical protocol. The health department officials have also taken my sample for Covid-19 testing,” he added. 3 of Banga man’s relatives recover Three relatives of Baldev Singh, 70, a resident of Pathlawa village in SBS Nagar’s Banga sub-division who became Punjab’s first coronavirus casualty, were cured of Covid-19 in Jalandhar on Wednesday and were discharged from hospital. With this, 11 of his close contacts have recovered of a total of 27 people who contracted the infection from him.The three discharged on Wednesday are Harjinder Singh, his wife Baljinder Kaur and son Hardeep Singh. The family belongs to Virk village in Phillaur sub-division of the district. Harjinder is the brother-in-law of Baldev Singh, who died on March 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-7-more-test-positive-in-punjab-tally-106/story-gJat23jjDODv0noEpKv3yK.html
08-04-2020||City||Ludhiana: 7 booked for roaming on streets||The police have booked 7 persons for roaming on the streets in the city in violation of curfew guidelines. The accused are Manpreet Singh of Ishar Nagar and his brother Ranjit Singh. Dehlon Police have lodged an FIR against them. Division number 6 police arrested Happy Kumar of New Kuldeep Nagar, Jai Parkash Chaurasiya of Giasopura and Rajesh Kumar of Gobind Nagar. Similarly, Model Town police arrested Tajinder Singh and Pahuldeep Singh of Ranjit Avenue. The accused were roaming around the city without curfew pass.4 vegetable vendors held for not wearing masksDaresi police have booked seven vegetable vendors in two cases for selling vegetables and fruits without wearing gloves and masks. Accused are Udesh Kumar of Star City, Pawan Kumar of Mayapuri Chowk and Deepak Sharma of Bindra Colony. Division number 7 police arrested Ranjit Singh of Tajpur road for selling vegetables without curfew pass.Police volunteers accused of hitting man with stickTwo police volunteers were accused of assaulting a resident with a stick when he was sitting outside his house in Daba police staion area on Wednesday. Mithilesh Kumar, a labourer, suffered head injury in the incident. Inspector Pavittar Singh, Daba SHO, said that some residents informed the police about the incident. Two volunteers were on round in the area and they found Mithilesh sitting outside the house. They asked him to go inside, however, Mithilesh argued and the volunteers allegedly hit him, he said. The police are investigating the case and volunteers will be removed if allegations are found true, he added.Sweet shop owner, his employee heldDivision number 6 police have arrested Mohal Lal, a sweet shop owner, and his employee Mithu for selling sweets during curfew in Millar Gunj area, said ASI Shaukeen Singh. The Jamalpur police also arrested a fast food shop owner for opening shop amid lockdown. The accused is Karan Buddhiraja of Gobind Colony of Jamalpur.Chemist booked for overcharging In another incident, the police have booked a medical shop owner for overcharging a police volunteer. The accused has been identified as Anil Madaan of Islam Gunj. Harish Kumar of Islam Gunj stated that he bought vitamin-C tablets from the accused and the chemist has also erased the MRP on the medicine. ASI Kulvir Singh said that the accused has been booked under Section 420 of the IPC and he will be arrested soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-7-booked-for-roaming-on-streets/story-4hdWGSBa178KXxMjs970aJ.html
08-04-2020||Chandigarh||Sukhbir seeks bonus for farmers at all-party meet with PM||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Wednesday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to provide bonus to farmers for the problems they are facing during the current wheat procurement season in view of the lockdown.Demanding a relief package for the industry, labour, and augmentation of health facilities in Punjab to combat Covid-19 effectively, the SAD president, who participated in the all-party meeting held by the prime minister through a video conferencing, appreciated PM Modi for the bold and decisive actions taken by him, which, he said, had won praises from one and all.Sukhbir said there was an urgent need to reduce pressure on grain markets in the state during the forthcoming wheat procurement season as large gatherings could pose a risk of spreading of the virus. Sukhbir also suggested that government agencies be directed to purchase wheat at the village-level as a precaution. On bonus to farmers, Sukhbir suggested ₹100 per quintal for a month’s delay and ₹150 per quintal for a two-month delay. He also sought monetary compensation to potato and vegetable farmers who had suffered huge losses in the recent times.Speaking about the problems being faced by the industrial sector, the SAD president urged the Prime Minister to announce sops for small and medium industry to avoid large-scale labour layoffs. Sukhbir said the industrial sector be told about the subsidies early so that industrialists can plan better. He said as per the feedback he was getting, the production would be remain affected for the next five to six months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sukhbir-seeks-bonus-for-farmers-at-all-party-meet-with-pm/story-yebHv0LtVpgUrkHxwXKiNN.html
08-04-2020||Lucknow||UP: Forest officers asked to be alert after tiger tests positive in US zoo||After a tiger tested positive for Covid-19 virus in a New York zoo, the union ministry of environment, forest and climate change has directed the principal chief conservator of forests (PCCF), UP, to ensure the well being of both forest staff and wild animals.While Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI) scientists in Bareilly are still trying to understand which animals may be susceptible to the novel coronavirus, the officers here at the Pilibhit Tiger Reserve (PTR) and Dudhwa National Park have swung into action to ensure compliance. “The order of the central government and the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) would be strictly implemented,” said H Raja Mohan, field director, Pilibhit Tiger Reserve. He said forest officials will monitor all animals of feline species particularly tigers and leopards. Villagers across the forest belt too had been told and asked to instantly inform forest officials if they came across any tiger or leopard outside the forest, he said.The advisory issued by Dr Vaibhav C Mathur, assistant inspector general, National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA), says that groups that rescue tigers and leopards should be vigilant. If any carnivore is found dead in the forest, its samples must be collected and send for tests. Foresters must undergo check-ups to ensure that they are free of infection before interacting with villagers living around the forests. The guidelines also require that villagers avoid routes that go through the forests.Pilibhit Tiger Reserve is home to around 65 tigers. Apart from the big cats, there are a variety of leopards. According to 2019-20 estimates, the PTR has leopard 25, bear 119, deer species 5800, nilgai (blue bull) 5400 and 320 vultures. Two prominent NGOs namely the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) and Wildlife Trust of India (WTI) that regularly pitch in and provide support to foresters have also been asked by NTCA to adhere to the guidelines. “Except forest officials and support staff, with proper sanitisation, no one will be allowed to enter the forest area,” said deputy director, Dudhwa, Anil Patel. He said camera traps would be used to monitor the condition of carnivores. If any carnivore exhibits symptoms of Covid-19, it will be provided treatment. A committee of wildlife veterinarians along with range officers and forest guards will be formed to regularly monitor the condition of carnivores. “We have prepared a quarantine ward for the animals in the zoo on the instructions of our director RK Singh. In case any animal shows any symptoms of Covid-19, it will be kept in quarantine and its samples will be sent for testing. All the staff will be properly sanitised before entering the zoo and all will have to wear masks, gloves and disposable apron while feeding animals. Even the vehicles used for transporting food will be regularly sanitised with sodium hypochlorite solution. Our director has ensured that we have sufficient PPEs available at the zoo,” said Dr Brijendra Yadav, veterinarian, Lucknow zoological garden.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-forest-officers-asked-to-be-alert-after-tiger-tests-positive-in-us-zoo/story-SZs3s07yruTu3fogNgWkjL.html
08-04-2020||City||Demanding fees during lockdown: Show-cause notices to two more private schools in Ludhiana||The state education department on Wednesday issued show-case notices to two more private schools in the district for defying its directions and demanding fees during the lockdown.Punjab education minister Vijay Inder Singla informed that Atam Devki Niketan Senior Secondary School, Kidwai Nagar, and Bharatam World School, Khanna, have been issued notices for the violation.The schools should also not charge transportation fees and books charges from students for the next academic session till the lockdown period is over, the minister said.On March 23, the state education department had directed all private schools to reschedule the date of depositing fee as many parents would be unable to do the needful amid lockdown. The schools were asked to provide window period of 30 days for submission of fees after the situation gets normalized. The schools were also asked not charge any late fee fine as well for the same.They were asked to abide by the orders or face disciplinary action, the cabinet minister said.“The schools have been given seven-day period to file their reply. If they fail to reply, we are going to cancel their affiliation or no objection certificate (NOC) to run the school,” Singla said in the statement.Mridhu Ablash, principal of Atam Devki Niketan Senior Secondary School, said, “We have not issued any circular regarding the payment of a fee to the parents. However, only a circular related to online classes was sent to the parents.”To ensure strict action against the violating schools, the education minister has also floated his email id, vijayindersingla@gmail.com, on which the parents can send their complaints.So far, five schools in Ludhiana— Atam Devki Niketan Senior Secondary School in Kidwai Nagar, Bharatam World School in Khanna, Delhi Public School in Jhammat village, MGM Public School in Dugri, and Green Land Convent School in Subhash Nagar,— have been issued notices for the violation.After notice, MGM Public School defers date of fee payment A day after a private school was issued a show-cause notice by the state education department for asking parents to submit the fee, the school authorities of MGM Public School, Dugri, have deferred the date of fee payment to April 30. Earlier, the school had asked the parents to submit the fee by April 10. School principal Sunita Vij said, “Keeping in mind the current Covid-19 crisis, its effect on the economy and the cumbersome pressure on parents, this decision has been taken.” Some of the parents had approached the staff members, who have been working from home, and told that they were willing to pay the monthly fee on due date, instead of a lump sum later, Vij said, adding that they have informed the parents that they can pay the fees anytime without any late fee fine. Keeping the current situation in mind, the school authorities are completely ready to cooperate with the parents. In case the lockdown continues, the payment of fee will be further deferred till normalcy revives, as per the order of the district magistrate, the principal added. The case On March 23, the state education department had directed all private schools to reschedule the date of depositing fee as many parents would be unable to do the needful amid lockdown. The school authorities were further asked to abide by the orders or face disciplinary action. Following a complaint by the parents, the state education department on Tuesday had issued a show-cause notice to two schools—MGM Public School, Dugri, and Green Land Convent School, Subhash Nagar— for the same violation. The DPI office had asked the school authorities to submit a reply as to why the school’s no objection certificate (NOC) to run the school should not be cancelled as they have violated the orders of the education department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/demanding-fees-during-lockdown-show-cause-notices-to-two-more-private-schools-in-ludhiana/story-GIGkiomjzJDoT4qho6j40J.html
08-04-2020||City||Bathinda cancer hospital patients hit as 3rd floor turned into covid facility||With the first batch of 24 suspected covid-19 patients moving into the third-floor isolation ward of the Advanced Cancer Institute (ACI) in the city on Tuesday, the line of treatment for cancer patients has been hit. Six surgeries scheduled for the next three days, and chemotherapy and radiation therapy of many patients could not be not done. The institute is a constituent of Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS), Faridkot. Doctors say that cancer patients have low immunity and should not be exposed to the virus. Parvinder Sandhu, an oncological surgeon at ACI, said, “I had to put off scheduled surgeries. Due to the lockdown, patients from nearby towns who used to visit Chandigarh, Ludhiana or Rajasthan for chemotherapy and radiation therapy are also coming to us, leading to 20% more load. Due to the covid facility, we have to shift ICU-ward patients to other rooms. For chemotherapy patients, we will have to use a dharamshala on campus.”“My 70-year-old mother is undergoing treatment for post-radiotherapy complications. Using the ACI to also treat covid patients is life-threatening,” said Munish Joshi, an attendant. ACI medical superintendent Dr Deepak Arora said, “Precautions have been put in place, but we have a single X-ray test station and coronavirus patients will also need the same facility. The movement of paramedics and other staff from cancer wards to the covid facility is also a concern,” he said. Bathinda civil surgeon Amrik Singh, “Cancer patients must be kept away from the covid facility. I will take up the issue with the deputy commissioner. Cancer patients may be shifted to the BFUHS campus.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bathinda-cancer-hospital-patients-hit-as-3rd-floor-turned-into-covid-facility/story-U7xLtiw0wxsd9mjMD2djoO.html
08-04-2020||Mumbai||Tablighi returnees from Delhi are like human bombs, says Devendra Fadnavis||Senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis on Wednesday called the Tablighi Jamaat members who had attended the religious congregation in Nizamuddin last month as “human bombs” who can potentially spread infection among large population.The former chief minister also demanded that such attendees be tracked and screened.Issuing a video message after meeting Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari, Fadnavis said, “The coronavirus infected people who have come from the congregation at the Nizamuddin in New Delhi are a kind of human bombs. They can cause infection in the largescale population.“It is imperative to trace, track and treat these people,” he said.According to government, coronavirus positive cases jumped across the country, after many Tablighis travelled back to their respective states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/tablighi-returnees-from-delhi-are-like-human-bombs-says-devendra-fadnavis/story-kjn8IuVuaVkywt2IjcOBFI.html
08-04-2020||City||Ludhiana: Azad Nagar residents stage protest amid lockdown||Irked over clogged sewer lines for the last four months, residents of Azad Nagar in ward number 47 staged a protest against councillor Priya Kaira on Wednesday. Ignoring the curfew and throwing the social distancing norms to the wind, the residents gathered at the office of the councillor and demanded immediate action.The residents said that Kaira has failed to a find a concrete solution to the problem due to which they are bearing the brunt as the sewer water has accumulated on the roads which emanates a foul smell. Few of the residents said that the accumulated sewer water has also entered their houses.The residents had also staged a protest against the councillor at the office of municipal corporation (MC) in January.Pritampal Singh Pali Dang, a resident, said, “The councillor has failed to pay heed to the problem due to which we have been forced to protest amid the curfew. At a time when the administration is encouraging hygiene, the sewer water has accumulated on the street and spreading foul smell in the area. It also leads to road accidents and a resident had also suffered a fracture after his two-wheeler skidded on the road around four months back.”Meanwhile, councillor Kaira said, “The population density has increased in the area due to which the sewer lines are not able to cope up with the pressure. Staff has already been deputed to clean the sewer lines and the problem would be resolved by Thursday.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-azad-nagar-residents-stage-protest-amid-lockdown/story-wPZz571aoD1sBekveObqhI.html
08-04-2020||City||Efforts on to track 10 co-passengers of Tablighi attendee||The Punjab health department is trying to locate 10 people who travelled with a Tablighi Jamaat attendee in Dhauladhar Express train from Delhi to Pathankot on March 17. The Jamaat follower has tested positive for Covid-19 in Kangra (HP).The attendee had travelled up to Kandrori, a stop ahead of Pathankot, and headed for his native place Indora (HP).The co-passengers were identified from the railways booking record, police said. The list includes a jawan of 21 J&K Rifles, who has been quarantined. The supervisor of the Kandrori station where the attendee got off and possibly interacted with him, has also been put on the list.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/efforts-on-to-track-10-co-passengers-of-tablighi-attendee/story-85mnbkRxCdw88bqHiqUupN.html
08-04-2020||City||Ludhiana: Labour contractor held for sending false alarm to Bihar govt||Hailing from Bihar, a labour contractor in the district sent an e-mail to the Bihar government claiming that he has nothing to eat at home and is starving due to the lockdown.When the police reached his home at Kohara village following a communication from the Bihar government, they found that the man had hoarded grocery, which is sufficient for his family for at least one month.The Focal Point police arrested the accused, identified as Bharat Singh, 47, who hails from Siwan district of Bihar. They registered an FIR against him for furnishing false information.Assistant sub-inspector ASI Surjit Singh, Incharge of police post Ishwar colony, said that zone level teams have been formed in Ludhiana to provide grocery to the people in need. As the Bihar government intervened, a Ludhiana police team reached his home to provide food.He was stocking 18kg rice, 20 kg flour, other grocery items, including vegetables, sufficient to last a month for a family, while he has been living alone.A case under Sections 68 of Police Act and Section 182C of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered against the accused at Focal Point police station.It is second such case in Ludhiana. On April 5, a resident of Azad Nagar had made a similar call to control room dealing with coronavirus outbreak claiming that he and his family members were starving. When the police reached his home to deliver essentials, it was found that the family had adequate grocery items at home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-labour-contractor-held-for-sending-false-alarm-to-bihar-govt/story-uYm9Qr3a5reYoKtESB9c9O.html
08-04-2020||Mumbai||Way to give Covid-19 test samples without leaving the car?||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is considering a plan to set up drive-through sample collection units whereby people can drive in and submit samples to test for Covid-19 without getting out of their vehicles. The facility will have medical staff to collect swab samples which will then be sent for testing. While the BMC has finalised a standard design for the sample collection unit, the plan is to set up such facilities in tents, gazebos in isolated areas like service roads of highways, parking lots, and open grounds. A plan to change the Bandra Worli sealink tollbooth into a sample collection is being discussed but is yet to be finalised.As per the plan, the suspected patient will reach the testing facility in their car and the sample will be collected through the vehicle window. The facility will have a registration desk along with a professional to collect samples. “The speed of collecting samples will be doubled easily as it will take just five minutes per patient. It is estimated that a three-member team can collect up to 200 samples a day. The biggest advantage of such units is that they completely reduce or rule out chances of cross infections which are a major threat to medical staff,” said a senior civic official. According to the BMC, these drive-through units will be cost-effective and will require minimal assets. Another civic official working on this plan said, “Such facilities are easy to set up and operate since very minimal assets are required for running it on a full scale. The facilities will cost very less to set up and we will make sure that proper arrangements for the staff are made there.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/way-to-give-covid-19-test-samples-without-leaving-the-car/story-qs2ETzu1WRe1C24z8RSDPI.html
08-04-2020||Mumbai||Balbharti releases Class 12 textbooks online||Class 12 students from the Maharashtra state board will no longer have to wait to get their textbooks under the revised curriculum as the state’s publishing bureau, Balbharti, has uploaded a majority of the books in their PDF version on its official website — http://ebalbharati.in. Most of the textbooks for the commerce and science streams have been uploaded on the website while some from the arts stream have also been published. Students can download them free of cost on any device. Officials in Balbharti said that the decision was taken to ensure that students can start reading the books as colleges remain shut due to the lockdown. “We wanted to bring the textbooks in the market by the end of March. We faced hurdles due to the current situation and hence decided to at least upload soft copies so that students don’t have to wait,” said Vivek Gosavi, director, Balbharti. The state government had taken up a syllabus revision exercise over the last few years, as part of which textbooks are being gradually revised. While the Class 11 syllabus was revised in 2019, Class 12 syllabus is being revised from the upcoming academic year 2020-21. Officials from Balbharti are now working to ensure that students get access to all the textbooks soon. “A few subjects like geography are left because the committees for these subjects are yet to give a final nod to the copy only after which it can be published. We are using online messaging applications to get in touch with members of these committees and are confident that the remaining textbooks would also be made available soon,” said Gosavi.IB cancels Class 11, 12 examsThe International Baccalaureate(IB) cancelled its diploma programme (Class 11 and 12 equivalent) exams scheduled between April 30 and May 22 in a circular issued recently. Students enrolled in these programmes would be awarded their diploma grades on the basis of their coursework and overall performance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/balbharti-releases-class-12-textbooks-online/story-mKNPwmItFggI1TepAAx9sM.html
08-04-2020||Mumbai||Division of patients: Way to curb spread of Covid-19||To reduce the transmission of the Sars-CoV-2 and bring down the number of cases, the state health department has come up with a new standard operating procedure (SOP) for treatment – suspected patients will be segregated into mild, moderate and severe categories and treated in facilities specifically equipped to handle those symptoms.The move comes after the department received several complaints that all suspected patients, irrespective of the nature of their symptoms, were kept only at a distance of 1ft from each other at quarantine centres. “Currently, all people, even with minor symptoms, rush to Kasturba Hospital for screening. This leads to crowding and adds to the pressure on the hospital. We have decided to bifurcate the crowd for safety,” said Dr Daksha Shah, deputy health officer, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). “The facilities must have separate areas for suspected and confirmed cases with preferably a separate entry and a safe exit. The suspect and confirmed cases must not be allowed to mix, under any circumstances,” reads the SOP, a copy of which is available with HT. Under the new directive, doctors from AYUSH will be roped in to man these centres.According to the SOP, a patient will be categorised as mild, only if he/she has fever or cold. He will be taken to ‘Covid care centres’ in makeshift facilities such as lodges, stadiums, schools, hotels and hostels. The BMC has procured the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Indoor Stadium in Worli, where they are in the process of setting up a 2,000-bed quarantine facility.The second category, moderate, will include patients with pneumonia with no sign of severe diseases. Such patients will be kept in either in hospital or an extended part of hospitals which have essential medical equipment such as oxygen cylinders.Pneumonia patients with low respiratory rate will be considered ‘severe’ and undergo treatment in dedicated Covid hospitals. They will be kept under observation in the intensive care units of the hospitals. “When the virus gets into the body through the nostrils, the person develops mild fever and cold. When it goes through the throat, the patient develops moderate symptoms, depending on the comorbid issues (other ailments). At the last stage, as the virus reaches the lung, it leads to development of a severe form of pneumonia. In 60-70% of the cases, patients get diagnosed in the first stage of infection,” said Dr Om Srivastava, city-based epidemiologist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/division-of-patients-way-to-curb-spread-of-covid-19/story-qG195kbAlWxV6H71eHBfaP.html
08-04-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Clean these 5 touch points in your building||Lift buttons, handles and iron gates of old collapsible lifts, staircase railings, all door handles and doors – these are the five main touch points that residents in containment zones in high-rises (apartments) should be aware of to control community transmission, according to the insecticide department of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). In case of containment zones in slums, the touch points are common toilets, stair handles or railings, parapets, sitting areas such as concrete platforms outside slum structures and door handles.Moreover, indoor areas of the patient’s home have to be sanitised rigorously before the 14-day isolation period and once the isolation is complete. According to the data released on Tuesday, there are 241 containment zones across all 24 municipal wards in the city. “Transmission is happening through these touch points and people are not aware of it. As on today, the focus is on cutting off the chain of transmission,” said Rajan Naringrekar, insecticide officer, BMC. “For this, not coming out of the house and ensuring touch points are sanitised daily is the key.”Twenty-four pest control officers are working across all wards under the administrative control of ward officers. The insecticide department is carrying out daily sanitisation of all containment zones. They are using 200ml of sodium hypochlorite for 10 litres of water as a solution to spray the disinfectant using motorised mist spraying pumps. “Residents of these containment zones and apartments need not bother with the sodium hypochlorite solution, and can regularly sanitise these touch points using basic disinfectants or bleaching powder solutions easily available in markets. They need to wear gloves. Bleaching powder solution made in a bowl is best for cleaning parapets and sitting areas. If everybody follows this twice daily, the chances of transmission are reduced completely,” said Naringrekar.Citizens on essential duty need to ensure the safety of their household and family members, said Naringrekar adding, they need to follow a daily process. “On reaching home, they need to first sanitise the cell phone, then their hands before entering the house. They need to immediately go to the wash basin. The foam on one’s hand (while using soap and water) needs to be used to wash the knob of the tap, which is an important touch point for households. Following this, a handkerchief dipped in disinfectant has to be used to wipe ones bag, belt, wallet, spectacles etc. followed by a shower. All clothes need to be dumped in a bucket filled with warm water and washed thereafter,” said Naringrekar.Meanwhile, societies opting for private pest control operations were worried about the solution being used by these agencies. “While the BMC operations are for free, private pest control charges are almost ₹2,000 per day. In one of the canisters during sanitisation in our society, it was 100% water and no sodium hypochlorite solution at all,” said Sudhakar Trivedi, a Mulund resident.“Pest control private bodies that are violating the insecticide department’s guidelines can lose their licence if they do not follow the exact steps identified for disinfection. If such violations are brought to our notice, we will immediately write to the state government,” said Naringrekar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-clean-these-5-touch-points-in-your-building/story-4v4EaxUF1TrDdWRIesJVRM.html
08-04-2020||Chandigarh||A first: Wheat to be procured through coupons in Punjab||To avoid mass gatherings in view of Covid-19 outbreak, the Punjab government is planning a staggered procurement of wheat this season, which will begin on April 15. Besides, the farmers will be allowed to come to grain markets and other procurement centres on basis of invitation, which will be extended by the Punjab Mandi Board.A bumper wheat crop of 135 lakh tonnes is expected to arrive for procurement in the state.Agriculture secretary KS Pannu, who is chalking out standard operating procedures for procurement, said: “To ensure smooth procurement and also follow the instructions in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak, no farmer can enter a mandi without invitation of the Punjab Mandi Board through the market committee.”Every day, a limited number of farmers will be issued coupons with holograms and more coupons will only be issued after the earlier produce is lifted, he said, adding that the coupon will work as curfew pass. “Each coupon will entitle a farmer to sell 50 quintals of wheat, which he will bring in his vehicle to the mandi. Arhtiyas (commission agents) will help market committees to issue coupons to farmers. The payment will be made through arhtiyas,” he said.To maintain social distance, ground space at the mandis is being divided into 30ft x 30ft lots for heaps of 50 quintals each. “We are making efforts to spread out procurement in terms of days and number of locations,” said food and civil supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu.He added: “It’s a mammoth task. We also have to ensure the safety of our farmers. We are making all arrangements for social distancing and other protocols to stop spread of the virus.” 1,900 RICE MILLS CONVERTED INTO PROCUREMENT CENTRES To spread out procurement operations, the food and civil supplies department has decided to convert 1,897 rice shelling mills with large yard spaces into procurement centres.“Apart from our regular 1,864 mandis and procurement centres, we have notified 1,897 rice mills as procurement centres, taking the total to 3,761, and we are in process identifying more. With this, we can reach out to farmers’ doorsteps, giving a cluster of two to three villages a separate facility for cleaning, packing and weighing of the grain,” said additional chief secretary (development) Viswajeet Khanna, who heads the state committee on harvesting and procurement.He said the commission agents will help in bringing out the farmers turn-wise with their produce. “We are providing gloves, masks and hand sanitisers at all procurement centres.” Meanwhile, IMD regional director Surender Paul predicted unsatisfactory weather conditions with sporadic rainfall, strong winds and sudden fall and rise in temperatures during April and May, when procurement operation is expected to be at peak.Punjab Agricultural University vice-chancellor BS Dhillon suggested farmers to preserve freshly harvested wheat at their end as long as possible. SHORTAGE OF GUNNY BALES, LABOURThere is also a shortage of gunny bales required by procurement agencies for wheat storage as the jute mills in West Bengal that supply gunny bags to Punjab have stopped production. “Out of our requirement of 4.85 lakh bales, we are short of at least one lakh bales,” said food and civil supplies director Anindita Mitra.She said the state government has written to the West Bengal government to allow production of gunny bags. She added that Punjab has also sought permission from the Centre to use polypropylene bags as an alternative.“Shortage of labour is also a big concern as workers form UP and Bihar are not in Punjab now, so the state is banking on indigenous labour which is engaged in MNERGA works,” said Viswajeet Khanna, adding that harvesting and procurement requires 5 lakh work heads, who could be arranged from within the state.The authorities have instructed that all trucks and harvester combines going from one village to another will be sanitised regularly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/govt-plans-wheat-procurement-in-staggered-manner/story-wNqo7B7o8bEzUUPAqQk47I.html
08-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab to set up task force to look into lifting of lockdown||Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Wednesday announced setting up of a task force to find ways to gradually get out of the lockdown in Punjab.Addressing state’s leading industrialists through video-conferencing, the CM assured them of all support to address critical issues and challenges in this difficult time. While seeking the industry’s suggestions on the way forward, he invited them to be part of the government’s decision-making process in the extraordinary situation that is prevailing currently.Among the various issues raised by industry leaders was the demand for declaring tractors and ancillary industries as essential and allowing them reopen to meet the urgent needs of farmers in the rabi harvesting and marketing season. The demand for declaring cycles as essential commodity was also raised. Another suggestion that came up was to allow the packaging industry to resume operations, given its importance in ensuring streamlined operations of essential commodities.A major issue discussed at the meeting related to the problems faced by pharmaceutical companies, which were playing a pivotal role in tackling the Covid-19 outbreak. ‘DECISION ON CURFEW IN APRIL 10 CABINET MEET’The CM clarified that no decision had been taken on extending the curfew in the state beyond April 14.In a statement after a government notification mentioning the extension of curfew went viral, the CM said the state government was yet to take a decision in the matter and a decision in this regard would be taken after the cabinet meeting scheduled for April 10.The Chief Minister said that the speculation on curfew extension had been triggered by an advisory to employees from the General Administration department on a series of matters relating to the current situation. The said advisory had subsequently been withdrawn by the chief secretary on his directives, the CM said. The state government was continuously assessing and reviewing the evolving situation, which was changing day-to-day, and any decision would be taken in the context of the conditions prevailing around mid-April, keeping in mind the overall interest of the state and its people, said Amarinder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-to-set-up-task-force-to-look-into-lifting-of-lockdown/story-ENJgqFXmXytsXFPBpd9BmO.html
08-04-2020||Lucknow||All corona hotspots in Varanasi sealed: DM||Sars-Cov-2 hotspots namely Lohta, Madanpura, Bajadiha and Gangapur areas in the district had already been sealed, said Varanasi district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma on Wednesday. The state government authorities said earlier in the day that corona hotspots in 15 districts of UP, including Varanasi, will remain sealed till April 15.  “So far, the district has reported nine corona positive cases. Two patients have recovered while a person from Gangapur town tested positive after his death while six others are undergoing treatment,” the DM added. He further said two family members of the person who died also tested positive. Their report came on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/all-corona-hotspots-in-varanasi-sealed-dm/story-MPDy36q104uhUQtnRZgabL.html
08-04-2020||City||Two held for assaulting civic worker||A 40-year-old woman and her son were arrested for allegedly assaulting a civic employee, who was sanitising Ajmer Nagar in Bhiwandi, on Tuesday. Shakila Ansari and her son Aftab Ansari, 19, assaulted the worker after the disinfectant spilt on the door.The civic employee said the duo abused him, slapped him several times and prevented him from doing his job, the official said.The two have been charged under sections 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharging his duty) and other relevant provisions of the IPC,” said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-held-for-assaulting-civic-worker/story-8fibiQk7zGIqoyx9OjEFKL.html
08-04-2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Panic buying after news of corona hotspots to be sealed spreads||The news on sealing corona hotspots in 15 districts of the state till April 30 once again led to led to large scale panic buying in Lucknow on Wednesday.People came out of their houses in large number to buy essential commodities like groceries, vegetables, fruits, milk powder, medicines, etc in anticipation that all shops would be shut in their vicinity. A large crowd headed towards Aminabad, Ganeshganj, Hussainganj, Nishatganj, Alambagh, Gomti Nagar and Bangla Bazar areas in particular.“As the news went viral on TV channels and other social media at 3 pm, people headed to their nearby market place to buy essential commodities,” said owner of a prominent grocery shop in Ganeshganj. People who would otherwise buy lesser quantity were insisting on 5 lt mustard oil, 10 kg refined flour bag, 5 kg rice, etc as if everything would close down.Additional district magistrate, Vishwa Bhushan said, “Due to misinformation, chaotic scenes were witnessed in several city markets. We are trying to convince people that only hotspots areas will be sealed and not the entire city as many people are apprehending at present.”Online grocers on Wednesday evening suddenly faced glut of orders and their phone lines remained busy in the evening.Staff of an online grocer in Gomtinagar said, “People are ordering in bulk. We are making them understand that supplies will not be affected but they are panicking.”With panic buying, prices of vegetables, fruits and other items soared high. A final year engineering student Gaurav said, “At Charbagh, potatoes were sold at Rs 40/kg, brinjal at Rs 60/kg and carrot at Rs 50 per kg. Fruit prices also went up within hours.”The situation was no different in Narhi snd Nishatganj where people were seen crowding at the market place. Even additional chief secretary Home, Awanish Awasthi clarified only hotspots in 15 districts would be under complete lock down but it did not stop panic buyers.Even at grocery stores, branded flour and noodles went off the shelves. The local chakki aata packet of 5 kg is priced at Rs 160 at a popular Moti Babu shop. Retailers said the supplies were just a little less than the normal, but the people had been buying in excess.A local vendor in Lal Kuan area of Lucknow was selling potatoes for Rs 40 per kg. At Nishatganj market, tomato is being sold for Rs 50 per kg, onion Rs 50 per kg, lady finger available for 100/kg, capsicum for Rs 120/kg, coriander for 100/kg, beans for 120/kg and Arvi for Rs 100 per kg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/lucknow-panic-buying-after-news-of-corona-hotspots-to-be-sealed-spreads/story-cpgcfewpeQl8LzSIqOTVTP.html
08-04-2020||City||Mumbra hospital sealed after staffer tests positive for coronavirus||The 120-bed Kalsekar Hospital in Mumbra was sealed on Wednesday, a day after an employee tested positive for Covid-19. A 57-year-old man, who works as a supervisor in the hospital, was in close contact with a 47-year-old Mumbra resident, who had tested positive last week.A doctor from the hospital said, “As a precautionary measure, we have decided to seal the hospital for 15 days. There are around 13 patients in the hospital and they will be shifted to Kalyan, Mumbai and Navi Mumbai hospitals. All our staffers are quarantined.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbra-hospital-sealed-after-staffer-tests-positive-for-coronavirus/story-ANAlZO5eJ4UyPKEYiz4wzN.html
08-04-2020||City||Kalyan mayor seeks nod to work as nurse to fight Covid-19||Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) mayor Vinita Rane has written to the civic body chief, seeking permission to work for the health department as a nurse. Rane worked as a nurse in a Mumbai hospital for 32 years. “I have experience and I am sure I can help the civic body in this difficult times,” said Rane. KDMC chief Vijay Suryavanshi said he would consider the request.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kalyan-mayor-seeks-nod-to-work-as-nurse-to-fight-covid-19/story-W2hSLghWXx4ibdKW1lNZSM.html
08-04-2020||City||Lockdown: Shops in Badlapur to shut at 5pm||The shops in Badlapur will be open only from 7am to 5pm to restrict people from coming out of their houses. Thane collector Rajesh Narvekar ordered this restriction after people were found going out to shop at night too. He has warned of action against those not following the direction. Only medical stores, hospitals and clinics will remain open at night. Kulgaon Badlapur Municipal Council (KBMC) has been asked to ensure shops selling veggies, fruits or food grains shut at 5pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lockdown-shops-in-badlapur-to-shut-at-5pm/story-mOdeWzg2pi6LGnJDXrT4QP.html
08-04-2020||City||Northern Railways starts 5 parcel express trains to transport goods||The Northern Railways has announced to run five parcel express trains for the facilitation in movement of goods to different parts of the country during the nationwide lockdown in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak.The trains will run between New Delhi and Guwahati; Amritsar and Howrah; Delhi Junction and Jammu Tawi; Kalka and Ambala; and Dehradun and Delhi Junction. These trains will make a total of 70 trips.The train 00464/00463 Amritsar – Howrah – Amritsar Parcel Express Train will depart from Amritsar at 6.40pm on April 9 to reach Howrah on the third day at 7.30am. While running from Howrah to Amritsar, the train will depart from Howrah at 7.10pm to reach Amritsar at 8.30am on the third day. The train will make seven trips in each direction.The train consists of five parcel vans and one sitting-cum-luggage coach. The train will halt at Ludhiana, Ambala, Delhi Junction, Moradabad, Lucknow, Varanasi, Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Junction, Patna, Jhajha and Asansol railway stations. Another train 00403/00404 Delhi Junction – Jammu Tawi – Delhi Junction Parcel Express Train will also make 14 trips (seven in each direction). The train will depart from Delhi from April 9 at 10.30pm to reach Jammu Tawi at 8.15am the next day. On returning, the train will depart from Jammu Tawi at 6.10pm to reach Delhi at 3.55am the next day.Consisting of a parcel van and a seating-cum-luggage coach, the train will stop at Panipat, Ambala Cantt, Ludhiana and Pathankot Junction railway stations.Apart from these two trains, a train New Delhi - Guwahati - New Delhi Parcel Express (00402/00401); Kalka - Ambala - Kalka Pracel Express (00454/00453); and Dehradun – Delhi Junction – Dehradun Parcel Express (00434/00433) will also start from April 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/northern-railways-starts-5-parcel-express-trains-to-transport-goods/story-gFcTKklzFnYHdhatgUIMxI.html
08-04-2020||City||TMC HQ gets disinfecting machine||Thane Municipal Corporation has installed a disinfecting machine at the entrance of its headquarters at Panchpakhadi. A TMC officer said, “Most employees are on field. The disinfecting machine installed at the entrance of our headquarters will ensure that employees sanitise themselves from head to toe before entering.” More such machines will be installed at other civic buildings and offices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tmc-hq-gets-disinfecting-machine/story-CMxYGuIjmZkTWS5QTJ9EMI.html
08-04-2020||City||Ludhiana: Labourers can contact police for food, medical aid||Punjab Backward Classes Land Development and Finance Corporation (BackFinco) vice chairman Mohd Gulab appreciated the efforts of Punjab government for the welfare of migrant labourers and people from the weaker sections of the society. Gulab, who himself hails from Bihar, urged the migrant labourers hailing from Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and other states to not get panicky and said that the state government is committed to their welfare. He said, “Due to ongoing lockdown, the industry is closed, but it would start its normal operations the moment the lockdown is over. The state government has made arrangements for stay, food and medical aid for the migrant labourers.”“Labourers who don’t have any place to stay should immediately contact their nearest police station and they would be shifted to shelter homes. Such persons just need to carry their bedding and some clothes as food would be taken care,” he said.“Ration is being supplied to the migrant labourers daily and on the orders of the district administration, one month rent of migrant labourers staying in vehras/houses has been postponed,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-labourers-can-contact-police-for-food-medical-aid/story-mMQwgw5u2fPmXY82b0QezK.html
08-04-2020||City||Tough to hold hearings without complainants, defendants’||With courts only hearing urgent matters amid the lockdown imposed to check the spread of the novel coronavirus disease (Covid-19), advocate Amandeep Sharma, 50, is using the down time to study recent amendments and peruse through pending cases.The former businessman has been practicing criminal law for eight years. He has only visited the court twice since the courts closed. “I had to go to court because two of my cases required an urgent hearing. It is a challenge to hold a hearing in the absence of complainants and defendants. However, the judges have been really supportive. They are also entertaining us on the phone so that we can minimise our visits to court. We have also been allotted an e-mail id where we can submit bail plea request.”However, Sharma feels that video conferencing is not an adequate substitute for physical presence in court.”In many cases, where the criminal cannot be produced in the court, the video conferencing approach is adopted but I believe that it is not effective for all cases since it is challenging to show evidence, argue cases and understand the position of the complainant and defendant through a virtual medium.”“The atmosphere in court is conducive for both judges and advocates to understand every aspect of the case, which is why I think the court should only entertain urgent cases till normalcy is restored,” Sharma opines. Ask him how he plans to spend the remaining lockdown period , he says, “This week I plan to read the Prevention of Corruption Act, 2019, along with making calls to some of my clients whose cases are pending in the court,” Sharma says. Other than studying, Sharma a resident of Rishi Nagar is spending the lockdown period practicing mindfulness and watching Ramayana and Mahabharata with his family. Sharma and his family have been doing their share of humanitarian work by feeding the police staff deputed in their area: “There are eight police personnel deputed in our area. We prepare tea for them in the morning and evening and also prepare lunch for them. This is our way of showing our appreciation, gratitude and support for those on frontline,” he says. “In this time of uncertainty, it is our duty as human beings to help and support each other. The safety of ourselves, our loved ones and society at large should be our primary concern,” he says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tough-to-hold-hearings-without-complainants-defendants/story-2iQ11AgIkIPuLBCYhPZgxM.html
08-04-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: High power committee seeks time to file reply on classification of prisoners||The high-power committee constituted to decide on releasing under-trials and convicts on temporary bail has sought time to file its reply with regards to the objections raised by a petition filed by two inmates. The petition has claimed that while the Supreme Court order to decongest jails had mentioned only two clauses for releasing prisoners, the high power committee has introduced additional clauses that made it almost impossible for any of the inmates to be released thus negating the very purpose of the SC directions to safeguard inmates from the Covid 19 pandemic.On Wednesday, the bench of justice R G Avachat at the Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court while hearing the petition filed by two under trial prisoners who are booked under the Maharashtra Protection of Investors Depositors Act and kept at Harsul jail in Aurangabad informed the bench through advocate Pradnya Talekar that the high power committee had introduced an exception in the SC directions thus prejudicing their chance of getting interim bail.Talekar informed the court that while the sanctioned capacity of the jail was 589 there were around 1828 inmates. As a result of this it was not possible to maintain social distancing among the prisoners thus putting their lives at risk and susceptible to any outbreak of the Covid-19 if it entered the jails.Talekar further submitted that the conditions for bail by the SC only mentioned that those serving a sentence of seven or less years should be allowed interim bail to decongest the jails. However the high power committee had introduced exceptions wherein persons accused of financial frauds were not eligible for the bail even though the punishment for their crime was less than seven years.Based on the submissions by Talekar the bench sought to know on what basis did the High Powered Committee make a separate classification of prisoners and placed the matter for further hearing on April 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-high-power-committee-seeks-time-to-file-reply-on-classification-of-prisoners/story-ARMsQFbE9QeGQfcCIlmLSI.html
08-04-2020||City||CBSE tells students to focus on practical knowledge||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has suggested principals of all the schools affiliated with the board to ask students to focus on practical learning and construct knowledge through all sources around them, such as people, their vocation, nature and environment, technology, tools and equipment etc. This suggestion was made by CBSE to the school principals in a news letter, which is also published on its website (http://www.cbse.nic.in/).It also advised that textbooks cannot be the only source of knowledge and to understand how things actually work, students can have a better understanding of concepts through experiments. Giving example to understand the technology behind the household items, such as working of a pressure cooker, the students can learn how the food items can be prepared quickly by using the pressure cooker and its working with the help of their parents. The pressure cooker has a sealed pot with a valve that controls the steam pressure inside. As the pot heats up, the liquid inside forms steam, which raises the pressure in the pot which further raises the boiling point of the water in the pot and the higher level of heat cooks the food quickly. Through these experiments, children can understand the functioning of other items such as clothes iron, TV remote, wall clock.Applauding the move by the board, the school teachers of private schools have stated that students can utilise this time during lockdown in understanding the concepts through experimental learning. For instance, the concept of the stem can be learned through classification, organisation, quantities, proportions, thermal conductivity, chemical reactions, audits, optimization, hygiene, timing, nutrition etc.Punita Singh, a science teacher of a private school, said, “Apart from online classes, I have asked my students to select any household item and understand its functioning, advantages and submit it as part of their project work after the school reopens. They have been asked to take help of their parents and this project will definitely teach them important survival skills.”A student of Class 8, Ashish Singla, said, “Since April 3, I am receiving online assignments from the school teacher and two topics of science and mathematics have been covered. Today, the teacher has asked the students to write observations regarding the recent changes in environment due to lockdown as a project work. It was also advised that pictures can be clicked to support the explanation.” Ludhiana school principals were of the view that the time can be utilised in developing skills among the children. Parents can also teach them the value of yoga/pranayam and meditation in reducing cortisol levels in the body and raising immunity.Gunmant Kaur Gill, principal of Guru Nanak International Public School, Model Town, said, “Practical knowledge will give more clarity of concepts to the students and will develop confidence in them. To make the students busy in these tough times, we have assigned a task to the students of Class 10 to write advantages of this 21-day lockdown. The aim was to make them think, so that they can remain positive and can learn the most important survival skills by staying at home.”The board also suggested the students to use the kitchen as the laboratory to conduct experiments with real tools.Nankana Sahib Public School principal Harmeet Kaur Waraich said, “Parents can make the best use of this time and teach skills to their children. Students can be motivated to read books, engage in indoor games and help their parents in household works. We can also encourage the students to do projects on Indian art, language and culture to sharpen their understanding of the sustainable aspects of our culture.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cbse-tells-students-to-focus-on-practical-knowledge/story-eebcoDqZbD2k5y2aeL053O.html
08-04-2020||Lucknow||Parcel train service for essential goods launched in Agra||North Central Railway (NCR), Agra division on Wednesday launched parcel train service for supply of goods to other states during the lockdown period.NCR, Agra division public relation officer (PRO) SK Srivastav said, “To supply goods to other states, parcel train service has been initiated from Wednesday, in which traders of Agra can send their parcels with the goods train, having stoppage at Agra Cantt railway station.”He said that the service would continue till April 11.On April 09 train number 00107 Kalyan to Hazrat Nizamuddin has stoppage at Dholpur at 12:55 and at Agra Cantt Railway Station at 13:55 and departs at 14:10.He further said that on April 10 train number 00646 Chennai to New Delhi would have a stoppage at Dholpur at 04:35 and at Agra Cantt at 5:35. On April 11 the train number 00647 from New Delhi to Hazrat Nizamuddin has stoppage at Agra Cantt at 21:40 and will depart at 21:55, informed PRO.Traders can contact at the Agra Cantt, Mathura and Dholpur parcel offices if they want to send their parcels. They can also contact on the number 9760537860 or can also call on 138, PRO added. Indian Railways had begun special goods train service to supply essential goods from one state to another during ongoing lock down due to COVID-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/parcel-train-service-for-essential-goods-launched-in-agra/story-8P1dl6Su5dMfFnanyagdBK.html
08-04-2020||Pune||Cluster containment introduced in 4 new localities of Pimpri-Chinchwad||The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) on Wednesday introduced cluster containment in four areas, namely Dighi, Chikhali, Kharalwadi and Thergoan to arrest the spread of Covid-19 in the industrial township neighbouring Pune city.A detailed order was issued by PCMC commissioner Shravan Hardikar on Wednesday specifying that Kharalwadi in Pimpri, Gharkul in Chikhali, Padwalnagar in Thergaon and a housing society in Dighi would be sealed to contain the spread of Sars-Cov-2 virus.As of Wednesday, PCMC has reported 22 positive cases for coronavirus, including six from among those who had attended a religious congregation at Nizamuddin, New Delhi.The civic body has already sealed Padvalnagar area of Thergoan on April 2 after the Tablighi Jamaat returnee tested positiveThe reason for sealing new areas in the township was the rising number of Covid-19 positive cases reported from these pockets.Hardikar said, “The containment zone order would be in effect until the lifting of the lockdown.”As a part of the cluster containment strategy, the designated areas would be cordoned off by the police and no entry or exit would be allowed to the residents. While essential supplies would be provided to them, a house-to-house survey would be undertaken to check for symptoms of Covid-19.It would be mandatory for residents to wear home-made masks or handkerchiefs on the face. Only municipal staffers and their vehicles and emergency services vehicles would be allowed in this area.Sealed areas in PCMCChikhali:Gharkul Residency building No. 1 to 20Pawar Industrial area to Navale vasti,Jama Masajid, Kharawadi and surrounding areaPimpri· Girme Hospital, Aggresan Library, Krishna Traders, Chaitali Park housing societyKharalaai Garden- Om Hospital, Oriental Bank, City Pride Hotel, Cristal Court HotelBhosari and Dighi: Kamalraj Balaji Residency, Rode Hospital, SVS computer, Swara Gift Shoppie, Sai Mandir Road, Anushka Optical.Thergoan: Shivtrirthnagar, Padavalnagar from Shitole clinic-Ganesh Mandir-Nidan Clinic-Kirti Medical-Rehmaniya Masjit-Orkid Hospital-Ganpati Mandir to Shitole Clinic road on Ashoka Society.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/cluster-containment-introduced-in-4-new-localities-of-pimpri-chinchwad/story-kthuHqhfukFfVnPXc3aZxI.html
08-04-2020||City||12 morning walkers given warning for violating lockdown||The Panvel police gave a stern warning to 12 morning walkers for violating lockdown.Ajay Kumar Langde, senior police inspector, Panvel city, said, “We have been making announcements, asking people to not come out of their homes unnecessarily. The 12 people were let off with a stern warning.”The Navi Mumbai police have ordered that starting from Tuesday all shops, barring chemists, hospitals and clinics and Agriculture produce market Committee (APMC), will be open only from 9am till 5pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/12-morning-walkers-given-warning-for-violating-lockdown/story-IfNYPp7dLKemxnqlI6pLgK.html
08-04-2020||Jaipur||7 arrested for attacking health team in Rajasthan’s Ajmer district||Seven people were arrested on Tuesday for allegedly attacking a team of health workers during its visit to a locality in Rajasthan’s Ajmer district earlier this week for screening residents for coronavirus, police said.The incident took place on Sunday night when the team was visiting Khanpura Chisti Nagar area, they said.A total of 22 people have been booked in the case and seven of them have been arrested, the police said.The health team had visited Khanpura Chisti Nagar to screen residents for coronavirus. Local residents manhandled the team members and even pelted stones at them, following which a case was registered against 22 people on Monday, said Station House Officer (SHO), Ramganj, Narpat Singh.“Seven of the accused named in the FIR were arrested on Tuesday under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Rajasthan Epidemic Diseases Act,” he said.Some people had recorded a video of the incident and it was used to identify the accused. Further investigation in the matter is underway, the SHO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/7-arrested-for-attacking-health-team-in-rajasthan-s-ajmer-district/story-M7THTO2GZvyBuEfjqwZM5I.html
08-04-2020||Pune||Covid-19: With family members quarantined, fire brigade, PMC heath staff carry out cremations of deceased||With immediate family members of most Covid-19 positive patients who died in quarantine, the civic body’s fire department is at the forefront of carrying out the cremation. As per instructions from the Centre and state government, the Pune fire brigade, PMPML and PMC’s health staff is helping relatives of the deceased carry out the cremation. In some of the cases, relatives were also not very keen to take back the bodies even as the civic administration wants bodies to be sent directly to the crematorium to avoid anyone coming in contact of the infected person.PMC health chief Ramchandra Hankare said, “In one case, all biological relatives are Covid-19 positive cases. So other relatives didn’t come to pick up the body. Therefore, the PMC staff performed the cremation. We have given training to our staff, considering that we may need to carry more such cremations, if needed in future.”Earlier last week, municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad had ordered that the final rites will be carried out in the presence of PMC health staff for Covid-19 bodies. Fire brigade department head Prashant Ranpise said, “Municipal commissioner had ordered us to provide a vehicle and driver for the body of deceased. We helped carrying out two cremations till Tuesday. Even the PMPML has been asked to provide buses for dead bodies.”Even if the Covid-19 patient died at a private hospital, they have to follow rules and need to take help of PMPML or fire brigade to carry the dead bodies.PMC released a detail order on April 6 for the cremation procedure and what precautions should be taken by staffers.A senior officer on condition of anonymity accepted that there is fear among the relatives of the deceased.The vehicle which is used for carrying the body is sanitised immediately. The staffers who carrying the cremation are provided with all the precautionary equipment as per instructions given by additional municipal commissioner Rubal Agrawal. PMC has also instructed the health officers to inform the police while carrying out the process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/covid-19-with-family-members-quarantined-fire-brigade-pmc-heath-staff-carry-out-cremations-of-deceased/story-S0vdj9yt25liSAOcP0Hq0J.html
08-04-2020||Education||AKTU postpones UPSEE 2020 May 10 exam||Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University on Wednesday decided to postpone its May 10 state entrance examination (SEE), the Uttar Pradesh state entrance examination (UPSEE) to fill up engineering seats in government and private engineering colleges in Uttar Pradesh. The new dates will be announced later, an official said. AKTU vice-chancellor, Prof Vinay Kumar Pathak said the decision to postpone UPSEE was taken in the wake Covid-19 outbreak and 21 days of the lockdown that followed. He said the new dates will be announced later. The applicants may make changes if required any, in their online application form till April 14, he said.More than 1.39 lakh candidates have deposited fees for the online examination till March 30, according to University administration. Last year, a total 1, 38,280 candidates had applied.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/aktu-postpones-upsee-2020-may-10-exam/story-G132vbymVXUIzVaaWMW24J.html
08-04-2020||Chandigarh||These front-line medics are staying away from home to keep Covid-19 at bay||At Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) here, treating Covid-19 patients is the top priority of the medical workforce, even if it means keeping away from family and personal commitments.Dr Lokesh Lalwani of pulmonary medicine department was grief-stricken after he received the news of his father’s demise on March 31. However, he continued treating a critical coronavirus patient at the hospital’s isolation ward.“As soon as I got to know about this, I asked Lokesh to rush home for his father’s cremation. Though he denied to leave at first, we later arranged his travel and forced him to go,” said Dr Dhruva Chaudhary, nodal officer for Covid-19 at PGIMS.When asked about taking precautions around family, the nodal officer said he makes sure to take off his shoes before entering the house. “I have been maintaining distance with my family members. Even they keep reminding me to take care while treating patients,” Chaudhary added.Chaudhary has been assigning duties to doctors and nurses on a rotational basis. He said while most doctors are getting weekly offs, they prefer to remain on the campus as they don’t want to take any chances with the health of their own kin.Anshul Singroha, a staff nurse who does 12-hour shifts at the isolation ward, said she has not met her children for the past many days. “I am prioritising my duty, but it is difficult for a mother to remain away from her children and family for too long,” Anshul said.Another health worker Rajesh Khatana has been working continuously and not been home since February 1. “If a soldier can patrol near the border, I can also perform my duty at the isolation ward,” he added.PGIMS superintendent nurse Ishwanti Malik said, “Over 700 nurses are combating coronavirus every day. But we are allotting duties to five nurses in a week, following which they are quarantined for 14 days,” she added.Malik said her engineer son was stuck in Delhi and daughter and son-in-law were stranded in Jaipur. “My husband is taking care of his and my mother, both aged 85, besides our 3-year-old grandson,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/these-front-line-medics-are-staying-away-from-home-to-keep-covid-19-at-bay/story-875e0ru5LJZkJkKf7LH0oK.html
08-04-2020||Mumbai||CSMIA completes re-carpeting work on runway||Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA), has completed major re-carpeting work on its primary runway 09/27 before the scheduled date of March 28, 2020. According to experts, this re-paving of the runway will lead to improvement and operational efficiency. Mumbai International Airport Ltd. (MIAL) said that a total of 835 personnel were involved in the project.MIAL said, “The re-carpeting work was undertaken with minimal personnel amidst maintaining social distancing between them, amid the Covid-19 outbreak. The major resurfacing work of 3,448 meters (11,309 feet) of the primary runway lead to up-gradation of all stressed and cracked portions of the runway surface as well as sections on the associated taxiways.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/csmia-completes-re-carpeting-work-on-runway/story-e2PgmADRNUHG94jrOfB5AI.html
08-04-2020||Jaipur||Five more cases of coronavirus in Rajasthan, total cases mount to 348: Report||Rajasthan recorded five more cases of coronavirus on Wednesday, taking the total number of virus cases in the state to 348, an official said.The virus has so far claimed six lives in the state. However, officials maintain that deaths occurred due to co-morbidity -- more than one illness or disease occurring in one person at the same time.“Five new cases have come up today, including three in Jaipur and one each in Bikaner and Banswara district. In Jaipur, positive cases have come in Ghat Gate and Ramganj area” Additional Chief Secretary Rohit Kumar Singh said.The entire state is under lockdown from March 22 and massive survey and screening is underway to trace the contagion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/five-more-cases-of-coronavirus-in-rajasthan-total-cases-mount-to-348-report/story-i6jQUlaOeSEGcFBPYkr4XI.html
08-04-2020||City||3 of Punjab Covid-19 super-spreader’s extended family recover, discharged from Jalandhar hospital||JALANDHAR: Three relatives of Baldev Singh, 70, Punjab’s first coronavirus casualty, were cured of Covid-19 in Jalandhar on Wednesday and were discharged from the local civil hospital.With this, 11 close contacts of preacher Baldev Singh have recovered out of the total 27 people who contracted the coronavirus disease from him.The three people discharged on Wednesday are Harjinder Singh, his wife Baljinder Kaur and son Hardeep Singh. The family belongs to Virk village in Phillaur sub division of the district. Harjinder Singh is the brother-in-law of Baldev Singh, who had died on March 18.All three patients were admitted to the civil hospital in Phillaur on March 20 after they were found asymptomatic and subsequently were shifted to the civil hospital in Jalandhar on March 24 after they tested positive. A specialised team of doctors, led by senior medical officer Dr Kashmiri Lal, treated these patients in the civil hospital for 14 days.Their samples were sent to the Government Medical College and Hospital, Amritsar, on April 6 and they tested negative. Another sample was sent on April 7 for the confirmatory test in which again they tested negative after which they were finally discharged.The patients thanked the medical and para-medical staff who took care of them.Jalandhar civil surgeon Dr Gurinder Kaur also appreciated the role of the team of doctors, nurses and paramedics in the fight against the pandemic.In Punjab’s Doaba region, 34 Covid-19 cases, including two deaths, have been reported so far. They comprise 19 cases in SBS Nagar, seven each in Hoshiarpur and in Jalandhar and one in Kapurthala. Of the 34, 12 people, including 11 contacts of Baldev Singh, have recovered so far.SON OF JALANDHAR COVID-19PATIENT TESTS POSITIVE, TOOA 50-year-old Jalandhar man tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday.With this, a total of seven positive cases have been reported in the district.He is the son of the 72-year-old woman from Nijatam Nagar, Jalandhar, who had earlier tested positive and is undergoing treatment at the Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH), Ludhiana.Punjab special chief secretary Karanbir Singh Sidhu tweeted, “Italian relatives visited them (at Nijatam Nagar) about 25 days ago.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-of-punjab-covid-19-super-spreader-s-extended-family-recover-discharged-from-jalandhar-hospital/story-sfiBMXuRHArgIgNL31rThP.html
08-04-2020||Mumbai||HC allows Pune man to travel by road to Assam for father’s last rites||With the entire nation under lockdown and travel restrictions being imposed for both domestic and international travel, the news of the death of his father in Assam came as a bolt from the blue for Pune resident Binny Dholani. On April 5, Dholani’s father had died of a heart attack in Assam.Being the only son, Dholani wanted to travel to Assam immediately to carry out the last rites but with restrictions on outstation trains and flights due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Binny had no way to go to Assam.He decided to write to the chief justice of the Bombay high court seeking directions to the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA), district collector, Pune, ministry of aviation (MCA) and ministry of road transport and highways to allow his passage on any flight going to Guwahati from Pune. On Tuesday, the bench of justice A K Menon took up the letter for hearing through video conferencing. While hearing the application of Binny Dholani through advocate Girish Menon, the bench was informed that the letter would be converted into a writ petition after the lockdown period concluded but due to the urgency, directions should be issued to the authorities to let Dholani travel to Assam by flight.Additional solicitor general Anil Singh appearing for the MHA, MCA and Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) informed the court that due to the restrictions no exceptions were being made for any of them, hence Dholani’s request to fly to Assam on any flight could not be accommodated. Singh, however, submitted that if Dholani wanted to travel by road, instructions could be issued to the Pune collectorate to facilitate the same. Dholani, however, said that he would convey his decision to the authorities after consulting his family as his mother was also ailing and had to be taken to the hospital for treatment.After hearing the submissions, justice Menon directed that the letter be converted into a petition after the lockdown concluded and also directed the Union to grant the required permissions if Dholani decided to undertake the journey by road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-allows-pune-man-to-travel-by-road-to-assam-for-father-s-last-rites/story-W0ImNdXHwK7AIwOJvSFgWP.html
08-04-2020||Gurugram||Tablighi Jamaat traces its origins to the Mewat region||The Tablighi Jamaat has been in the eye of a storm since last week, when hundreds of Covid-19 affected people across the country were found to have links with a congregation (ijtema) of indeterminate duration at the Jamaat’s markaz headquarters in Delhi’s Nizamuddin Basti in March.Started as an Islamic reform movement, the Tablighi Jamaat traces its origins to the Mewat region, where it was founded by Islamic scholar Maulana Muhammad Ilyas in 1926.Till today, Meo Muslims continue to form the core of the Jamaat movement, with a large majority of Meos subscribing to its tenets.Meo Muslims are spread across the once contiguous belt of eastern Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana. Culturally, this area spanning the three states is known as the Mewat region. Meos embraced Islam in various phases, between the 15th to the 17th century, and some of them continue to follow syncretic practices.Siddique Ahmed Meo, community historian and author of books on Mewat’s history, said the Jamaat’s origins in Mewat could be traced back to a time when labourers from Mewat, now officially known as Nuh, commuted to Delhi in search of work.According to the 2011 Census, the Nuh district’s population was about 1.09 million, of which the majority were Meo-Muslims. According to Meo, around 80% of the present-day population of Nuh district is made up of Meo Muslims.“People from Mewat would travel to Delhi for work and halt for lunch near the masjid in Nizamuddin, before proceeding ahead with the journey. Maulana Ilyas took notice of the labourers and enquired about them one day. Through conversations with the Meos, he realised that while they were Muslims, they did not have a good understanding of Islamic practices,” said Meo.Driven by his interactions with Meos in Nizamuddin, Maulana Ilyas visited Ferozepur Namak in Mewat for the first time in 1925. He started surveying the region and over subsequent visits, he came to the understanding that Meo Muslims needed to be introduced to Islamic practices and brought back into the fold.“A panchayat was called in Nuh and a charter consisting of names of 103 people was shared. Some 31 proposals aimed at laying the groundwork for the Jamaat were passed in that panchayat. Finally, in 1926, the Jamaat started undertaking trips to reach out to people and spread the message of Islam,” said Meo.He added that more than 90% of the people in Mewat identified themselves as Tablighi and the organisation exercised considerable influence in the region. “The aim of the Jamaat is to ensure that Muslims become better Muslims. It seeks to get Muslims to adopt practices followed by the Prophet Muhammad. All Meos might not go for the chilla (40-day Islamic camp), but they owe allegiance to the Tabligh,” said Meo.Tablighi Jamaat, Meo said, was also involved in various social interventions in present-day Mewat.“Tablighi Jamaat has been a strong proponent of eradication of practices like dowry in Mewat. Whenever they hold their ijtemas (Islamic congregations), they conduct mass nikah (marriage) ceremonies for people without any involvement of dowry. The Jamaat also seeks cooperation of imams in promoting polio eradication drives or preventing alcoholism and drug abuse in Mewat,” said Meo.Shail Mayaram, author of “Resisting Regimes: Myth, Memory and the Shaping of a Muslim Identity”, which discusses the Tablighi Jamaat, said it was a non-political outfit whose foundation was laid in Mewat. “Tablighi Jamaat’s aim is not to capture political power. They are only driven by the goal of making Muslims better Muslims. They focus on religious practice, one that is often seen as being conservative in nature,” said Mayaram, who is also a professor at the Centre for the Study of Developing Societies.Mayaram said the Jamaat was hugely popular in Mewat and Meos played an important role within the organisation of the outfit.“Mewatis have a significant role in the Jamaat administration. Over the years, Mewatis both in India and Pakistan have become closer to the Jamaat,” she said.Mayaram added that the support of the Meos to the Jamaat in the decades after Partition was significantly influenced by excesses that Meos faced during the Partition.“In my view, the belief in the Jamaat can also be explained by the violence that Mewatis experienced during Partition. It led to a shift in the identities and how they navigated their ways in the changing landscape. The circumstances led to a strengthening of the Jamaat’s case in the region,” said Mayaram.According to several local residents, Tablighi Jamaat supports two madrasas — one each in Nuh and Ferozepur Jhirka. It has a markaz (centre) in Nuh which coordinates activities with the centre in Delhi. Arshad, a Nuh resident, who owes allegiance to the Jamaat, said two congregations take place in Nuh every year where members of the Jamaat come together. “Earlier, the jalsa (gathering) would be a one-day affair. Since last year, a three-day gathering has started taking place. There is no fixed schedule or venue for the gathering. It takes place in different villages every year,” said Arshad, who goes by his first name.Since the beginning of this year, the Jamaat has not conducted any congregation/gathering in Mewat. “Usually, the congregation happens in April, after the harvest of crops. People are relatively free during this time. There has not been any update on that front this year,” said Arshad.However, hundreds of locals are believed to have been at the congregation in Nizamuddin last month. The police identified at least 270 of them and isolated them in Government Polytechnic College in Malab and Shaheed Hasan Khan Mewati Government Medical College, Nalhar, Nuh earlier this week. According to the health department, at least seven of them had tested positive for Covid-19 by Sunday.Shahid Ali, an advocate with the Tablighi Jamaat, said that while there was no written count of the members of the Jamaat; most people in Mewat subscribed to the Jamaat. “The organisation has a loose structure and there is no recorded membership, but the Jamaat traces its origin to Mewat due to which it is widely popular in the region. There is no fixed schedule for any congregation or gathering. Members of the Jamaat travel to Mewat for prayers, just as they visit other places across the country and beyond,” said Ali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/tablighi-jamaat-traces-its-origins-to-the-mewat-region/story-A1MBdEZzFtrNLLYdDnJbyI.html
08-04-2020||Mumbai||National Wildlife Board issues final nod for Mumbai-Nagpur highway amid lockdown||The National Board of Wildlife (NBWL), under the Union environment ministry, issued the final clearance for the ₹55,335-crore Mumbai-Nagpur super communication highway during a meeting held on Tuesday via video-conferencing amid the ongoing nationwide lockdown.Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar who chaired the meeting issued approvals for projects from 11 different states. He tweeted, “The proposal from the Maharashtra government for an amendment to the construction of Nagpur-Mumbai super highway was approved, which shall boost the overall growth in the region.”The 701-km Hindu Hruday Samrat Balasaheb Thackeray Maharashtra Samruddhi Mahamarg connecting Mumbai and Nagpur covering 10 districts, 26 talukas and 392 villages, will reduce the existing travel time of 15 hours to eight hours. The Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) had divided the entire highway into major packages or stretches for which environment clearances had been sought separately.Maharashtra chief wildlife warden Nitin Kakodkar said, “As far as wildlife clearances are concerned, the project now has all permissions in place. The Wildlife Institute of India (WII) had proposed mitigation measures such as underpasses, overpasses etc. for major wildlife zones. They are being examined by a committee whether these measures would be sufficient or otherwise. Once that is complete, there are no other hurdles from the wildlife point of view.”The project will require felling of over one lakh trees and passes through the 10-km eco-sensitive zone (ESZ) of Katepurna and Karanja Sohal Blackbuck wildlife sanctuaries towards one end of the state while cutting through the ESZ of Tansa lake sanctuary closer to the Mumbai Metropolitan Region. The total project requires 475 hectares of forest land. Kakodkar explained that it was erroneously mentioned in the state board of wildlife minutes of the meeting and proposal from February 2018 that 2% of the total project cost had to be paid up by MSRDC for mitigation measures under package 5 passing through Tansa’s ESZ. “Whereas 2% of the project cost for only this particular package area had to be paid not the total project cost. MSRDC brought this to the notice of the state, and an amended proposal was sent to NBWL, which received clearance on Tuesday,” said Kakodkar.Environmentalists questioned the Centre’s intention of issuing clearances during the Covid-19 lockdown period. “This time is being used to facilitate environment destruction. The NBWL is not part of essential services to clear projects. They also realised their decisions cannot be challenged at the moment in courts or otherwise,” said Stalin D, director, Vanashakti.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/national-wildlife-board-issues-final-nod-for-mumbai-nagpur-highway-amid-lockdown/story-c9ZtJDuLzu3uO1kq5IYYTK.html
08-04-2020||Chandigarh||Amritsar jail inmates stitching face masks to meet shortage in hospitals||Those who were caught on the wrong side of the law are now doing their bit to help the fellow countrymen keep the coronavirus at bay. Inmates of Amritsar Central Jail have already stitched around 6,000 face masks and will continue to do so till Covid-19 is contained, a jail official said.Among those who are spending hours on the sewing machine include Sukhdev Singh, 65, A Tarn Taran resident who is serving a 10-year jail term in a drug case and Joginder Singh, 45, a tailor convicted of murder. “Sukhdev learnt the art of stitching masks from his fellow prisoners in a short duration. He is now stitching 80 to 100 masks daily,” said the official. Sukhdev and Joginder are among the 60 prisoners, including 15 women, who are stitching masks to meet the shortage. The government has already included masks and hand sanitisers in the list of essential commodities following the outbreak of the coronavirus. “Around 60 convicts are making face masks. Apart from providing masks to all jail inmates, we have produced 6,000 face masks till now,” said jail superintendent Arshdeep Singh Gill. The jail houses 3,000 inmates — convicts and undertrials. “The double-layered face masks are made of khadi cloth and are washable. We have been getting orders from various nursing colleges and government hospitals. We will continue with this until the virus is contained,” he said. Another jail official said those engaged in making masks are paid ₹60 per day as per the rules. He said 70 stitching machines have been arranged for the purpose. “If the demand arises, we will involve more prisoners and increase the count of machines,” he said. Three separate wards for new inmatesThe jail authorities have made arrangements to separate new inmates from the ones already there as a precaution. Besides spraying of disinfectants, three wards have been earmarked for new inmates, gill said. “We are making the new inmates to spend at least 14 days in separate barracks before shifting them to other parts of the jail. Six doctors are regularly checking the inmates,” he said. 651 PRISONERS RELEASEDIn a bid to decongest the central jail, which is overcrowded, the authorities have released 651 undertrials and convicts and the process of releasing more is underway. The jail has the capacity to accommodate 2,200 prisoners, but it has around 3,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amritsar-jail-inmates-stitching-face-masks-to-meet-shortage-in-hospitals/story-yWxApargsPwDwCPs974evK.html
08-04-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC seeks report on 4,000 centres providing free meals to labourers and migrants||The Bombay high court (HC) on Wednesday directed the state and district legal services authority to verify the government’s claims that it had started around 4,000 distribution centres to provide meals to over 7 lakh migrant labourers and daily wage earners across the state.The court was hearing a petition, seeking a stay on two government resolutions dated March 29 and 30, which stated that labourers and migrants who can’t sustain themselves following the lockdown would have to pay Rs 2 and 5 for foodgrains, which was against the Centre’s announcement of free ration for such persons for three months.On Wednesday, the state government informed a bench of justice A A Sayyed that it can implement the central government’s scheme but there was an apprehension that it would lead to hoarding and black marketing of the free ration. The additional government pleader also informed the HC that the state would implement the scheme after verifying that the beneficiaries were indeed without any means to sustain themselves.The state’s counsel added that as many migrants and labourers had no means to cook after the lockdown, it had started providing them free meals, three times a day, by setting up 4,000 distribution centres throughout the state. The state added that over 7 lakh people were being benefited through the scheme. After hearing the submissions, the bench directed the state and district legal services authority, which has its presence in 350 districts and talukas, to verify the government’s claims and submit a report thereof. The court also directed the state’s food and civil supplies department to file an affidavit detailing the number of foodgrains disbursed and the number of people who benefitted from it. The matter was posted for further hearing on April 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-seeks-report-on-4-000-centres-providing-free-meals-to-labourers-and-migrants/story-QF3bBKJe0gRIoQKeu6anGL.html
08-04-2020||Mumbai||HC refuses to relax burial conditions for Covid-19 victims||The Bombay high court (HC) has refused to issue any directions to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) with regards to burial of Covid-19 victims on the grounds that there were no instances wherein families of victims were turned away by any graveyards in the city. The court was hearing a petition filed by activist Anjali Patil stating that the circular issued by BMC regarding burial of Covid-19 infected persons had conditions that were not available in all graveyards in the city. The petitioner sought directions from the court asking BMC to relax the conditions.On Wednesday, the bench of justice AA Sayyed while hearing two similar petitions -- one filed by Patil and another by Riyaz Ahmed Mohammed Ayub Khan -- was informed that BMC had issued a circular which stated that persons from the minority community who died after being afflicted by coronavirus could be buried but had laid down various conditions for the same. The petitioners submitted that the conditions were stringent and were not available across all graveyards, thus forcing the families of the victim to take the body to only those graveyards which complied with the conditions.The conditions include wearing of masks by persons involved in the burial, sanitising the area where the mortal remains are kept, burying the victim in a secluded spot, among others. However, the bench sought to know of instances wherein families of victims had been turned away either by graveyard trusts or BMC. Petitioners replied that there could be such instances but they were not aware of it. They added they had an apprehension that such a situation could arise in the coming days and hence sought directions to BMC and graveyard trusts to allow burial of Covid-19 victims in all graveyards.The court then observed that it could not issue directions based on apprehensions of petitioners and posted the matter for further hearing on April 24.In an earlier hearing on April 3, the court had refused to stay the circular issued by BMC on the grounds that it did not refuse burial of Covid-19 victims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-refuses-to-relax-burial-conditions-for-covid-19-victims/story-k4FmkKYvAtJYpuI7HcGnQK.html
08-04-2020||Lucknow||First corona death in Agra: 76-yr-old succumbs||The first corona death occurred in the Taj city on Wednesday, when a 76-year-old woman died in SN Medical College. She was already suffering from asthma and was treated in a private hospital in the city before being brought to SNMC on Tuesday. She is feared to have got the virus from her grandson who recently returned from abroad.“The aged woman was admitted to SN Medical College and Hospital on Tuesday and was already bed-ridden and in bad condition. Doctors tried their best but could not save her,” said district magistrate Prabhu N Singh. “The woman tested positive for corona and seems to have got the virus from her grandson who returned from abroad recently,” said Singh.“It is most important to keep the elderly and young ones safe. The deceased was already suffering from interstitial lung disease and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease,” he said. The engineer grandson of the deceased had returned from the Netherlands on March 15 and remained in home quarantine. His grandmother was already ill and suffering from asthma and was treated at a private nursing home in the locality but doctors advised to take her home, revealed local sources. The aged woman was kept on oxygen supply at home but was brought to SN Medical College by the rescue team when her report came positive on Tuesday for corona virus. After her death, panic gripped the area and the posh locality of Kamla Nagar was sealed on Wednesday as a precaution.To note, the district has emerged as a corona hot spot with 65 positive cases, of whom eight have been cured and discharged in March. Thirty-eight of these 65 cases have Tablighi link.On Tuesday, there were 63 positive cases but on Wednesday, more two were added, taking the tally to 65 on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/first-corona-death-in-agra-76-yr-old-succumbs/story-yvli6pyubYFjPkmUoK0mzN.html
08-04-2020||Education||Missing school? Check out these websites and learning resources to keep your mind ticking||With schools closed because of the Covid-19 lockdown, any child wanting to access e-learning portals to upgrade his or her knowledge can check out this list compiled by Hindustan Times.1. Digital Infrastructure for Knowledge Sharing (DIKSHA): DIKSHA hosts more than 80,000 curriculum-linked and curated content pieces in 15 languages. The wide range of educational material includes explanation videos, experiential content, activities, quizzes, interactive games, lesson plans and worksheets, all of which create an engaging learning experience.Link : DIKSHA’s free mobile application can be downloaded from Google Play Store (Android phones) or website: https://diksha.gov.in2. E-Pathshala: NCERT has uploaded 1,886 audio files, 2,000 videos, 696 eBooks (ePUB format) and 504 flip books for classes I to 12 in different languages on e-Pathshala.Website: http://epathshala.nic.in or http://epathshala.gov.in3. National Repository of Open Educational Resources (NROER): NROER has 14,527 files including 401 collections, 2779 documents, 1345 interactive content pieces, 1,664 audio files, 2,586 images and 6,153 videos in different languages. Website : http://nroer.gov.in/welcome4. SWAYAM: SWAYAM is a national online education platform that hosts 1,900 courses covering school education (grades 9 to 12) and higher education (under graduate and post graduate programmes).Website: https://swayam.gov.in5. SWAYAM PRABHA: SWAYAM Prabha has 32 DTH TV channels transmitting educational content 24/7. These channels are available for viewing all across the country using DD, Free Dish Set Top Box and Antenna. The channel schedule and other details are available on the portal. These channels cover both school education (Classes 9 to 12) and higher education (undergraduate and postgraduate programs).Website: https://swayamprabha.gov.in6. YOUTUBE CHANNELS: National Institute of Open Schooling (NIOS) and Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) also run YouTube channels for secondary and senior secondary level subjects.7. PODCAST: CBSE launched a Podcast app ‘CBSE-Shiksha Vani’, which is available on Play Store for Android phone users.8. NATIONAL DIGITAL LIBRARY OF INDIA: The National Digital Library of India is an integration platform for schools, colleges, universities, teachers, students, lecturers, differently-abled pupils, and anybody who has a willingness to learn.Website: https://ndl.iitkgp.ac.in/9. IIT Pal: Students who are interested in getting online coaching for IIT entrance exams can access lectures on physics, chemistry, mathematics and biology on the official website of National Testing Agency.Website: https://nta.ac.in/LecturesContentSource: Central Board of Secondary Education, ministry of human resource development and National Council of Educational Research and Training||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/missing-school-check-out-these-websites-and-learning-resources-to-keep-your-mind-ticking/story-eWF7OQAvkhwKWKeLSRIeJO.html
08-04-2020||Bangalore||One more coronavirus death in Karnataka, toll goes up to 5||A 65-year-old man died of coronavirus in Kalaburagi district on Wednesday, taking the toll to five, while six new positive cases were confirmed in the state, pushing the tally to 181, the health department said.The man with Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI), died at a designated hospital in the district, where he was undergoing treatment, it said.“6 new positive cases have been reported from last evening to this noon.... Till date 181 COVID-19 positive cases have been confirmed. This includes 5 deaths and 28 discharges,” the department said in its mid-day situation reported.The six fresh cases reported included the elderly man from Kalaburagi.Among the positive cases are a woman from Uttara Kannada with history of SARI and contact of a Dubai returnee, a 72- year-old woman from Kalaburagi, who is mother of a patient that tested positive for the disease; a man from Mandya, who is the contact of two patients.Others include a man from Chikkaballapura with travel history to Delhi and a woman from Bengaluru with travel history to the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/one-more-coronavirus-death-in-karnataka-toll-goes-up-to-5/story-e7yLWbfxCB1iTd14TgMJbL.html
08-04-2020||Pune||Woman dials RTO number, loses Rs 1 lakh through UPI fraud in Pune||A woman was duped of Rs 1,00,000 in an unified payment interface (UPI) fraud after she tried to dial a transport office number listed on Google.The 41-year-old resident of Baner-Pashan link road area found the fraudster’s number in the list of regional transport office (RTO) contacts.Maya Devare, the inspector who is investigating the case, said the reason for the complainant to make the phone call to RTO is yet to ascertained.According to the complaint, the woman was sent a link through text message and asked to enter her UPI pin. After entering the pin, the suspect allegedly asked her to send the link back to him. As she did so, the man used the link multiple times and withdrew Rs 49,000 in the first transaction, Rs 19,000 in the second, Rs 30,000 in the third, and Rs 2,000 in the final transaction.The transactions happened on October 16, 2019 between 12:30pm and 1pm, according to her complaint. However, a case was registered on Monday.A case under Section 420 (cheating) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 66(c) and 66(d) of Information Technology Act was registered at Chatuhshrungi police station.UPI allows transfer of money from one bank account to another instantly via one’s mobile phone. Payments can be made via app on mobile device only. The transfer of money using UPI works 24x7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-dials-rto-number-loses-rs-1-lakh-through-upi-fraud-in-pune/story-STNtOuAdH9HqMSodbPdumL.html
08-04-2020||Mumbai||BMC makes masks mandatory in public places, violators maybe arrested||Citing several studies pointing out that wearing masks can reduce the scope of spreading coronavirus, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) made it mandatory for citizens to wear masks in public places. Failing to wear masks may result in citizens getting arrested under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), the BMC said in a circular.The circular was issued by municipal commissioner Praveen Pardeshi, stating it has decided in public interest to make wearing of mask by any person who is moving in public places necessary. The circular stated that citizens must be wearing 3-ply or cloth mask.The BMC in a circular has stated, “Any person moving around in his personal or official vehicle must be wearing masks. No person/ officer will attend any meeting/ gathering, workplace without wearing these masks.”On from where to buy these masks, the BMC circular said these masks may be standard masks available with the chemist or even homemade, washable masks and can be reused after proper washing and disinfecting them.The BMC circular further noted that those not wearing masks can be arrested. The circular stated, “Anybody violating these instructions will be punishable under section 188 of IPC and will be strictly penalised and arrested by police officers or officers appointed by the assistant commissioners of wards. All these officers are hereby authorised to take any actions to penalise such violators stringently.Meanwhile, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, in his address via social media, has appealed to citizens to wear masks while going out. Thackeray appealed to citizens to wear masks or even use a clean cotton handkerchief that can act as mask.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-makes-masks-mandatory-in-public-places-violators-maybe-arrested/story-MMP57CfZvWRDqxSgnYv47J.html
08-04-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka in favour of lifting lockdown in districts not affected by Covid-19, says CM||The Karnataka government is in favour of lifting the coronavirus lockdown in districts which remained free of the virus infection, subject to approval from the Centre, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said on Wednesday. In an interview to PTI here, he also said the state intended to relax liquor sales, stopped since the 21-day lockdown was imposed to contain the spread of Covid-19, after April 14 in a bid to increase state revenues.The chief minister said the state’s legislators would take a 30 per cent salary cut. According to officials, there were no Covid-19 cases in 12 districts of the total 30 districts in the state. As on Wednesday, there were 181 Covid-19 cases in the state, including 5 deaths and 28 discharges. If the Prime Minister suggests to states to take decision (on lock-down) based on the situation in their respective states, my position is to take a call (on roll-back) in districts free from Covid-19, Yediyurappa said.This is to allow people to go about their business and move about within the district and not from one district to another, after April 14, after taking the approval of the Prime Minister, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-in-favour-of-lifting-lockdown-in-districts-not-affected-by-covid-19-says-cm/story-6F87n5lo5MIL9Oa0clHEaN.html
08-04-2020||Kolkata||7 coronavirus hotspots identified in Bengal, says CM Mamata Banerjee||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday said the government has identified seven Covid-19 hotspots in the state and is chalking out a plan to restrict the virus within those areas.The chief minister said flower growers and bidi workers, who were facing problems in doing business, can now start working.Banerjee also said that the death toll in the state has risen to five, while the number of active cases stands at 69. On Tuesday, eight new coronavirus cases were reported.“We have identified seven Covid-19 hotspots in the state,” Banerjee said without giving details about the names of the vulnerable areas.“We have to restrict this within that small place and draw a Lakshman Rekha around it so that it does not spread to other places,” she told reporters at the state secretariat.The chief minister also said that she was weighing the option of providing “limited relaxation” on the work front for unorganised sector employees, who were among the worst hit by the lockdown.“There’s no doubt that people are facing problems. So we are mulling the idea of allowing limited relaxation to some unorganised sectors so that workers can start earning. We will also allow Kisan Mandi to operate but everybody has to adhere to the social distancing norms,” she added.From Wednesday, flower cultivators, who were facing trouble in selling their produce, will be allowed by police to resume their business, the chief minister said.“Large flower markets will be made operational from Thursday and those selling flowers in local markets can start work from Wednesday. The police will not stop them,” she said.Banerjee also said that those working for the bidi industry can start working keeping in mind social distancing.“Bidi workers can start working at their homes, but only seven can sit together keeping a distance of two metres from one another. If you violate this, police will take strict action,” she said.Apparently hitting out at the Bharatiya Janata Party, Banerjee alleged that some political parties were trying to misguide subscribers at ration shops.Meanwhile, Nobel laureate economist Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee, who is a member of the ‘Global Advisory Board’ formed to help the state government in preparing a roadmap in reviving the economy of the state post Covid-19, suggested a few steps to combat the disease here.“We can conduct rapid tests on people even if they are having normal cough and cold. This will help us in understanding the situation before it spreads. This is not to create panic but to take precautionary measures,” he said in a video call from Cambridge.He also stressed on placing sanitiser at the gates of market places so that people entering there can use them in a bid to combat the spread of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/7-coronavirus-hotspots-identified-in-bengal-says-cm-mamata-banerjee/story-wICgF7wAFpw23bVMyhPXuI.html
08-04-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Mumbai civic body makes wearing masks mandatory, says violators may be arrested||The BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has made it mandatory for people stepping out of their homes to wear masks to check the spread of coronavirus disease Covid-19.“Anybody not wearing the masks can be charged under provision of Section 188 of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and may be arrested by the police,” the BMC said in a notification on Wednesday.It also asked all the officers to attend meetings wearing masks only.The BMC order further said that the measure was necessitated as studies have revealed that wearing face masks can substantially reduce the spread of coronavirus from and to persons coming in contact with each other, besides other mandatory social distancing measures already implemented.“The masks can be the regular three-layer masks or cloth masks, either available with pharmacies or home-made which can be washed and reused after disinfecting them,” the order signed by municipal commissioner Praveen Pardeshi said.The BMC order comes hours after Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray asked people to start using mask if coming out to buy essentials and said that the people will have to use them for some period to be safe from infection.“People should use masks while stepping out of their homes.”He regretted the inconvenience caused to citizens due to lockdown, but said “we don’t have any other option”.He also appealed to people, especially the high risk category ones with ailments like heart disease, high blood pressure and diabetes to maintain dietary restrictions.Maharashtra recorded 60 new coronavirus disease cases on Wednesday morning, taking the total tally to 1078. Of the 60 new cases, 44 tested positive in Mumbai, nine in Pune, four in Nagpur and one each in Ahmednagar, Akola, and Buldhana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-mumbai-civic-body-makes-wearing-masks-mandatory-says-violators-may-be-arrested/story-s8NOE5UTxpmGXWWddpLcqJ.html
08-04-2020||Kolkata||Many organisations in Kolkata holding online events amid lockdown||With the lockdown in force and people confined to their homes, many organizations in the city are now conducting online cultural events, including competitions and theatre events.The New Town Kolkata Development Authority is holding an online drawing, music, poem writing competition for children.All the participants, from 4 to 17 years, will have to do is to register their names at the NKDA website mentioning their area of interest, an NKDA official said on Wednesday.The organisers will refer a particular date for every participant on which the video of his/her performance or poem will be uploaded on the link given by NKDA, he said, adding that children can register their names till April 14.“The aim is to give a little bit of happiness to the children who are stuck in homes for so many days and bring a smile on their faces,” NKDA chairman Debasish Sen told PTI.In a similar move, Dumdum Park Tarun Dal Durga Puja committee has started online registration for cultural competition - having drawing, poetry recital, singing segments - from Tuesday.“Children from 4-17 years will be able to take part in the competition and the awards will be announced by this month,” an organiser said.Arthur Miller’s ‘The Crucible’ can be seen on YouTube by a city-based group which does unique music and theatre shows comprising youngsters.“We have got around 600 views for the online theatre show shot within home till now. We wish more people, who cannot go out to theatres in the present situation, to see our adaptation of Miller’s epic work at home and enjoy,” Abhrajit Sen said on behalf of the group.A film production unit is organizing a competitive online film festival where anyone, above 13 years of age, can participate by registering and submitting a three-minute short film in any language on the subject decided by the organisers.Asis Dutta said on behalf of the organisers that the shooting has to be done within the confines of home and following social distancing norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/many-organisations-in-kolkata-holding-online-events-amid-lockdown/story-GxNkiQochuWLMBjtixhxrL.html
08-04-2020||Delhi||CM Kejriwal interacts with Delhi MPs on coronavirus, says ‘will have to fight it together’||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday held a meeting with MPs from the national capital on the coronavirus outbreak and said “we all will have to fight it together”. In the meeting via video conferencing, Lok Sabha members belonging to the BJP and Rajya Sabha members of the Aam Aadmi Party interacted with the chief minister and discussed measures to contain the COVID-19 spread in the national capital. “Discussed the issue of corona with Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha MPs via video conferencing. Several MPs have given good suggestions which will soon be implemented by the government. We all will have to fight it together,” Kejriwal tweeted in Hindi. The meeting came a day after Kejriwal announced a five-point action plan which includes one lakh rapid anti-body blood test in hotspots to contain the spread of the coronavirus. There are ten Members of Parliament, including seven of Lok Sabha from BJP and three of Rajya Sabha from AAP, in the national capital. The total number of coronavirus cases in the national capital on Tuesday rose to 576, with 51 fresh cases and two deaths being reported in a day, according to the Delhi health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/cm-kejriwal-interacts-with-delhi-mps-on-coronavirus-says-will-have-to-fight-it-together/story-sEHTHYONUdZtMWMQuTTcEK.html
08-04-2020||City||With 12 new cases with Tablighi Jamaat links, Covid-19 count rises to 141 in Haryana||CHANDIGARH: All 12 new Covid-19 patients reported in Haryana on Wednesday are linked to the Tablighi Jamaat. With their testing positive, the state’s total coronavirus count has reached 141.The state health department bulletin said that seven of the 12 cases are from Faridabad, two from Palwal and one each from Fatehabad, Nuh and Sonepat.NUH HAS MAXIMUM CASESNuh tops the state’s districts with 38 Covid-19 cases followed by Palwal and Faridabad with 28 cases each, Gurugram 20, Karnal five, Panipat four, Ambala and Sirsa three each, Bhiwani, Panchkula and Sonepat, two each, Fatehabad, Jind, Charkhi Dadri, Kaithal, Rohtak and Hisar one case each.17 CURED OF COVID-19 SO FARThe bulletin said that 17 people in the state have been cured and discharged. Of them, nine are from Gurugram, three from Panipat and two from Faridabad and one each from Hisar, Palwal and Sonepat.There have been two deaths due to Covid-19 in the state, one at Karnal and one in Rohtak. An Ambala resident died of coronavirus at Post Graduate Institue of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh.According to official information, 16,770 people are under surveillance, while 2,520 samples have been sent for testing so far. 1,821 samples have been found to be negative and the reports of 558 are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-12-new-cases-with-tablighi-jamaat-links-covid-19-count-swells-to-141-in-haryana/story-U0drrrYEiqqWYVZVo3vJ5I.html
08-04-2020||Chandigarh||141 coronavirus cases reported in Haryana so far||A total of 141 cases of coronavirus have been reported in Haryana till now.“Till date 141 confirmed cases of Covid-19 have been reported in the state, including 10 foreign nationals and 51 from other states,” the state Health Department said On Wednesday. “17 people have been discharged so far, two deaths have been reported in the state,” it added. With an increase of 773 cases in the last 24 hours, India’s tally of Covid-19 cases stood at 5,194, said the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on Wednesday.Out of the 5194 cases, 4,643 cases are reported to be active cases while 401 people have recovered/discharged and one migrated. The ministry has reported 10 new deaths in the last 24 hours increasing the toll to 149. (This story has been published from a wire agency feed without modifications to the text. Only the headline has been changed.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/141-coronavirus-cases-reported-in-haryana-so-far/story-SdGtdsO5HzkrRL9SO26FmK.html
08-04-2020||Mumbai||‘Sorry, there’s no option but to stay home’: Maharashtra CM Thackeray apologises for lockdown||Maharashtra chief minister Udhhav Thackeray on Wednesday apologised for the lockdown and referred to the Chinese city of Wuhan to say that things will get better even as the state became the first in the country to report more than a thousand Covid-19 cases.On Tuesday, Maharashtra had breached the 1,000-mark, as 150 new cases were reported, included 116 in Mumbai alone. Maharashtra recorded 60 new coronavirus disease cases on Wednesday morning, taking the total tally to 1,078. Of the 60 new cases, 44 tested positive in Mumbai, nine in Pune, four in Nagpur and one each in Ahmednagar, Akola, and Buldhana.The Shiv Sena chief thanked the citizens of the state and also apologised for the inconvenience caused due to the lockdown.“I understand that people are facing different types of issues while staying at home. People are getting bored. I am sorry about that but there is no option other than staying at home to beat Covid-19,” Udhhav Thackeray said while addressing people on Facebook.As he asked people to stay home and stay safe, the chief minister also requested them to use masks while stepping out of their homes, if they have to.“I am getting news from all over the world that things in Wuhan have returned to normal and the restrictions are being removed. It’s good news. This means things can be better with time,” Udhhav Thackeray said.The Maharashtra government is focusing on aggressive testing and adding more containment zones in urban areas to prevent the viral outbreak.Anil Deshmukh, the state’s home minister, has warned of strict police action against all those people who are hiding across the state after they returned home after attending the international congregation of Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi’s Nizamuddin held between March 13 and 15. The minister said on Twitter that up to 60 Jamaat attendees are still hiding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sorry-there-s-no-option-but-to-stay-home-maharashtra-cm-thackeray-apologises-for-lockdown/story-eUgteZbVrqKsZKHaxrQb5L.html
08-04-2020||Kolkata||Mild earthquake hits Bankura district||A mild earthquake of 4.1 magnitude shook Bankura district of West Bengal on Wednesday, an IMD official said here.The quake at 11.24 am took place at a depth of 15 km from the earth’s surface at latitude 23.5 of degree north and longitude 87.1 degree east, the official said.The quake lasted for two seconds.People in Bankura district town, about 200 km from Kolkata, experienced shaking of the earth surface and came out of their houses and other buildings.There was no report of any casualty or damage to property, as per initial reports, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/mild-earthquake-hits-bankura-district/story-EXRe53RpzqOC1ho5GypOwL.html
08-04-2020||City||Himachal industries seek soft loans, electricity charge waiver to ease Covid-19 lockdown impact||SHIMLA: Amid the lockdown in Himachal Pradesh to contain the Covid-19 outbreak, the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) has requested the government to provide soft loans and waive electricity charges to mitigate the crisis being faced by industrial units.Industries in Himachal Pradesh are going through a crisis due to the shutting down of operations and the disruption of the supply chain network. Labour woes, transportation cost, and the shortage of raw material have hit the sector in the hill state that was already reeling under the impact of the global economic slowdown.“The CII strongly recommends that the demand charges, consumer service charges and meter rent, which form the fixed charges in electricity bills, be waived for six months that may be extended in due course, depending upon the situation, from March 2020. We have requested for the waiver on electricity duty for two years after the situation normalises, enabling the industry to revive,” Shailesh Pathak, the CII’s Himachal Pradesh State Council chairman, said on Wednesday.There are 54,310 industrial units in Himachal Pradesh that have been set up with an investment of Rs 49,974 crore and provide employment to 4.52 lakh people. Of them, 140 industrial units are large and 628 are medium scale.SOFT LOANS TO HELPCLEAR SALARY BILLSThe body of industrialists has urged the government to provide soft loans of Rs 5 lakh to the micro industry and Rs 25 lakh to small and medium category entrepreneurs, enabling them to pay their salary bills during these difficult times.The pharmaceutical industry of the state is grappling with the supply of active pharmaceutical ingredients (API), which are mostly imported from coronavirus-hit China. One of the biggest drug manufacturers of the country, Himachal Pradesh has 350 pharmaceutical units in Baddi in Solan district alone.The state’s industrialists raised their concerns with chief minister Jai Ram Thakur and industries minister Bikram Singh Thakur through a recent video-conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-industries-seek-soft-loans-electricity-charge-waiver-to-ease-covid-19-lockdown-impact/story-kyq0JgZA3OmCcoZe5WtTKK.html
08-04-2020||Ranchi||HC asks Jharkhand govt to approach Centre for more Covid-19 testing kits||The Jharkhand High Court asked the state government to approach the Centre for providing it with more COVID-19 testing kits as the present strength of the equipment is not sufficient.The bench of Chief Justice Dr Ravi Ranjan and Justice Sujit Narayan Prasad also directed the state government to set up testing facilities at more places.In response to a March 31 letter emailed by senior counsel Inderjit Sinha, the bench had on April 3 asked the state government about measures taken by it to contain COVID- 19 and the availability of protective equipment and testing kits.The court on Tuesday heard submissions of the counsels of the Jharkhand government and state-run the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) here.“We have heard the parties. Reply has been filed on behalf of the State as well as RIMS, Ranchi and reply of Union of India was already available on 03.04.2020.“However, having only 5000 testing kits and more than 1,50,000 persons having been quarantined till date, in our opinion, that number of testing kit is not sufficient.Therefore, the State Government should approach the Central Government for providing more testing kits and for creating testing facilities at more places,” the bench said in its order.The court said it has hope that the Centre would take adequate steps if the state government approached it for more testing kits and testing facilities.The bench observed said that people are required to be monitored intensively and it should be ensured that they did not come out from their homes.The court said the number of private homes where people have been home quarantined was not clear from the advocate general’s submission.The bench sought further reply from the state on April 17 when the matter would be heard again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/hc-asks-jharkhand-govt-to-approach-centre-for-more-covid-19-testing-kits/story-6PlNzBkC8tBJJ0dqzKlXYM.html
08-04-2020||Ranchi||‘Sakhi Mandals’ using medicinal plants in making hand sanitizers||A ‘Sakhi Mandal’ (Self-Help Group) in Jharkhand’s Khunti district is using medicinal plants along with other ingredients to prepare hand sanitizer in their fight against COVID-19 pandemic, a government official said.Lemon grass or basil oil is also being added to the hand sanitizer by the ‘Sakhi Mandal’ as these are medicinal plant and can increase the effectiveness of the sanitizer, the official said.A total of 225 litres of hand sanitizer have been manufactured in Khunti by the ‘Sakhi Mandal’ and the quantity would be increased to 1,000 litres in the next two days, he said.The hand sanitizers have been packaged in 100 ml, 250 ml and 500 ml bottles.“The amount of alcohol in the sanitizer manufactured in Khunti is 72 per cent, glycerine is 13 per cent, distilled water is 13 per cent and basil or lemongrass is 2 per cent, he said, about the mixture of the sanitizer.In all, eight women are engaged in the preparation of the hand sanitizer in their fight against COVID-19 with the help of Khunti district administration and Jharkhand State Livelihood Promotion Society at Anigada Rural Service Centre at Panikada village of Khunti district.“There is a plan to set up roadside stalls at various places between 8 am and 11 am by the Didis of the Sakhi Mandal to make the hand sanitizer accessible to the common people,” he said.Meanwhile, an official release said Rs 10 crore was donated by Tata Company and one crore by Adani Group to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund to fight the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/sakhi-mandals-using-medicinal-plants-in-making-hand-sanitizers/story-s8Lh6XmIb2tIZSro9Wa96N.html
08-04-2020||Patna||Two persons injured in leopard attack in Bihar’s Vaishali||The forest department rescued a leopard after it attacked and injured two persons in a village in Vaishali district.The incident happened at Balua Basant village under the jurisdiction of Lalganj police station early in the morning, a forest department official said.The leopard was hiding near a bund after attacking the villagers, the Divisional Forest Officer (DFO) of Vaishali, B B Pal, said.A team of forest department officials from Patna, after six to seven hours of hard work, managed to tranquilise and capture the animal, the DFO said.The forest department was informed about the attack around 6 am on Tuesday, he said.It is not known from where the leopard strayed into the village, the DFO said.The villagers received minor injuries during the attack, the Sub-Divisional Police Officer of Hajipur, Raghav Dayal, said.They were admitted to a local hospital, sources said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/two-persons-injured-in-leopard-attack-in-bihar-s-vaishali/story-GzkXmavWgBSuuqEdBZX99I.html
08-04-2020||Patna||6 new Covid-19 cases reported in Bihar, total reaches 38||Six people tested positive for COVID-19 in Bihar, taking the total number of cases in the state to 38, a top official said.Principal Secretary, Health, Sanjay Kumar said four people -- all members of the same family in Siwan district and two boys, aged 15 and 16 years, from Begusarai have tested positive for coronavirus.The Siwan patients include the mother and wife of a COVID-19 patient who returned from the Middle East on March 21, besides two other members of the family, a 26-year-old man and a 20-year-old woman, the principal secretary said.Not much is known immediately about the boys from Begusarai their travel history is being “ascertained”, he added.However, the number of active cases in the state, where one patient has died, has dropped to 22 on account of as many as 15 people being discharged after recovery, he said.Among the recovered patients, six are from Munger, five from Patna and four from Siwan, he said.Of these, three residents of Patna -- a 45-year-old woman and two men in their 20s -- had recovered a week ago.Earlier, it was stated by the department that five patients each from the three districts had recovered. Notably, the state had witnessed its sharpest decline in the number of active cases between Sunday and Monday when no one tested positive while as many as six people, including a woman, were discharged from hospitals after they made a full recovery.Munger, which accounted for the state’s only casualty last month, and Patna have no cases now.Siwan has the highest number of six cases, followed by Gaya (five), Gopalganj and Begusarai (three each), Nalanda (two) and Saran, Lakhisarai and Bhagalpur (one each). Chief Minister Nitish Kumar issued a statement congratulating all those who have been discharged from hospitals upon full recovery, for their successful battle against what has turned out to be a pandemic. Among the 12 who have been discharged in the last few days are two women -- a nurse from Patna who is a resident of Munger -- and a 12-year-old boy from the same district. The Munger woman and the boy were neighbours of the state’s lone deceased patient who got admitted to AIIMS, Patna for renal failure and breathed his last before test results confirmed that he was COVID-19 positive. The nurse worked at a private hospital in the state capital where the deceased was admitted before being referred to the AIIMS here. Only four of the 12 recovered patients, all men in the age group of 20 to 35 years and hailing from Siwan, had travel histories to Nigeria, Oman, UAE and Bahrain. The remaining eight had caught the infection upon coming into contact with some other patient, the principal secretary said. All the six Munger patients underwent treatment at the Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital (JLMNCH), Bhagalpur. The remaining were treated at NMCH, Patna, he said. The NMCH was declared as a hospital dedicated to COVID-19 last month while the same was done with respect to the JLMNCH, Bhagalpur and ANMCH in Gaya recently, the official added. According to the state health department, at least 4,062 samples had been tested till Tuesday morning at four facilities in Bihar- RMRI, IGIMS and PMCH in Patna and DMCH in Darbhanga. No positive case has been reported so far from PMCH where testing of samples commenced on Monday and DMCH where more than 100 samples have been examined till date. A majority of tests have, however, been conducted at RMRI, an ICMR centre here where a total of 3,257 samples were tested till Tuesday morning. The state, which has been moderately affected by the calamity and yet been proactive in taking preventive action, has identified as many as 276 buildings across Bihar mostly hotels and hostels, for setting up quarantine centres. Of these, 218 have already started functioning, said the health department official. PTI NAC SOM BDC RHL||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/6-new-covid-19-cases-reported-in-bihar-total-reaches-38/story-IqlYN8tlQo3BqtPPOgD1pJ.html
08-04-2020||Lucknow||UP CM Yogi inaugurates 56 fire tenders to be used for sanitisation amid Covid-19 crisis||Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday inaugurated 56 fire tenders in the phase one which will be used for sanitisation work amid coronavirus threat.CM Yogi waved a green flag to launch the fire tenders here during an event.A fire department official while addressing the event said that the fire department was provided with Rs 30 crore by CM Yogi earlier from which they have placed an order for fire brigades worth Rs 20 crore and sophisticated equipment including Hydrolic combination tool, chemical suits etc., worth Rs 10 crore.“Currently there are 254 fire stations. We are spraying sodium hydrochlorite in 75 districts which helps in killing bacteria and viruses present in the air,” he added.During the event CM Yogi said that earlier in Uttar Pradesh fire tenders were not available in half of the tehsil out of 350 tehsil.“Today only 130 tehsil do not have fire tender facility and I am happy to announce that we are launching 56 fire tenders today along with their equipment. This event is taking place when the entire world is battling coronavirus,” said CM Yogi.“Around 10 days ago I had proposed to the Director General of Police, UP and State’s Deputy Chief Secretary to utilize fire tenders for sanitisation. Fire tenders are carrying out sanitisation work across the State and today 56 more fire tenders will be used for this work from today,” he added.According to the Union Health Ministry and Family Welfare, 305 people tested positive for coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh, including 21 cured and discharged and 3 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-cm-yogi-inaugurates-56-fire-tenders-to-be-used-for-sanitisation/story-spcIjrtsXNvQwCKgeXpa8H.html
08-04-2020||City||Himachal Pradesh sees steepest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases with 9 testing positive||DHARAMSHALA: Himachal Pradesh saw the steepest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases after nine people tested positive for coronavirus in Una district late on Tuesday.This rise comes on the heels of the spike the state witnessed on April 4 when seven people tested positive in Solan district.The nine new cases are primary contacts of the three Tablighi Jamaat workers who tested positive for coronavirus last week in Una district. They are in the age group of 16 and 70 years and were staying at Kuthera Kherla village of Amb sub division. One is from the village, while five are from Sirmaur, one from Arki in Solan and two from Uttar Pradesh.27 CASES IN STATE SO FARSo far, Himachal Pradesh has 27 positive cases, including one casualty. The maximum of 12 cases have been reported in Una district; seven in Solan and four each in Kangra and Chamba. Two patients have recovered, while one died.All 20 active cases in Himachal Pradesh are Tablighi Jamaat workers or their primary contacts. Four patients have been shifted out of the state.Till April 1, there were only three Covid cases in the state. However, within a week, 24 cases have been reported.TOTAL CURFEW IN UNA AGAINThe district administration in Una imposed a “total curfew” again as nine more tested positive for Covid-19 in the district.Deputy commissioner Sandeep Kumar said that given the gravity of the situation, no movement will be allowed in the district on Wednesday.“People will not be allowed to come out of their houses and no relaxation will be given in the curfew till further orders,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-pradesh-sees-steepest-single-day-spike-in-covid-19-cases-with-9-testing-positive/story-oihOc9o9MiYddVkUKXIf3I.html
08-04-2020||Lifestyle||Will Covid-19 change the way we dine?||Let’s face it, this city loves to eat and mushrooming of restaurants all around was a proof of that. However with the closure of restaurants enforced by the coronavirus pandemic has brought the most important question to the fore- ‘will the culture of eating out change’? Will diners become more cautious about going out and dining with several others? And overcoming this hurdle will be the most challenging task ahead for restaurateurs.Aniesha Chaana, a digital marketing manager and a frequent diner at the Capital’s popular eateries worries about the precautions restaurants will take in the future. She says, “I used to dine out at least thrice a week. But now I will be a little apprehensive to eat out. Earlier which was the most inconsequential action like touching the menu card, will now turn into something really worrisome. Moreover, being at home actually has also given plenty the time to experiment with their culinary skills and I am sure about the hygiene.”Restaurant owners fear this and are working towards getting back their patrons. Several restaurateurs feel that, while they will take stringent preventive measures to ensure proper hygiene and safety of diners, it will be a humongous, challenging task to rebuild the trust and win the faith of customers. Akshay Anand, founder, Ophelia and Toy Room, feels that gaining the same pace as before will require patience, diligence and hard work. He says, “Once the nation gets a control over this unfortunate issue, the entire restaurant and bar will face a colossal task to re-establish themselves and gain back the glory it had before the commencement of this pandemic. We will have to ensure that all staff members are completely out of danger before starting the operations. Safety and hygiene measures will be the topmost priority.”Due to the severe negative impact on the global economy and wealth erosion, there might be a shift towards conservative spending believes Zorawar Kalra of Massive Restaurants Pvt Ltd . He says, “It will take several months for things to return to status quo. But we are hopeful. As all businesses, we are looking forward to opening our doors to welcome our patrons only when there is complete safety for our guests and colleagues and once the authorities give us a green signal. During the lockdown period we are utilising our resources and infrastructure to focus on charity by feeding the needy.”While hygiene and customer’s safety will be the topmost priority, restaurateurs are brainstorming on finding ways to get back their patrons. Amit Bagga , co-founder, Daryaganj says, “ The restaurant will be also be organising special contests and events and other activities to attract more customers when it reopens. However after the restrictions end for restaurants to open, which could be another 2 months from now, it would take a further few months after that for the restaurant footfalls to come back to normal.”Measures to ensure that social distancing is maintained even after the lockdown ends, some have started planning the seating plan to maintain it. Inderjeet Singh Banga, founder, Prankster and Pra Pra prank and also Gurgaon Chapter Head, National Restaurant Association of India. He says, “We shall first be making a social distance dining for patrons by operating every alternate table and creating more space between tables. We will be further improving the hygiene practices by including masks, hand gloves and sanitisers for staff , on priority.”Despite the tough times, there is a ray of hope for restaurants to get back into action. “The first two weeks will be the best time of business for restaurateurs, feels Priyank Sukhija, MD and CEO, First Fiddle F&B Pvt Ltd. However, he also says that when the situation gets better, restaurants are going to be the last ones to open, and further adds, “In case, the restaurants open with restrictions, it will be very difficult to survive as per the current market scenario. We can only hope that the landlords cooperate in our tough time. During that time, we will have to dedicatedly work on the hygiene level of our restaurants.”Post Covid-19 the restaurant industry will be significantly different, and many diners would prefer to go out for cocktails than food once life comes back to normal believes, Akash Kalra, MD of The United Group. He further says, “The restaurant sector will have to struggle to cope by coming up with flat discounts and deal to lure customers and patrons again.”Interact with the author on Twitter/sanchita_kalra||https://www.hindustantimes.com/more-lifestyle/will-covid-19-change-the-way-we-dine/story-2CCiP8n7aTSbAWv20mj4KL.html
08-04-2020||Chandigarh||53-year-old man tests positive for Covid-19 in Faridkot, taking Punjab count to 100||FARIDKOT: A 53-year-old man of Faridkot has tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Wednesday, taking the state’s tally to 100.Faridkot civil surgeon Dr Rajinder Kumar said that this is the second Covid-19 case in the district. “He is the contact of the first Covid-19 patient of Faridkot district. His condition is stable now. The samples of all the other contacts have tested negative, while the result of one is awaited. We have initiated the contact tracing process,” he said.On Saturday, a 35-year-old Faridkot-based foreign money exchanger, who visited Delhi before the lockdown, tested positive for Covid-19. However, his pregnant wife and daughter tested negative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/53-year-old-man-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-faridkot-taking-punjab-count-to-100/story-wuXVJybGKulxAJNiRSjpFK.html
08-04-2020||Viral||First disinfectant tunnel installed in Kolkata’s New Market||Kolkata on Tuesday got its first automatic disinfectant tunnel at the city’s colonial era New Market.The tunnel, started experimentally, has the mechanism to spray people with chemicals to kill all germs.It is fitted with a sensor which would start a motor as soon as person enters it. The sprinklers attached to the motor would spray water mixed with hydrogen peroxide which would kill the gemcides on the person’s dress and body.However, the Kolkata Municipal Corporation sources it would not start the tunnel immediately, before getting opinion of experts on whether the sprinkling of hydrogen peroxide could cause harm to the people.Also read | Disinfection tunnel in Tamil Nadu sanitises as you walk through it. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/it-s-viral/first-disinfectant-tunnel-installed-in-kolkata-s-new-market/story-SuDrhhqWsybmQZfJ7aYIBI.html
08-04-2020||Education||PU, CUSB, PPU Admissions 2020: Colleges, varsities postpone application process to beat lockdown loss||In a major relief to students aspiring to pursue undergraduate or postgraduate courses this year, various colleges and universities in the state have decided to extend the admission process amid the nationwide lockdown.Patna University (PU), which had earlier announced to begin its admission process from April 3, has postponed the admission process till further notice.As per the latest notification issued by PU, all the offices, constituent colleges, and related units under the university will remain closed till April 14 to ensure rigorous implementation of the lockdown.“Keeping the convenience of students in mind, the admission process for the new academic session would begin after lockdown ends. The admission portal was not opened on April 3. Even for filling online applications, the candidates have to fill forms online for which several opt to go to cybercafés. The next date for beginning the admission process has not been decided yet. However, the university will manage to begin the academic session on time, ” a PU official saidPU conducts an entrance test called PUCET for admission to different programmes under its constituent colleges, which includes Patna Women’s College, Magadh Mahila College, Patna Science College, Patna Law College, College of Art and Craft, BN College, Vanijya Mahavidyalaya, Patna Training College, and Patna Women’s Training College.Similarly, Central University of South Bihar (CUSB) has also extended the last date for online application by two weeks.The CUSB had started the admission process for the new session on March 16. As per the previous schedule, the last date for filling online application forms for all undergraduate and postgraduate courses was April 11, which has now been extended to April 25.Controller of examinations, CUSB, Rashmi Tripathi said due to the nationwide lockdown, the university extended the last date for filling the admission forms so that no candidate would suffer. However, no change was made in the entrance exam dates, scheduled in May-end and June.However, Patliputra University has not announced a date to start admission process for the new academic session yet. University officials said they were making a revised schedule to facilitate intake of fresh students in the new session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/pu-cusb-ppu-admissions-2020-colleges-varsities-postpone-application-process-to-beat-lockdown-loss/story-6AxoxAtk03splACfUhgyyH.html
08-04-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh makes wearing masks mandatory in public||The UT administration on Tuesday decided to make it mandatory for Chandigarh residents to cover their mouth with a mask or cloth in public places as a preventive measure against the spread of Covid-19.The decision was taken in the daily review meeting chaired by Punjab governor and UT administrator VPS Badnore. However, no penal action has been announced yet.Water, power bills deferredAlso, giving relief to water and power consumers, the administration decided to defer the payment of bills. The payment of house rent has also been deferred. Finance secretary AK Sinha said the extended deadlines will be decided shortly. The education department informed Badnore about online classes being held for Classes 9 and 11. The administrator directed the department to explore the possibility of providing online classes to students in Classes 1 to 8 as well.Private schools warnedMeanwhile, the UT education department has warned schools of derecognition if they flout the advisory on deferring fee submission. Private schools were directed on March 30 to reschedule the last date of fee payment for 2020-21 amid the lockdown. It further stated that the new date should be fixed at least one month after reopening of schools. However, the UT education department clarified that recent reminders for fee payment sent to parents on apps of some schools were generated automatically. Schools have been told to update the apps.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-makes-wearing-masks-mandatory-in-public/story-OK1a7RYm5g5S5InrWyx2YI.html
08-04-2020||Chandigarh||HP orders mass promotion of Class 1-8 and Class 11 students||The state government has ordered to promote all students from classes 1 to 8 and of Class 11, in light of the coronavirus lockdown and curfew.The decision was taken in a meeting between education department officials and education minister Suresh Bhardwaj, under the chairmanship of chief minister Jai Ram Thakur here on Tuesday.However, students of Class 10 and 12 will be promoted to the next class only after the declaration of board examination results.Bhardwaj said though most of the exams had been conducted before the coronavirus outbreak, some subjects were left out. The exams of Class 5 and 8 were held, but the examination could not be completed nor were the papers checked, so the government has decided to promote those students as well, the minister said.He said there was no time to check the answer books of these students and the government didn’t not want to jeopardise their academic careers amid the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hp-orders-mass-promotion-of-class-1-8-class-11-students/story-gveE4KnL5wxg0AvNxAe1nI.html
08-04-2020||Chandigarh||MPLADS fund should be continued: Virbhadra Singh||Former six-time chief minister and senior Congress leader Virbhadra Singh on Tuesday supported the Central Government’s decision to cut 30% of salary of MPs salaries but suggested that the Parliament Local Area Development Scheme (MPLADS) funds be continued so that development works are not affected.In a statement, Singh said the Central and state governments should come up with a long-term plan as the coming days will be very challenging. “Coronavirus has affected the economy of our country. Himachal Pradesh is a small state and most of the people are involved in horticulture, agriculture, tourism and other small and medium businesses. All of these sectors have been badly affected due to the ongoing lockdown and curfew.” Singh also demanded a financial package for horticulturist and agriculturists of the state.Singh also asked the state government to provide a Public Distribution System (PDS) to provide cheaper ration to poor people.He alerted people about the coronavirus pandemic and urged them to fully cooperate with the government to prevent it from spreading.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mplads-fund-should-be-continued-virbhadra-singh/story-gpLuDJUZmchDnaDNvvqaML.html
08-04-2020||Chandigarh||Kasauli research institute becomes third Covid-19 testing centre in HP||The Central Research Institute (CRI) Kasauli in Solan district has become the third centre in Himachal Pradesh to carry out tests for Covid-19 after Indira Gandhi Medical College ( IGMC) Shimla and Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College (RPMC) in Tanda, Kangra district . In efforts to contain the pandemic, health information of over 23 lakh persons was also collected over the last three days.Though the Indian Council of Medical Research had granted approvals for testing to Lal Bhadur Shastri medical College Nerchowk, in Madi district for tests, it had yet to start.CRI Kasauli conducted its 11th test on Monday. Meanwhile, according to chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, as part of the active case finding campaign (ACFC), health information of over 23 lakh persons had been collected by health workers during door-to-door campaigns in the last three days. Thakur said people were being sensitised to follow directions of Central and state governments for Covid-19 prevention.The CM also said that about 4,458 persons were under surveillance for Covid-19, of which 2,013 had completed 28 days of surveillance. Investigations of 83 persons had been done on Tuesday of which 32 samples had been found negative and reports of 51 samples were still awaited. About 456 persons have so far been investigated for coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/kasauli-research-institute-becomes-third-covid-19-testing-centre-in-hp/story-EPfr3bqmxeYIaouBmeezKM.html
08-04-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus outbreak: No liquor sale during curfew, says Chandigarh administration||The administration of Chandigarh on Tuesday decided against the opening of liquor vends in the city during the ongoing lockdown.After UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida took to micro-blogging site Twitter on Tuesday morning to seek suggestions on the opening of liquor vends for a limited period during the curfew, there was a strong buzz among bacchus lovers that the administration might open up the outlets.Parida had tweeted, “One doctor has suggested allowing two-hour opening of liquor shops lest the addicts go for drugs or depression. Your views group?”Later, putting all the speculations to rest, Parida again used the social media platform to inform the public that no liquor vends would be opened. “Decision taken after consulting all, including government doctors, not to open liquor shops during curfew,” he posted in the tweet.The liquor vends are closed in the city since the curfew was imposed on April 24 in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak.While the administration has allowed curfew relaxations for essential commodities such as grocery, vegetables and medicines, the sale of liquor has not been allowed. As per the central government’s guidelines and the Essential Commodities Act, liquor is not covered under such items.Responding to Parida’s call for suggestions on the opening of the liquor vends, the twitterati were divided in their views.WHAT TWITTERATI SAID“Respected sir, if you will open wine shops for two hours, movement of people will be increased in large numbers. Also, people from Mohali, Zirakpur and Panchkula will also get attracted to come to Chandigarh, so chances of the spread Covid-19 will be high,” tweeted one user.Another city resident tweeted, “I don’t agree with this. People will sit together and drink. They won’t follow isolation orders. I deal with alcoholics in PGIMER. If they feel craving that’s a bad sign, they must be treated in drug de-addiction centres. Alcohol is not a drug, it’s a toxin (slow poison).”Expressing desperation, a twitter user came in support of the sale of liquor and wrote, “Sir, you should also think about them, otherwise, they will go mad due to the break of intoxication, if not from the coronavirus.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/coronavirus-outbreak-no-liquor-sale-during-curfew-says-chandigarh-administration/story-YPxacDKTWEtS9NpmkJyvWJ.html
08-04-2020||Chandigarh||PGIMER puts plan in place for suspected patients with no travel, contact history||The Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) has put in place a protocol to admit patients exhibiting symptoms of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI), which are similar to those of coronavirus disease, but with no established link with positive Covid-19 patients.SARI is an acute respiratory illness of recent onset (within seven days) with symptoms like fever, cough and shortness of breath or difficulty in breathing requiring hospitalisation.The protocol is in line with national guidelines for Covid-19 testing, which along with symptomatic foreign returnees and their high-risk contacts, also cover people with SARI.For this, the emergency wing’s area 22 has been converted into a dedicated SARI ward. The area also includes two orthopaedic wards and three operation theaters.“There has been difficulty in screening patients with no travel or contact history. So we have established a SARI ward, where we will admit patients according to the PGI SARI Scoring Scale and test for common etiology of acute viral pneumonias,” the protocol report states.HOW IT WORKSThe SARI scale (with scores up to 8) will shortlist a patient for Covid-19 testing based on their symptoms and X-rays.The patients will be scored for fever, shortness of breath, cough, high-risk individuals, SpO2 level (amount of oxygen in the blood) and chest X-ray.The high-risk individuals include patients aged above 60, pregnant women, and persons with diabetes, cardiovascular diseases, chronic lung disorders and history of steroid use.If the SARI scale count is above 5, the patient will be admitted and tested for H1N1 and Covid-19, and admitted in the exclusive Covid facility if tested positive for it.If the scale count is between 2 and 4, a chest X-ray will be conducted to determine if the patient requires Covid testing, and if the count is 1 or below, the patient will be evaluated for other cardio-respiratory diseases.So far, at least two patients, who had exhibited SARI symptoms, have died in the emergency ward of the institute and later tested positive for Covid-19. Due to no travel or contact history, the patients were not suspected for the infectious disease at the early stage. Among the two patients was a 69-year-old man from Mohali district’s Nayagaon town, and a 70-year-old Delhi woman, who was staying at a guest house in Solan, Himachal Pradesh. FOR NOW, NO PLANS FOR ANTIBODY TESTING: UTThe UT health department has no plans to introduce rapid antibody-based blood testing for deducing Covid-19 patients in the city for now.Unlike the reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test that detects the virus’s genetic material (RNA) in throat and nasal swabs to diagnose a current Covid-19 infection, rapid antibody tests indicate if a person has been infected in the past and has developed immunity to the virus.UT adviser Manoj Parida said that introducing this test depends on the number of cases and their location. “If the cases are localised then we will adopt the procedure,” Parida said. So far, Chandigarh has recorded 18 cases of Covid-19, out of which seven have been treated.Another senior UT official, wishing not to be named, said that the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has advised that rapid antibody testing should be introduced if a high number of cases from a particular geographical area is reported. So far, there has been no such instance in the city, he said. A simple blood test (using a finger prick) that takes 15-20 minutes to give results identifies people who were infected at least a week before the test, and also those who were infected but never diagnosed, helping map undetected infections and giving the correct extent of the spread.Director health service Dr G Diwan said the administration is waiting for guidelines from the Government of India on antibody rapid testing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pgimer-puts-plan-in-place-for-suspected-patients-with-no-travel-contact-history/story-mka5F6s1lJxAl5s8bCodmO.html
08-04-2020||City||Markaz connection: Minorities at receiving end in Mohali, teen’s burial delayed, Kolkata family harassed||Concerns over Covid-19 and bad press over the Tabhligi Jamaat Markaz in Delhi could have been linked to two cases of discrimination against members of a particular community, it has been learnt.The incidents came to the fore on Tuesday, tragically so when one family was attending to an ailing relative in hospital and the other was mourning the passing away of a young girl.The burial of a 16-year-old young girl was delayed in Kharar in one instance and in the other a family that had rushed to Mohali from Kolkata to attend to a gravely ill relative had to move to a guest house in Chandidgarh after neighbours objected to their renting a house in the area.VILLAGE PANCHAYAT REFUSES BURIALAt Radiala village, a 16-year-old girl who died after an epileptic attack, was denied burial by the sarpanch, who sought proof of her not suffering from Covid-19.The 16-year-old daughter of a tempo driver choked to death after someone gave her water during a seizure. The last rites could be completed only after the Kharar sub-divisional magistrate Himanshu Jain intervened when the mother of the deceased wrote a letter to him appealing for help. Before that, however, the body had to be taken to the Kharar Civil Hospital for an autopsy.“It is unfortunate that the girl could be buried only after the team of administration officials convinced the villagers that a postmortem had confirmed the cause of her death as choking of the respiratory tract,” said Jain.KOLKATA FAMILY MOVED TO CHANDIGARH FROM MOHALI A family of seven from Kolkata temporarily renting a house in Mohali to be close to a relative, an engineer with a Bathinda thermal plant who was in hospital after brain haemorrhage, had to move to a rest house in Chandigarh. That was after neighbours called the police objecting to members of a particular community renting accommodation nearby.Police, however, said as verification of the family had not been done they were requested to move to the Chandigarh rest house till all formalities were completed. “As the neighbours had objected we have requested the family to shift to a rest house in Chandigarh. They could not have taken the accommodation on rent without verification so till then they have agreed to shift back,” said Manphull Singh, station house officer, Phase 1 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/markaz-connection-minorities-at-receiving-end-in-mohali-teen-s-burial-delayed-kolkata-family-harassed/story-yEJ4iFelskdHHmYIp7mGCM.html
08-04-2020||Chandigarh||Music to ears as Chandigarh golfer tries to make best of lockdown||As luck would have it, Ajeetesh Sandhu was already in India when the clampdown happened due to coronavirus outbreak in India. In between tournaments, Sandhu was supposed to play in Royal Cup in Thailand but once that got deferred due to Covid-19 outbreak, the golfer returned to India and shifted his focus on Indian Open. As luck would have it, Sandhu was at home when not only the event got postponed but the entire country was put in lockdown.From being a globe-trotting golfer Sandhu is very much enjoying his extended stay at home. With the course out of bound, Sandhu is spending time between a chip and putt in his backyard and some putting inside his home.“No one knows how long it will last. We are at least in it for 21 days. For me it has been dividing time between a bit of chipping, putting in my backyard and doing some sort of physical fitness. I am also a big fan of yoga and meditation and these two are also coming in handy to stay mentally fit,” Sandhu said, who won the Jeev Milkha Invitational golf at Chandigarh Golf Club last year. Sandhu playing at his home course was tied with Rashid Khan at the end of regulation play but won in playoff which lasted four extra holes at the Chandigarh Golf Club. For Sandhu it was his fourth title on the PGTI and fifth overall. Karandeep Kochhar of Chandigarh took third place at 17-under-271 after a flawless 68 in round four.He also had two second place finishes in the Bangabandhu Cup Open which also got delayed this year and tied second finish in Mercuries Taiwan Masters.While for many players disruption of rhythm is a challenge for Sandhu this break couldn’t have come at a better time. “I know this sounds strange and the whole world is fighting this pandemic. I have been on road since November last year. I was already trying to decide when to take a week off from tour as sometimes it gets too much. The good thing will be that everyone will come out refreshed once the break is over. So, I am not disappointed,” the 31-year-old said.Beating the lockdownSandhu said everyone in the world had to make this sudden adjustment with the lockdown in place. For a change he is enjoying home cooked meal a luxury he never had on the tour. “I am also learning to cook a bit. Music is one my other interest and I have joined online classes in order to learn how to read music. I have never been a fan of online games so these are few things and some quality family time that is keeping me busy,” Sandhu said. Learning to stay in touch with the game is also proving to be a challenge and Sandhu said this break has helped him work of his technique and skills something which a player can’t devote much time while on tour. “It’s is a different kind of practice. It is to do with a lot of technique. You are not on tour and not competing. You get a chance to work on technical aspects and focus on areas you want to improve,” the golfer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/music-to-ears-as-chandigarh-golfer-tries-to-make-best-of-lockdown/story-GaBRUwe1rvZzOzkfOFfbWN.html
08-04-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh may follow Centre’s staggered strategy to exit 21-day coronavirus curfew||The UT administration will be following the Centre’s guidelines on whether to extend the curfew or not after April 14, as the nation awaits the end of the 21-day lockdown imposed to combat the spread of Covid-19, the disease caused by coronavirus.The administration will also take into account the number of local incidences and geographical spread of positive cases in the city before a final decision on curfew extension/withdrawal is taken.Confirming the development, UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida, said, “Chandigarh being a union territory, the administration will be following the Center’s directions on the lockdown withdrawal or continuation. The UT administrator will take the final decision on the issue after considering the (extent of) spread and the number of positive cases in the city. The decision will be taken on April 14.”The administration imposed a curfew in the city on March 24, a day before the 21-day lockdown was announced from March 25 onwards. As per the administration’s orders, the curfew will continue “till further orders”, which the UT officials believe will last at least till April 14.Significantly, while most states opted for a lockdown, Chandigarh like Punjab imposed a curfew. But the administration had to introduce an eight-hour relaxation after it came under criticism for failure to deliver essential commodities to people’s houses as promised. Later, it cut the relaxation period to four hours from 11 am to 3pm.CENTRE’S DIRECTIONS AND GROUND SITUATION The UT officials refused to divulge the specific number of positive cases, which will be considered as the most important factor when taking the decision on extension/withdrawal of curfew. After the initial spurt in positive cases after March 18, the situation stabilised with no new cases in the last five days in the city. Out of the 18 positive cases, seven have recovered so far, and there has been no death because of the pandemic in the city.“The ground situation regarding Covid-19 cases and central directions will determine the administration’s decision on the issue. Significantly, the cabinet secretary last week issued a clarification denying that the lockdown will be extended. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has also asked to develop an exit strategy for withdrawing the lockdown. But with some of the states, particularly those most affected by the coronavirus outbreak, requesting an extension, the Centre might reconsider their decision,” said a senior UT official, who didn’t wish to be named. UTS’S EXIT STRATEGYOne of the strategies being considered is a staggered approach to lifting the curfew. “In case the number of cases increase, but are limited to a particular geographical area, the administration can opt for a staggered approach where the curbs remain imposed in the high risk zones and not elsewhere.“The administration will put in place a containment policy for such areas. Under that policy, geographical quarantines will be created around the hot zones. Strict curfew will continue in such areas with the sealing of all exit and entry points. But in other areas of the city, gradual withdrawal of curfew could be undertaken,” said the official.The continuous increase in the number of positive cases in neighbouring Mohali remains a concern for the administration. “Part of assessment of the ground situation will be the status of the cases in the neighbouring cities. In Mohali, particularly, rural and semi-urban areas, the number of patients testing positive for coronavirus has been consistently on the rise. If this trend continues, it will be difficult for Chandigarh to introduce blanket withdrawal of the curfew.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-may-follow-centre-s-staggered-strategy-to-exit-21-day-coronavirus-curfew/story-ktrHLb9GghMnYUHdoaxcdM.html
08-04-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Police lodge two FIRs for spreading communal hatred on WhatsApp||The UT cyber cell have registered two FIRs against unidentified persons for spreading communal hatred by posting hateful messages on WhatsApp groups.In their official statement, the police said two complaints were received on their email account, along with mobile phone screenshots, where the complainants mentioned hateful messages being circulated in WhatsApp groups. The investigating officials said the messages were defaming a particular community “by connecting them with the spread of coronavirus”. “The posts were misleading and provocative. Hence, action was initiated,” said a cyber official, privy to the matter.The two FIRs have been registered under Section 153 (wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause riot) of the Indian Penal Code at the police stations in Sectors 17 and 34. Efforts are on to ascertain and trace the persons who sent these messages.On April 4, the cyber cell had registered two similar FIRs for communal messages on Facebook. The police action follows Union home ministry directions to states and union territories, to take effective measures against fake news in view of the coronavirus pandemic and ongoing lockdown. Cyber cell deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Rashmi Yadav has said there will be zero tolerance in such issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-police-lodge-two-firs-for-spreading-communal-hatred-on-whatsapp/story-MHIgbOjVAdF3ICWH9VRA8I.html
08-04-2020||Chandigarh||Ready for war: Mohali gets 19 Covid Commandos in khaki||Physically fit and self-motivated, 19 Mohali police constables have been selected as members of a first emergency response team dealing with Covid-19 patients and affected areas. They are the Covid Commandos.The men will spearhead coordination and response to persons and areas affected by Covid-19 in Mohali, which has been reporting a sharp rise in cases, the last count being 26 patients.“The district will have 19 Covid Commandos, designated district Covid-19 emergency response team working within Mohali district,” said Kuldeep Singh Chahal, senior superintendent of police (SSP), Mohali.Selected for their high motivation and fitness levels from Mohali police, the constables have themselves volunteered to take up the onerous job of Covid-19 control in this moment of extreme exigency.“The commandos will be ready for deployment in a short span of 30 minutes within the entire district,” Chahal added.Having the commandos in place will mean freeing other Mohali police personnel from dealing first hand with Covid-19, reducing chances of infection in the police force.The commandos have been provided with personal protective equipment (PPE) and are trained to wear, remove and dispose these. Their go-bags include PPE for commandos and first aid supplies for response to community members.“They are trained and motivated to meet the requirement of an on-scene police presence along with health department staff. The drills for handling a non cooperative positive patient are well rehearsed. Standard operating procedures are also in place,” added Chahal.The commandos are prepared for health department and community requests to evolve and reflect the needs of Covid-19 patients, including but not limited to transport to hospitals, wellness checks, and delivery of critical items like medication. “Officers may be required to enforce revised local or regional public health ordinances, such as mandatory quarantines, isolation, or travel restrictions. Provide testing and coordinate treatment to limit the spread of Covid-19 within the district,” said Chahal. SHIELDED FROM INFECTIONCovid Commandos will be wearing PPE (personal protection equipment) that includes single pair of disposable examination gloves, disposable isolation gown or single-use/disposable coveralls, particulate respirator (N-95 or higher-level respirator) and eye protection (goggles or disposable face shield that fully covers the front and sides of the face).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ready-for-war-mohali-gets-19-covid-commandos-in-khaki/story-EBxn2rpKSykzOGcbigqlEK.html
08-04-2020||Mumbai||Students in Maharashtra’s remote areas to get access to learning content on app, TV and radio||To make learning accessible for students in the remote parts of Maharashtra, the state education department has planned to roll out online educational content through mobile application, television and radio mediums. Officials said that the first phase of online learning is set to roll out from April 15 and last till May. “While students from private schools have a plethora of content and mediums available for learning, those in remote areas and those who have no access to technology are having a tough time, as there is no learning during the ongoing lockdown days. The idea is to reach out to these students through whatever ways possible,” said Madhukar Banuri, chief executive officer and co-founder of Leadership for Equity, a non-profit organisation that works in the education sector. The organisation, along with UNICEF and the Maharashtra State Council of Educational Research and Training (MSCERT), has worked for the initiative.In the first phase, the department plans to upload educational content on the DIKSHA app, which is an initiative of the Union human resource development (HRD) ministry. The app already consists of more than 9,000 learning modules for Class 1 to Class 8. The state is also in talks about the possible use of television and radio to air educational content for students who do not have access to smartphones. “As per our information, around 50% parents in the state have smartphones. To reach out to the remaining students, TV and radio will be useful,” added Banuri.Meanwhile, Balbharti, the state’s publishing unit, is also mulling to publish PDF copies of Class 12 textbooks as per the revised syllabus which are not yet out in the market. While the bureau has already completed the work on compulsory subjects, work on optional subjects is likely to finish soon. These textbooks are likely to be made available online before they enter markets, so that students can start studying for their board exams.In case the lockdown is extended, a second phase of online learning is being planned in June, during which teachers from across state schools will be involved and virtual classes would be conducted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/students-in-maharashtra-s-remote-areas-to-get-access-to-learning-content-on-app-tv-and-radio/story-0SINPZsIdhreV3ukIFSvCO.html
08-04-2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus lockdown effect:Mumbai’s air cleaner by 50% in a month||The share of harmful pollutants such as nitrogen oxides (NOx), particulate matter (PM) 10 and PM2.5 dropped by 60%, 49% and 45% respectively in the city’s air from March 1-5 to April 1-5, the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) revealed on Tuesday.  “Transport and industrial pollution contribute to more than 80% of NOx, and both the sources have reduced significantly resulting in a maximum drop for this pollutant. In case of PM10 and PM2.5, the major sources are windblown dust, transport and industries. Due to rise in temperature, dust is getting suspended closer to the surface resulting in the lesser decline compared to NOx,” said Gufran Beig, director, SAFAR under the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM), Pune. “While assessing background pollution levels for major cities, we are witnessing unprecedented trends that have not been observed before. These studies need to be taken into account during pollution mitigation plans once the lockdown is removed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/coronavirus-lockdown-effect-mumbai-s-air-cleaner-by-50-in-a-month/story-yQsvT1UFCDz6flYQ0r11hM.html
08-04-2020||City||50% of Covid-19 waste disposed of unsafely, says Mumbai civic body||Almost half the Covid-19 waste generated from quarantine centres, containment zones and self-isolation centres in the city is disposed of unsafely, according to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) solid waste management department.According to the MPCB data, Mumbai has been generating an average of 1,500 kg of Covid-19 waste per day, which is the highest in Maharashtra as most cases are from the city. From March 22 to 31, the amount of waste ranged between 500kg and 600kg a day. On April 1, the amount of waste doubled to 1,342kg and 1,370kg on April 2. A sharp spike in Covid-19 waste collection was seen on April 3 and 4 to 2,022.1kg and 2,328kg. On April 5 again, the quantum dropped to 1,351.15 kg. “The fluctuation shows improper segregation,” said Amar Supate, principal scientific officer and head of bio-medical waste management, MPCB. “The BMC needs to make announcements and issue warnings at quarantine zones and containment centres to make citizens aware on the potential risk for others, especially the SWM staff. Our regional officers are looking into this.”The BMC’s department has now appealed to citizens to follow instructions from the urban development department and Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) in order to safeguard others from contracting the infection through improper segregation “The number of quarantined centres and containment zones is increasing on a daily basis. During waste collection by our on-field staff, only one bag is being received or in some cases, waste (including Covid-19 waste) is being dumped directly outside the containment zone. Our staff is segregating this waste from source areas. At the moment, segregation of Covid-19 waste is inadequate and just about 50% of the quantity generated daily,” said Ashok Khaire, deputy municipal commissioner, SWM. “This is a serious issue as it increases the risk of transmission. Citizens are being educated on the threat posed by this.”At two major containment areas in Worli (Worli-Koliwada and Jijamata Nagar), the worst-hit areas in Mumbai, there was no waste segregation at all, said another SWM official, requesting anonymity. “Our staff is isolating the waste from collection points to ensure passers-by do not get contaminated; segregating it and sending it for incineration,” he said.As per the MPCB guidelines, Khaire explained the BMC had procured yellow bags (the official colour of all Covid-19 waste) with biohazard signs on them. Yellow bags should contain used syringes, medicines, used masks, gloves, urine bags, body fluid or blood soaked tissues or cotton etc. “This is being taken to an incinerator facility at Deonar dumping ground using a separate vehicle within three hours of collection. All other waste is being collected in black bags and taken to another section at Deonar using separate vehicles where special treatment using sodium hypochlorite solution is being done, and then discarded,” said Khaire. “Personal protective equipment (PPE) for those handling Covid-19 waste is also sent to the incinerator facility after every trip, and fresh PPE is provided.”Confusion over waste segregation began when the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) on March 25 issued a circular that Covid-19 waste from quarantine camps, homes and other self-isolation units need not be collected under the new Covid-19 waste rules, but treated as general biomedical waste. However, the MPCB clarified that this was not a safe practice and did not alter the state’s guidelines. “We need to be very careful and treat all in isolation as infected to cut off transmission,” said Supate.Experts said behavioural change was needed. “Despite visible concerns related to the virus, people’s attitude does not change. The only option is stricter proactive enforcement, which is also not happening. This waste should not change hands. More hazmat suits are needed. Once the waste is removed from the hotspot, it should be disinfected from outside and incinerated as early as possible,” said Dilip Boralkar, former member secretary, MPCB.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/50-of-covid-19-waste-disposed-of-unsafely-says-mumbai-civic-body/story-MH8KHKIhg8rs5q5DoefHfM.html
08-04-2020||Mumbai||Chalk out contingency plan to conduct exams: Maharashtra government tells universities||The lockdown to prevent the spread of Covid-19 has pushed the university education system to develop contingency measures after examinations for the 2019-20 academic year were disrupted. There is also uncertainty about the commencement of the next academic year.In separate virtual meetings, the state minister for higher and technical education Uday Samant clarified that examinations will be conducted later this year. All state and private universities have been requested to put together a contingency plan for examinations in summer, after the lockdown is lifted. Educationists and experts have raised concerns about the domino effect of this delay. “We have suggested the academic year 2020-21 be pushed from June 2020 to October 2020, so that colleges have enough time to conduct second-term exams for the current batch in June and finish assessment by September, in time to start a new academic year in October,” said TA Shiware, chairman of the Mumbai Association of Non-Government Colleges. A suggestion along these lines has already been shared with the state government and Mumbai University.The admissions process for most professional courses are also in limbo. In March, the state common entrance test (CET) cell postponed the MH-CET for engineering and pharma courses indefinitely. The entrance tests were originally scheduled to take place between April 13 and 23.Last week, the National Testing Agency (NTA) announced the second phase of joint entrance examination (JEE) Mains will now be held in the last week of May. About 9 lakh students have registered for this exam, which was originally scheduled to take place between April 5 and April 11. NTA has issued a statement saying the next possible dates will be announced after April 15. Following this announcement, the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Delhi announced that the JEE Advanced exam will also be postponed to the last week of May, hinting at a delay in admissions to engineering institutes across the country.“If the state CET cell as well as the NTA can manage to conduct the entrance exams by May 15, we can still regularise admissions to start the academic year in time. However, any further delay will lead to a bigger delay in the commencement of the next academic year,” said Gopakumaran Thampi, principal of Thadomal Shahani Engineering College in Bandra.The National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test NEET for undergraduate medical and dental aspirants too has been postponed and while results of NEET-PG were released in February, admissions have been stalled owing to the lockdown at present.“Whatever the decision, the government has made it very clear that students will not be at a loss. Neither will their academics be compromised, nor the exams and results. Education institutes are working very hard to ensure this,” said Abhay Wagh, director, state Directorate of Technical Education (DTE).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/chalk-out-contingency-plan-to-conduct-exams-maharashtra-government-tells-universities/story-GsZjkzyQFt5o9vPb2zMHdL.html
08-04-2020||City||59-yr-old who tested +ve in Ludhiana had stayed at Tibba Road mosque||The 59-year-old from Chowki Mann near Jagraon who tested positive for coronavirus had stayed at a masjid in Puneet Nagar on Tibba Road.Health officials have now sent eight of his family members and an imam at the masjid into quarantine as they had been in close contact with the patient.A dairy owner by profession, the 59-year-old had returned from the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in New Delhi on March 19 and stayed at the masjid on Tibba Road till March 26.In the meantime, the health department is preparing a list of persons whom Hassan Ali had come in contact with.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said contact-tracing is on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/59-yr-old-who-tested-ve-in-ludhiana-had-stayed-at-tibba-road-mosque/story-EaSo6RTr7gI2O8rYciwTgO.html
08-04-2020||City||Kin who refused to cremate Ludhiana corona victim immerse her ashes||Two days after the district administration cremated coronavirus victim Surinder Kaur, 69, as her family refused to claim her body, the son and daughter-in-law of the woman collected her ashes and immersed these in a canal here on Tuesday.Shimlapuri SHO Amandeep Singh Brar said the family expressed the wish to collect the deceased’s ashes on Monday evening. “The woman’s son Harpal and his wife collected the ashes and immersed them in a canal near Falahi Sahib gurdwara.”He said that on Sunday when Surinder Kaur had passed away, the family was paranoid and refused to claim her body. “We had asked them to take the guidance of the doctors concerned but they did not listen.”Brar said that the deceased was cremated by the administration as an unclaimed body. “We appreciate that the better sense prevailed and the family collected her ashes.”While the family continues to remain incommunicado, officials said the former has decided to organise a ‘sehaj path’ in Shimlapuri gurdwara to perform ‘antim ardas’ for the deceased. On Monday, the district administration had announced to hold ‘akhand path’ for her bhog ceremony.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kin-who-refused-to-cremate-ludhiana-corona-victim-immerse-her-ashes/story-W4Hh2czweVnDBhAqgESlYM.html
08-04-2020||Mumbai||‘Reserve beds in pvt hospitals for Covid-19 cases’||A public interest litigation filed by a city resident, filed by advocate Meherwan Farshid, has urged the Bombay high court to issue an order reserving half the beds in private hospitals for treating Covid-19 patients and the hospitals which refuse to do so must be taken over by the government. The PIL states Mumbai is a Covid-19 hotspot with over 450 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/reserve-beds-in-pvt-hospitals-for-covid-19-cases/story-Y1hdBiQQjWVSgwZ4is9RjP.html
08-04-2020||Mumbai||Retired Navy sailor tests positive for Covid-19 in south Mumbai||A retired Indian Navy sailor, with no previous travel history, tested positive for Covid-19 last week, following which his residential building at Navy Nagar – home to most Navy sailors – in Colaba was quarantined. Navy sources said that the retired sailor, who was working on a contractual basis, was undergoing treatment and none of his family members have tested positive yet.“We were informed about the development but we were asked to stay out of the operation,” said a senior police officer from the Mumbai Police, requesting anonymity. The building has been quarantined and disinfected, and a containment plan as per the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines has been put in place, said Navy sources. Direct contacts of the retired naval sailor have been traced and isolated.An advisory has been issued to all those who reside in Navy Nagar and the Naval Officers Residential Area (NOFRA), asking all personnel to not travel except for very essential duties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/retired-navy-sailor-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-south-mumbai/story-k9YWwaYMTfs0CavmztImlK.html
08-04-2020||City||Baby of Covid-19 patient tests negative||A day after a 32-year-old woman, who is Covid-19 positive, delivered a girl, the baby tested negative. The woman, a resident of Ghansoli, delivered the baby in Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation hospital on Monday. Vaishali Naik, who heads NMMC health department, said, “The first test is negative. We will have another test.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/baby-of-covid-19-patient-tests-negative/story-GGM6gWLLxFw5JeLAH7rzVN.html
08-04-2020||City||Crime cases see a dip amid curfew in Ludhiana||The number of crime cases in the city has seen a sharp dip ever since the curfew was imposed to control the coronavirus outbreak. NO RAPE CASESWhile no rape cases have been reported, the number of burglary, snatching and robbery cases have been low. However, in the past 13 days, three murder cases have come to the fore. Of the three, two have been solved and the accused have been arrested. The unsolved case pertains to the murder of a liquor vend salesman, which took place on the intervening night of April 2 and 3. Police suspect the hand of an acquaintance in the crime. February, meanwhile, had seen major crimes, including a 30-kg gold heist from IIFL gold loan branch, besides a murder case. SNATCHINGSIn February, as many as 23 cases of snatchings were reported in city, while from March 1 to March 22, the number came down to 14. The number of cases further came down to two after the lockdown.ROBBERY Robbery cases have also seen a decline with just three cases being reported after March 31. On March 31, two motorcycle-borne miscreants had robbed a gas agency employee of Rs 30,000 cash.ROAD MISHAPSIn the initial weeks of March before the lockdown was imposed, 11 cases of road mishaps were reported, while in February, the number was at 19. After the lockdown, two road mishaps have been reported.MAJOR PART OF POLICE FORCE ON CURFEW DUTYWith most cops deployed on curfew duty, only about five to six personnel are taking care of routine duty in police stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/crime-cases-see-a-dip-amid-curfew-in-ludhiana/story-giZvvbtUrIaXYFLjmlzPgK.html
08-04-2020||City||Maharashtra’s coronavirus death rate double than India’s||Mortality rate of patients tested positive for Sars-CoV-2 in Maharashtra is double compared to that of India, according to the data for all states available till Monday.As on Monday, the state had 868 cases and 52 deaths and thus a mortality rate of 5.98%, against India’s 2.66%, with 4,542 cases and 121 deaths. In Maharashtra, the numbers rose to 1,018 cases and 64 deaths on Tuesday.A comparison with data for other states till Monday shows that Maharashtra is fourth in terms of mortality rate. Gujarat tops the list with a mortality rate of 8.33% (12 deaths), although the total number of cases is 114. After Gujarat, Punjab’s mortality rate is 7.89% with 6 deaths and 76 cases; Himachal Pradesh’s mortality rate is 7.69% with one death and 13 cases. After Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu has the highest number of cases — 621 – but the mortality rate is 0.80% with five deaths. Delhi has third highest cases — 523 and seven deaths – and the mortality rate is 1.33%. Kerala has 327 cases, but only two deaths. Their mortality rate is 0.61%.Currently, the mortality rate of the state is higher than the world’s – 5.58% (12,10,956 cases and 67,594 deaths). However, what needs to be considered is that in India, testing is limited vis-a-vis a majority of other countries like Germany, US, South Korea and UK. This also means that several asymptomatic persons, who may be carrying the virus, have not been tested, and our numbers of total infected cases may be much higher which can have bearing on mortality rates.State officials pointed out that the fatalities in Maharashtra are more in the elderly age group and with those who have co-morbid conditions such as heart disease, kidney failure, diabetes etc. The other aspect of the deaths in Maharashtra is that in several cases, the disease manifested at a later stage.Public health experts are still trying to find the reasons behind the higher mortality rate, but they have suggested that those who show any symptoms of the virus should rush to a Covid-19 dedicated hospital, instead of waiting.For instance, the first death in Dharavi was of a 56-year-old who had no travel history. He died a day after he tested positive. Health officials retracing his history said he had visited a local clinic on March 23 complaining of cough. Following this, on March 28, the patient had complained of chest pain and underwent treatment at Sion Hospital. “The test results of the patient arrived on April 1 after which he was moved from Sion Hospital to Kasturba Hospital and died a day later. In this case, the manifestation of the disease started at a very late stage owing to which the patient could not be saved,” said a senior BMC health official. “Our analysis shows that mortality is higher in cases of comorbidities and people who are in the upper age bracket. These conditions add to the complications, leading to deaths,” said Dr Anup Yadava, director, National Health Mission (NHM) in Maharashtra. An analysis by the state medical education department and health department shows that the highest mortality rate (28.57%) is in the age group of 71-80, with 28 cases and eight deaths so far. In the 61-70 age bracket, of the total 84 cases, 19 deaths have been recorded, bringing the mortality rate to 22.62%. The 51-60 age group has 107 cases and 11 deaths. The mortality rate here is 10.28%. The state has highest number of cases — 157 — in the age group of 21-30 years, in which no death has been reported.State disease surveillance officer Dr Pradip Awate said, “A majority of patients who died had comorbid conditions. Of the total Covid-19 deaths, 78% patients had diabetes, hypertension and other such serious illnesses.”(With inputs from Shrinivas Deshpande)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-s-coronavirus-death-rate-double-than-india-s/story-W6N3fkUMg4iHHMZIbFpMFI.html
08-04-2020||City||Show-cause notice issued: 2 Ludhiana schools ask parents to deposit fee amid lockdown||Two days after the director of public instructions (DPI, secondary) office served a show-cause notice to the management and principal of Delhi Public School in Jhammat village for asking parents to deposit their wards’ fee amid lockdown in the wake of coronavirus outbreak, the state education department on Tuesday issued a show-cause notice to MGM Public School, Dugri, and Green Land Convent School, Subhash Nagar, for the same violation. The action was taken following a complaint by the parents to the state education department. The DPI office has asked the school authorities to submit a reply as to why the school’s no objection certificate (NOC) to run the school should not be cancelled as they have violated the orders of the education department. On March 23, the state education department had directed all private schools to reschedule the date of depositing fee as many parents would be unable to do the needful amid lockdown. The school authorities were further asked to abide by the orders or face disciplinary action. Recently, state education minister Vijay Inder Singla had also instructed all private schools to not force parents to deposit their wards’ fee and reschedule the fee depositing dates. District education officer (secondary) Swaranjit Kaur said the complaint was made by the parents directly to the state education department. “We were intimated by the department that these schools have violated government’s instructions, following which the show-cause notice was issued,” she said. ‘OUR MANAGEMENT HAS NOT ASKED PARENTS TO DEPOSIT FEE’Rajesh Rudhra, director of Greenland Convent Schools, and president of Association of Private CBSE Schools in Punjab, said the show-cause notice that they have received from the state education department, does not carry their school names. “The show-cause notice has the name of Gurukul World School. Moreover, our management has not asked parents to deposit fee. Since April 1, many parents were approaching our staff, asking them about online modes to deposit the fee. So we sent them an online link for the same. We have sufficient funds to pay our staff their salaries amid lockdown,” Rudhra said, adding that the staff has been working hard to provide online study material for students at home. On Tuesday, Jyoti Pujara, principal of Green Land Convent School, Subhash Nagar, also gave the clarification to the parents after the show-cause notice was issued. “Some parents were inquiring from us about depositing fee as students are being taught online. They were asking for the online link from the class teachers as the parents were interested in depositing the fee. So, we sent the link through the message for the interested parents only. Kindly don’t misunderstand. The school management is not compelling anyone to pay (the fee) right now. They can deposit (the fee) at their own perusal. Your cooperation is solicited,” read the message to the parents. Meanwhile, Sunita Vij, principal of MGM Public School, Dugri, could not be reached for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/show-cause-notice-issued-2-ludhiana-schools-ask-parents-to-deposit-fee-amid-lockdown/story-cRWBr5XDwwasgNJUoQD0AP.html
08-04-2020||City||‘Make use of technology to stay connected’||In the absence of a vaccine or a drug to cure Covid-19 diseases, the only way to prevent its spread is social distancing and not going out of homes.In view of the prevailing situation, noted city poet Gurbhajan Singh Gill, 67, has expressed the fear that isolation may have a long-term effect and people may isolate themselves from one another permanently and disconnect themselves emotionally from society.“This thought keeps bothering me to the extent that I cannot even enjoy my passion of reading literature,” Gill said.Gills said, “After waking up at 6.30am, I try to read literature regarding Partition. Then, I spend most of the time with my granddaughter and, in between, I also make calls to relatives, friends and workers of the Punjabi Sahit Academy to know about their well-being and extend moral support.”He said, “Today, social networking sites, mobile phones and internet are the only sources available to people through which they see the world and, in the absence of these modes, people might have gone crazy.”“I also spend time listening gurbani through internet and watching news. But, I feel that radio is playing a better role than TV channels as channels are more into spreading panic. I watch two-three channels to confirm whether a particular news is fake or not,” he said.Gill believed this virus outbreak was the greatest disaster of this century and, during these hard times, people are not even able to meet each and extend moral support. “Persons are also afraid of touching one another,” Gill said.“Being alone, I often take a trip down the memory lane remembering our culture of helping one another at times of need and providing moral support during difficult times. I suggest during this time of isolation, we must make best use of modern technology to stay connected with our loved ones,” the poet said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/make-use-of-technology-to-stay-connected/story-4oAqqDNmQTDOlrhJFKaolO.html
08-04-2020||City||Kalyan residents told to segregate medical waste||The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation has urged quarantined residents to inform the biomedical waste department to collect waste. “The citizens who are quarantined have to segregate waste,” said a civic officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kalyan-residents-told-to-segregate-medical-waste/story-iWZUsnZMhL0Fu6UBdPVWBN.html
08-04-2020||City||Part-time lecturers on field duty in Ludhiana demand recognition||Part-time lecturers working as special executive magistrate in different wards of the city amid the lockdown are demanding the government to acknowledge their services and provide them with equal insurance cover as that of police officials and sanitation workers.In a notification dated March 20, the government had authorised the deputy commissioners in Punjab to appoint gazetted officers in the state, who are drawing a grade pay of ₹5,000 and above, as executive magistrates. These executive magistrates will be called special executive magistrate and appointed for the maintenance of law and order amid the situation that has risen due to Covid-19, said the notification. Following the notification, around 18 part-time lectures from SCD College were appointed the duty of issuing passes. Paramjeet Singh, assistant professor of Punjabi and National Service Scheme (NSS) in-charge at SCD College, said that he has been performing his duty in ward number 2 since March 26.“None of the regular staff were asked to be on duty. We have been issuing passes and collaborating with different non-governmental organisation (NGOs) to provide food to the needy,” he said. Singh said, “Even though we have been given the charge of special executive magistrate, we face difficulty in commuting. We issue passes to vegetable vendors, grocery delivery man and others in the areas allotted to us, but we are stopped by police who don’t accept the passes given to us by the administration.”Anamika, assistant professor of English, said, “Only the part-time lecturers from our college have been asked to perform the duty. We don’t have any issue performing this duty as it is a global health emergency, but what about our rights? The government did not think about us when they announced the insurance cover.”“It’s the police’s job to maintain law and order and it is the duty of sanitation workers to maintain cleanliness, but we are lecturers who are not even regular. We have been fighting for our rights as our contribution will not be recognised because our record is not maintained like that of regular staff. We want the government to acknowledge our services, just like the police or municipal corporation (MC) staff on duty,” she said.On Saturday, the state government had announced a special health insurance cover of ₹50 lakh each for the police personnel and sanitation workers in the frontline in the battle against covid-19.Meanwhile, principal of the college, Dharam Sandhu, said, “I have not received any report from lecturers having any difficulty on duty. If I receive any such complaint, I will speak to the deputy commissioner myself.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/part-time-lecturers-on-field-in-ludhiana-duty-demand-recognition/story-sRxyVA9e9H0xUJN4R2kYkM.html
08-04-2020||City||‘People roaming outside will be quarantined’||The Thane district collector, Rajesh Narvekar, has warned residents against going out unnecessarily. “We will quarantine any person who is seen roaming unnecessarily on the road.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/people-roaming-outside-will-be-quarantined/story-cbdG1Vd7Dm78LUhoNSQhkK.html
08-04-2020||City||Ward officer suspended for allowing event||Kalyan Dombivli Mnicipal Corporation commissioner Vijay Suryavanshi on Monday suspended a ward officer for giving permission for a wedding function in Dombivli on March 19. A coronavirus positive man, who had travelled to Turkey, was one of the guests at the huge gathering.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ward-officer-suspended-for-allowing-event/story-6oY6Sq4aMB2IDyRC4bZN7H.html
08-04-2020||City||MC looking for owner of pit bull caught from Ishar Nagar in Ludhiana on April 3||After catching a ferocious pit bull roaming in the Ishar Nagar area, officials of the municipal corporation (MC) are now looking for the owner of the dog, which has now been shifted to the Animal Birth Control (ABC) centre of the MC on the Hambran Road.The officials had caught the dog on April 3 after complaints from residents that the dog was posing a danger to lives of residents.Senior veterinary officer Dr Harbans Dhalla said the MC commissioner had received a complaint that a pit bull dog was roaming in the area and residents had somehow confined it to a vacant room in a plot.“After getting the complaint, a team of MC dog catchers reached the spot and caught the dog with the help of an army man.”“The MC team had found it difficult to catch the dog in the room and a tranquiliser gun was demanded from the wildlife department, but it was not available. However, an army man, residing in the area, helped the MC team in getting the dog out of the room and then the dog was caught with the help of a net”, said Dr Dhalla.He said that the owner of the dog can contact him at 9815091107 and get the possession of the dog after submitting a proof.Meanwhile, residents have urged the authorities to direct the pet owners to keep their dogs inside their homes and not let them roam in streets. “It has been seen that some people free their dogs to roam in the streets, but such practices should be strictly banned. As aggressive dogs roaming openly in the streets can harm anyone and the authorities should take necessary measures in this regard,” said a resident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mc-looking-for-owner-of-pit-bull-caught-from-ishar-nagar-in-ludhiana-on-april-3/story-GoW0WewqqawpseGESvr0QJ.html
08-04-2020||City||Thane Man alleges MLA’s men beat him up||A 40-year-old engineer from Thane filed a complaint against MLA Jitendra Awhad and his supporters for allegedly beating him up. Awhad’s supporters also filed a complaint against him for posting vulgar photo on the social media site. Awhad had posted against Sunday’s event of switching off lights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-man-alleges-mla-s-men-beat-him-up/story-8DLXZTba0jOdOjZn8CeO8K.html
08-04-2020||Mumbai||Society adopts buddy system to check on elderly||At Cuffe Parade’s Maker Tower, a buddy system has been set up for senior citizens who live alone. Twice a day, their younger neighbours check in on the senior residents and make sure they have everything they require, including groceries and medicines. Maker Tower has 150 flats and approximately 700 residents, includes some domestic helpers who live with their employers. Ten of these flats have senior citizens, who live alone, and therefore, younger members call them regularly to check in on them. “It feels like a good thing to be doing and despite maintaining social distancing, we are all still together,” said Suhani Mendonsa, who is part of the buddy system and co-ordinates food deliveries from a nearby restaurant.The society at Maker Tower has also compiled a list of vendors who will deliver supplies and switched to a virtual message board on a messaging app to keep residents informed. All deliveries are left at the gate and residents collect their parcels once they are delivered.“Around 14 days into lockdown, we realised we need to also focus on mental health,” said Aparna Gupta, a member of Maker Tower’s Covid prevention sub-committee, which is planning to organise entertainment and games for residents. “This may not be a pressing issue right now, but with everyone at home, there needs to be distraction for them during difficult times like these,” said Gupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/society-adopts-buddy-system-to-check-on-elderly/story-KaXzgQJmT2M7dmk9bQY9sJ.html
08-04-2020||Mumbai||23 Indians, including 7 from state stranded in Spain||Twenty-three Indians, including seven from Maharashtra, have been stranded in Spain since March 20. The Indians work on a cruise ship and were to return to India from Barcelona on March 21, but their flight was cancelled. Spain has witnessed one of the worst outbreaks of Covid-19 in Europe. “We were asked by our employer to go back to India on March 20, and were given tickets for March 21. However, the flight got cancelled and later the Indian airspace was shut due to which we are stuck here in hope of being airlifted, but with no success,” said Robin Pereira, 38, who is from Mumbai. At present, the group’s stay is being covered by their employer.Sangita Bhagwan, whose brother, Sandeep Bhagwan, is among the 23 Indians, has been in touch with the Indian embassy in Spain, which sent her an email that said the following: “Prime Minister Modi has appealed that you give your next few weeks for the sake of the country. Conditions currently do not allow your government to consider evacuation. We are confident that we shall triumph over Covid-19. Till then, please be calm.” Bhagwan said, “ We understand the fight that our country is fighting currently. However, these men are stranded in a Covid-19 hotspot.” Indian embassy in Spain told HT there are currently no proposals to evacuate Indians from Spain.In an email reply Sanjay Verma, India’s Ambassador to Spain from Indian Embassy in Madrid stated, “We have tirelessly explained to the crew and their well wishers in India that our country remains in a lock down. Also that there are currently no proposals to evacuate Indians from Spain, or anywhere else given the lock down, not to mention that our systems and personnel are engaged full time in ensuring that the lock down is a success.” Verma added, “As you may know, the crew works for a Cruise Line. Their company forced them to disembark at Barcelona and was reluctant to look after their employees interests. The Embassy was able to get in touch with the Cruise Line and ensured that the 23 Indians were provided with living arrangements in Barcelona. The Indian crew has since been provided for by their company.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/23-indians-including-7-from-state-stranded-in-spain/story-eoXWMnIQBFek15RDq45vZI.html
08-04-2020||City||Man arrested for playing a prank||A 32-year-old man was arrested for calling up Regional Disaster Management Cell in Thane, and giving them false information about people in need of food. The RDMC officials later found that the person played a prank. Mohammad Hussain, had informed RDMC about 40 poor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-arrested-for-playing-a-prank/story-0NKHdmoS5cO0htyRyXGy2H.html
08-04-2020||Mumbai||Two more positive cases in Dharavi, count touches 7||Two more people were tested positive for Covid-19 in Dharavi on Tuesday, taking the total in Asia’s largest slum to seven.The father and brother of the 30-year-old woman who had tested positive on Saturday, aged 80 and 49 years, also tested positive on Tuesday, said Kiran Dighavkar, assistant commissioner of the G/North Ward. “In tracing of high-risk contact it was found that they are the father and brother of the 30-year-old woman who had tested positive in Dharavi on Saturday.”All these patients are residents of Dharavi’s Dr Baliga Nagar area. The BMC had already sealed Dr Baliga Nagar where the first Covid-19 patient, a 56-year-old garment shop owner, was reported. The colony he lived in has eight buildings with 308 flats and 91 shops which were sealed. He later succumbed to the virus.All 29 high-risk contacts of both patients reported on Tuesday are being tested and essential supplies like food and medicines will be provided to them by the BMC.Considering the outbreak of the virus in slum pockets, BMC has quarantined 3,250 residents to Rajiv Gandhi Sports complex in Dharavi. On Tuesday, state health minister Rajesh Tope, and and local MLA and school education minister Varsha Gaikwad visited Rajiv Gandhi Sports complex quarantine facility center and Dharavi police station to examine the situation. Minister Tope and Gaikwad held meetings with police and civic staff regarding outbreak of the deadly virus in the Dharavi.Impose lockdown strictly in entire Dharavi area: Sena MP writes to CMShiv Sena Lok Sabha MP Rahul Shewale wrote to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday, urging him to strictly impose the lockdown in the entire Dharavi area. “Lockdown is necessary because of the high population density in the area. In addition to that, civic body should take all the hospitals in Dharavi and convert them into a quarantine centre,” he said. Shewale also suggested that the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) should enhance their testing capacity and every person in the slum should be tested for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/two-more-positive-cases-in-dharavi-count-touches-7/story-Kwa5fdNdreNbgv5IizKEOK.html
08-04-2020||City||No Baisakhi celebrations at historic Uri gurdwara||Owing to the coronavirus pandemic, no Baisakhi celebrations will take place at the historic Chatti Patshai gurdwara here, the management committee said on Tuesday.“Baisakhi celebrations have been cancelled following the outbreak of Covid-19,” said Baramulla Gurdwara Prabandhak Committee chairperson Tara Singh.He said the decision was taken to prevent all risks to public health and safety. “Once the situation improves, we will issue fresh dates for the celebration,” he said.Pardeep Singh Dardi, a social activist and devotee from Baramulla who visits the shrine on every Baisakhi, said that it was necessary to call off the celebrations this time. “When the entire world is in suffering because of the deadly virus, how we can celebrate? We have to stand with others,” he said. A devotee from Srinagar, Barkat Kaur, said that the place has such a prestigious history that people from different parts of the country visit the gurdwara. “Unfortunately, everyone will be giving it a miss this time,” she said.People’s Democratic Party (PDP) youth leader Harbaksh Singh said that they will stay at home this time. “We will pray to god for peace and will do the religious activities pertaining to Baisakhi at home,” he said.Ajay Pal Singh, a doctor from Anantnag, said, “Government should restore high-speed internet on this special occasion so that we can contact our families stuck outside India.”Earlier in 2016, the Sikh community had to call off the Baisakhi celebrations here after a footbridge connecting Uri town with the gurdwara got washed away due to heavy rains. A new bridge was constructed last year only.The high priests of Akal Takht have announced that Baisakhi celebrations around the world would be held as a small-scale affair, in view of the Covid-19 outbreak.The historic significance of this shrine dates back to 1620, when the sixth Sikh master, Guru Hargobind, had toured here with Mughal emperor Jehangir. The Guru had stayed here for some time and after his move to Muzaffrabad in POK, his followers build this gurdwara on the banks of Jhelum in his honour.The Baisakhi celebrations are attended by Sikhs from different parts of J&K and other states. The gurdwara witnesses a rush of over 10,000 pilgrims every year.The festival is also celebrated at a gurdwara in Srinagar’s Rainawari area and in central Kashmir’s Budgam district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-baisakhi-celebrations-at-historic-uri-gurdwara/story-2d9h3SjWb8BlB1WTwrsUmI.html
08-04-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai reports 116 new coronavirus cases, 6 deaths||The city reported 116 new confirmed coronavirus cases, including six deaths, on Tuesday, taking the total tally to 642 now and total fatal cases to 40. Mumbai accounts for more than 60% of the total positive cases in the state, which stood at 1,018 on Tuesday.Out of the 116 patients who have been tested positive on Tuesday, 55 were among the high-risk contacts of patients from the containment areas. They were screened at the clinics set up at containment zones, comp doctors, nurses and a lab technician. Twenty such clinics were operational as of Monday, which screened 614 persons, and collected 185 swabs from suspected persons for testing.The two high-risk areas in the city have been identified as Dharavi and the Worli Koliwada areas, both of which are densely-populated. Dharavi recorded two new cases on Tuesday, taking the total number of cases from the area to seven. BMC has quarantined 3,250 Dharavi residents at Rajiv Gandhi Sports complex. All the 29 high-risk contacts of both the patients have also been tested and will be provided with essential supplies such by the BMC. Until Tuesday, G South ward, comprising the areas of Worli Koliwada, Janata Nagar, Adarsh Nagar and BDD chawls, recorded 78 cases. To contain the outbreak of the virus, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Tuesday barred the sale of vegetables and fruits on footpaths and in open markets in the 241 containment zones of the city. BMC has already stopped the sale of vegetables and fruits in Worli and Dharavi on Tuesday itself.Aaditya Thackeray, Maharashtra tourism minister and Worli legislator, on Tuesday took to social media and said, “5,144 people in Worli Koliwada were screened for symptoms. Twelve were found with high grade fever. Tomorrow [Wednesday] too, this drive will continue, till all the residents are covered. This is the second such drive in Worli Koliwada.” He said the city is seeing more cases as more contacts of patients are being traced and tested. “Along with supplies of essentials such as kits and separate kits for senior citizens across Worli, we are focussing majorly on the containment of Covid 19. The spike in cases is being seen as we chase each case with contact tracing, testing and isolating carriers,” he said. To safeguard front-line workers, BMC has started to administer hydroxychloroquine tablets to them. According to BMC, Mumbai has a stock of more than 1 crore such tablets. It has also airlifted around 12,000 personal protective equipment (PPEs) for all the medical staff in the city, from a manufacturing unit in Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu. On Thursday, around 30,000 more PPEs will be airlifted to the city.Meanwhile, 21 staffers of Jaslok Hospital have also been tested positive for coronavirus after the hospital tested its 1,005 in-house employees. None of them is in a critical state, with 19 of them being asymptomatic and two having mild symptoms, civic officials said. Four of them are undergoing treatment at the hospital, while 16 have been sent to Seven Hills Hospital. One is admitted to Kasturba Hospital. Though the hospital has stopped non-emergency and out-patient department (OPD) services for now, in a statement issued on Tuesday, the management has announced that to resume them from April 13. The hospital’s spokesperson said that last week when one of the nurses were tested positive, they began contact tracing others, after which they discovered that more staff members have been infected. “We have tested 1,005 doctors and staffers, including the high -risk and low-risk contacts of positive patients and staff . While 984 was tested negative, 21 were found positive. The existing patients were also tested for Covid-19,” he said.However, BMC has not decided to declare the hospital as a containment zone, as it is responsibly screening all its staffers for any possible transmission of the infection. “They have screened more than 1,000 staff members from their hospital. The hospital is taking proper care of the positive patients. So we have decided not to declare it a containment zone,” a civic official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/city-reports-116-new-cases-6-deaths/story-gVpQwgSbNXBCvKxZOwNbNN.html
08-04-2020||Delhi||We will begin pool testing trials to speed up diagnosis: Satyendar Jain||Delhi’s health minister Satyendar Jain spoke to Sweta Goswami about enhanced tests, new testing methods, the PPE challenge, hospital infrastructure, and community transmission, among other issues. Edited excerpts:The Delhi government has ordered 100,000 rapid test kits to detect more Covid-19 cases and take containment measures accordingly. What is the plan for conducting these tests?Till date, 9,035 tests have been conducted in Delhi. The 1 lakh (100,000) rapid antibody test kits will be used in three ways. First is the area around the Nizamuddin Markaz, second will be in and around north-east Delhi’s Nand Nagri area. The third will be on our health workers, who are the front-line workers in our fight against coronavirus. After the 18 fresh positive cases that emerged among health workers, we have decided that random rapid tests will be conducted on them. We have nearly 3,000 medical staff on Covid-19 duty. What about labs? Will they be able to take the load?We are trying a new thing -- pool testing. It is currently being done in Germany. We will begin trial runs on this in a week. Two hospitals -- Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS) and Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality hospital -- have been asked to start the trial. Once this starts, Delhi’s testing capacity will go up by about eight times with the same manpower, the number of kits and other resources. These confirmatory tests will then be run parallel to the rapid tests (non-confirmatory) for detection at a massive scale. Under pool testing, people are divided into teams of about 15. If a team tests negative, that is good. If the result is positive, they are divided into groups of three, for another round of tests.At present, we have the ILBS lab under us which is processing 250-300 tests daily. Apart from pool testing, we are working on increasing the normal testing at this institute to 500-600 a day.Do you have enough personal protective equipment (PPE) kits now? Stocking up on PPEs is one of our top priorities now as we have to keep the virus from spreading among our health workers. But the truth is that at present, we have stocks for only about five days. The Centre is giving us 27,000 kits, but that will not be enough. We need minimum 50,000 PPE kits as buffer stock at any given point of time, in addition to the kits that are being used on a daily basis. Right now, we hardly have 5,000 kits as a buffer. If an incident like Nizamuddin Markaz recurs, our five-day stock would last only for about three days.On our own, we have ordered more than 1.2 lakh (120,000) kits by now, but the problem is there are only 3-4 vendors who have been able to meet government standards and their daily delivery is merely 500-1,000 kits per company per day.Can you explain the government’s plan to tackle a sudden surge in Covid-19 cases, if such a scenario arises?Our action plan is based on projections of daily active cases. At present, the number of active cases and the rate of growth are slightly lower than our projection, which we feel is because of the lockdown. But, we have a road map ready to treat 30,000 active cases in the city.At present, we have 2,500 beds ready in three of our hospitals. Then 500 beds are available in Central government hospitals such as Safdarjung and AIIMS. Then we have beds in Max Hospital, Saket, Sir Gangaram Hospital and Apollo Hospital. Our existing quarantine capacity is also eight times the present occupancy. Do you have enough ventilators? At present, we have nearly 300 Covid-19 dedicated ventilators sourced from Delhi government and private hospitals. The number goes up to around 400 if we add the ventilators in central government hospitals. We have asked for 300 more ventilators from the central government; hope they agree to it. However, let me point out that at present there are only eight Covid-19 patients in Delhi who are on the ventilator. Even the number of cases in ICUs is as low as 35 in the city. Has community transmission begun in Delhi or at least in some parts of the city?No. I am saying this because we have analysed this by creating a heat map of Covid-19 cases in Delhi. No area other than the Nizamuddin Markaz has so far thrown up an exploding number of positive cases to conclude that community transmission has begun. Those in Markaz were living in confined premises, so the virus spread rapidly among them. If we see the data, of the total 550 positive cases in Delhi, only 219 are non-Markaz cases, that too over a period of about a month. In the Markaz case, apart from the first information report, which the police has registered, hasn’t the Delhi government found any lapses of its own officials? I know there could have been some lapses, but this is not the time for that. This is a crisis. If we order an inquiry against the officials who are key to a district, who will do the work?So, let us keep the inquiry for a time when we are free from coronavirus. But action will be taken. How is contact tracing is being done in the area and other places?We formed 11 core teams for aggressive contact tracing - one in each district. Each team has a minimum 60 people from different agencies such as medical staff, police, district administration and so on. Out of the 550-odd cases, there are about 49 cases in which we are still tracing contact history.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/we-will-begin-pool-testing-trials-to-speed-up-diagnosis-satyendar-jain/story-muy5XdftNphPykZYFdXAwK.html
08-04-2020||Gurugram||MCG issues show-cause notice to 30 staffers for being absent from work during lockdown||Over 30 employees of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) have been issued show-cause notices by the civic body for being absent from work since the lockdown started, said officials on Tuesday.According to the notice, a copy of which is with Hindustan Times, senior MCG officials alleged that none of the staff members at the MCG’s zone 3 (establishment) branch in Sector 42 were coming to the office since the 21-day national lockdown came into force in the country on March 25.The zone 3 (establishment) branch was assigned with the responsibility of preparing daily reports on the activities undertaken by MCG officials during the lockdown and report the same to the MCG’s headquarters. Additionally, they were also tasked with the responsibility of assigning duties to MCG officials in their respective zones for ensuring essential services such as sanitation, water supply, sewerage, streetlights, and garbage collection continue to operate uninterrupted.The notice directed to the accounting officer of the establishment branch on April 4 stated that repeated reminders were also sent to the staff over the phone and that work was being hampered due to the absence of the staff.“As you are aware that due to issues related coronavirus, time-to-time staff is needed and that the government asks MCG for updates and reports on the matter. It has been noticed that neither you and nor your staff members are seen in the office and your work is instead being undertaken by the MCG’s headquarters in your absence. You have two days to respond on the matter,” an excerpt of the notice issued by Mahabir Prasad, additional commissioner, MCG read.Hariom Attri, joint commissioner of zone 3, MCG, who had alerted the civic body about the absence of establishment officials, said most staff members have already come forward and recorded their statements on the matter.“We have received responses on the matter from most of the staff members. Some of the officials who work at the zone 3 (establishment) branch were stuck at their homes due to the absence of curfew passes, some had been temporarily assigned other duties and there was lack of communication. However, there are a few officials who simply did not come for duty and further inquiry will be initiated against them,” Attri said. In May last year, the MCG had marked an inquiry against 15 outsourced workers in the water supply division who had allegedly not to come to work for more than a month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mcg-issues-show-cause-notice-to-30-staffers-for-being-absent-from-work-during-lockdown/story-KAVYZdaIgH2Ur0CmpzvPkO.html
08-04-2020||Gurugram||Police warn Gurugram residents against spreading rumours regarding Covid-19||The police on Tuesday issued a statement, urging the residents of Gurugram to refrain from spreading rumours, fake news and inflammatory messages regarding the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), which can cause communal disharmony and instigate people.In the statement, the police said that they have been keeping a vigilant eye on all the social media platforms and warned the people against getting involved in any kind of nefarious activities online.Subhash Boken, spokesperson, city police, said, “Various police teams are keeping an eye on the social media platforms to check the spread of rumours and fake news. Strict action will be taken against anyone who posts something inflammatory. We urge people to refrain from causing communal disharmony.”In the past five days, the police have arrested two men for allegedly spreading rumours and posting provocative messages on social media in Gurugram. On Friday, a 26-year-old tax consultant was arrested from Baskushla village in IMT Manesar. He had allegedly written a message claiming that the police had arrested someone from the village who had tested positive for Covid-19. However, no such arrest had been made.On Monday, a 28-year-old man was arrested for posting an inflammatory message on a chat group of an instant messaging mobile application. The police had said that the message allegedly targeted a particular religious community.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/police-warn-against-spreading-rumours/story-cVRxgTqY5WBL1uLQIUSUjJ.html
08-04-2020||Gurugram||Two men held for violating lockdown, shifted to quarantine facility||The police on Monday arrested two men, who had travelled from Gujarat, for allegedly violating lockdown orders and risking the potential spread of infection, near Wazirpur Chowk in Sector 10. The police said the men were sent to a quarantine facility in Sector 9 and their samples were sent for testing.According to the police, the men worked as drivers in Gujarat and were attempting to return to their respective villages in Arwal and Sheikhpura districts in Bihar. The police said after the nationwide lockdown was imposed, their employer let them go and they planned to return.A police officer privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said that they took a lift from a truck driver and reached the Rajasthan border, where the police stopped them for questioning.“The local police informed the health authorities and they underwent thermal screening. Both were shifted to a quarantine facility in a school. They had quarantine stamps on their hands but they were hazy and dates could not be read,” said the police officer.The men claimed that after a day in quarantine, they were asked to leave. The police said they hitched a ride in a vegetable truck to Jaipur and walked on foot for three days to reach Gurugram on Sunday evening.“They had contacted a friend, who is a resident of Wazirpur. He informed them of the route. They planned to stay at their friend’s house for a few days and wait for the lockdown to be lifted, so they could return to Bihar,” said the police officer.The police said a local resident noticed that two men from outside their village were roaming about and informed the sarpanch of Dhorka village, who called the police.Sanjay Kumar, station house officer (SHO), Sector 10-A police station, said, that it was not certain if the men had escaped from the quarantine facility in Rajasthan or travelled to the city after completing their quarantine. “The exact reasons will be known once the men join the investigation. They have been shifted to a quarantine facility in Sector 9 for at least 14 days,” said the SHO.A case was registered against the men under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 271 (disobedience to quarantine rule) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act at the Sector 10-A police station on Monday, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/two-men-held-for-violating-lockdown-shifted-to-quarantine-facility/story-ELcK0iXn7GL2dPIGyzXn4O.html
08-04-2020||Gurugram||Ban on retail sale of fruits and vegetables at Haryana’s Khandsa Mandi||Retail sale of vegetables and fruits at Khandsa Mandi has been banned from Wednesday to prevent large gatherings at the wholesale market in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. The Haryana State Agricultural Marketing Board and the Khandsa Market Committee —which manages the wholesale market (mandi)—took the decision on Tuesday after it was oberved that large crowds would gather at Khandsa Mandi increasing the chances of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) spreading further.The market committee said the market will remain operational from early morning till 9am for wholesale trade and a complete ban has been imposed on the retail sale of fruits and vegetables till further orders. “The market will be closed after 9am and information regarding this ban has been shared with all traders, wholesalers and commission agents. No retail sale will be allowed in the market from Wednesday,” Vinay Yadav, secretary, Khandsa Market Committee, said. Yadav also said action would be taken against traders who violate the directions and engage in retail trade. Only those buyers, who purchase goods in bulk for retail sale on their shops, vends, and carts in villages and across the city, will be allowed to buy produce from the wholesale market, he said.The committee also said the market committee had taken a number of measures to ensure social distancing at the wholesale market and had also asked the visitors to wear masks, but lately, the committee witnessed that large crowds would gather at various spots which could lead to the spread of Covid-19.“Announcements are made through loudspeakers, visitors have been repeatedly asked to ensure social distancing and all the traders and shopkeepers are wearing masks. Action has also been initiated against violators to ensure that the market operates optimally and is able to supply vegetables and fruits in the city and outskirts,” a statement issued by the market committee said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/ban-on-retail-sale-of-fruits-and-vegetables-at-khandsa-mandi/story-oRf7Jb1g6OzxiMBBo4kdPM.html
08-04-2020||Gurugram||36 villages in Haryana’s Nuh put under containment zone after 23 new cases||The district administration on Tuesday barred entry to and exit from 148 villages in Nuh, declaring 36 villages as containment zones and 112 others buffer areas, after 23 new Covid-19 patients were reported in a single day -- taking the total number of patients in the district to 37. The administration said 36 of the total patients had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in March at the Markaz in Delhi’s Nizamuddin. One affected person is a 50-year-old truck driver. Nine of the 37 are foreigners and 25 are from different states. Only three patients are locals, the administration said. Pankaj, deputy commissioner, Nuh, said 23 cases were reported from the district on Tuesday -- the highest number of cases reported in a day from anywhere in the state. He said these Covid-19 positive patients had frequently moved around in the 36 villages that have now been declared as containment zones. Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemic“For the safety of people in and around these villages, their boundaries had been sealed and door-to-door screening and scanning of people is being done,” the deputy commissioner said. “We have identified 36 villages that had been visited by these patients before they were sent into quarantine. We have declared them as containment zones and their neighbouring 112 villages as a buffer zone. Special teams have been formed for keeping a strict vigil in and around the villages and monitoring movement of the villagers from these identified zones,” he said, adding that the administration was working in close coordination with police and medical teams.Nuh was identified as the most backward district in the country by NITI Aayog in April 2018. In an assessment on multiple parameters such as health, education, agriculture, financial inclusion, skill development, and infrastructure, Mewat scored 26% — the lowest across the country. This socio-economic backwardness of the region is likely to influence the administration’s containment and treatment efforts.“It will be challenging to maintain peace and ensure that panic doesn’t spread, especially now that the district has the highest number of cases in the state. We are focusing on two things, keeping people with a travel history in self-quarantine and identifying those who have developed symptoms of Covid-19,” said Pankaj, who goes by his first name.The administration has converted seven buildings into quarantine centres in the district. ITI college of Ferozepur Jhirka, Model School of Palla, private hostel in Rehna and Polytechnic college of Malab and a school from Ferozepur Namak have been turned into quarantines, said officials. One building in Rehna village is being used to isolate only foreigners.Four kitchen services— one government and three private— are operating in the district. NGOs are supporting the administration and delivering 8,000 food packets daily which include 1,700 from the government kitchen.“Medical teams are monitoring the food packets and ensuring that it is healthy and packed properly. We are providing free cooked food and ration to the poor and migrant labourers who are living in camps. Also, if any villager is unable to make their ends meet, we are providing them food and other essential items,” said Pankaj.In a statement released by the administration, 36 villages — Bisru, Khanpur Ghati, Umara, Devla, Bond, Akhnaka, Sidhrawat, Agon, Kameda, Nai, Malab, Dihana, Mahu Chopra, Chitoda, Raniyala, Madopur, Punhana, Rahera, Raipur, Rangad Bass, NijampurTauru, Didhana, Sevka, Sikarpur, Nuh, Untka, Muradabas, Bai, Charoda, Rithat , Shapur and four more villages are part of the containment zone. At least 112 villages share boundaries with these 36 villages. As many as 160 people were in contact with the Covid-19 patients who are currently in-home quarantine.Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Nuh, told HT, “We have prepared a unique containment plan for the district and are sanitising all the villages where cases have been reported from,” said Yadav.All patients who had tested positive from Nuh and Palwal have been shifted to Shaheed Hasan Khan Mewati Government Medical College, Nalhar, Nuh. The OPD services in the hospital have been cancelled and it is only catering to Covid-19 patients. All the makeshift shops and markets in the area have been shut. Only two medical shops are allowed to operate, said the CMO.According to Yadav, at least 1,201 people in Nuh who came in contact with the people who had attended the congregation in Markaz in March have been put on surveillance and 84 people who travelled to foreign countries are in quarantine. They were traced to different mosques in Nuh villages. “We had sent samples of 355 people out of which 37 tested positive, 191 tested negative and results of 134 samples are awaited. Forty-four people are currently hospitalised,” said Yadav. A 25-member team of Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHAs) and Nurse Midwife (ANMs) has also been constituted to screen every house in the identified villages.Talking to HT, Narender Bijarniya, superintendent of police, Nuh said, “At least 25 policemen have been deployed in bigger villages to prevent people from moving to other areas and to adjoining districts. This is to ensure the safety of people and prevent transmission of the virus. The boundaries of the 24 villages have been barricaded. We are also requesting people to share their travel history and inform us about anyone with symptoms of Covid-19.”The police are also tracking the travel history of the people who had attended the Markaz congregation and are taking help from the local clerics and religious leaders to identify them or people who came in close contact with the ones who attended the event.According to the police, till Tuesday 1,201 people in the district were under surveillance, out of which 60 people completed their 14 days of quarantine and 1,141 were under home quarantine. To maintain law and order in these villages, four senior government officials have been appointed as duty magistrate. An order for sanitising these villages was issued by the Nuh administration on Tuesday.In Palwal, on Tuesday, three persons tested positive for Covid-19, after which the district total has reached 28. The district has reported the second-highest number of coronavirus cases in the state. The administration has declared 15 villages as containment/red zones and their surrounding 36 villages as buffer zones after 28 tested positive. They had attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in Nizamuddin last month. Deputy commissioner, Palwal, said public transport in these villages was being banned for containing the spread of coronavirus. The villagers under the containment area have been quarantined.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nuh-admin-puts-36-villages-in-containment-zone-after-23-cases-in-one-day/story-WOcKuhKNzDvDeLUuXLlRtM.html
08-04-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 update: Areas visited by Jamaat attendees to be identified from phone records, sealed||Mobile phones of around 2,000 participants in Tablighi Jamaat congregations will be tracked to ascertain areas they had visited while staying in Nizamuddin and mark them as containment zones, said chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday, while outlining a five-point action plan to prevent the spread of Covid-19.Kejriwal said, “Now, monitoring has to be stepped up at the hot spots. For instance, the Markaz in Nizamuddin (the venue of the Tablighi Jamaat congregations). We have provided around 2,000 phone numbers of individuals who participated in the Jamaat. We have to know areas they visited during their stay in the building and the people they came in contact with. All such areas will be sealed,” said Kejriwal said.Later, an official in the chief minister’s office said that by “seal”, Kejriwal had referred to geographical containment of the area to limit transmission of coronavirus. The capital, so far, has two identified cluster hot spots — Dilshad Garden and Nizamuddin — both of which are containment zones, ranging between two and four square kilometres. A slum in south Moti Bagh has also been cordoned off and subjected to the protocols of a containment zone, but it is officially yet to be notified as one.In the containment zones, there is strict surveillance to ensure residents do not step out of their houses, regular spraying of disinfectants, door-to-door visits by health workers to check for flu-like symptoms and provision of essentials (with all business establishments shut) by government workers. All roads to the containment zones are cordoned off by the police.“For tracking, we have started taking the help of the police. So far, we have provided them with 27,702 phone numbers to check possible violation of quarantine norms,” said Kejriwal.The police have so far registered at least 176 first information reports (FIRs) based on mobile tower records.A Delhi police officer, on the condition of anonymity, said they are working with the Delhi government and central intelligence agencies with regards to mobile phone records and travel history of the quarantined persons.“The Delhi government has been regularly giving us the contact details of home-quarantined persons. Based on that, we are checking for the violation of the home quarantine regulations. Separately, we also have our own database of those who were evacuated from the Markaz. Using that, we are checking for people they were in contact with during their stay in Delhi. We have got the records from the register of the Markaz. At the Central government level, the agencies are helping with contact details of Tablighi Jamaat participants from other states, who were in Delhi last month but left before the evacuation started,” the officer said.So far, seven people have died of coronavirus in Delhi. The virus has infected 576 people, of whom 333 are linked to Tablighi Jamaat congregations. The government had evacuated around 2,400 people from the Nizamuddin building in a four-day operation in March-end.So far, 5,305 cases of Covid-19 have been diagnosed in India, of which more than 1,000 have been traced to the congregations at Nizamuddin Markaz in March.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/areas-visited-by-jamaat-attendees-to-be-identified-from-phone-records-sealed/story-6mtfjwg6dA840ZfY1gPbfI.html
08-04-2020||Noida||Borrowers say EMIs debited towards loans despite them opting for 3-month moratorium||Banks are debiting equated monthly instalments (EMIs) towards home loans, business loans and auto loans even from those customers who had availed of a three-month moratorium on all such payments, a reprieve announced by the Union ministry of finance in view of the Covid-19 pandemic and the 21-day nationwide lockdown imposed to prevent its spread. Many borrowers such as flat buyers, businessmen and automobile owners in Noida and Greater Noida have written to the ministry of finance, highlighting the banks’ non-compliance, but no action has been taken so far.On March 27, the ministry of finance had suggested to the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) a moratorium on all loan repayments, and the interest entailed, for three months. Consumers were informed by their respective banks that they have an option to either apply for the moratorium or continue to pay. The moratorium was suggested in view of the economic hardships suffered by many due to the complete lockdown of offices and businesses.“My private sector bank allowed me my request for a three-month moratorium on my home and auto loans and acknowledged the same via a text message. But even then, the EMI was debited for the month of April from my account. The government must act against such banks to ensure that they follow the government guidelines. We tried to contact the bank but we got no help,” Pushpendra Singh, a resident of Sector 135 and an employee of a private firm, said.“I had taken four business loans from four different private banks. I applied for the moratorium because I hardly have any savings in my account at present. I got a message from all four banks that my moratorium request has been approved. But now all four banks have debited instalments from my accounts. If the lockdown continues beyond the 21 days, then I will have no money to even buy essential items like milk and vegetables,” Shekhar Mahajan, a resident of Exotic housing society in Sector 16, Greater Noida West, said. Mahajan said he recently started a business dealing in AC spare parts and it is now shut owing to the lockdown.“If the customer has applied for moratorium and the bank has accepted the same, then the EMI should not be deducted. But in cases where it has been debited, customers are advised to visit the respective branches for clarity as to how that happened. It may be some technical issue. They can file a complaint in writing with the bank and also bring it to our notice. We will look into this issue,” Ved Ratan, lead bank manager, Gautam Budh Nagar, said. Many said the banks are also charging interest on the postponement of EMIs.“As all business activity is shut and income has suddenly stopped, banks should not be charging interest for the moratorium period. The government must address this issue and allow us a six-month moratorium and waive the interest for this period,” Indrish Gupta, founder member, Noida Extension Flat Owners welfare Association, said.When contacted, a ministry of finance official said the RBI would look into such cases.“The RBI handles private sector banks and it is looking into such issues. We have made it clear to all banks that they should not force people to repay loans during the moratorium period if they decide to avail of the reprieve. Public sector banks will accept repayment of loans only if a consumer decides to pay willingly,” Debashish Panda, finance secretary, department of financial services, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/borrowers-say-emis-debited-towards-loans-despite-them-opting-for-3-month-moratorium/story-EJPwGEV0wcXfr2DnKioGWI.html
08-04-2020||Delhi||Ahead of Shab-e-Barat, police appeal people to stay indoors; drones, bike patrols to keep watch||The Delhi Police have appealed to the people to not step out of their houses on the occasion of Shab-e-Barat and abide by the lockdown norms. Police have put up posters to this effect and are also circulating notices on social media, both in Urdu and Hindi, asking people to avoid gatherings in order to maintain social distancing. Police have also approached residents’ welfare associations and religious groups to ensure that no gathering takes place in their areas on Shab-e-Barat. Senior officers said drones and bike patrols will keep a close watch to nab violators.Shab-e-Barat, also known as the night of forgiveness, will be observed on Wednesday. On this occasion, Muslims gather at mosques and visit the graves of their loved ones. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced a 21-day countrywide lockdown from March 25 to check the spread of the Covid-19 infection. “In order to make sure that the lockdown is not violated, the Delhi Police released a notice in advance asking people to stay indoors. Posters have also been put across Delhi, especially in areas with a Muslim majority population. The notice is also being widely circulated on social media for a wider reach,” MS Randhawa, additional commissioner of police (crime), said.The notice that police have put up, reads, “This Shab-e-Barat, do not step out of your houses. Help police in their fight to contain the coronavirus pandemic. Lockdown is in place even on April 8 and 9. Do not get out on two-wheelers. Violation of lockdown will not be tolerated and strict action will be taken against the violators. Stay indoors, stay safe.”Randhawa said they are prepared for Wednesday and tight surveillance will be in place to ensure zero lockdown violations. “We will monitor the situation using drones. We have adequate deployment across the city and no one will be allowed to come out on to the streets as prohibitory orders are in place. On Wednesday, our bike patrol teams will intensify vigil in congested areas while adequate deployment will be maintained on the main roads. Violators will be strictly prosecuted,” he said.The officer said for a wider reach, they are also in constant touch with religious groups and RWAs and have requested them to make sure that people in their areas do not come out of their houses or take out any procession. “We have also made announcements on Tuesday and we will do the same on Wednesday to educate people that stepping out will put them and others at the risk of coronavirus infection,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/shab-e-barat-amid-lockdown-police-appeal-people-to-stay-indoors-drones-bike-patrols-to-keep-watch/story-WAJUCr2lhCHXVVTAim0xJP.html
08-04-2020||Noida||Patient in quarantine booked for misbehaving with hospital’s housekeeping staff||A 25-year-old patient currently under quarantine at the Sector 39 district hospital was booked by the Noida police for allegedly misbehaving with a female member of the housekeeping staff on Tuesday.The incident was reported in the afternoon from the hospital’s quarantine facility. According to officials, members of the housekeeping staff had asked the patients in quarantine to keep their used bedsheets and pillowcases at a designated spot.“When the complainant went to collect those, one of the men allegedly threw a pillowcase at her and then misbehaved with her when she objected,” said Kumar Ravijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 1.When senior members of the hospital staff came to know about the incident, they intervened. A video circulating on social media shows a member of the housekeeping staff speaking to at least four or five patients from the same group and asking them to abide by regulations. The men agreed and apologised for the incident that had occurred earlier.However, the police later came to know about the incident and the 50-year-old woman then filed a complaint with the Sector 39 police, based on which a case was registered under sections 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Disaster Management Act.The suspect was identified as Nadeem Ashraf of Bihar.The police said that he has been in the quarantine facility for almost a week now.“This is a secondary contact group that has been here for almost a week. The incident seems to be more of a rude behaviour case. However, an FIR has been registered under relevant sections and due legal action is being taken,” said DCP, zone 1, Sankalp Sharma.The test results for the suspect are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/patient-in-quarantine-booked-for-misbehaving-with-hospital-s-housekeeping-staff/story-ojllACBGKubDKVipatSC3H.html
08-04-2020||Delhi||Film references, documentaries: Delhi govt school classes go mobile, teachers get innovative||Kunal Singh, a class 12 student of a Delhi government school in Nand Nagri, woke up early on Tuesday, even though his school is shut. After a quick breakfast, he gathered his notebooks, switched on his tablet, and sat by his study table — waiting for class to begin.The video-conferencing app on his device flickered to life around 8.30am as the 17-year-old attended the first mathematics lecture organised by the Delhi government for class 12 students to ensure learning isn’t affected during the lockdown.“We just want to learn our lessons properly and don’t care what the medium of instruction is. The teaching was excellent and every point was being cleared by two teachers. We were taught basic matrices and have also been given homework,” he said, talking about the 90-minute session. On Monday, the Delhi government started e-learning classes for all its students in class 12. However, officials said only 9,000 of 150,000 students enrolled in Class 12 in Delhi government schools have registered for the online classes so far. On Tuesday, around 2,200 students attended the mathematics class and 385 joined the history class being organised with the support of Career Launcher, a private coaching instituteThis is in addition to the individual efforts made by government schools to build an e-learning module. Singh’s school, Rajkiya Pratibha Vikas Vidyalaya (RPVV) Nand Nagri had also been conducting online classes since April 1, ensuring that the class 12 student knew his way around the tablet and the application. The classes on both history and maths began with an introduction on the syllabus, topics to be covered throughout the year, links to download material, and a discussion on the paper pattern. To make the virtual class more engaging, Harita Arora, a history teacher at Sarvodya Kanya Vidyalaya in Pushp Vihar, weaved in references from Bollywood movie Padmaavat, a popular song mentioning 13th century traveller Ibn Battuta, and couplets written by Mughal emperor Bahadur Shah Zafar, in her lecture, which began at 10.30am. The lecture also included a 22-minute documentary on Mohenjo Daro and the Indus Valley civilisation. “We had an English class yesterday and today there was our first history class of the session. All of us were so excited since the teacher used slides with pictures and videos to explain each and every topic,” said Suhani, 16, a student of an RPVV in Shakarpur. The students were also given the chance to give their feedback towards the end of the lecture through a live chat option. Teachers also conducted regular polls during the session to assess how much students had grasped the topic. If the percentage was in the lower range, teachers went through the respective section again.Teachers said the virtual classes have helped them connect with students amid the lockdown. “We have been really working hard to switch to online mode and help our students to restart their studies. Although there are logistical limitations, we need to make use of the resources we and our students have. We are putting these lectures online for those who cannot attend live classes, as well as sending the links to our school WhatsApp groups,” said Arora, who is also a member of the Delhi government’s core education committee.Some students also raised concerns over missing some parts of the lecture due to the poor internet connectivity in some instances. “I was attending the lecture using my phone as an internet hotspot, since we don’t have WiFi at home. The internet connectivity is poor here. I was really worried since I missed parts of the mathematics class today,” said Ankit Singh, a class 12 Science student at an RPVV in Paschim Vihar.While the majority of the registered students were from RPVV and Schools of Excellence, some were also from government schools in east Delhi district.“All students of RPVV and Schools of Excellence have tablets that the government had earlier distributed, whichis why it’s easy to rope them in for the online classes first. We are also contacting those who were given tablets after scoring more than 80% in class 10 and are now in class 12,” a government official said. In all, there are 17,000 government school students who have been given these tablets. Binay Bhushan, director of education (DoE), said the department is reaching out to the students directly. “We have asked for the email addresses and mobile numbers of all class 12 students from the individual schools to get an idea on how many students at least have a smartphone at home. We are planning to connect with as many students as possible by next week,” he said. Government officials said they are monitoring the numbers and are also contemplating tying up with TV channels to cover a larger number of students.Experts said that the government will have to use multiple means to address logistical limitations.Aejaz Masih, dean of the faculty of education at Jamia Millia Islamia, who specialises in Curriculum Studies said, “Most parents and students have cellphone access. So, mobile-friendly content could be developed besides online classes. Television channels could also be a good option, but one solution cannot be suitable for different groups of students enrolled in government schools. Multiple options have to be looked at to ensure all students are covered.”On Tuesday, the government also announced that it is working on e-learning programmes for the students of classes 9 onwards and are planning to tie-up with Khan Academy, an educational non-profit organisation, for the purpose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/film-references-documentaries-as-delhi-govt-school-classes-go-mobile-teachers-get-innovative/story-QF7LapYoLIiPhHM0ip9WRM.html
08-04-2020||Noida||Greater Noida man asks residents to abandon pets citing Covid-19, backtracks after police intervention||While a number of dogs had been reportedly abandoned by their owners in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak, a Greater Noida resident on Tuesday was questioned by the animal welfare NGOs and the police for spreading the fake news that coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) infection spreads through pets.On being alerted about the fake message doing the rounds of social media, the animal welfare organisation People for Animals (PFA) reported the incident to the police. BL Verma, a resident of Greater Noida West, later apologised for spreading the rumour and withdrew his statements.Verma, an advocate, said he sent the message on his housing society’s WhatsApp group after watching a news programme in Hindi on Monday night, which claimed that cats and other zoo animals were infected with the virus and were spreading the disease. Health experts have categorically denied any such spread.Verma’s message had read, “It is advisable to pet owners to abstain from their pets or leave them out to prevent further damage from Corona to society and other people. Please take serious note of it.“I had no wrong intentions and it was only after I saw the programme on television last night that I sent this message.I apologise for spreading a message which later classified as fake,” Verma said.The district veterinary officer said the coronavirus does not spread through animals. “In situations like these, people often spread such news or WhatsApp forwards in panic. Let me assure the public that we have no such updates on the pandemic spread,” said VK Srivastava, chief veterinary officer, Gautam Budh Nagar.According to police, the PFA had approached them on Twitter.“The issue has been resolved, the violator has sent a new message correcting the older one and given a written apology to the police, the NGO and the social groups he had sent the text to,” a police officer from Bisrakh police station, who did not wanted to be named, said. According to the animal welfare organisations, at least 60 dogs of pedigree have been abandoned over past two weeks in Gautam Budh Nagar alone.“We have 60 dogs being abandoned by owners across the district. We have German Shepherds, pit bulls and labradors, to count a few. In such a situation, unverified messages must be discouraged as they create panic among people,” Kaveri Rana, president, People for Animals, Gautam Budh Nagar, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/greater-noida-man-asks-residents-to-abandon-pets-citing-covid-19-backtracks-after-police-intervention/story-ykJq73kXqkNzNiLdTtcaUL.html
08-04-2020||Lucknow||UPPCL PF scam: HC rejects bail pleas of ex-director, another||The Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court on Tuesday rejected the bail pleas of Sudhanshu Dwivedi and Vikas Chawla, accused in multi-crore Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation Ltd(UPPCL) provident fund (PF) scam. Dwivedi had served the corporation as its director (finance) from June 2016 to June 2019 while Chawla had allegedly received Rs 5.69 crore as brokerage from a private firm Dewan Housing Finance Ltd (DHFL). The employees’ PF of Rs 4,122.5 crore was invested in the Mumbai-based firm between March 2018 and October 2019 in violation of normsJustice Dinesh Kumar Singh pronounced the reserved order on Tuesday from his residence on both the bail applications moved separately, additional advocate general (AAG) Vinod Kumar Shahi said.On November 2, 2019, an FIR was lodged in connection with the scam under charges of embezzlement and cheating against one Praveen Kumar Gupta, former secretary of the UP Power Sector Employees’ Trust, and Sudhanshu Dwivedi in Hazratganj police station here. Name of Vikad Chawla came to light in connection with the case during the investigation.The allegations were that the accused in violation of the relevant provisions of law had invested huge amount of two funds- Uttar Pradesh Power Sector Employees General Provident Fund and UPPCL Contributory Provident Fund in DHFL—a company incorporated under the Companies Act. The investigation revealed that the investment had been made by the accused for personal gain and that they received the huge amount from DHFL as commission, said in the court’s order.Opposing the bail pleas on behalf of the state government, AAG Shahi contended that the management and investment of the GPF/PPF amount of all the employees of the corporation was required to be carried out in conformity with the concerned rules and notification which was not done by the accused. Manoj Kumar Singh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/uppcl-pf-scam-hc-rejects-bail-pleas-of-ex-director-another/story-oHcquIQFzK6tk9qsioktMN.html
08-04-2020||Pune||Curfew imposed in Khadak, Faraskhana, Swargate and Kondhwa areas of Pune||PUNE: A curfew will be imposed by the Pune police in four areas of the city – under the jurisdictions of the Khadak, Faraskhana, Swargate, and Kondhwa police stations.Stores providing essential commodities will now be allowed to remain open for two hours only - between 10am and noon.Joint commissioner Ravindra Shisve made the announcement on Tuesday, stating, “The changes have been made in the light of an increasing number of cases and deaths caused by Covid-19 in the city.” “If crowds are found at these places, they will be asked to disburse. Shops will be asked to shut if the crowds are not managed in keeping with social distancing,” said Jt CP Shisve.The banks in these areas will remain closed; only ATMs will remain open.Exceptions will be made for police and security personnel,; health department officials, hospital staff and medical shop employees; emergency patient movement; government staff appointed to fight the pandemic; and media personnel with a curfew pass.All these persons are required to carry a valid identity card.In the jurisdiction of Khadak police station, following areas will be sealed: Yadgar Bekary to Dalal chowk to Mohsin General Stores; Shama Fabrication; Shahid Bhagatsingh chowk, Ulhas Mitra Mandal; Raja Tower, Emanuel Church backyard; Haji Isak shaikh road, Mithgunj police outpost, Royal caterers, Chandtara chowk and Ghorpade peth police outpost.In the jurisdiction of Swargate police station, the following areas will be sealed: Minatai Thackeray Vasahat, Maharshinagar; area between Mahavir Pratishthan and Radhaswami Satsang Vyas; Dias plot; Khilare vasti; Seven Loves chowk; Laxmi Narayan chowk; Satara road and Giridhar Bhawan chowk.Additionally, Mangalwar peth and Raviwar Ppeth areas under the Faraskhana police station along with Malik nagar, Mithanagar, Satynan Hospital Colony, Bhairoba temple PMT bus stop, Shalimar Society, Gangadham road in Kondhwa police station jurisdiction will also be sealed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/curfew-in-areas-under-khadak-faraskhana-swargate-and-kondhwa-police-stations/story-cd0r0yDuV7VGR8VdYjPj9N.html
08-04-2020||Pune||Three senior citizens die of Covid-19 in Pune; city toll now at 8||PUNE Pune reported three deaths of Covid-19-positive residents on Tuesday, officials of the civic health department said.“All the deceased were senior citizens, and were on ventilators undergoing treatment for various ailments, including diabetes,” said Sassoon General hospital dean, Dr Ajay Chandanwale, adding, “The three were all above the age of 65.” All three expired at Sassoon hospital.One of the deceased is a 67-year-old resident of the Parvati Dardshan area, while another is a 65-year-old resident of Bhavani peth. The third case is a 65-year-old resident of Tadiwala road. Collector Naval Kishore Ram said, “I was personally monitoring the case as they were in a serious condition and had diabetic, blood pressure and poor lung condition. All three deaths were reported on Tuesday between 9 am and 11 am. They were all cases of local transmission. Now we are tracing the close contacts of the patients and that work is on.” Officials are yet to establish how these patients contracted the Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes Covid-19. With these three deaths, the death toll in the city due to Covid19 is now at eight. The first Covid-19 related death was a 52-year-old businessman who died in the Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital on March 30. A 50-year-old woman passed away on April 2 at Sassoon General Hospital. Three deaths were reported on April 5 - a 69-year-old resident of Gultekdi died at Aundh Hospital, a 52-year-old-man with co-morbid conditions on April 4; and a 60-year-old woman, who had earlier tested negative, was brought dead to Sassoon General hospital the same day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-senior-citizens-die-of-covid-19-in-pune-city-toll-now-at-8/story-YRx0GLiVm4YNO8CCKPZzYO.html
08-04-2020||Pune||Pune embarks on aggressive cluster containment to prevent Covid-19 spread||Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) initiated cluster containment in the densely populated 16 localities of eastern Pune which included the older parts of the city, known as the ‘Peth’ areas and parts of Kondhwa, a day after the city witnessed a spike of 41 positive cases for the coronavirus. On Tuesday, the city witnessed three Covid-19 related deaths taking the toll to eight. All the deceased, were senior citizens and were on ventilators undergoing treatment for various ailments including diabetes, said Sassoon General hospital dean Dr Ajay Chandanwale. The aggressive cluster containment strategy on Tuesday stretched from Maharashinagar to the Regional Transport Office (RTO) area in Pune from Monday midnight and included Raviwar peth, Guruwar peth, Budhwar peth, Nana peth, Maharashinagar, Swargate, Shivaji road and Kondhwa areas. Civic commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad said the areas would be sealed for at least a week after which a fresh review would be taken.As the news of the sealing of the eastern parts became public on Monday evening, people rushed to the Mahatma Phule Mandai to purchase vegetables. The police cordoned the Mandai area and streamlined crowds, allowing 25 people to enter at one time and maintain a physical distance from one another while making purchases.Vikram Khanna, a resident of Guruwar peth said all the inner roads were deserted with police patrolling the area. “Till yesterday, people were roaming here unnecessarily. There was panic after a few positive cases (Covid-19) were found in our area. But the people have welcomed the municipal administration’s decision to seal the area,” he said. Shivraj Sanas, a resident of Mandai area, was also appreciative of crowd control brought about by the police in the vegetable market area. A political activist said people are themselves informing the police if someone is found loitering on the road.Divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar on Tuesday took a review of the areas which were brought under cluster containment in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad. Police commissioner K Venkatesham; civic chief Shekhar Gaikwad; Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram; Pimpri Chinchwad municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar and senior police officers were present for the meeting.PRECAUTIONSThe police are prohibiting unnecessary movement on the roads Vegetable, grocery and milk shops will be open for fixed time while ensuring physical distance among the peopleUse of face masks has been made compulsory for everyone stepping out of their homesPeople will not be allowed to leave these areas and outsiders won’t be allowed to enter these areasIn the case of natural, non-Covid-19 related death, police will give permission to a few people to participate in the cremationPopular shopping areas such as Laxmi road and Belbaugh chowk have been barricaded completelyIn east Pune too, people stepped out in large numbers to stock essentials On Tuesday, residents of eastern Pune stepped out in large numbers to stock essential groceries and prepare for the cluster containment that was enforced in their area from Tuesday.People said the announcement came all of a sudden and took them by surpriseSiddharth Rathi, a resident of Market Yard, said, “We got to know about our area being declared as containment zone late last night. Since this will remain for a week, I had to step out to purchase grocery as well as LPG gas cylinder.”.Many people were disappointed as a large number of shops including those selling essentials such as groceries, medicines and vegetables were completely closed. Relief work such as the foodgrains to the poor also came to a halt and former chief commissioner of Income Tax, Akramul Jabbar Khan, tweeted to Pune police saying: “immediate intervention of the police is needed and NGOs distributing foodgrains must not be stopped. The digital passes were not working.” Govt’s ‘cluster containment’ strategyThe Union health ministry’s cluster containment strategy is meant to contain the disease within a defined geographical area by early detection of cases, breaking the chain of transmission and thus preventing its spread to new areas.“Clusters have appeared in multiple states, particularly Kerala, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Punjab, Karnataka, Telangana and UT of Ladakh. At least 211 districts are now reporting Covid-19 cases and the risk of further spread remains very high,” the Union health ministry has said in a 20-page strategy document.The aggressive containment strategy will be scaled down, said the government document, only if no new cases of Covid-19 are reported for at least four weeks after the last confirmed test.“Based on the risk assessment and indication of successful containment operations, an approach of staggered work and market hours may be put into practice,” the document said.The cluster containment strategy would “include geographic quarantine, social distancing measures, enhanced active surveillance, testing all suspected cases, isolation of cases, quarantine of contacts and risk communication to create awareness among public on preventive public health measures”, the document stated.“The objective of this plan is to stop the chain of transmission thus reducing the morbidity and mortality due to Covid-19,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-embarks-on-aggressive-cluster-containment-prevent-covid-19-spread/story-w6xfjD1uvv7leVxLeEd8MI.html
08-04-2020||Pune||Pune’s Katraj zoo staff to undergo Covid test||Following the report of a tiger at the Bronx Zoo in New York tested positive for the coronavirus thought to have been infected by an asymptomatic zoo keeper, the Central Zoo Authority (CZA) has issued advisory to all zoos across the country.According to the advisory issued to Rajiv Gandhi Zoological Park and Research Centre by the apex body for all zoos in India, the animals should be under watch round the clock and the staff and employees should be screened for Covid-19 (coronavirus).“We have 440 animals, 63 species, including mammals, birds and reptiles, and all the creatures are doing well and taken care of. We are following the guidelines issued by the Central Zoo Authority and conducting first and foremost tests of the staff handling the animal cages. The animals are yet to undergo any tests, but are closely observed for any signs of the allied symptoms of the virus like dullness and respiratory distress,” said Rajkumar Jadhav, director, Rajiv Gandhi Zoological Park.Jadhav said, “We have instructed staffers to focus on their personal hygiene. Our workforce of 100 includes animal caretakers, security staff and administration employees. Animal handlers have been provided with hand gloves, sanitiser and face mask. They have also been told to go near animals only when needed.”The senior official said that all staff are reporting to workplace and swab be will be done as per the advisory issued by the central body on Monday. He said that contractors are bringing in feed regularly for zoo animals. “We have spraying disinfectant solution on vehicles that enter the zoo premises with animal food and other materials. Animal handlers are also made to clean their footwear with disinfectant solutions before near cages. We have sent a request to Pune Municipal Corporation on Tuesday to begin swab test of our staff,” Jadhav said.The advisory states that ‘zoos in the country are therefore advised to remain on highest alertness, watch animals on 24x7 basis, using CCTV for any abnormal behaviour and symptoms. Keepers and handlers not to be allowed in the vicinity without safety gear preferably PPE (personal protective equipment), isolate and quarantine sick animals, and have least contact while providing feed to animals.”Regarding the care for mammals, it states: “Mammals like carnivores especially cats, ferrets and primates to be carefully monitored and fortnightly samples of suspected cases to be sent to the designated animal health institutes to initiate Covid-19 testing while following all bio-containment and safety measures required to handle this high-risk pathogen as per the national and Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines.”Jadhav said, “Although we are adhering to safety and disinfection protocol issued by the government, collection of throat swabs from animals like tiger is not easy as it is a risk to put the animal under anaesthesia. All the animals are healthy and under constant observation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-s-katraj-zoo-staff-to-undergo-covid-test/story-YrJzI2J4AQAVzYdbQkHSoO.html
08-04-2020||Pune||On The Frontline: Some take out anger of being confined on us, says Shyam Mane, surveillance inspector, PMC||Shyam Mane, malaria surveillance inspector, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has been working with the civic body’s health department for the past 32 years. He is among those from the city that are on the frontline in the war against Covid-19. He talks about his work and how the PMC is working to sanitise the city. What exactly is your role in this crisis?I work with the insect control department, which follows the National vector-borne disease control programme guidelines. Under this we use sodium hypochlorite and undertake environmental cleaning / decontamination of quarantine facilities such as rooms, offices, and staircases where persons with potential exposure to the Sars-Cov-2 virus stay. We are spraying it on the walls, staircases and floors, where Covid-19 positive patients have been found. We get a list of suspicious and positive patients. I started this work on March 6, but before this my main work was to survey the mosquito breeding spots, spray insecticide and maintain a healthy environment.How does your day begin and roll out?My day begins at 5 am, where upon I exercise at home until 6.30 am. Then I leave my house early and come straight to work at 8 am. My job consists taking attendance of the workers, making everyone uses sanitiser, and each one of them is equipped with a can of sodium hypochlorite to spray in the areas as per the list given to me by my superiors. We were told by officials that sodium hypochlorite is effective and this will help kill the virus. We have 300 to 400 houses to be sprayed each day with every case takes about two-and-half hours. We usually finish work by 8 pm.What precautions are you taking?My family doesn’t want me to come home and are telling me to find another place as I often go to positive case areas. Hence, the moment I reach home, I am sent straight to the bathroom for a clean bath. I have my wife, son and my mother living with me, and they are aware of the risks. But it is also my responsibility to keep everyone at home healthy. Hence, I always use the sanitiser before entering my house or leaving for work and always wear the N95 mask. I also have use-and-throw masks in case they are needed.What is your view of the Covid-19 crisis in Pune?The PMC is doing a good job in its effort to control the spread of the virus and we are working day and night for this. The faster we control it, it will help us to work on the other problems that the city faces like the pre-monsoon work of spraying on breeding grounds for malaria and dengue mosquitoes. We are working with a positive attitude to make sure that the city is protected.Do you see any gaps in health and relief work?We face a lot of problems, with a number of housing societies calling us, using political clout or asking us to be sympathetic and spray in their areas as a precaution. But then we explain that this spraying is only done in a radius where positive patients or suspected ones were found. We also face problems in the slums, as slum dwellers don’t allow us to enter in their locality. Some use their frustration and anger of being confined to on us and abuse us.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/some-take-out-frustration-and-anger-of-being-confined-on-us/story-mro3stMBntvjyE3sw6SPMN.html
08-04-2020||Pune||Lockdown has given this Pune coach extra time to review his football plan for school teams||Savio D’Souza is a football development manager in schools across seven cities in India, including Pune and is the head coach of Youth I-League U-15 side Football Club of Mumbaikars (FCM). He was the assistant coach of the Maharashtra sub-junior boys’ football team last year. D’Souza, 38, was also appointed as the head coach of FC Kolhapur City in the Indian Women’s League (IWL). He is also the head coach of the Arsenal Soccer School in Pune. He is a certified Oceania Football Confederation instructor and holds the Asian Football Confederation ‘C’ Licence. He also plays for PDFA second division club - Game of Life Football Academy (GOLFA)Usual morning session and afternoon session: I work as a football development manager for Vibgyor Group of Schools. I start my day early, so I wake up at 6:30am, post which I head to my office and spend time working in the office for 8 hours daily, 6 days a week, so my mornings and afternoons are busy with work.Lockdown morning and afternoon session:During the lockdown, we have an opportunity to work from home. I still plan my day on the to-do list for the morning and afternoon sessions. I submit the same list to my reporting head. Instead of meeting everyone in person, I work on reaching people and groups out by calling and video calling them via Skype or Zoom. I am keeping up with football by attending meetings on Zoom calls which are organised by the I-League, Indian Super League, AIFF officials, and Indian coaches. Also, I got connected to all the coaches who work with me to develop football in Vibgyor to plan the upcoming year and overcome challenges related to infrastructure, equipment, and more.Topics being covered during the lockdown:1. Goalkeeper coaches - Expert sessions on goalkeeper identification and training.2. Laws of the game.3. Statistics and qualities required to be a top-level player - weekly, monthly, and yearly plan.4. Player pathway to top clubs in and outside of India. Usual evening session:In the evenings, I coach kids for an hour or two after which I head to the gym or mostly to the ground for a quick game to keep myself fit. Lockdown evening session:The evening is a good time to spend time with family now. However, I am not ignoring my fitness in the process. Working out has become a very nice bonding activity during the lockdown because my five-year-old daughter joins me every day for the workout.No gymsI normally stay with a light warm-up which includes on spot jogging followed by a few low range motion exercises for 10 minutes for the complete body to prepare for the next task. Then, I use the resistance exercises or the dynamic exercises which include jumping jacks, crunches, squats, push-ups, wall sits, burpees, lunges, plyo lunges, jump squats, triceps dips, calf raises, and plank hold. HobbiesI like watching movies, listening to music and cooking. I like watching movies in the sports genre which are based on true events. Coach Carter is one of my favourite movies. The film is based on the true story of Richmond High School basketball coach Ken Carter (played by Samuel L. Jackson), who made headlines in 1999 for suspending his undefeated high school basketball team due to poor academic results. For me, it was a very inspiring movie.Lockdown training tips for footballersEating the right kind of food. Since it’s summer, keep yourself hydrated and get good sleep. Kids between the age of 3 and 10 should hone individual skills, hence, this is a good opportunity for them to develop ball mastery at home which they can do with any kind of ball and needs only 2 x 2 yards for a maximum of 45 minutes.Kids between the age of 11 and 18 should focus on learning tactical and formation in football to adapt any formation the coach wants them to play, coupled with physical fitness. Playing a game of 60 to 90 minutes should not be a hassle for teenagers.Workout plan for footballers at home:Upper Body WorkoutMobility Drills:Modified Hindu Push-ups 15 Reps x 2 SetsCat Camel 15 Reps x 2 SetsJumping Jack 50 Reps x 2 SetsShoulder Rotation Clock/Anti 20 Reps x 1 SetScapula Push-ups 15 Reps x 2 SetsAll-rounder (Worlds greatest Stretch)Burpees 15 Reps x 2 SetsJor 10 Reps x 1 SetsMain WorkoutMain Workout:Push-up (normal / knee) to hand raise one at a timeWater Bucket front raisesBent over Bucket rowsDecline Push-upIncline Push-upBucket overhead Rotation pressCore WorkoutMountain ClimbersCross Mountain ClimbersCrunches (Partial and Bicycle)Plank Dips and Hold (Left and Right)Pelvic rotationLower Body WorkoutMobility Drills:Cat Camel 15 Reps x 2 Sets90/90 stretchAll-rounder (Worlds greatest Stretch)Frog PoseMain Workout:Squat (Deep and Pause)Lunges (Side and Reverse)Glute BridgeCalf Raises (Seated and Standing)90 Degree Squat HoldSuryanamskarStatic stretching post-exercise and meditation||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/lockdown-has-given-this-pune-football-coach-extra-time-to-review-his-sport-plan-for-school-kids/story-uHAbr3X3rGWRfB5asojMYL.html
08-04-2020||Mumbai||Will lose war against coronavirus with thali, taali, and diyas: Sena mouthpiece attacks Modi||Taking a jibe on Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi’s “applications” to fight coronavirus, Shiv Sena mouthpiece Saamana stated in an editorial on Tuesday that the war against the disease will be lost with “claps, thalis and diyas”.With people coming out on the streets to follow Modi’s directions, the Sena said either they are not understanding his instructions or the PM himself wants such a “festive” atmosphere. The Saamana editorial added that not only ‘markaz’ attendees are not following the rules, the ones blaming them for spreading Covid-19 are equally indisciplined.The Sena also said that some BJP MLAs in the country lit torches and shouted slogans condemning China, burst firecrackers and Diwali was ‘celebrated’. “It seems that the message of the Prime Minister is not reaching the people properly, else Sunday’s divine incidents would not have occurred. It is true that people switched off their lights, but later crowds came on streets with torches. With this social distancing, which is crucial to fight coronavirus, was ignored,” read the editorial. It added that such actions cannot be termed as “war” but suicide.In a veiled attack on the saffron party, it said, “It is not that only those who attended Markaz [Tablighi Jamaat congregation] are not following the rules. What discipline are the ones, who are blaming the Markaz attendee for spreading coronavirus, following.”In a sharp attack on Modi’s initiatives of switching off lights and to beat thalis (plates) and ring bells, the editorial read, “US President Donald Trump sought medicines from Prime Minister Narendra Modi to fight coronavirus. Trump did not seek thalis, claps, bells, conch shells, candles or diya (lamps) from India, this should be understood by our enthusiastic citizens.”Comparing the fight against coronavirus to the third Battle of Panipat, Sena said the latter was lost due to “confusion and lack of planning” and the war against the disease should not become like the Panipat battle. The editorial lauded chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s efforts to deal with the health crisis in the state. “Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is repeatedly appealing to people to reduce crowding. He is focusing on how to help people and on giving medical facilities to people… We need such a commander during this war against coronavirus.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/will-lose-war-against-coronavirus-with-thali-taali-and-diyas-sena-mouthpiece-attacks-modi/story-QbWvSeAN0tS5inA7quUbxI.html
08-04-2020||Pune||Full-body disinfecting enclosures to be installed outside police lines in Pune||Taking cue from the full-body misting sanitisation enclosures outside the Naidu Hospital - a hub for Covid-19 treatment in the city - the Pune police have decided to install similar enclosures outside six police lines (quarters) in Pune, according to Ravindra Shisve, joint commissioner of Pune police. Additionally, there will also be more number of Sanjeevani vans - mobile enclosures - for the police officials deployed at over 120 check posts in the city. The first Sanjeevani van was put into use on the Pune city roads on Monday.“There will be these enclosures outside all six police lines and places where there is more police footfall. First such enclosure was installed at Market Yard police station and other major police stations. We are getting these made locally to reduce the cost,” said Joint CP Shisve.While the station enclosures will be installed outside the entrance of the police quarters, the Sanjeevani vans are built inside police vehicles that will reach all posts at least once a day. The interiors of the vehicle is installed with pressure fogging system which provides complete sanitation within 6-7 seconds, according to a statement issued by Sanjay Shinde, additional commissioner of police, traffic, Pune.A similar concept is being deployed at the stationary enclosures. There are multiple police quarters in Khadki, Shivajinagar and Swargate, among others . The stationary enclosures cost around Rs 30,000-35,000, according to the official.“The first vehicles came onto the streets today. The second one is also ready. We are planning for 3-4 such vehicles to be operational in the next few days,” said Joint CP Shisve.The police are in direct contact with the public as they enforce the lockdown that prohibits assembly and vehicle movement in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/full-body-disinfecting-enclosures-to-be-installed-outside-police-lines-in-pune/story-KVErkah6sgVbwO8RZMDN3H.html
08-04-2020||Chandigarh||With 7 more Covid-19 cases, Mohali count rises 26, the highest in Punjab||Seven new Covid-19 positive cases were reported from Jawaharpur village of Dera Bassi in Mohali district on Tuesday, which has now become the new disease hotspot, taking the count in the district to 26, the highest in Punjab as well as the tricity. On Tuesday, in what was the biggest daily spike in the tricity, where maximum six cases were reported on March 30, seven people from the same extended family tested positive. They included four family members of a village official, including his mother, aged 61, sister-in-law (brother’s wife), aged 35, and her children, aged 12 and 16.With this, the count in the panch’s family has also gone up to eight as he was diagnosed with Covid-19 on April 3, and his father, brother and wife, tested positive on Monday.The village head (sarpanch), aged 39, who also happens to be the panch’s cousin, her husband, aged 43, and daughter, 19, were also confirmed positive on Tuesday.All of them have been admitted at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur.Till reports last came in, the village on the Ambala-Chandigarh highway remained sealed with Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan and civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh and a health team camping there.Dera Bassi sub divisional magistrate Kuldeep Bawa said contact tracing of others who came in contact with the two families was being done. “The panch owns a tent house and was in touch with eight labourers. It has been learnt that on March 31 he came in contact with a Muslim factory worker who is suspected of having met a Tablighi Jamaat attendee. Efforts are on to trace the factory worker.”Three villages sealed, 118 samples takenBesides Jawaharpur village in Dera Bassi, the district administration also sealed the neighbouring villages of Devigarh and Mehmudpur. In Jawaharpur, officials directed all the villagers to stay indoors until health department teams checked each and every household. About 522 homes were inspected with 2,460 people examined. A fire tender was also brought in to sanitise the village.The health department took 118 samples on Tuesday of villagers in Jawaharpur who were in direct contact with the families of the panch and sarpanch. Four samples were also taken from Shakti Nagar in Dera Bassi where four close associates of the sarpanch live and sent to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research for further evaluation.Panchayat members violated curfew, no checks on Markaz attendeesJawaharpur, a nondescript village in Dera Bassi, which has turned into Punjab’s Covid-19 hotspot, could have been spared had the village sarpanch and panch not violated the curfew imposed in the state to prevent transmission of the disease. Officials could also have acted quickly to trace the source of the virus, say villagers.Today, as 11 members of the two village officials’ families remain hospitalised after being diagnosed with Covid-19, other villagers are questioning why they defied the curfew to move around unrestricted and serve community meals to labourers and the poor.Locals also blame officials, who they say failed to act in time to trace the primary source of the virus and retest the samples of 10 attendees of Tablighi Jamaat Markaz event at Nizamuddin in Delhi who stayed at the village’s mosque from March 19 to 29. They had tested negative in Delhi and Haryana earlier.Dera Bassi sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Kuldeep Bawa said the 10 Markaz attendees were medically examined. Their samples taken in Haryana and Delhi had tested negative. When asked why their samples had not been taken, Bawa said the Jamaat issue was not in the spotlight when they were in the village.When questioned how they left the village during the lockdown, he said they left during the exodus of the migrants and no passes had been issued to them.The panchayat members and their families, local villagers say, did not follow precautions while socialising with others in the village. They also confronted others who objected to this.The police visited Jawaharpur twice after the family members had altercations with other villagers, said a local, Balwinder Singh.Another village resident, Sukhwinder Singh, also questioned why the samples of the 10 Markaz attendees were not taken.The district administration, he alleged, was responsible for the spread of the virus in the village. Had the panchayat members’ social interactions been stopped the story would have been different, he said.Congress leader Dhillon quarantined tooCongress incharge of Dera Bassi, Deepinder Singh Dhillon, who actively participated in distributing community meals with the sarpanch and panch in Jawaharpur village, was home quarantined on Tuesday at his residence in Chandigarh for 14 days.Concerns over others getting infected grew as Dhillon was found to have held several political meetings in the past two weeks. He had reportedly come in contact with nearly 250 people. Dhillon’s samples were taken today and reports will come in tomorrow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-7-more-covid-19-cases-mohali-count-rises-26-the-highest-in-punjab/story-oXIYeXJ8rLTAFyRjJpbf7O.html
08-04-2020||Delhi||Tablighi Jamaat chief sent second notice with three more questions||The Delhi Police’s crime branch, which is probing the Tablighi Jamaat chief and his associates, has sent a second notice to Maulana Saad seeking answers to three more questions related to the religious gatherings in mid-March at the group’s six-storey headquarters in Nizamuddin Basti, which has emerged as the largest hot spot of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the country.Saad and six other top Jamaat functionaries have been booked for violating several prohibitory orders issued to stop the spread of the disease (Covid-19) under sections of The Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. Saad also faces charges of criminal conspiracy. Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe Jamaat headquarters, also known as Markaz, has been linked to over 1,445 infections so far, or about 35% of the total cases in India across 17 states and union territories, as per details made available by the Union health ministry. Saad’s counsel, advocate Fuzail Ayyubi, confirmed that the police have sent a second questionnaire to his client.“The investigating officer (IO) has sought some information in the second questionnaire. We filed our reply to most of the questions in the first questionnaire and told them that for some questions, we needed time. We could not get access to some of the records they have sought because of the lockdown. They have asked for some clarifications in the second notice,” he said.While crime branch officials declined to comment on the progress of the investigation, a police officer, who did not wish to be named, said the three questions seek details of the persons who attended the congregation inside the Markaz. The officer added that some of the documents and records that the Markaz provided in response to the first notice were in Urdu because of which they needed clarification. On Sunday afternoon, a team of five experts from the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) of Delhi government visited the Markaz building. “Delhi Police officers said they will send us the exhibits later. Our personnel who went inside the building have been advised to go in self-quarantine as a precautionary measure,” a forensic officer said, adding that no electronic device was recovered from the building.In the first notice, which had 26 questions, sent on April 1, the IO sought details of CCTV cameras inside the building, and asked Saad to preserve all CCTV footage. Other information sought included the original register/data/records maintained by the building management with details of those who participated in gatherings after March 12. The police also sought details of all people, including foreigners, who were present in the building last month. There was also a question about the steps taken by the management to disperse the gathering after the government’s prohibitory orders were issued.Police have accused Saad of ignoring the Delhi government’s March 13 and March 16 orders that put a ban on religious congregations, and restricted all gathering to not more than 200 people. The police have said that there were about 2,300 people inside the building despite the curbs.Saad’s lawyer denied reports that the Tablighi chief was absconding. “We have not been summoned yet. The Maulana is in self-quarantine on doctors’ advice. He will cooperate with the police when they summon him,” Ayyubi saidThe police have put barricades on all lanes leading to the Markaz. A total of 2,361 people, including about 250 foreigners, were evacuated from the building with the help of health department officers in an operation that began on March 29 and ended on March 31.The evacuees were either sent to hospitals for tests, or to government-run quarantine centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/jamaat-chief-sent-second-notice-with-three-more-questions/story-EtenzGjwhgCHnyZ7OsBIZK.html
