09-04-2020||Lucknow||Reading is taking all my time in quarantine: Maanvi||Last seen in films like ‘Shubh Managal Zyada Savdhaan’ and ‘Ujda Chamman,’ actor Maanvi Gagroo has been posting videos and asking all to follow government instructions. “I don’t understand why people don’t see the crucial aspect of the lock down and keep complaining,” she says.SMZS was shot extensively in Varanasi.The actor is happy with the great response her last two films as well as her web show ‘Four More Shots Please’. “I started as a kid on TV way back in 2007 and today I am doing films as well as OTT shows. So, you can say, I have come a long way. My both web series including ‘FMSP’ and ‘Made in Heaven’ gave me something I always wanted — a well-written character from start to end. Actually, this is only possible on OTT as makers and writers have plenty of time to work on each and every character as the web is not time-bound like films,” says the young actor.She is now looking forward to the success of the second season of her web show.Talking about tasting success very early in life she says, “I had started very early in life and saw success too. But, real success is when your audience recognises you even in small part of any film or show. That’s what I am enjoying currently as audience appreciate me in whatever project I am taking up.”Gagroo says that staying indoors has made her an avid reader, “Earlier, I was all busy with work and outdoor life but as of now things have taken a 360-degree turn. Here, I am doing all household work and getting time to spend on things I always wanted to do. Reading is taking all my time in quarantine. And I have no qualms about it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/reading-is-taking-all-my-time-in-quarantine-maanvi/story-IQaVprjVryjgIzBjpW1uRO.html
09-04-2020||Mumbai||Highest one-day jump as Maharashtra reports 229 cases, 25 deaths||Maharashtra’s coronavirus case count and toll on Thursday went up to 1,364 and 97 with the addition of 229 cases and 25 deaths, the highest 24-hour jump for both, according to state data.Thursday was also the sixth consecutive day the state saw more than 100 cases, even as Mumbai recorded 162 new cases. Of the 25 deaths, 14 are in Pune, nine in Mumbai and one each in Malegaon and Ratnagiri.As of April 9, Mumbai has 876 cases and 54 deaths, which has forced the government to take further stringent measures to prevent the state from slipping in to phase three — community spread — of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.State health officials indicated that cases will continue to rise for a few more days before coming under control. “Going by the trend in other countries, the rise in cases was expected. It is likely to increase for a few more days and then the graph will gradually come down. Our preparations have started much in advance and we are ready to face any situation,” said a senior health official, on condition of anonymity. The state has tested 30,766 people and has kept 4,731 in government quarantine facilities, while 36,533 are quarantined at home, said health officials.The state cabinet has decided to impose strict implementation of lockdown rules in 381 containment zones — where at least one person from the area has tested positive for the virus — across Mumbai. It has also decided to deploy the State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) in Mumbai and use drones to monitor crowd movement.Mumbai’s red zonesThe civic body has identified more than 200 hotspots or red zones (areas with higher concentration of Covid-19 cases), where there will be curfew-like restrictions. “In these red zones, there will be no movement in or out, enforced with police help and ward assistance, to prevent further spread,” said municipal commissioner Praveen Pardeshi.Aslam Shaikh, textile minister and guardian minister of the island city, said they are imposing curfew in 21 hotspots in the island city with immediate effect. “The supply of essential services will be taken care of by the state administration, compelling the residents to stay home during this period,” he said.School education minister and Dharavi member of legislative Assembly (MLA) Varsha Gaikwad said, “Barring medical shops, everything else will be shut in the hotspots identified in Mumbai. It will not be possible to contain the spread in areas like Dharavi without imposing stricter restrictions as the next eight days are crucial,” she said.SRPF to be roped inState health minister Rajesh Tope said the rising number of cases in Mumbai is worrisome. “To curb the spread in Mumbai, we have decided on stricter implementation of the lockdown. Mumbai police are doing a great job, but we have decided to rope in SRPF for the effective implementation of the lockdown. Besides, we have also decided to use technology to ensure social distancing. CCTV and drones in containment zones will be used for monitoring to ensure there is no crowding in these zones,” he said.Tope said that they have been emphasising on sanitisation in densely populated areas such as Dharavi. “We have decided to sanitise public toilets there every hour with the help of power jets used by the fire brigade and also to sanitise congested slums through drones,” he said.The daily spike in cases has become a cause of concern for the state. Ministers, during the cabinet meeting on Thursday, demanded mass rapid testing and strict implementation of lockdown, especially in Mumbai and the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR).“We keep people in quarantine facilities, but don’t test them. In case they are tested, the reports come after three to four days, which delays the entire process. If we come to know about the cases in advance, then prevention can be done more effectively,” said a senior minister, requesting anonymity.Demanding strict implementation of the lockdown, a minister said the army should be called in as the numbers are rising rapidly and they need to be contained. Another minister demanded sanitisation of slums and public toilets wherever patients are found.Tope said authorities have decided to conduct rapid tests on the frontline staff, including health workers, police personnel and sanitisation workers. He said the tests will begin in a couple of days once they receive the one lakh test kits that have been ordered.To regulate vegetable marketsThe state cabinet also deliberated on regulation of vegetable markets, where people are seen to be crowding. The state administration has been asked to find alternative arrangements for the supply of vegetables. The government may ask local administrations to shut down large markets and restrict the selling of vegetables at stand-alone shops. “In fact, people should make up their minds to give up on vegetables for the next few days. Farmers have made up their minds to not grow vegetables,” said revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat.Meanwhile, traders of Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) market, a wholesale market that supplies food essentials to Mumbai and surrounding areas, has decided to shut shops from April 11 till further orders. The market administration has asked APMC to ensure that Mumbai will not face shortage of essentials by selling them directly to wholesale traders in the city.Health insurance coverThe state rural development department has decided to provide health insurance cover of ₹25 lakh for three months to all gramsevaks, rural development officers (local officer at village level), and computer operators working at ‘Aaple Sarkar’ centres formed to provide notified services to the citizens under the Maharashtra Right to Public Services Act. The decision was declared by rural development minister Hasan Mushrif. On March 31, the department has declared to provide insurance cover of ₹25 lakh to anganwadi workers, accredited social health activist (ASHA) workers, helpers and gram panchayat employees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/highest-one-day-jump-as-maharashtra-reports-229-cases-25-deaths/story-OwmLqyZrPdAnPxRYOd8MPN.html
09-04-2020||Lucknow||Allahabad HC to Bar Assns: Explain steps taken to ensure lawyers’ welfare||The Allahabad high court on Thursday issued notices to the Bar Council of India, Bar Council of UP and other bar associations to explain the steps taken by them or to be taken by them to assist the needy advocates and the registered advocate clerks in Uttar Pradesh.The court has asked them to file their reply through e-mail and assist the court through video conferencing. The Bench comprising chief justice Govind Mathur and justice Siddhartha Varma took suo moto cognizance of difficulties faced by lawyers and their clerks during the nationwide lock-down. The court observed, “judicial working in the entire country has reduced its pace and is taking up matters of utmost urgency alone. The slowdown has adversely affected the livelihood of lakhs of people, whose survival depends upon the working of the judiciary. An enormous effect is apparently visible on the profession of advocates and the registered advocate clerks working with them.”The Bench, while issuing notice to lawyer welfare bodies, observed, “This court does not have any funds to allocate for survival of needy advocates and registered advocate clerks and the court at the moment is also not in a position to restore its complete functioning.” “Under the Advocates Act, 1961 it is the responsibility of the Bar Council of India as well as the State Bar Councils to ensure welfare of advocate fraternity and also to assist the needy advocates. In every court, the associations of advocates are also operational and such court attached Bar Associations are also necessarily required to take care of their members.”, added the bench.The court has fixed April 15 as the next date of hearing in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/allahabad-hc-to-bar-assns-explain-steps-taken-to-ensure-lawyers-welfare/story-81zUvjn5H871pVoQaDbPwO.html
09-04-2020||Delhi||Delhi judges will make up for Covid-19 lockdown, work through their summer vacation||The Delhi High Court on Thursday decided to work through their summer vacation in June to compensate for the loss of court working hours and to ensure restoration of normalcy in the functioning of the courts at the earliest. The decision would apply to the subordinate courts in the national capital also.The high court was scheduled to close for the summer break from 1 June to 30 June. The lower courts were to close on 8 June and reopen along with the high court on 30 June. During this period, only a few vacation benches of the high court assemble to hear important matters.The high court had earlier declared the duration of the ongoing lockdown as a vacation for the court.In a full court reference, the Delhi High Court judges said that they are mindful and cognisant of the difficulties faced by litigants on the account of lockdown and consequent suspension of functioning of the courts. “Since during the period of suspension of work, the hearing is limited to the matters of extremely urgent nature or urgent nature, there is negligible fresh filing of cases, lesser disposal and corresponding escalation in arrears, resulting in extreme hardship to litigants. “In view of the severe hardship faced by the litigants due to the prevailing pandemic of Covid-19 that has impaired the functioning of the courts, it has been unanimously resolved by the full court that to make up for the loss of court working hours and to ensure restoration of normalcy in the functioning of the courts at the earliest......, declaring the period of the Summer vacations for this Court and the Courts subordinate thereto in the month of June 2020, this Court and courts subordinate thereto shall continue functioning during the entire month of June i.e. from June 1 to June 30,” the resolution read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-judges-will-make-up-for-covid-19-lockdown-work-through-their-summer-vacation/story-0B9XUPafOci41i3CNYMeWL.html
09-04-2020||City||Coronavirus could upset growth momentum of affordable housing: Report||Gurugram: The Covid-19 pandemic is likely to upset the growth momentum of affordable housing in 2020. This segment is likely to be among the worst affected as income growth and job security are going to be hit across most sectors due to the coronavirus pandemic, says a report by a private consultancy released Wednesday. According to the report, there are 6.1 lakh affordable residential units under construction in top seven cities of the country, of which 59% are in the National Capital Region (NCR) and the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) alone, the report by consultancy firm Anarock says. The rules of the central government state that an affordable house is one which is up to 90 square metre (sqm) in size in non-metropolitan cities and 60 sqm in metropolitan cities, having a value of not more than Rs 45 lakh.The report added that NCR and MMR alone account for nearly 59% - or 3.59 lakh - such units and these were primarily launched between 2013 and 2019. Both regions together also have a 57% share (approximately 1.34 lakh units) of the overall unsold stock of 2.34 lakh units in the budget homes category, which is another burden.“This segment will be severely impacted by the Sars-Cov-2 outbreak. The target audience typically has limited income and unemployment fears currently loom large. This could result in deferred property purchase decisions in 2020 and ultimately derail the segments’ growth momentum. As a result, unsold affordable stock can rise by 1-2% on a year-on-year basis,” said Anuj Puri, chairman Anarock property consultant.Despite the findings of the report, developers and real estate consultants in Gurugram say the affordable segment in the city is not likely to see much upheaval as a majority of the projects in the city are either under Rs 30 lakh per unit or the price is beyond Rs 70 lakh per unit. “The affordable projects this report mentions are those priced between Rs 30-40 lakh and Gurugram has very few of such projects,” said Pankaj Tomar, a real estate broker, adding that affordable housing in Haryana was controlled by the Department of Town and Country Planning and were limited in Gurugram because such projects were more in other cities.They admitted that Covid-19 will no doubt impact the entire real estate sector but housing projects under affordable housing policy are not likely to be impacted much in the city. “As far as Haryana is concerned, it would not be right to say that Covid-19 will derail the affordable housing growth in 2020. We are working as per the Haryana Affordable Housing Policy and the demand for these houses is a lot here. In fact, the supply has not met the demand as yet. There are around 75 projects in this segment with 55,659 units and the price per unit is under Rs 30 lakh. However, the post-Covid-19 period will be a challenging one wherein affordable housing would need a push from the government,” Pradeep Agarwal, chairman, Signature Global, a city-based developer. A city-based developer engaged in affordable projects said that unlike other areas, the DTCP had ensured that labourers at construction sites do not migrate from the sites. “We are taking care of this labour force and in hindsight this cost is going to be beneficial for us mobilise labour again would have considerably delayed projects,” said a senior executive, who preferred anonymity. As per the details shared by the report, NCR has the maximum under-construction affordable housing stock with more than 1.87 lakh units. MMR has 1.72 lakh affordable units under construction, Pune has 1.31 lakh such units, Kolkata has 55,300 such units, Bangalore has 32,300 units, Chennai has 19,500 affordable units, while Hyderabad has 11,000 affordable units that are under construction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-could-upset-growth-momentum-of-affordable-housing-report/story-A5w4eTdfjrTHzDhQdCjmRJ.html
09-04-2020||Lucknow||66 companies preparing sanitisers in UP||The Uttar Pradesh government has stepped up production of sanitisers in its fight against coronavirus.In a bid to bridge demand and supply gap of sanitisers, the government has eased licensing procedure for setting up sanitiser units. As a result, 66 companies are preparing sanitisers in the state.At present, these companies are preparing 1,45,860 litres of sanitiser per day in the state. In coming days the production is likely to go up.According to state government officials, 23 sugar mills, 10 distilleries, 26 sanitisers companies and seven other companies are preparing sanitisers across the state.Highlights66 companies manufacturing sanitiser in Uttar Pradesh.1,45,860 litres of sanitiser is being manufactured per day in UP.23 sugar mills, 10 distilleries, 26 sanitiser companies and seven other companies are preparing sanitisers.Ethanol, isopropyl alcohol are used for preparing sanitisers.After the outbreak of coronavirus, around 3,99,350 litres of sanitiser has been sold in the state.The need to start production of sanitisers in Uttar Pradesh was necessitated by the fact that most of the sanitiser companies are based in Gujarat from where the state was getting its supply.“The government is all out to promote sanitiser industry in the state. We will extend all possible help in setting up sanitiser manufacturing units,” said Satish Mahana, industrial development minister.After the lock-down is lifted the government is expecting more companies to apply for license for manufacturing sanitisers. Ethanol, which is used for preparing sanitiser is available in abundance in the state. Apart from ethanol, isopropyl alcohol is also used to prepare sanitisers.The Uttar Pradesh Drug Manufacturers Association has apprised chief minister Yogi Adityanath about problems being faced by industrialists in preparing sanitisers.“Ethanol is available in abundance in the state. But its availability depends on excise officials. This has led to artificial crisis of ethanol across the state,” said Prashant Bhatia, president, UP Drug Manufacturers Association. “We have requested the government to direct the excise department to make ethanol easily available to manufacturers of sanitisers on priority basis,” added Bhatia. The industrialists have also requested the state government to cut down 18 percent GST on ethanol and isopropyl alcohol and 12 percent GST on sanitisers. It may be pointed out that the state government has started giving licenses to sugar mills for manufacturing sanitisers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/66-companies-preparing-sanitisers-in-up/story-2uNQil450oRWl9OmL5bleP.html
09-04-2020||City||Non-Covid patients at Civil Hospital to be transferred to ESI||To protect patients from the highly contagious novel coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the administration on Thursday ordered that all non-Covid cases at the Civil Hospital at Field Gunj be shifted to ESI Hospital near Bharat Nagar Chowk by Friday. Deputy commissioner Pradeep Agrawal ordered that the OPD and emergency services be shifted to ESI. As per his directions, all arrangements, including the shifting the patients and acquiring the requisite infrastructure should be completed by April 10. The civil surgeon and the ESI medical superintendent have been told to streamline health services and ensure smooth functioning of the hospital. AS part of containment efforts, the civil hospital in Field Gunj will exclusively look after the patients suffering from Covid-19. The need for a separate Covid-19 wing was felt in order to attend to the rising number of suspected patients. On April 5, principal secretary health and family welfare Anurag Aggarwal had visited the Civil Hospital to inspect the newly set-up 120 bedded Covid unit. Senior medical officer (SMO) Dr Ravi Datt said, “Before the decision to shift the Civil Hospital was taken, we had shifted the emergency towards the de-addiction ward of the hospital. But there was always the risk of a Covid-19 positive patient visiting other wings of the hospital.” He said a dedicated Covid unit was the need of the hour to negate the possibility of spreading the virus in other wings of the hospital. “It is highly contagious virus and our objective is that any patent exhibiting flu-like symptoms should be rushed to the unit so that the risk of spread can be minimised,” said Dr Datt. He said that a dedicated team of doctors and nurses had been deployed at the Covid unit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/non-covid-patients-at-civil-hospital-to-be-transferred-to-esi/story-S7BD1IUPhagGoYBMgMCWSK.html
09-04-2020||City||At Palwal war room, it is round-the-clock alert||Palwal: Telephones were constantly buzzing on each of the four tables placed a metre apart with operators wearing masks. They were pacifying people on the other end, many of them who reported cough and cold, and gave instructions on what needs to be done. This is in the war room set up at Palwal Civil Hospital, where a dedicated round the clock facility has been put in place to check the spread of Covid-19 in the district where 28 cases have been reported so far.On April 4, the Palwal district administration had declared 15 villages as under “containment” and 36 as buffer zones — banning the entry and exit of people in these villages — after 28 Tablighi Jamaat attendees tested Covid-19 positive in Palwal. The administration adopted the Bhilwara model as a containment strategy.Dr. Brahmdeep Sindhu, the hospital’s chief medical officer, said that they had set up the war room on March 20, following information from The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) and Intelligence Bureau (IB) that a few members of the Tablighi Jamaat had visited the district. A team of doctors and nurses operate the war room, take quick decisions and rush in case of an emergency. “We have two helpline numbers which are attended by our two staff members. They are working in two shifts of 12 hours each and attending more than 200 calls a day. The war room is also taking care of three main facilities – flu clinic, isolation ward, and quarantine centre,” he said.The medical staff first identifies people with symptoms of Covid-19 and those who who had come in contact with infected person. They are all sent to quarantine centres till their report is out. If a patient tests positive, they are shifted to Shaheed Hasan Khan Mewati Government Medical College, Nalhar in Nuh, immediately for isloation and those who are found negative are asked to keep themselves under home quarantine for the next 14 days.The war room is located on the first floor of the hospital. There are senior clinical psychologists and four junior psychologists who also attend calls. Sindhu said they hold meet thrice a day to discuss plans of action and to check progress of cases. “We need to discuss the ongoing preparation and check the data compiled by those who return from the field in the evening. We all are connected through WhatsApp and also keep a check on the movement of doctors and staff,” he said.The hospital has a quarantine ward with 49 patients and isolation ward with 60 patients and 707 people are under surveillance who are home quarantined.The samples of patients are sent to Gurugram, said CMO, adding that it takes at least 24 hours to receive the report and they are getting it collected by hand to ensure no delay in the process.On Wednesday night, ESIC Medical College and hospital in Faridabad was also converted into Covid-19 hospital. “They have converted 120 beds for coronavirus patients and also have set up an isolation ward too. The hospital is also taking care of normal patients visiting them. Now we have two facilities for the patients who test positive and we will be sending the patients to the hospital which will be closer to their residence location,” said Sindhu.Naresh Narwal, deputy commissioner of Palwal, said they are taking initiatives at the micro level to stop the spread of coronavirus and have formed teams for surveys. “We have sent 154 samples so far out of which 110 have found negative and samples of 16 are awaited. The teams are screening and scanning each house in the containment and buffer zone and data has been collected from majorly all areas where the cases tested positive had visited,” he said.Narwal said they prepared a micro plan for containing local transmission in three epicentre – Hathin, Lakhnaka and Rupraka. In each of these epicenters, villages have been identified and four to six teams have been deployed to conduct screening.The district administration has formed teams consisting of police personnel, medical staff, and administration staff who are following with the 36 rescue camps set up across districts to actively trace the symptomatic cases.Deepak Gehlawat, superintendent of police, Palwal said that the city is divided as per police station and teams are formed and one back up team each to ensure their work is seamless and well-coordinated. “Our teams are visiting all the villages and helping the medical teams in their survey and collection of samples. We have identified all the people who had attended Jamaat and their close contact. We are also getting the police personnel regularly checked to ensure they are not fit and can perform their duty without any health hazard,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/at-palwal-war-room-it-is-round-the-clock-alert/story-iiKHqpHzwgPSUxZcYz0A5N.html
09-04-2020||City||Ludhiana village sealed as Tablighi follower’s nephew tests positive||A day after a 59-year-old Tablighi Jamaat follower’s 15-year-old nephew tested positive for the novel coronavirus (Covid-19), the Ludhiana rural police on Thursday sealed Gure village in Chowki Mann area and its surrounding villages where the family lived. Police have also sealed the deras (kutcha houses) on the outskirts of Pabbian and Sohian villages where the relatives of the two Covid-19 patients were living.Chowki Mann police in-charge Gurdeep Singh said the 15-year-old boy had also accompanied his uncle to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi. A dairy owner by profession, the 59-year-old Tablighi Jamaat follower had returned from the congregation in Delhi on March 19 and stayed at the masjid on Tibba Road till March 26. He was tested positive on Monday.So far the health department has collected the swab samples of 12 family members of the 59-year-old and put over two dozen contacts under quarantine. According to the health department, the condition of man and his nephew is stable.Sharing details, IG, Ludhiana Range, Jaskaran Singh said, “We had received a list of Jamaat followers and all of them have been traced and tested. We have sealed the deras and kept all the contacts of Covid-19 positive patients in isolation. On Sunday, a 26-year-old from Rajgarh village, also a Tablighi Jamaat member, had tested positive for coronavirus. Luckily, all of them live on the outskirts so it became easy to identify their contacts and isolate them.”Khanna senior medical officer (SMO) Rajinder Gulati said the sample reports of seven relatives of the 26-year-old man were found to be negative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-village-sealed-as-tablighi-follower-s-nephew-tests-positive/story-AajqF8zUDySW9Mb6Cb9xtJ.html
09-04-2020||Gurugram||Devinder Vihar stands in solidarity with its staff working amid lockdown||Almost three weeks after the country observed Janata Curfew on March 22 and came together to honour and show support for frontline workers on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s request, residents of Devinder Vihar in Sector 56 have continued with the practice. Every evening at 5pm, residents of the complex — one of the oldest residences in the city— come out in their balconies and clap for the sanitation workers and maintenance staff of the condominium who are working amid the ongoing lockdown announced to contain the spread of coronavirus disease.“It started off as a one-day exercise with the Janta Curfew, but has now become a routine practice. Residents come out in their balconies on their own at 5pm and start clapping for the sanitation workers and other workers,” Colonel(retired) TS Raghav, president Devinder Vihar Army Officers’ Welfare Association (DVAOWA), said. The routine, Col(retd) Raghav said, was the residents’ way of expressing gratitude to those who were working and providing essential services amid the unprecedented circumstances.The condominium has also paid incentives to all its working staff members. Further, it has also waived off the monthly rent for shops within the complex that are shut due to the lockdown. “We have paid an additional incentive to all staffers as a token of our gratitude towards them. All workers are provided tea and biscuits twice a day,” he said.In view of the lockdown, the apartment has cut down the strength of its non-essential staff and provided all staff members accommodation within the condominium to cut exposure with the outside world. “ Only those staff members who have their families outside go out, and we ensure that they are thoroughly sanitised when they return to the complex. Gloves and masks have been handed over to all members of the staff,” Col(retd) Raghav said.The condominium has appointed representatives for all 18 towers to help out residents in need. These tower representatives are responsible for the overall welfare of residents and keep a special tab on elderly citizens. The condominium has a Kendriya Bhandar (a government-run consumer cooperative society), two grocery and vegetable shops, and a chemist shop within the complex which cater to the daily needs of residents. While there was a shortage of supplies in the initial days of the lockdown, the situation has improved now and the complex is geared up in case the lockdown is extended. “Initially, people had started hoarding and items would run out in the stores. The shops were stocked again and shopkeepers were asked to ensure that they don’t let the same family buy too many units of any essential item. There would be no shortage of any kind, even if the lockdown were to continue for extra week or two,” said Raghav.The floor around the society’s shopping complex been marked to facilitate social distancing. “We have made circled markings on the floor at two-metres part from each other so that social distancing can be maintained while people wait in queues,” he added.The entry of food and courier delivery agents has been restricted to the gates. All persons entering the building go through thermal scanning and are required to use hand sanitizers. Soap and water us also placed at the gates for people to wash their hands. A poster with the dos and don’ts has been displayed at the entrance gate of the complex. The entire complex is sanitised with a chemical solution every day. The lifts are disinfected four times a day.The RWA is strictly ensuring that everyone abides by the lockdown rules and doesn’t venture out unnecessarily. “We are in touch with the district administration and the police. Police officers, in fact, came to the complex and reminded people to abide by the rules since some people were not following them with sincerity. We also regularly make announcements via loudspeakers and remind people to abide by the lockdown rules,” Colonel(retired) PK Katyal, vice-president of the RWA, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/devinder-vihar-stands-in-solidarity-with-its-staff-working-amid-lockdown/story-6wvdOYaSkbbsrgVHByKZ6O.html
09-04-2020||Gurugram||Wildlife department to step up anti-poaching surveillance during lockdown||The state wildlife department has instructed all districts, particularly those with sensitive wildlife habitats, to increase anti-poaching surveillance in wake of the nationwide lockdown announced to halt the spread of Covid-19. In light of the recent reports of surge in poaching activities in some states such as Karnataka and Uttarakhand, the principal chief conservator of forests (wildlife) in a video conference on Tuesday issued directions to chief conservators and wildlife officers of all districts to step up vigilance in their respective zones.While so far no case of poaching have been reported in Haryana since the lockdown came into effect on March 25 —as opposed to Karnataka, where at least 12 such cases have been reported in the same period—wildlife department officials said they would deploy field officers who would go patrolling every day for increased surveillance. With extremely limited public movement and government agencies being focused on ensuring lockdown is followed strictly, illegal wildlife trade might go unchecked, said Mahender Singh Malik, chief conservator of forests (wildlife), Gurugram.“We will definitely step up anti-poaching activities. District wildlife officers and inspectors have been instructed accordingly to deploy all available field staff for frequent patrolling. We are not anticipating anything untoward, but it is necessary to remain vigilant,” Malik said on Wednesday. Parts of Haryana, particularly near Kalesar National Park in the north and the Aravalli hills in the south, are home to at least nine significant species of wildlife, including civets, porcupines, and golden jackals, with leopards being the state’s apex predator.Rajinder Dangi, district wildlife officer, Gurugram, said, “Compared to other states, the threat of poaching in Haryana has always been much lower, but we do not want to let our guard down and create an opportunity for poachers to enter the forest.” He also drew attention to countries such as Nepal and South Africa, which have also seen an uptick in illegal poaching during lockdowns.In Madhya Pradesh and Uttarakhand, too, fresh incidents of poaching have been reported since March 25. In Dewas, Madhya Pradesh, for example, wildlife officials arrested a group of men suspected to have killed a blackbuck just a few hours after the lockdown was announced. In Uttarakhand, porcupine and pangolin meat samples were seized from suspected poachers just three days after the lockdown. Pangolin, a commonly trafficked species, is also found in the South Haryana Aravalli region.Interestingly, a study published in the international science journal, Cell, suggests that pangolins are natural carriers of coronaviruses such as the SARS-CoV-2 virus which causes Covid-19.In addition to increased surveillance, the wildlife department has been asked to keep a close eye on the health and behaviour of captive animals, particularly apex carnivores, after a tiger in New York’s Bronx Zoo tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). “Our zoos and conservation centers in Rohtak, Peepli, and Bhiwani are being disinfected regularly, and the animals are being observed,” Malik said. Orders to this effect were also issued by the Central Zoo Authority of India (CZAI), the apex body for all zoos in India, on April 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/wildlife-department-to-step-up-anti-poaching-surveillance-during-lockdown/story-cX27qo9Lmwb81cVdbjh4AJ.html
09-04-2020||City||Lessons over WhatsApp for government school students but challenges remain||Gurugram: For over a week now, Piyush Rajput, a class 10 student of a government school in Gurugram’s Civil Lines, has been spending several hours a day working on assignments or readings that he receives via a class Whatsapp group formed recently. With schools across the city closing their doors in the wake of the nationwide lockdown to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease, teachers are now sending study material and assignments via Whatsapp to ensure that the learning process is not interrupted.“When the new session was postponed due to the lockdown, our teachers asked us to add our classmates to a Whatsapp group, where teachers could share learning resources with us. Our class strength is 44 and we were able to reach out to at least 30 students who were added to the group. Teachers have been sharing videos, tutorials, and PDF files of books with us through this group. We are even asked to send pictures of the homework we do and demonstrate whether we are keeping up with the lessons,” says Piyush. He added that while most teachers share notes and resources, some others share their recorded lectures.“Teachers who can’t record videos themselves are sharing videos already available in the public domain. We share our doubts regarding the lessons and assignments between 3-4pm,” said Piyush, who also attended a webinar for his computer class this week via video conferencing platform Zoom.Not everyone is as lucky as Piyush, though, as some of his classmates are unable to receive these resources and thereby stay in tune with the rest of the class since they don’t possess a smartphone or are unable to get it recharged. “Many students come from impoverished backgrounds and can’t afford to have a smartphone. As of now, students who are able to access their parents’ mobile phones are able to benefit from these classes. Most students are studying via mobile phones and only a few students would have access to laptops,” says Piyush.Suman Sharma, principal of Government Model Senior Secondary School in Sector 4/7, said classes are taking place remotely via Whatsapp for students who recently got promoted from class 9 to 10, and 11 to 12. She added that classes for all students would start soon as per the class schedule shared by the Department of Education on Wednesday. “Teachers create a summary of the lesson in simple language, click a picture of the same, and share it on the class’ group on Whatsapp. Students are then asked to answer questions based on the shared summary and the teacher responds with feedback over chat,” says Sharma.The experience is new not just for students but for teachers too, who are adapting themselves to the situation and learning the ropes of technology as they go. Manjubala, an English teacher at the Government Model Senior Secondary School in Sector 4/7, has recorded and uploaded two lectures on YouTube until now. Sharing her experience with technology, she says, “I had been reading about private schools starting online classes and was wondering if something similar could be done for our students to ensure that they don’t lag behind. I started putting together a video and shared it for my students on April 1. Simultaneously, the state government too came up with guidelines asking us to share class resources via available modes.”Recording and uploading the lectures was no easy task, says Manjubala, who goes by her first name. “There was no professional setup or resources. I used my mobile phone to record a video and learnt to upload the video via the web. After an initial struggle, I managed to record, upload and share some videos,” she said. While the videos were not as comprehensive as a real-life lecture, she says it was the least that could be done. “Our students aren’t very polished in the English language. Recorded lectures based on their competencies can serve a better purpose in sharing the lessons. Covering the whole lecture in a video, like it’s done in school, is not possible, but I try to share whatever little can be done, even if the videos are short. Questions are later discussed on WhatsApp groups,” said Manjubala, whose phone crashed under the weight of the videos and has been in disrepair ever since. “I am not well versed with mobile technology and while uploading one of the videos, my phone stopped working. I can’t get it repaired because of the lockdown,” she said. Out of a total strength of 60, 50 students are able to attend her class, she adds.Vidushi Kataria, a computer teacher at the Government Boys’ Senior Secondary School, saw her son attend classes via Zoom and taking cue from the same, she started taking computer classes for students of class 12 via Zoom. “I had seen my son attending classes via Zoom and thought of trying it out with my students. There are seven-eight students who attend class regularly and two-three others are able to make it if they are able to access mobile phone data. For a subject like programming, we need to share the screen and simply reading out notes doesn’t help,” said Kataria.She, however, adds that using a platform such as Zoom was challenging since not all children had access to smart devices. “Children in government schools come from diverse socio-economic backgrounds. Most students don’t have access to laptops, and everyone might not have a smartphone either. We try to share whatever resources we can via Whatsapp,” said Kataria.District education officer Indu Boken said that a timetable had been created wherein classes of all subjects were scheduled. “Classes will be taken from 9:30am to 12:30pm every day. Teachers are also taking tests of the students in the evening. We have already shared videos for all subjects for all classes with teachers,” said Boken.She added that even some of those children, who had moved out during the exodus following the lockdown imposition, have also been connected to the groups now. “As of now, we don’t have practical solutions for students without a smartphone. The Internet is required for sharing resources and managing classes without that would be difficult,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lessons-over-whatsapp-for-government-school-students-but-challenges-remain/story-gDFw6mllDBEkTysBltkN2L.html
09-04-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Illegal sale of liquor online, fake promises of doorstep delivery annoy vend owners, residents||The Gurugram excise and taxation department has received several complaints from liquor vend owners stating that people are using the name of their outlets to sell liquor online and are offering free home delivery. The police said several residents have also been cheated online by con men after paying money through e-wallets, the police said. Excise officials said that some people in upscale areas managed to get scotch and wine delivered at home but there were others who had paid in advance and were duped. Several residents of DLF Phase 1, South City, Sohna Road and Golf Course Road fell into the trap of “liquor home delivery” and lost nearly ₹4,000 in each case, the police said. Officials said they want to request people not to buy liquor through unreliable sources as it might be spurious and cause damage to health. The Haryana government, on March 26, had decided to temporarily shut down all liquor vends across the state till further orders as part of its preventive measures to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).At least four liquor vend owners had complained to the excise department on Tuesday that suppliers were misusing their shop’s name and offering liquor at a discounted price at the customer’s doorstep, in violation of the current lockdown as they are not allowed to operate. Sale of liquor online is prohibited.HC Dahiya, deputy excise and taxation commissioner (west), said that since the lockdown began, they formed teams to keep a check on all the 249 liquor vends across the district to ensure there was no black marketing. “Some people have created pages on social media and are advertising the sale of liquor and offering free home delivery. We have got these pages checked by the police and no retailer is involved. Their names have been used by some con men who are accepting orders online and taking advance payments for the delivery,” he said.Excise officials said since the lockdown began, bootleggers have been trying to take advantage of the situation. The officials reached out to at least two such sellers on Tuesday night and their pages had been deleted by Wednesday, Dahiya said.“There were two online sellers active on social media. We wrote on their page that legal action would be taken against them for trading liquor online and even contacted them on the mobile phone numbers mentioned on the pages. Within a few hours, they deleted their pages and all the numbers have been switched off since then. I have also written to Facebook and Twitter,” Dahiya said, adding that the police are yet to identify the culprits.Rajan Gandhi, director of Lake Forest wines, said they were shocked to see their brand name on the Facebook and Twitter pages. “None of the numbers belonged to us or any of our employees. Someone is cheating residents with our name so we approached the police and complained against the creator of the page,” he said.Police commissioner Muhammad Akil said they would take immediate action against such con men duping people during the lockdown. They are posting advertisements offering home delivery of alcohol. “These men, after accepting money through e-wallets, do not answer their calls and in some cases, have delivered liquor a couple of times to gain the trust of people. We will get the locations and IP addresses used to create these pages. It takes at least five days to receive a reply from these social media platforms. Our teams are working on the complaint and the culprits will soon be arrested,” he said.The police said residents should not call any such phone numbers and never proceed with financial transactions with the details or links provided by them, through online transfer or UPI platforms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-illegal-sale-of-liquor-online-fake-promises-of-doorstep-delivery-annoy-vend-owners-residents/story-ug068TlpQrhv4oP39BrS3L.html
09-04-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19 patients feel very anxious, says Ludhiana nurse||Besides checking the vitals of Covid-19 positive and suspected patients, they need to be given medicines and injections on time and be assured that they will soon get cured so that they can meet their loved ones, said Prabhjot Kaur, 35, in charge of the nursing staff deputed at the isolation ward for coronavirus patients at Ludhiana civil hospital. Kaur added that as Covid-19 positive and suspected patients are kept in isolation, they experience a lot of anxiety. “First, they are not allowed to meet their families. Then, they are kept isolated from others and get treated by the medical staff who wear protective kits. All this adds to their anxiety and they fear about their lives. But we try our best to keep them motivated. It’s a difficult emotional journey for them,” she said. At present, three coronavirus positive and 22 suspected patients are kept in isolation at the civil hospital. “Earlier, I had also been on duty in the isolation ward formed for swine flu. It is important to take all preventive steps while treating the patients. We have been on duty in the isolation ward for about a month now. Since then, we have been wearing personal protective equipment (PPE). The entire staff was screened on April 7,” said Kaur, who was earlier posted in Samana, Patiala. Once I return from work, I sanitise myself before meeting my daughters–Sukhpal Kaur, 10, and Navleen Kaur, 4–and doing the chores, she added. “First, I take a bath on reaching home, and then, I wear a new set of clothes. I also keep aside all articles that I carry along with me to the hospital. Only then do I meet my daughters,” Prabhjot said. Kaur’s husband, Parminder Singh, is in charge at the dialysis centre of Shri Rama Charitable Hospital. “While I have to be present at the hospital every day, my husband goes for work only when he is called for duty. But we take all preventive steps to ensure that our daughters are safe. I request everyone to stay at home and step outside only if it’s urgent. That is the only to win this battle,”she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-patients-feel-very-anxious-says-ludhiana-nurse/story-47oLvtLPTJOaDOgPaLWbnI.html
09-04-2020||Lucknow||Take action against BJP MP for assault: Mayawati to CM||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) president Mayawati on Thursday asked chief minister Yogi Adityanath to take action against BJP MP from Kannauj Subrat Pathak for allegedly assaulting a Dalit tehsildar.In a series of tweets, the BSP chief said, “The Dalit tehsildar, posted in Kannauj district, was performing his duty honestly recently when the BJP MP from Kannauuj misbehaved with him and also beat him up. The act of the ruling party MP was shameful and should be condemned.”“Instead of spending his time in jail, MP is roaming freely, the Dalit employees are angry over the inaction of the state government. Chief minister should take strict action against the MP so that he does not repeat the act again”, she said.A state government officer said that a case had been registered against BJP MP Pathak and 25 unidentified men on the charge of assaulting the tehsildar, Arviind Kumar. The police have also seized around half a dozen vehicles from the spot. Supporters of the MP had manhandled the tehsildar over the non-distribution of ration to the people whose names were mentioned in the MP’s list.Later Pathak denied the allegation stating that his supporters had visited the tehsildar to discuss the distribution of ration during the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/take-action-against-bjp-mp-for-assault-mayawati-to-cm/story-G6vuZbsHFvWN0EyvULFraP.html
09-04-2020||City||Bombay high court conducts first public hearing through video conferencing, litigants and lawyers laud move||Mumbai: The first ever public hearing of cases through video conferencing was conducted by the Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday. The hearing was conducted through Zoom public meeting app which allows the participation of upto 500 persons at a time. The hearing was attended by people from all walks of life, including lawyers, petitioners, litigants, students and members of the state legal department, apart from the HC staff and general public. The two-hour hearing was well received by all participants.Justice Gautam Patel, who hosted the meeting, had announced on Wednesday through a press release that he would conduct live-streaming of the court proceedings on a trial basis to make hearing of listed cases publicly accessible.In all, nine listed cases and one urgent matter were heard during open-for-public videoconferencing held through the Zoom app between 12 noon and 2pm on Thursday.After the hearing concluded, Patel sought feedback and suggestions from the participants on the virtual courtroom experiment. Advocate Nitin Pradhan, who appeared for a public interest litigation (PIL), said that the exercise was helpful and necessary in the current lockdown and was the need of the hour to decongest courts. Advocate Mathews Nedumpara, who has been advocating video recording and live relay of court proceedings, participated from Cochin and said that it was a step in the right direction and lauded justice Patel’s experiment. A student who also attended said that the experience was surreal and appreciated the opportunity to be part of the hearing. Following the success of the experiment, justice Patel issued a press release stating that until his assignment up to April 14, he would continue live-streaming the case hearings before him. The next virtual courtroom hearing will be held on Saturday, April 11 from 12 noon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bombay-high-court-conducts-first-public-hearing-through-video-conferencing-litigants-and-lawyers-laud-move/story-Q2vtk9w23A06dzCkgntRfP.html
09-04-2020||Lucknow||Medical team in Prayagraj wages battle against Covid-19 amid loneliness||Away from family and home, a 25-member team of dedicated doctors, nurses, paramedical staff and lab technicians (dubbed ‘Team-A’) is busy caring for nine Covid-19 positive patients of Pratapgarh (6), Kaushambi (2) and Prayagraj (1) undergoing treatment at the community health centre-turned-Covid -19 level-1 hospital at Kotwa, around 35 km from the heart of Prayagraj. Apart from the hectic shifts followed by loneliness in their accommodation, the team members would also undergo a 28-day ‘exile’, comprising 14-day mandatory active quarantine at the hospital during their duty tenure and another 14-day passive quarantine in a hotel before they return home, inform district health officials.At the end of their 14-day active quarantine, they would be replaced by another team of 25 doctors and paramedics (‘Team-B’) and later it would also also undergo the same process.“Our team of 25 professionals is taking care of the patients day and night. Besides medicines, breakfast and meals are also being provided to them with adequate precautions,” said Dr VK Mishra, nodal officer of Kotwa Hospital.The team comprises six doctors, six staff nurses, six safaikarmis, two pharmacists and two lab technicians as well as three ward boys. “The pharmacists and lab technicians have a 12 -hour shift while the remaining staff is on an 8-hour shift,” he said.The entire medical team has to adhere to strict quarantine norms. After work at this 30-bed hospital, they do not return home. Instead, they stay in a temporary accommodation made available by the administration.“For the entire staff, barring the nurses, a guest house at ‘Habusa Mode’ has been acquired and reserved. The nurses are staying at another establishment 400 metres from the hospital. Each member of the team has been given a separate room where they have their meals. There is also a hall where they can have their food but here too proper social distancing is ensured,” explained Dr Mishra, adding that no socializing was allowed to limit chances of the virus spreading.The nurses said they were well aware of the danger and battled inner fear to perform their duty. “However, we know that our work is valuable in the battle against the virus. The morale of nurses as well as the entire medical team is high,” said Anita Singh, a staff nurse working here as part of the first team.“Once our schedule of 14 days is over, we will have undergo a 14-day passive quarantine at a hostel acquired at Andawa crossing. During this period also we will not meet or interact with anyone. Once this period gets completed, we will all be tested and if our results are negative, we will be able to return to our families,” said another nurse.Officials said that once Team-A and team-B completed their duty cycles, Team-C would take charge at the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/frontline-soldiers-medical-team-wages-battle-against-covid-19-amid-loneliness/story-oudNCVPLwv3B5crYpsZkWK.html
09-04-2020||Mumbai||State to ask Maharashtra Governor to appoint chief minister to legislative Council||The Maharashtra cabinet, in a meeting headed by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Thursday, decided to recommend Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari to appoint chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray as a member of the state legislative Council to avoid a constitutional crisis in the state. “As elections cannot be conducted owing to the Covid-19 crisis, and two of the seats for the legislative Council under the Governor-appointed quota are vacant at present, the state cabinet decided to recommend the Governor to appoint Uddhav Thackeray as the member of legislative Council on one of the seats,” said a statement released by the CM’s office.Thackeray, who was sworn-in as CM on November 28 last year has to get elected to one of the two houses of the state legislature within six months (the period ends on May 28), failing which he would have to resign. If such a situation was to prevail, the entire cabinet also would have to tender resignation. Though they can be sworn-in again, such a situation would be an embarrassment for the state government and could lead to constitutional crisis. Thackeray had planned to contest a by-election to the legislative Council but the polls have been postponed owing to the Covid-19 outbreak.Of the total 78 seats in the legislative Council, the Governor has powers to appoint 12 of them belonging to different walks of life such as arts, culture, literature and social service. The recommendations are made by the state government. In recent instances, several politicians have been nominated from this quota.According to Article 164 (4) of the Constitution, “A minister, who for any period of six consecutive months, is not a member of the legislature shall at the expiration of that period cease to be a minister”.“This is an unprecedented situation. Elections cannot be held due to the coronavirus outbreak. However, we don’t want any constitutional crisis while fighting Covid-19, and thus the cabinet decided to recommend the Governor to appoint Uddhav Thackeray as member of the legislative Council from [the two seats] under his quota,” said a senior minister, wishing not to be named.This is not the first instance in which the head of the government will be appointed from the upper house. “This is not unusual as in the past, there have been cases when a minister has been appointed from the upper House. Even former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh was a member of the Rajya Sabha. However, in case the governor doesn’t accept the recommendation, then Thackeray will have to resign and by-election would have to be conducted. Holding elections in this situation is difficult but not impossible,” said Shreehari Aney, former advocate general of the state.Experts have opined that the recommendations made by the state cabinet are binding on the Governor though the Governor can object to any name.“The recommendation made by the cabinet is binding on the Governor and President in parliamentary form of the government,” said Anant Kalse former principal secretary, state legislature. He also said that the state cabinet will recommend Uddhav Thackeray’s name to the Governor as an individual and not as the chief minister.However, in the past similar recommendation made by the state cabinet was not accepted by the Governor. Koshyari ,who was a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader from Uttarakhand, is not exactly on cordial terms with three-party coalition government in the state.In December last year, the state cabinet had recommended to appoint Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leaders — Shivajirao Garje and Aditi Nalawade — as members of the legislative Council but the Governor did not take any decision on it. Both the seats got vacant after NCP leaders — Rahul Narvekar and Ramrao Wadkute — left the party in the run up to the state Assembly pollsShiv Sena leaders however, are positive about getting Koshyari’s nod to appoint Thackeray to the upper house of the state legislature.A Sena minister said that the party had two options: either to get him elected on one of the nine seats that fall vacant on April 24 or to get Thackeray nominated from Governor’s quota. “We did not want the recommendation to go through Shiv Sena group leader for Uddhav ji’s nomination as he had not cleared the two names recommended by the NCP group leader. Instead, it was decided that the recommendation should go through the cabinet. The Governor may dilly-dally, but we expect him to clear it. Criticism [of Governor] aside, Maharashtra is facing an unprecedented situation and the people should not suffer because of politics,” the Sena minister said, requesting anonymity.The recommendation from the Cabinet also comes a day after Sena leader Sanjay Raut raised Koshyari’s alleged interference in the state’s administrative work. Raut was backed by NCP chief Sharad Pawar when he raised the issue with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday during an online conference with group leaders of political parties.The state has also pushed back local body elections and the Election Commission of India (ECI) has deferred the Rajya Sabha polls that were scheduled in March this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-to-ask-maharashtra-governor-to-appoint-chief-minister-to-legislative-council/story-8o7WbSgbeXirVMxjTs5KII.html
09-04-2020||City||Lab in Karnal to start Testing today||Giving a fillip to the testing facilities in the state, the first coronavirus testing laboratory in northern Haryana will be operational at the Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College and Hospital in Karnal from Friday.As per the reports, the laboratory did its first trial on Thursday, which was successful.Karnal deputy commissioner (DC) Nishant Yadav said that the lab, that will be fully operational from Friday, will add to the testing capacity of the state and will also ensure reports without any delay.The lab, with the testing capacity of 144 samples per day, will be operational round the clock and the staff for the same has been hired, the DC said, adding that the RT-PCR machine for the lab has been taken from the National Dairy and Research Institute, Karnal. Soon after Karnal was declared as a Covid-19 hotspot, the district administration formed as many as 999 teams to conduct door- to-door survey and awareness programme to make people to aware about the virus.With 423 panchayats and population of 16 lakh people, the district has been divided into 13 zones and the teams comprising doctors, ANM, Asha workers, teachers and anganwadi workers will conduct the survey.So far, there have been five Covid-19 positive cases in the district with one death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lab-in-karnal-to-start-testing-today/story-WYTJvcgu7e2dhbj2K183WM.html
09-04-2020||Chandigarh||Postal department starts door-to-door pension distribution amid lockdown in Ludhiana||To ensure that pensioners are not inconvenienced during the ongoing 21-day nationwide lockdown, the department of posts in Ludhiana has initiated door-to-door distribution of pensions in the district.There are around 2.13 lakh pension beneficiaries in the district. Pensions are being distributed under different government schemes such as old-age pension for men over the age of 65 and women over the age of 58, financial assistance to destitute women and children, and disabled persons. Notably, only 770 of the beneficiaries have an account with the India Post Payment Bank.The department is using an Aadhaar Enabled Payment System (AEPS) to carry out the pension distribution process. The postmen and Gramin Dak Sevaks have been provided with a biometric system, which will help them verify the authenticity of a beneficiary’s claim. The beneficiaries will be handed the pension in hand. However, only the beneficiaries who got their Aaadhar linked to their bank account will be able to avail this facility. The beneficiaries will be getting a pension for the months of January and February, which will amount to ₹1,500. Last week, the administration had asked for the department of posts help in distributing pensions to beneficiaries door-to-door as many of them were facing financial difficulties. Normally, the postal department only distributes the pensions of its own department’s pensioners, railway staff and BSNL employees. Ludhiana senior superintendent of post offices Amanpeet Singh said the department had started the process of distributing pensions to 29,000 beneficiaries. “The administration had on Tuesday shared details of pensioners. We have compiled a list of 29,000 pensioners whose particulars including Aadhaar were complete,” Singh said. He said though the department was distributing pensions door-to-door, pensioners can also draw their pension through the AePS. In order to cover all pensioners, the postal department has increased the redistribution of the area and expanded the beat of each postman. At present, the department has 170 postmen against 220 posts in Ludhiana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/postal-department-starts-door-to-door-pension-distribution-amid-lockdown-in-ludhiana/story-egTOYhFOhLenPWzstydxeI.html
09-04-2020||City||Five fresh Covid-19 cases, one death in Ludhiana in 24 hours||Five fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in the city in the past 24 hours, taking the total count of positive cases to 12. Of the total, three patients have died due to the deadly virus. A 52- year-old woman from Mehal Kalan village in Barnala died in Fortis Hospital on Chandigarh Road on Thursday. The deceased has been identified as Karamjit Kaur. She was staying with her parents in Pakhowal village and could not return to Barnala due to the lockdown. Her relatives stated that her health began to deteriorate on March 30 but she was admitted to the hospital on April 6 after she complained of difficulty in breathing and chest pain. Her husband, who is a truck driver, is reported to be stuck in Guwahati. Son of city’s first Covid-19 casualty tests positive The older son of Ludhiana’s first Covid-19 casualty (Puja, 42) also tested positive on Thursday. Puja’s two sons had earlier tested negative for the virus, but were still kept in quarantine for observation. On Wednesday, the older son developed symptoms of the virus, following which his samples were sent for testing. Besides, a snatcher, two persons, including a 15- year- old boy from Gure village, a 32- year- year- old man from Ramgarh Bhullar village who were associated with Tablighi Jamaat congregation in New Delhi have also tested positive. Sharing details, deputy commissioner Pradeep Agrawal said that so far 507 persons have been tested, out of which, 467 reports have arrived, 12 persons have been tested positive and three deaths were reported due to Covid-19. He added that 442 persons have been tested negative. Agrawal further added that out of the 12 cases, one case was from Barnala and the another was from Jalandhar. He also confirmed that the cops who came in contact with the Covid-19 positive snatcher have been kept in isolation and their samples will be sent for testing after five days. DC marks an inquiry The deputy commissioner has marked an inquiry in a case where a suspected Covid-19 patients, referred by civil hospital to Christian Medical College (CMCH), was allegedly denied admission and referred to some other hospital. “I have marked an inquiry in this regard and asked the civil surgeon to file a report,” said Agrawal.The DC also appealed to the residents of Ludhiana to assist the Punjab government and district administration so that the number of Novel Coronavirus (COVID 19) patients does not rise in the district. He clarified that if people stay indoors, then it would certainly help in checking the situation to go out of hand. He again reiterated that people should remain indoors and strictly follow all directions issued by the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/five-fresh-covid-19-cases-one-death-in-ludhiana-in-24-hours/story-6XJ1hgZRZgFONkijZc4M9H.html
09-04-2020||Chandigarh||PSEB exams: Schools told to collect details of Class 10, 12 students||District education officer, secondary, Ludhiana, has directed the school heads of higher and senior secondary schools to collect the details of students of Class 10 and 12 through Google formin the wake of pending boar exams.As per sources, the Punjab school education board will conduct the exams of Class 10 and 12 once the lockdown is lifted in the state. With many students in these schools belonging to migrant families, the department has decided to get in touch with these students to ensure that they remain available for exams when the lockdown is lifted. A 10-point google format has been sent to schools and they have been asked to fill the name of the block, name of school-GHS or GSSS, number of students in Class 10 and 12 (session 2019-20), number of students who are in touch with the school teachers, number of students who are not responding to WhatsApp message or phone calls, number of students migrated due to lockdown. District education officer, secondary, Swaranjit Kaur, said, “Once the lockdown will be lifted, the board will conduct the pending exams for Classes 10 and 12. We are just collecting the information from schools and if teachers remain in touch with the students, they can guide them in their preparations for the exams. We are also collecting details of the students who are not responding to communication, so that efforts can be made to trace them.”The principal of Government Senior Secondary School, Siyaar, Jatinder Sharma, said, “We have filled the Pro forma and I am interacting with the students on daily basis and guiding them to make the best use of this time. Students have been suggested to revise the lessons and all of them are in touch with their teachers through different groups.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pseb-exams-schools-told-to-collect-details-of-class-10-12-students/story-AnYfe9hszYpyhVw1BDemkN.html
09-04-2020||Mumbai||30% pay cut for Maharashtra’s legislators this year; 2 panels to help revive state’s economy||Even as the state stares at an unprecedented revenue drop owing to the coronavirus outbreak and the lock down, the Maharashtra government set up two committees to look into the measures to revive the economy. On Thursday, the state cabinet cleared a proposal to appoint two high-level committees to deliberate on the measures to be taken in the coming months. The cabinet also decided to cut the salaries of Members of Legislative Assembly (MLAs) and Legislative Council by 30% beginning this month till March 2021 in the light of the brunt borne by the state’s economy owing to the coronavirus crisis.“In the backdrop of the coronavirus crisis, the state cabinet has decided to form two committees for economic revival. One committee will consist of ministers, while other will have finance department officials, former bureaucrats, economists, and financial experts, who present their recommendations to the government,” said Ajit Pawar, deputy chief minister and state finance minister. Apart from Pawar himself, the ministers’ panel will also include senior ministers Jayant Patil, Balasaheb Thorat, Chhagan Bhujbal, Anil Parab, Eknath Shinde and Ashok Chavan.Manoj Saunik, additional chief secretary, finance, said the expert committee will recommend measures that can be taken by the government to bring the state’s economy and finances back on the track. “Today, only the approval to form the committees was given. In a day or two, the members on the non-ministerial expert committee will be decided. We will now have to take a multi-pronged approach. First of all, we will have to reopen our economy [as and when possible], then we will have to increase liquidity, etc… The load on citizens [in terms of taxes/duties/cess] will not be put unless absolutely necessary,” Saunik said.According to senior officials, Maharashtra has taken a severe hit due to the lockdown, with the state’s revenue witnessing a drastic plunge. Saunik said the state’s March revenue dipped by ₹30,000 crore from what it had earned in February. A finance department official added that apart from the dip in the revenue, the state’s has also incurred huge expenses while combating the coronavirus outbreak in Maharashtra. The government is now banking on the Goods and Services Tax compensation, worth ₹16,000 crore, as well as funds from the Centre, to relieve the strain on its coffers.Meanwhile, the state government is expected to save around ₹31 crore annually by the 30% pay cut for its legislators in 2020-21. The state government has also decided to request the urban and rural local bodies to bring a similar proposal and initiate pay cuts for their elected members.The state’s decision to cut the legislator’ salaries came two days after the Union cabinet announced that Members of the Parliament (MPs) will undergo a pay cut this year. “The decision is more of a gesture to send out a message to the public. The savings from such cuts is hardly anything against the total revenue receipts of the state,” said a senior cabinet minister.The state government had last week decided to defer 60% of the March salaries of the elected representatives after the drastic drop in the revenue receipts in the last month of the financial year 2019-20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/30-pay-cut-for-maharashtra-s-legislators-this-year-2-panels-to-help-revive-state-s-economy/story-Sjfc5pey9kUwAM7iXJEwzH.html
09-04-2020||Delhi||Jamia launches helpline to provide psychological support to its students||Jamia Millia Islamia on Wednesday constituted a 13-member committee to provide psychological support to students amid the lockdown. The University has also announced the setting up of a 24x7 helpline number to connect students with the committee members for counselling. In a statement issued on Wednesday, the university said, “Jamia vice chancellor Professor Najma Akhtar has constituted a Mental Health & Counselling Committee (MHCC) to facilitate the well being of students and to provide psycho-social support to students staying in the hostels /campus or outside during and after Covid-19 outbreak due to lockdown.”“The committee will set up a telephone helpline (12x7), and arrange for the telephonic counselling . It will meet for weekly (face to face/online) consultation, till COVID-19 persists, initially for 3 months,” the statement stated.The university administration said that the committee may also consult external experts and resources in extreme conditions. “It may visit the hostels and other parts of the campus as and when needed necessary and put up posters giving details, phone numbers of MHCC be put up in campus, hostels etc,” it added||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/jamia-launches-helpline-to-provide-psychological-support-to-its-students/story-28q5ZPTKXa9kgVHQoyRqFJ.html
09-04-2020||Mumbai||At 6.34%, Maharashtra’s mortality rate is third highest in India: State agency data||With 1,297 positive cases and 72 deaths until 1pm on April 9, Maharashtra has recorded highest number of Covid-19 cases and deaths in India. Maharashtra’s mortality rate – 6.34% – is the third highest in the country after Gujarat (179 cases, 16 deaths, 8.94% mortality rate) and Punjab (101 cases, 8 deaths, 7.92% mortality rate), according to data released on Thursday by the Maharashtra Medical Education and Drugs Department (MEDD), the agency chosen by the state government to analyse data to help formulate policy.The analysis had not taken into account the positive infections and deaths reported on Thursday evening.Apart from Maharashtra, the states that have the most number of positive cases are Delhi (738), Tamil Nadu (669), Telangana (427), Rajasthan (381), Uttar Pradesh (361), Andhra Pradesh (348) and Kerala (345). However, their mortality rates are respectively 1.34%, 1.08%, 1.63%, 0.78%, 1.1%, 1.14% and 0.57%. According to data released by World Health Organisation, the global mortality rate is 5.85%, making Maharashtra’s rate higher than the world average. In fact, India’s average mortality rate is 2.89%, making Maharashtra’s rate more than double that of the rest of India. Mumbai has been the worst affected among all Indian cities, with 857 cases and 45 deaths, followed by Pune with 192 cases and 10 deaths. MEDD data indicated that people between the age group of 61-80 years are the most vulnerable to the infection, in addition to morbidity rate being the highest. Patients in the age group of 61-70 have a death rate of 23.15%, according the MEDD data, while those between 71 and 80 years are even higher at 23.53%.Civic officials said on Thursday that the state has been able attribute deaths to Covid-19 on account of better screening and higher testing. As on April 8, Maharashtra had conducted 27,090 tests, which is slightly lower than four southern Indian states combined. Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka accounted for 29,149 tests. Telangana has not released its test numbers. Rajasthan has conducted 16,782 tests. “We are conducting highest number of tests in the country, and this has to be accounted for when we consider the mortality rate,” said Dr Daksha Shah, deputy health officer, Mumbai. “If we had not conducted extensive tests, these deaths would go unnoticed.” According to state health department officials, close to 90% of the deceased patients have co-morbid ailments such respiratory issues, cardiac ailments, diabetes, hypertension, tuberculosis and HIV. “This is why we have isolated high-risk patients with co-morbid health issues,” Dr Shah added. “In places such as Dharavi (India’s biggest slum with a population of 8.5 lakh and a population density of 66,000) where home quarantining is not feasible, we are keeping senior citizens at chosen vacant places.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/at-6-34-maharashtra-s-mortality-rate-is-third-highest-in-india-state-agency-data/story-ca8UycdxYH7ws4C3KMikOL.html
09-04-2020||City||Kalyan, Thane markets to be shifted to open spaces||The wholesale market will be shifted from Kalyan APMC market from Friday. Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) has decided to shift wholesale traders to open spaces in the city to prevent crowding at the market.The onion-potato market will be set up at Mumbai university sub-centre ground at Gandhare, Kalyan (West), fruit traders will operate at Wayle Nagar ground in Kalyan (West) and vegetable traders will set up market at Maxi ground in Rambaug, Kalyan (West).“We have decided to completely stop operations at the APMC market,” said a KDMC official.In Thane,​ the wholesale Jambli Naka market is crowded even during. Civic commissioner Vijay Singhal did a survey of the market and saw that no one was following social distancing.A TMC official said, “We are shifting the market to Parsik Retibunder, Pokharan Road No 1, Highland Ground and Borivade ground on Ghodbunder Road. We will provide basic facilities in these areas to set up the market.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kalyan-thane-markets-to-be-shifted-to-open-spaces/story-WNFrikAHTsMr0IuihM7zZL.html
09-04-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra has conducted 30,766 tests till Thursday||According to official information on Covid-19 tests, Maharashtra conducted 30,766 tests, home quarantined 36,533 persons, and placed 4,731 persons in institutional quarantine till Thursday. Among these, 28,865 persons tested negative, 1,364 persons tested positive, and 125 persons have been cured. For Mumbai alone, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has conducted 15,500 tests so far.As of Monday, Mumbai had conducted 12,000 odd tests, surpassing figures for tests done in many other Indian states, such as Kerala which conducted 10,716 tests, Delhi which conducted 6,567 tests, and Tamil Nadu which conducted 5,015 tests. Municipal Commissioner Praveen Pardeshi told HT on Tuesday, “We are aggressively testing and need to continue to do so, for early detection of Covid-19 cases. Testing is happening even in the fever clinics at a war footing.” Presently, Mumbai sees 884 test per million, much more than Kerala, that sees approximately 319 cases per million, Tamil Nadu that sees 150 cases per million, and Delhi, that sees 196 cases per million, according to BMC data on April 6. A senior civic official said, “Rigorous testing is the only way forward.”There are 13 laboratories in Mumbai which conduct Covid-19 tests, of these eight are private laboratories and five are civic-owned. While presently, Mumbai’s capacity is to conduct 2,000 tests per day in these 13 laboratories, the capacity is likely to be scaled up to 3,000 tests per day by next week, as the civic body plans to open two new testing laboratories at Haffkine near KEM in Parel, and at Sion Hospital respectively.Additional Municipal Commissioner Suresh Kakani, in charge of BMC’s health department, said, “Within the next seven to 15 days, both these laboratories will become functional, and Mumbai will have total testing capacity of 3,000 tests per day. While the one at Haffkine is almost ready, the one at Sion will take around 15 days, with setting up equipment, and making lab technicians available.”To scale its testing capacity further, BMC has planned to purchase rapid testing kits as well. Rapid tests work differently from swab tests that are being done in a laboratory at present. Rapid tests take a blood sample and produce results within 15 minutes, versus a swab test, which in Mumbai has a cycle of 12 hours before results are concluded.Pardeshi said on Tuesday, “Rapid tests are going to be very useful in eliminating persons who are not susceptible to Covid-19, and hence reducing the burden on laboratories. These will be used on our frontline staff on priority, to determine who is safe to do fieldwork and who is not.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-has-conducted-30-766-tests-till-thursday/story-KBw8fKZG0YEeyWgYWe0BtM.html
09-04-2020||Chandigarh||Over 1.2 lakh children await mid-day meal food packets in Ludhiana||Even a week after the director public instructions elementary office instructed the district education officers to get the packets of food grains delivered at the doorsteps of students of Classes 1 to 8, the process of distributing the packets is yet to start in the district. The government schools are facing a shortage of food grains and the district authorities have written a letter on Thursday to the officials of Punjab State Civil Supplies Corporation Limited (PUNSUP) to deliver food grains of the first quarter (April to June) at the earliest. In the letter, it is also stated that the route plan to deliver the food grains will be intimated to the block primary education officer (BPEO) and school heads by the agency (PUNSUP) officials, so that the BPEO and school head remain available in the school to receive the stock of food grains.As per the data of district education office, Ludhiana, over 1.2 lakh students are covered under the mid-day meal scheme in the district and it will be a challenging task to distribute food grains to such a large number of students at their doorsteps.District education officer, elementary, Rajinder Kaur, said, “The agency officials have confirmed that the distribution process of food grain has started and the allotted stock will be delivered to government schools soon. To prepare the packets of food grains as per allotment, we will take permission from the deputy commissioner, Ludhiana, to open the government schools and to further deliver the stock to the students.”However, the school heads of government primary schools and block primary education officers stated that they have just received the letter on Thursday and will abide by the orders. Block primary education officer, Mangat 1, Bhupinder Kaur, said, “We will follow the orders of the authorities. There are around 99 primary schools in our block and school heads will cooperate in these tough times.” As per orders, a sealed packet of 1.2kg wheat and 1.2kg rice has to be delivered to the house of each primary student. Further, a packet containing 1.8kg wheat and 1.8kg rice will be delivered to each upper primary student at his/her doorstep. The food grains for 24 days (March 23 to April 14) will be delivered to the students and the funds of ₹107.52 for primary students and ₹161.04 for the upper primary students will be e-transferred in their bank accounts. When contacted, senior assistant manager, Punjab State Civil Supplies Corporation Limited (PUNSUP), Dilbag Singh, said, “The process to transport food grains has started for Ludhiana and by April 21, all the stock of the first quarter will be delivered to schools.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/over-1-2-lakh-children-await-mid-day-meal-food-packets-in-ludhiana/story-Wq66OXC3tyaNPiFZSEZ1iP.html
09-04-2020||Chandigarh||Redevelopment halted, Jallianwala Bagh closed till June 15||With work on Jallianwala Bagh’s redevelopment project coming to a halt due to covid-19 outbreak, the memorial will remain closed for visitors till June 15, a Jallianwala Bagh National Memorial Trust communiqué said on Thursday. The culture ministry and the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), through the National Buildings Construction Corporation (India) Limited, are carrying out the restoration work of heritage structures with allied services, landscaping, water harvesting, refurbishment of museum galleries, light and sound show etc, at the Jallianwala Bagh National Memorial, Amritsar. The memorial has been closed since February 15 and was to reopen on April 12 after redevelopment. The country is commemorating the centenary year of the Jallianwala Bagh massacre from April 13, 2019 to April 13, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/redevelopment-halted-jallianwala-bagh-closed-till-june-15/story-20dzl3bvrQXhusc8dK8ePN.html
09-04-2020||City||2 arrested for smuggling 14kg poppy husk in Fatehgarh Sahib||The Fatehgarh Sahib police have arrested two persons on Thursday for trying to smuggle 14kg poppy husk in a truck laden with tomatoes by forging an ‘essential services’ certificate.A police spokesperson identified the duo as Anil Kumar, of Kharar, and Harvinder Singh, of Khamano. During preliminary investigation, they admitted to sourcing the contraband from Rajasthan.“The truck bearing registration number PB-23-F-4141 was intercepted by the Khedi Naudh Singh police of Khamano subdivision. The accused had pasted a essential services certificate stating that it was issued by GM District Industries Centre, Jalandhar,” police said.Poppy husk was found hidden under cartons of tomatoes. A case was registered under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act against the accused.The certificate was originally issued to one Shree Shivshakti Bakers Pvt Ltd of Bacchowa village in Phillaur (Jalandhar). Further investigation is on to ascertain their involvement in the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-arrested-for-smuggling-14kg-poppy-husk-in-fatehgarh-sahib/story-q8hXPxhd2EG4S8xHkbQ23O.html
09-04-2020||Chandigarh||Curfew violator rams car into police barricades in Ludhiana, caught||A curfew violator in a bid to escape from police checkpoint rammed his car into barricades near Sanjay Gandhi Colony here on Wednesday. However, alert police nabbed him near Samrala Chowk and lodged an FIR against the accused.The accused has been identified as Rohit Kumar of Harcharan Nagar near Samrala Chowk.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Sukhwinder Singh said that the police had installed a checkpoint near Sanjay Gandhi colony following curfew was imposed. “The police signalled a car coming from Tajpur road side to stop. Instead of stopping, the accused sped up his vehicle and rammed into the barricades,” he said.The ASI informed the police party at Samrala Chowk, one km away from the spot, and he was arrested there. A case under Section 188, 269 and 270 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered against the accused.The accused told police that he had no curfew pass and he feared of being caught, so he tried to escape.Meanwhile, the police also arrested six more curfew violators, who were wandering near their houses for no reasons.10 vegetable vendors held for not wearing masks, glovesDaresi police have booked three vegetable vendors for selling vegetables and fruits without wearing gloves and masks. The accused have made people huddle around their vends.The accused are Abdul of Corporation colony at Haibowal, Sagar of Begowal and Mohammad Wasir of Malerkotla. Salem Tabri police have arrested six vegetable vendors, including Santokh Singh of Partap Singh Wala, Mohammad Shahid of Malerkotla, Gurpreet Singh of Tarntaran, Harjinder Singh of Guru Nanak Nagar, Mohan Kumar of Jamalpur and Bhagwant Singh of Rajewal.Division number 6 police have arrested Ramu of Janta nagar for selling vegetables without pass and making people huddle around his vend.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/curfew-violator-rams-car-into-police-barricades-caught/story-gl1CQuLZFkNGvg0iUxxRMM.html
09-04-2020||City||Drones come handy to keep tab on curfew violators||Once restricted, drone cameras are now coming handy for the Punjab Police to keep a tab on curfew violators.The district police heads across Punjab have rented out drone cameras from local photographers to ensure restriction on movement of people in urban as well as rural areas.Prior to the lockdown, the Punjab Police had put certain restrictions on flying drones after reports of smuggling of drugs and weapons poured in from border areas. Police at district levels were alerted and special training was given to deal with illegal smuggling through drones.Patiala senior superintendent of police (SSP) Mandeep Singh Sidhu said enhancing the drones’ capacity they have started using technology to cover entire cities and specifically colonies from where reports of violations are pouring in.“We have asked DSPs and SHOs to use these for surveillance in their respective areas. Use of drones has enhanced the surveillance capacity. No one will be spared if found to be violating orders,” the SSP said.As a result of drone surveillance, the Patiala police have nabbed 16 people who were sitting together in an open space in the interior areas of the city.“After receiving the images, the field team conducted a raid and arrested the violators against whom a case has been registered under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC),” he said.Meanwhile, Fatehgarh Sahib SSP Amneet Kondal said they have carried out at least five surveys through drones in the past few days and registered FIRs against curfew violators.“We have impounded over dozen vehicles and challaned the drivers for unnecessarily plying their vehicles on national and state highways in district,” she said.“Drone surveys have become a regular practice as they help to keep tab on even the remotest of areas,” police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/drones-come-handy-to-keep-tab-on-curfew-violators/story-auAYRM2LttrlDJtuVH23ON.html
09-04-2020||City||Hisar NRCE likely to start Covid-19 testing this week||To reduce the Covid-19 testing burden on the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences, Rohtak, the National Research Centre on Equines (NRCE) has started conducting tests of Hisar zone area. The zone is followed by districts Hisar, Jind, Bhiwani, Fatehabad and Sirsa.Soon after getting proper diagnostic kit, the NRCE will start testing Covid-19 samples and will work under the guidance of the government hospital in Hisar.Confirming the development, senior scientist at NRCE Dr Harishankar Singha said, “The NRCE will start conducting Covid-19 testing and for this, the research centre has asked the local administration and the central government for diagnostic kits.”He added that NRCE has the best laboratory in South Asia to investigate glanders, which is a highly contagious and fatal disease found in horse family. Samples from the country are being sent to NRCE for testing of glanders.Sources in Rohtak PGIMS said that the institute is already overburdened and receiving samples from the entire state and with the NRCE conducting Covid-19 testing, will surely provide some relief to the doctors.While talking to mediapersons, Hisar deputy commissioner Priyanka Soni said, “The government has authorised the NRCE for testing Covid-19 samples and hopefully, the tests will begin this week.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hisar-nrce-likely-to-start-covid-19-testing-this-week/story-Azs24qVdlDGkhDHHAPkSvN.html
09-04-2020||Chandigarh||Govt enhances mustard procurement limit, number of centres||In a significant development, the Union agriculture ministry on Thursday enhanced the daily procurement limit for mustard and gram from 25 quintal to 40 quintal per farmer. The mustard procurement will begin from April 15 at 248 centres across Haryana.The central government’s decision is crucial in terms of maintaining social distance as the enhanced daily procurement would mean lesser visits to mandis by the farmers.Granting a relaxation in the price support scheme (PSS) guidelines following a request by the Haryana government on Wednesday, the central ministry in a communication said that this will be a one-time measure in view of the nationwide lockdown due to Covid-19 outbreak.While there is no daily limit on the quantity of purchase of wheat from a farmer in a day, there is a cap on purchase of mustard (only 25 quintal per day) and gram (only 20 quintal per day) from one farmer.The state government has also sought an increase in the quantity of mustard and gram procured by NAFED from 25% to 40%.The procurement of mustard and gram is done under the PSS. The PSS comes into operation when the prices in open market fall below minimum support price (MSP). As per the existing norms, only 25% of the mustard and gram crop can be bought under the PSS by the procurement agencies at the minimum support price.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/govt-enhances-mustard-procurement-limit-number-of-centres/story-266uyqldlXSzJzZW3SN7UN.html
09-04-2020||Chandigarh||Shelter homes in Ludhiana just have 1% occupancy||Despite having a capacity to house thousands of people, the shelter homes setup by the administration to aid migrant workers across the district wear a deserted look. Most migrant workers have opted to return to their one-room rented accommodations instead of the shelters. Ludhiana, the financial capital of the state and hub of cycle, hosiery, sewing machine and small-scale cycle parts industries, is home to 20 lakh migrant workers. Most workers stay at Focal Point, Giaspura, Dholewal Chowk, Vijay Nagar, Barewal Road and Mundian. After the lockdown was imposed, the administration had announced that at least 50 shelter homes will be created with a capacity to house 35,000 people. Later, the administration confirmed that 57 shelters had been established. However, the shelters only have 1% occupancy. The Radha Soami Satsang Beas had also opened doors to its Satsang Bhawans across the city after curfew was imposed. There are 10 Satsang Bhawans but migrant workers are availing only three of its bhawans at Kadian village, Kailash Nagar, Bajra Road and Tibba Road. At present, the three bhawans are sheltering, 97, 174 and 95 migrants, respectively. The staff managing the Satsang Bhawans said police officials drop migrant workers at the bhawan, following which they take care of their shelter and food and ensure that social distancing is being observed. A number of migrant workers have also taken shelter at gurdwaras. A visit to the night shelters setup by the municipal corporation near the clock tower and Vishwakarma Chowk on Wednesday showed that no one had sought refuge there.Labourers say police not allowing them to go to shelters However, a group of eight labourers, on their way to Gurdwara Dukhniwaran Sahib, was seen moving crossing the Jagraon Bridge on Wednesday. The labourers said they could not go anywhere as they had no means of transportation and the police were not allowing them to go from one place to the other as they suspected that they may start moving to their home towns on foot. One the migrant workers, Manu, was stranded in Ludhiana while he was en route to West Bengal from Solan.He has been seeking refuge at a gurdwara in the interim. “I worked as a cook at a hotel in Solan. I reached Ludhiana a day before the railways suspended its operations and now I have no place to stay,” said Manu. Another labourer, Prince, who works at a restaurant near Subhani Building, said the owner had just shown the workers the door when the government imposed curfew. “We are unable to go to shelters established by the administration as the police are not allowing us to move at all, fearing that we may try to go to our native places on foot. They stop us at every check post and beat us up for being out amid curfew,” he said. Most labourers are confined to labour quarters as the police had earlier directed the industry to provide them with subsistence allowance so that they could fulfil their daily needs. The administration had also directed the owners of labour quarters to not ask labourers for rent for a month. Ration and food is also being distributed among the needy by the administration and different NGOs.Deputy commissioner Pradeep Agrawal said the inflow of migrants to the homes was much more last week but their number had considerably reduced now as they had reportedly gone back to their quarters.“We have created the facility but the number of migrants staying there is low as they prefer staying in their homes or quarters. With strict curfew restrictions, we have successfully managed to confine them and have also been sensitising them to stay indoors and maintain social distancing,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/shelter-homes-in-ludhiana-just-have-1-occupancy/story-cU9ukvFYc23eM0wJXP7TbM.html
09-04-2020||City||Sunaria prisoners go into overdrive to prepare meals, stitch masks||The relentless clamour of utensils and sewing machines is the order of the day at Rohtak’s Sunaria jail. As the country remains nearly paralysed over the coronavirus outbreak, more than 1,000 prisoners have shown a great enterprise by preparing meals for about 2,500 underprivileged people, besides stitching masks.Jail superintendent Suneel Sangwan said 1,082 inmates have been catering to needy people in Bhiwani with the help of a local NGO. “We are providing food cooked under hygienic conditions to the NGO, which distributes it further. The tasks of food preparation and production of masks has been divided among the inmates.”“We have delivered about 2,000 masks to Sonepat police, 100 to a media organisation and 1,000 to an NGO in Dadri. The inmates have been given umbrella machines and the material required for manufacturing masks. All necessary precautions are duly taken during production. We have given hand sanitisers, soaps and masks to the inmates, who are following social distancing while working,” the jail superintendent said.On asking about the demand of masks, Sangwan said they have already delivered the orders received by them and were now waiting for new ones for past two days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sunaria-prisoners-go-into-overdrive-to-prepare-meals-stitch-masks/story-UrNTQGKbo7YiASdpZgDXXL.html
09-04-2020||Delhi||Doctors harassed, assaulted by man at fruit shop in Gulmohar Enclave||A 42-year-old interior designer was arrested on Wednesday night for allegedly molesting, assaulting and threatening two women doctors of a government hospital, due to an altercation over social distancing at a fruit shop in south Delhi’s Gulmohar Enclave, the police said.The police said that the man, a south Delhi resident, was fearful that the two women could get affected and spread the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease if they did not practise social distancing. He ended up abusing and harassing them, the police said.A case of wrongful restrain, voluntarily causing hurt, molestation, criminal intimidation, and sexual harassment was registered under sections 341, 323, 354, 506 and 509 of the Indian Penal Code at the Hauz Khas police station, said deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur.Thakur said the two doctors, siblings, were off duty and had gone to buy fruits at the shop, close to their rented accommodation, when the incident took place. One of them, who is 29 years old, alleged that the man asked them to maintain social distancing even as they tried telling him that they are doctors and aware of the guidelines.HT is withholding the names of the hospital and doctors as sexual harassment charges have been added to the case. “As the women tried to leave, the man blocked their way, assaulted them and touched them inappropriately. He then left the place. The women approached the police and got themselves medically examined. A case was registered and the suspect was arrested,” a senior police officer, who requested anonymity, said.Delhi health minister Satyendra Jain said on Thursday said that legal action will be taken against those who discriminate against doctors, paramedics and healthcare workers.There have been several reports from across the country of people misbehaving with healthcare workers and doctors over apprehensions that these front-line workers could be contagious and infect others.Delhi Police spokesperson, Mandeep Singh Randhawa, said, “We are all aware that doctors and other health staffers are the front-line warriors in the fight against Covid-19. I, on behalf of the Delhi Police, want to assure all medical staff that we are always available for their safety and protection. They should immediately call us whenever they are in need or distress. Any kind of misbehaviour or harassment of medical staff will not be tolerated and strict action would be taken against those found guilty.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/doctors-harassed-assaulted-by-man-at-fruit-shop-in-gulmohar-enclave/story-qOq73CE5i1keFxUK1PsfPJ.html
09-04-2020||Delhi||Minorities commission asks Delhi health dept to drop mention of Tablighi Jamaat from its bulletins||The Delhi Minorities Commission (DMC) on Thursday wrote to the Delhi government’s health department to refrain from mentioning the Tablighi Jamaat and giving religious undertones to its daily bulletins on the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the city. The commission’s chairperson Zafarul-Islam Khan in a letter to the department said that the health bulletins being released by the government had a separate column under the category ‘Markaz Masjid’, which was being misused by some divisive elements as a “handle to attack the community”. “This kind of categorisation by the government is not only unnecessary but is also leading to attacks on people from the community in various areas across the country and hence must be dropped. The government must give out only the number of cases. Any Muslim is now being taken as a Tablighi while calls are being made for their social boycott,” said Khan. He said there had been incidents of a young man being beaten up in north-west Delhi and others wherein people had been attacked. “This is a crucial aspect, which must be kept in mind before releasing the bulletin,” he said. The Tablighi Jamaat outfit held a congregational event at its Nizamuddin Markaz headquarters in Delhi last month, which was attended by a large number of foreigners and Indians, many of who have tested positive for Covid-19. The DMC letter said, “The World Health Organization (WHO) has taken cognisance of this phenomenon, unique to India. The organization’s emergency programme director Mike Ryan had on April 6 said that countries should not profile Covid-19 cases in terms of religion or any other criteria. Also, he asked governments not to politicise the issue and stop profiling people on a religious basis.” However, a senior Delhi government official said they haven’t received the letter yet, but the categorisation is to prevent panic among people on the rise in the number of cases. “The reason the case count linked to the Tablighi Jamaat is given separately is to assure the public at large that the rise in the city’s total number of cases is attributable to the one event, which means they need not worry about community transmission.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/minorities-commission-asks-delhi-health-dept-to-drop-mention-of-tablighi-jamaat-from-its-bulletins/story-gPT0SedGIAneLCkLymuetI.html
09-04-2020||Chandigarh||Italian tourist succumbs to corona in Gurugram||An Italian tourist, infected with coronavirus, died on Thursday after over 40 days of treatment at Gurugram’s Medanta hospital. The deceased was part of a tourist group comprising 14 persons and all of them were found infected with coronavirus. They were admitted in a hospital in Gurugram after recommendation of the Central government. Hospital sources said three of the tourists are still admitted in the isolation ward of the hospital. The rest are recuperating well.VS Kundu, additional chief secretary and nodal officer of Gurugram’s Covid-19 team, confirmed the death of the tourist. “We are waiting for detailed reports from the hospital. As she was infected with Covid 19, we assume that she died due to it,” Kundu said.Meanwhile, with three fresh cases either having direct or indirect link to Tablighi Jamaat, the Covid-19 positive patients’ count in Haryana jumped to 156 on Thursday. State’s health department officials said a nine-year-old boy from Kaithal and two men from Panchkula, who had attended a Tablighi Jamaat event in Rajasthan’s Sikar last month, have tested positive. The boy, a madarsa student, was in contact with the first Covid-19 patient of Kaithal, who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi’s Nizamuddin. As per the health officials, there were 22 students and three teachers at Madni madarsa on Kaithal’s Sirta Road. While 24 people have tested negative, the boy is currently admitted to the isolation ward of the local civil hospital. The boy is the third child who tested positive for the infection; others are two Sirsa siblings who contracted the virus from their mother. The Panchkula men, aged 18 and 80, were traced on April 1 and moved to the quarantine facility at Nada Sahib gurdwara in Panchkula along with other persons who had attended the jamaat events in different states. With these two cases, the total count of positive patients in Panchkula is four now. Of the total 156 cases reported so far, Nuh had cumulative number of 38 cases, highest in state to this date, followed by Gurugram (32), Palwal and Faridabad (28 each), Karnal (5), Panipat and Panchkula (4 each), Ambala and Sirsa (3 each), Bhiwani, Kaithal and Sonepat (2 each), Fatehabad, Jind, Charkhi Dadri, Rohtak and Hisar (1 each).As per the health bulletin, 18 people in the state have so far been cured and discharged. People concealing Tablighi history to booked for murder bid: VijHaryana home minister Anil Vij on Thursday said anyone who had returned from the Markaz event at Delhi’s Nizamuddin and was still in hiding in Haryana would be booked under Section 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Vij, who also holds the health portfolio, said that more than 1,500 people who returned from the Delhi congregation had been identified and put under surveillance. He said of all traced people with Tablighi link, 105 were found to be infected. (With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/italian-tourist-succumbs-to-corona-in-gurugram/story-gDul5t8sP9TAjCYnS4hpnM.html
09-04-2020||City||Punjab’s crop diversification plan faces stiff challenge||Chandigarh Even as Punjab has planned wheat harvesting in phases due to covid-19, the state’s plans to ramp up diversification of crops by replacing the water-guzzling paddy with water conserving cotton and maize faces challenges. These are timely arrangement of seeds and to ensure farmers can sow these crops within the optimum time frame. Seeds for these crops are to be bought and transported from southern states. For cotton, sowing begins immediately after wheat harvest, expected to be from April 20 to May 31. Maize is sown in June. Paddy comes later and the state allows its transplantation from June 20. Increase in area under the two crops means fall in area under traditional paddy crop.Sources in the state agriculture department said arrangement and distribution of seeds to farmers during lockdown is a tough task. “If we miss sowing cotton, there’s no option but to shift to paddy,” said Satwinder Singh, a Mansa farmer. Baldev Singh, a farmer form Bajak village in Bathinda district, told HT that the next few days were critical for cotton growers because all arrangements such as seeds, fertilisers and pesticides needed to be made in advance. “I am not blaming the government, but as of now things seem out of control,” he said, adding the earlier the cotton is sown, the better it was. Cotton is grown in Bathinda, Mansa, Faridkot, Muktsar, Abohar and Fazilka districts. Maize is grown in Kapurthala, Jalandhar, Nawanshahr, Ropar and Amritsar.“For diversification, the area under cotton is to be increased to 5 lakh hectare this year (from last season’s 3.9 lakh hectare); maize to 3.25 lakh hectare (from last season’s 1.6 lakh hectare). We are focusing our work on ensuring that there is no shortage of seeds,” says state agriculture secretary, Kahan Singh Pannu.For the area planned to be cultivated this year, 27 lakh packets of cotton seeds (which come in 200 grams packing) and 3.2 lakh kilogram maize seed is needed. “We are in touch with companies in Andhra Pradesh and Gujarat that supply BT seeds for cotton and companies in Tamil Nadu and down south for maize seeds,” said Pannu, adding that the government gives 50% subsidy on seeds.Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) vice-chancellor BS Dhillon said the varsity advocated that cotton sowing should begin from April 1, but crop sown till April 15 was also within the ideal time frame. “Further delay in sowing leads to challenges for farmers,” he said. “I am sure maize sowing would be easy, because, hopefully, by then the covid-19 situation would ease out,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-s-crop-diversification-plan-faces-stiff-challenge/story-gLWHzyeSyJYTNEHQGt4pmJ.html
09-04-2020||City||Ministers attend Rupnagar corona patient’s cremation||The 55-year-old coronavirus patient of Chatamali village in Rupnagar district, who died at PGIMER Chandigarh on Wednesday, was cremated at his native village on Thursday. Five persons including two health care providers, two volunteers and one relative of the deceased performed the last rites, even as health minister Balbir Sidhu and technical education minister Charanjit Channi also attended the cremation.Wife and son of the deceased, who were tested positive for Covid-19, are admitted at Gian Sagar Medical College and Hospital, Banur. DC Sonali Giri said Covid-19 patients who die at hospitals in Chandigarh are to be cremated here, but Chatamali residents insisted on cremation at their village so special permissions were obtained.Earlier, there were four instances in a total eight deaths when the family members preferred to stay away from the last rites of the coronavirus victim. In all the cases, it was government functionaries who came forward and performed the religious rituals.After attending the cremation, Sidhu said the authorities have been taking due precautions as per the government of India protocol while handing over the bodies of coronavirus victims to the family members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ministers-attend-rupnagar-corona-patient-s-cremation/story-4sk5T85hN35n4QK2qYABVJ.html
09-04-2020||City||Temporal needs: Offerings at Golden Temple dip from Rs 23 lakh to Rs 15,000 a day||Amritsar: The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) is in a fix and will find it tough to manage its finances as it has seen a massive dip in offerings from devotees at the Golden Temple, the largest gurdwara in the world, due to the curfew imposed to check the spread of covid-19. From an average collection of offerings of Rs 23 lakh a day (Rs 85 crore for the year, including those received online) in 2019-20, its collection for the two weeks since the curfew was imposed has dipped to between Rs 10,000 and Rs 15,000 a day, said an SGPC official, who did not want to be quoted. Besides management of gurdwaras, which entails offering langar, the SGPC also runs educational and medical institutes for social service. It has also been offering langar to the needy across north India amid the lockdown. The situation, in terms of offerings, is similar in all gurdwaras, with a prolonged lockdown likely to further dent its finances. The Golden Temple sees an average daily footfall of 1 lakh; this has now dipped to around 1,000 a day, with devotees mostly coming in from areas near the shrine, said another SGPC official.“Online offerings have also dipped considerably. These come from other states and NRI devotees. With every country battling covid-19, their collective economy and individual savings have been hit. Banks are also not operational in many areas and this, too, has impacted offerings,” said an SGPC official, adding that the Golden Temple employed around 25% (2,800) of the gurdwara body’s 11,000 employees. He added that the monthly salary bill of the SGPC was also in crores. Its annual budget for 2018-19 was Rs 1,205 crore. At Takht Sri Kesgarh Sahib, Anandpur Sahib, the second-largest gurdwara under the SGPC, there was dip in offerings by around Rs 70 lakh in the Holla Mohalla festival this year in March, over the corresponding period last year. To inspire devotees, Golden Temple head granthi Giani Jagtar Singh has given Rs 51,000 as offering to Sri Guru Ram Das Langar Ghar, the langar centre of the temple itself. SGPC chief secretary Roop Singh and former Golden Temple granthi Giani Jaswant Singh have also offered 21,000 each for langar services. Roop Singh added stand-alone contributions continued to come in, with US-based NRI Amrik Singh Giljian offering Rs 5 lakh and another city resident, Gurdip Singh, offering Rs 50,000. SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal said those capable of contributing must do their bit, even though the online medium. He maintained that there was no shortage of people wanting to contribute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/temporal-needs-offerings-at-golden-temple-dip-from-rs-23-lakh-to-rs-15-000-a-day/story-4ZRwDbW6UuSzkL292eo7rK.html
09-04-2020||City||Software glitches delay salaries, govt draws flak from SAD, AAP||Chandigarh: The Punjab government has repeatedly announced to give full pay to all its employees, but many of them are still to get salaries for the month of March, with the release delayed by “technical glitches” in a new software.The state government had introduced an Integrated Financial Management System (IFMS) from April 1 for approval of financial bills, including those related to salaries, and release of payments, after its contract with a private IT firm ended. National Informatics Centre (NIC) is operating the new IFMS. Seeking immediate measures to resolve the problem, Punjab civil secretariat staff association president Sukhchain Singh Khehra claimed that a large segment of employees who were going out of their homes and performing their duty to contain the spread of coronavirus had been waiting for their salaries, even after nine days.A finance department official said the government was releasing salaries, but the process was taking extra time due to technical snags in the new system. “Our people and those of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) are working day and night to remove the glitches and make payments. On Thursday, we released Rs 150 crore for salaries. Banks and government offices did not function for several days this month, due to the financial closing at the start, and then we had some holidays,” he added. Unlike several other states which have deferred salaries, Punjab has decided to pay full salaries to all its employees, including contractual and outsourcing ones, for the curfew period.The opposition Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), however, flayed the state government for the delay, accusing it of adopting a “callous” attitude towards police personnel, healthcare workers and other frontline workers, fighters against covid-19. “It is unfortunate that in this difficult time, our protectors are not being paid on time by the state government,” former minister Bikram Singh Majithia said, asking chief minister Amarinder Singh to intervene and ensure all frontline workers were paid their salaries immediately. Leader of opposition (LOP) Harpal Singh Cheema also urged the CM to ensure that brave hearts fighting coronavirus from the frontlines do not face any difficulty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/software-glitches-delay-salaries-govt-draws-flak-from-sad-aap/story-SAqI4l2jWDE5bVYkBBwP3N.html
09-04-2020||City||Police rope in 4,336 volunteers for relief ops, curfew enforcement||Punjab Police have roped in 4,336 volunteers to join the “Dial 112” workforce to support the 40,000-strong force on the ground and further ramp up effective supervision of Covid-19-related relief operations.The scheme launched on a pilot basis in 10 districts so far has seen these volunteers work closely with police personnel on delivery of essential services and other relief as well as enforcement work at the ground level, director general of police Dinkar Gupta said in a statement.The districts covered incude Amritsar city (270), Amritsar rural (83), Bathinda (370), Fazilka (343), Ferozepur (239), Jalandhar City (267), Ludhiana City (1602), Ludhiana Rural (388), SAS Nagar (272) and Patiala (502). The services of these volunteers are also being used in other districts, on need basis.“These DIAL 112 volunteers, as they are called, are assisting the police in various functions including, preparation of ration packets and their distribution, traffic regulation and enforcement of curfew, providing emergency medical help/medicines, distribution of sanitary pads, besides distributing food packets to the force deployed on duty,” he said.The police decided to enrol volunteers as the number of calls received on the ‘DIAL 112 Emergency Response Service’ (ERS), which was converted to curfew helpline, had gone up phenomenally in recent days, to touch 24,000 per day, he said. The helpline response capacity has also been doubled.Gupta also said that 381 FIRs were been registered, 568 persons arrested, 186 vehicles impounded and 1,499 persons taken to open jails for curfew violations. Apart from these, four FIRs have also been registered against the persons indulged in spreading fake news on social media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/police-rope-in-4-336-volunteers-for-relief-ops-curfew-enforcement/story-aEYpLWHHML8qXP2XAtOOLN.html
09-04-2020||Noida||Physiotherapist booked for killing dog||A physiotherapist was booked by the Expressway police for allegedly killing his neighbour’s pet dog in Sector 167 on Wednesday night. A probe in the matter is underway.The incident was reported from Dostpur Mangrauli village. According to the owner of the dog, the suspect, Chandra Pal Sharma, had tried to harm the animal on an earlier occasion as well.“The dog was friendly with children. But Sharma has young children and he was always scared of the dog. He has tried to hit him earlier as well. On Wednesday, around 8pm, Sharma dragged the dog away from our home. The dog’s neck got stuck in the gate after which he hit our dog with a rod repeatedly,” pet owner and complainant Raj Kumar said.Kumar said later, Sharma dragged the dog for almost two kilometers after tying the animal to his motorcycle and refused to listen to anyone who tried to intervene. The family suspects that rumours of dogs spreading coronavirus may be why the paramedic killed the dog.The family informed the Gautam Budh Nagar unit of People for Animals about the incident after which a case was filed at the Expressway police station against the suspect under sections 428 (mischief by killing or maiming animal) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960.Sharma has denied the charges.“The family has several dogs that are left in the open. On three occasions, my daughter was bit. The animals rummage through our garbage. On Wednesday night, I saw two dogs going through our dustbin and I tried to shoo them away. One of them ran away, however, I accidentally hit the other with a stick. I had no intention of harming it but the dog collapsed. After that, I asked a person I know to take the animal for treatment on my bike,” he said.Police said a probe in the matter is underway. “No arrest has been made as yet. We will take necessary legal action after a thorough investigation,” Yogesh Malik, station house officer, Expressway police station, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/physiotherapist-booked-for-killing-dog/story-8w3ccSz6TkouLwBdQ9ffqM.html
09-04-2020||Noida||52 juveniles released on interim bail from Gautam Budh Nagar observation home||Following the Supreme Court’s orders to clear out prisons and juvenile detention centres across the country to avoid an outbreak of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the Gautam Budh Nagar observation home has so far granted interim bail to 52 juvenile detainees.The detention centre located in Noida’s Phase 2 houses juveniles from five Uttar Pradesh districts—Gautam Budh Nagar, Ghaziabad, Shamli, Muzaffarnagar and Saharanpur.The apex court on April 3 had instructed that the children in homes be sent back to their families. The decision was taken for the welfare of the children and to avoid an outbreak of Covid-19 in enclosed spaces.“There are 184 juveniles in the observation home now, of whom 52 have now been granted interim bail and released into the care of their families and guardians,” said Juvenile Justice Board member, Gautam Budh Nagar, Aneet Singh Bhagel.While 26 of the children are from Gautam Budh Nagar, 15 are from Ghaziabad, six from Saharanpur, four from Shamli and one from Muzaffarnagar, said officials.“For the other districts, principal magistrates and district judges had come here to announce the orders, while for our district, the decisions were taken by additional district judge Nalinkant Tyagi and principal magistrate Viresh Chandra,” said Baghel.He said that inquiries for rest of the cases are pending and gradually the others will be released as well. Among the juveniles who were granted bail, four cases were of heinous crimes while the rest were for petty as well as serious crimes. The kids are all of the age group 10-17.After the Uttar Pradesh State Legal Services Authority had taken suo-motu cognizance of the situation following Supreme Court orders, officials had inspected the observation home.“There are no sick children in the centre and all requisite hygiene measures are being taken. The premises are also being sanitised. Meanwhile, the juveniles will be handed over to the families who will take signed custody,” said Bhagel.Action will be taken against the signatory in case the juveniles on bail violate the conditions of their release.Officials also said that for out-of-district juveniles travelling back home after their release, necessary permits and passes have been procured for ease of transfer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/52-juveniles-released-on-interim-bail-from-gautam-budh-nagar-observation-home/story-mjeSfTIotgHgt0X7tGAMgN.html
09-04-2020||City||3 coronavirus patients of Jalandhar village recover||JALANDHAR The Virk village of the district is heading towards normalcy after the safe return of three coronavirus patients whose reports came negative in two subsequent tests at Jalandhar civil hospital. Harjinder Singh, Baljinder Kaur and Hardeep Singh of the same family, who came in contact with Baldev Singh of SBS Nagar district, returned home on Wednesday after being discharged from the hospital.Phillaur SDM Dr Vaneet Kumar said that due to immediate contact tracing, they were able to contain the virus within one family only. Now, only one member of the family is undergoing treatment and likely to return home in the coming few days.He said the reports of all 29 contacts of these patients came negative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-coronavirus-patients-of-jalandhar-village-recover/story-Kev4X53CvsNZoeJBgg8exK.html
09-04-2020||Mumbai||95K masks worth ₹1.36cr seized from SoBo godown, trader arrested||The officers from Mumbai crime branch’s unit 3 raided a godown at Reay Road on Wednesday night and seized 95,000 masks worth ₹1.36 crore and arrested a 36-year-old trader under the Essential Commodities (EC) Act on Thursday.“The owner of the godown, Abdul Sayyad Aktari Mirtuza, was arrested under the EC Act. Mirtuza, a Byculla resident, told the police that he had bought the masks in bulk and stored them in his godown and wanted to sell them later. He has been supplying face masks to medical stores and others from more than five years without any license. The officers have seized 64,000 N-95 masks worth ₹1.28 crore and 31,000 3-ply masks worth ₹7.75 lakh,” said senior inspector Ashok Khot of unit 3. After the lockdown was declared on March 23, the crime branch has seized around 32.58 lakh masks worth ₹17.30 crore from different parts of the city. Of these, 10.30 lakh were N-95 masks worth around ₹12.45 crore, while the remaining were 3-ply masks worth ₹4.85 crore, joint commissioner of police Santosh Rastogi of the Mumbai crime branch said.The government has declared face masks and hand sanitisers as essential commodities upto June 30 to insure that there is no scarcity of these two items and they are priced correctly. Under the EC Act, the government has declared that investigating agencies can carry out operations against those involved in the black marketing of masks and hand sanitisers.“We started a crackdown against those storing the masks illegally and are selling them at a higher price. We have arrested around 20 people from across the city under the EC Act until now selling these products in black market,” said Rastogi. “If any person stores masks in a truck or a godown without a valid licence, then the police informs the collector’s office and following the collector’s order, the masks are handed over to government authorities. Until now, we have handed over around 9.20 lakh seized masks to the civic body and Haffkine Institute as per the collector’s orders. The others too will be handed over soon after the orders are received,” a crime branch officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/95k-masks-worth-1-36cr-seized-from-sobo-godown-trader-arrested/story-g4GwbhZwN04rpbAM3KlBEK.html
09-04-2020||City||Newly opened sample collection booth in Gzb shuts down over fears of cross-contamination||Just two days after a Covid-19 sample-collection booth was inaugurated at the Sanjay Nagar Combined District Hospital, the facility has been shut down after the first day of operation. The officials of the district health department said that the facility has been shut for now as the process can cause cross-contamination. Further, the officials are awaiting a standard operating procedure (SOP) for sample collection.The officials, on March 7, had inaugurated the sampling booth with the help of an NGO called, Arambh Ek Pahal. The facility resembles a glass cabin with a pair of gloves hanging out. On the outside of the glass cabin, patients are supposed to arrive and their samples are to be taken by the healthcare professional sitting inside the cabin.“The process of sampling at the booth has been stopped as it can lead to cross contamination among patients who arrive for sampling. The glass cabin will provide protection to the person taking the samples from inside. But the patients standing outside may get infected as the gloves hanging outside the glass cabin would need to be disinfected time and again,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer (CMO).The officials during the inauguration had touted the facility as the first in UP and the first of its kind in the whole of National Capital Region(NCR). CMO Gupta said that a team of health department officials had also visited the booth to take note of the issues with the facility. During a spot visit by the HT team on March 8, the facility was found to be vacant.“For now, we have stopped the operation and no samples are being taken. A report will be sent to the district magistrate once the team finishes inspection. The cabin will be opened for sampling only when a standard operating procedure (SOP) has been defined. Till then it will remain closed. The idea behind installing the cabin was to protect the healthcare worker from getting infected and to also reduce the number of personal protection kits. However, we realised that the patients themselves were at the risk of getting contaminated from the gloves hanging outside the cabin,” Dr Gupta added.The officials said that the facility is not for general public, but only for patients who get a prescription from a government doctor for taking up Covid-19 sampling.Pallavi, the chairperson of Arambh Ek Pahal, told HT on March 8 that 31 samples were taken from patients on Tuesday. She, however, was not available for comments on Thursday. The initiative was taken up by chief development officer Asmita Lal. She, however, did not take calls on Wednesday and Thursday. District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey did not take calls either.“The operation has been stopped due to technical issues and we are holding discussion with officials who have come from Lucknow. Once they give a go-ahead, the facility will resume operation. The gloves will get sanitised after each sampling by one person who will stand outside the cabin. This will be done in order to avoid any chance of cross-contamination. This is the SOP,” said Shantanu Sharma, member of the NGO and technical head, looking after the facility.“The rubber we are using is completely safe and provides virus protection to person inside taking the samples. But how will it react for a person standing outside needs to be seen,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/newly-opened-sample-collection-booth-in-gzb-shuts-down-over-fears-of-cross-contamination/story-MVRrsOggObjeTp01zlNFqN.html
09-04-2020||City||500 teams start surveillance drive in 13 Ghaziabad hot spots||A day after the Uttar Pradesh government ordered an intensive lockdown of all the Covid-19 hot spots in the state, the Ghaziabad health department roped in about 500 teams to take up surveillance exercise in 13 areas, which have been completely sealed since April 9. The officials said that the teams will visit each of the houses in the 13 hot spots and collect micro-level details.This activity is in addition to the ongoing containment activity in areas, from where cases of Covid-19 have been reported. Several teams comprising about 200 persons are already working as a part of the containment exercise.“Apart from the containment exercise, we have roped in about 500 teams, comprising three members each, for the 13 hot spot areas. They will visit about 50 houses per day in these areas, unlike 100 houses taken up by the containment teams. This surveillance will be more intensive. As a part of a prescribed format, the teams will note down replies about any resident having foreign history in past the 15 days. The teams will also note down details of any flu-like cases prevalent in family and the contacts of Covid-19 positive patients,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer(CMO). He added that the newly initiated surveillance activity and the ongoing containment activity will go on simultaneously.The surveillance teams will also make residents aware about the importance of hand washing and social distancing.“The team members are all trained. In their report, cases falling under the category of severe acute respiratory infections (SARI) will be referred to the nearest government healthcare facility. This surveillance exercise will be more intensive than what is done by teams under the containment exercise,” Dr Gupta added.Under the containment exercise, which was initiated since Covid-19 cases started to emerge in Ghaziabad, the officials have so far catered to a population of about 5.46 lakh persons in the 13 identified hot spots.The teams are also involved in putting up stickers outside the homes of persons under home quarantine and also revisiting them, once the home isolation is complete.The newly formed surveillance teams will now revisit and intensify activities in 13 hot spot areas since the intensive lockdown was announced on April 8.As per official figures, the Ghaziabad district till the evening of April 9 has 25 Covid-19 positive cases, while three of them have already been discharged from hospitals.According to the officials of the state health department, the total number of Covid-19 positive cases in the state stood at 410 till the evening of April 9 and 221 of them were linked to Tablighi Jamaat. They added that 31 patients were discharged from hospitals while four deaths have taken so far in the state.“The chief minister has given directions on Thursday for a review of the door-step delivery measures and also of various quarantine facilities. He has also asked for an audit of the ventilator facilities. The hot spots have been identified in order to reduce the impact of Covid-19,” said Awanish Awasthi, UP’s additional chief secretary (home).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/500-teams-start-surveillance-drive-in-13-ghaziabad-hot-spots/story-aExX3ECXupGQiOK8AUO1BI.html
09-04-2020||City||No supply of essentials, drinking water scarce, say Gzb residents on Day 1 of intensive lockdown||Day 1 of a ‘hard lockdown’ imposed in 13 Covid-19 hot spots of Ghaziabad laid bare the shortcomings in the supply chain of essentials, with hundreds of residents complaining that they did not have access to daily food items and no prior arrangement was in place. The Uttar Pradesh government, in an announcement made on Wednesday, had directed the complete sealing of 13 hot spots in Ghaziabad to prevent the spread of Covid-19 in the district, which has so far witnessed 25 positive cases.“The shops inside and outside our society were shut on Tuesday night. Residents faced massive problems in getting milk and vegetables. The milk van finally arrived at around 4pm on Thursday. Even drinking water was scarce, especially for residents who buy bottled water from outside. No vendors were allowed in today. There is no clarity as to how the residents will get access to food,” said Mukesh Kumar, a resident of Oxy Homes Highrise near Tila Mor.The highrise, which is located behind Hindon airbase near Loni, has around 1,300 families and a population of around 6,000 living in it. The entire apartment complex was sealed after Wednesday’s orders as one of the residents was declared positive for Covid-19 by the district health department on April 8.“Both husband and wife work in a hospital and the man tested positive for the virus on Wednesday, while his wife and kids tested negative. While the man has been hospitalised, his family has been put in home quarantine. For essential food supplies, we tried to call up one officer deputed for our highrise. But he did not take calls. So we called up another officer at 9.30am and he told us to wait until they arranged supplies. Residents were not able to get vegetables till Thursday evening,” he added.The 13 hot spots sealed by the administration are Nandgram near mosque; KDP Grand Savana, Raj Nagar Extension; Savoir Park society, Mohan Nagar; B-77/G-5, Shalimar Garden Extension 2; Pasonda; Oxy Homez highrise, Bhopura; Vasundhara sector-2B; Sector-6, Vaishali; Girnar society, Kaushambi; Naipura, Loni; Masuri; Khatu Shyam Colony, Duhai and Covid-1 level hospital, Muradnagar.“Our highrise has been under lockdown since March 28 after a couple tested positive for the virus and 93 of their contacts from the society were identified. After the sealing of hot spots was announced on Wednesday, the entry/exit was further restricted and residents who returned late night from work were asked to stay outside. They were allowed in late at night after proper checks. Guards of our highrise were also not allowed to move out, but after intervention of senior officials they were allowed to leave,” said Sandeep Sharma, resident of Savior Park highrise at Mohan Nagar.According to health officials, the woman who tested positive in Savior Park is an employee of Noida-based company, Ceasefire. The highrise has around 800 flats, which is occupied by at least 2500 people.“At 8.30am on Thursday, the only shop in the highrise closed. Even the garbage and milk vans were not allowed to enter. The milk van guy went to the backside and handed over some packets to the residents. During the initial sealing on March 28, we had liberty to move out to fetch daily items. Now, that too has been completely banned,” he added.On late Wednesday night the district administration rolled out a list of all hotpspot with mobile numbers of different officers who were attached to look after the door step delivery of essentials for residents living there.One of the biggest hot spots is Masuri near NH-9, which is officially estimated to house a population of about 50,000 people living in 5,000 houses.“Our locality in Masuri was sealed last week after 10 people — who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat Markaz at Delhi’s Nizamuddin — were found to be living here. My son had also gone with the group and is presently lodged in a government quarantine centre. We are under home quarantine ever since and have not moved out. We have no milk, vegetables and are just surviving on ration left at home,” a resident of Nalipada locality in Masuri, said.Another hotspot that was identified is a highrise in Kaushambi where a doctor — who returned from France — tested positive for Covid-19. He later recovered and was discharged from a hospital in Delhi.“The residents in Kaushambi area better placed and are getting online delivery of food items. However, the administration should concentrate more in areas like Masuri, where people are poor and are not used to ordering groceries online,” said VK Mittal, president of Kaushambi Apartments’ RWA (KARWA).District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey did not respond to repeated calls and messages over the issue. Shalindera Singh, additional district magistrate (city), also did not take calls.City magistrate Shiv Prakash Shukl however responded and said that there may be some difficulties on Day 1but efforts were on to streamline the services.“The doorstep delivery will be in case we get calls from residents. Even RWAs have been asked to prepare list of bulk orders, which will be supplied. In the meantime we are also planning to set up stalls of vegetables and milk in hot spots from where residents can purchase whatever they need. In other areas, where people are not aware about online delivery, we have pasted lists of our contacts and they can call us,” he added.The district administration on Thursday evening rolled out another list in which service providers of milk, medicines and fruits/vegetables were assigned to each 13 hot spots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-supply-of-essentials-drinking-water-scarce-say-gzb-residents-on-day-1-of-intensive-lockdown/story-0jKlCewQSVF5ru0yHUsocJ.html
09-04-2020||City||60 booked for obstructing cremation of corona patient||The commissionerate of police have booked 60 unidentified persons on Thursday for obstructing the administration from performing last rites of a coronavirus patient at Harnamdass Pura locality in Jalandhar.Parveen Kumar, who had tested positive for the virus on Wednesday, passed away on Thursday. When his family went to cremate his body at the cremation ground, locals tried to block their way.Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said that these perpetrators are being identified and have been booked under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease danger¬ous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 271 (disobedience to quarantine rule), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions) and 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), Section 3 of the Epidemic Disease Act, 1893, and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act, 1996.He said that strict action will be taken against those defying the norms.A team of senior police officials has been formed to identify those who tried to top the administration from performing the last rites of the corona patient.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/60-booked-for-obstructing-cremation-of-corona-patient/story-UrGhy73mqfjnUvngxMBAuL.html
09-04-2020||City||DSGMC offers its two hospitals for treatment of Covid patients||NEW DELHIThe Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) on Wednesday offered the Delhi government a 50-bedded hospital and an unfurnished 500-bedded hospital building for treatment of coronavirus patients in the national capital.In a letter to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, DSGMC president Manjinder Singh Sirsa said the Delhi government is developing infrastructure, including hospitals to manage foreseen exponential rise in Covid-19 patients and converting even hotels and banquet halls into health facilities.Sirsa said the DSGMC is also running several polyclinics and hospitals to deliver quality healthcare services to the needy in Delhi.“We have no inhibition to offer you Guru Harkrishan Hospital, a 50-bedded multi-disciplinary hospital with intensive care unit, which is functional at Gurdwara Bala Sahib,” he said.“A 500-bedded six-storey building of Guru Harkrishan Institute of Medical Sciences and research located in 11-acre compound of Gurdwara Bala Sahib in Sunlight Colony is almost ready. If the Delhi government desires, it can be completed in an expedited manner and used for this purpose,” Sirsa said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dsgmc-offers-its-two-hospitals-for-treatment-of-covid-patients/story-22KdVGB2knOj9c5gldvqkI.html
09-04-2020||City||Private schools told to give full pay, not to charge fee for online classes||CHANDIGARH Punjab school education minister Vijay Inder Singla on Thursday told all private schools in the state to pay full salaries to their employees during the lockdown period.Singla asked the schools to follow the rules and regulations laid under ‘The Punjab Regulation of Fee of Unaided Educational Institutional Act’ which has been amended to regulate the fee of unaided educational institutions. “No school can demand fee from students on the pretext of online teaching classes during lockdown period,” he said in a set of instructions.The education minister further said that all schools should upload the list of books and colour code of uniform on their website and also paste it on the appropriate locations in the premises, including notice board. “Colour, design and any other specification of uniform shall not be changed at least for two years. Parents are free to buy books and uniform from any shop and if any school forces them to buy them from any particular shop, strict action will be initiated against them,” he said.The school managements have only been allowed to sell the badges depicting the logo of their school for those uniforms which the parents buy from other vendors than the school’s. The home delivery of books by schools through a particular vendor has also been barred. The minister said the education department has also released an order under which all the schools have been restricted from demanding admission fees during the lockdown period.“The schools should also not charge transportation fees and books charges from students for the next academic session till the situation normalises,” he added. As many as 48 schools across the state have been issued show-cause notices for defying government directions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/private-schools-told-to-give-full-pay-not-to-charge-fee-for-online-classes/story-8nXm293CXTfVi93qubIH0H.html
09-04-2020||Lucknow||Priyanka Gandhi praises KGMU researcher for dedication||Ramkrishna, a research scholar in King George Medical University’s microbiology department, shot to fame on Thursday when Congress general secretary wrote a letter to him appreciating his work and dedication towards Coronavirus patients.A native of Telangana, Ramkrishna is currently helping the KGMU staff in testing samples of coronavirus suspects and patients.“I knew about his skills and dedication so while we were setting laboratory for coronavirus tests, I gave him a call to ask if he would like to join the team. He immediately gave his consent and travelled over 1500 kilometres to Lucknow to join our team when people were locking them down in their homes due to the fear of pandemic,” said Prof Amita Jain, head of department, microbiology, KGMU.On Thursday, his gesture got an appreciation from Congress general secretary.“We appreciate that you travelled 1500 kms from Telangana to Lucknow to work,” said Priyanka in the letter.Ramkrishna was back in his native village when he got the call from Prof Jain.Even when his parents insisted he must not go, Ramkrishna convinced them and took a flight to Lucknow.“If he had refused I would not have any grudges as he was on leave. He could have easily chosen to spend time in his village relaxing but he came immediately and his presence in the team has made us stronger,” said Prof Jain.Over three-dozen researchers are testing samples in the KGMU laboratory coming from across the state. The lab is operating 24X7 and is testing over 150 samples a day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/priyanka-gandhi-praises-kgmu-researcher-for-dedication/story-ikH54FMQevZhyEjJk8V7IO.html
09-04-2020||City||Faridkot medical college becomes 3rd govt testing facility in Punjab||The Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital (GGSMCH), Faridkot, has become the third government facility in Punjab for testing of samples for coronavirus (Covid-19) with an initial capacity of 40 tests per day.The Viral Research Diagnostic Laboratory (VRDL) of the medical college conducted a trial run on Thursday after getting approval from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).The trial run was conducted successfully under the guidance of a 31-member team, including 21 doctors and five technicians. The trial report was sent to National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune.The government medical colleges in Patiala and Amritsar already have the testing facilities for Covid-19.Dr Raj Bahadur, vice-chancellor, Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS), Faridkot, said ICMR has certified the institute to carry out the Covid-19 tests. “NIV had recently sent extraction kits, screening and confirmation kits among other items to the hospital. We have sent the trial report to Pune laboratory for confirmation after which regular testing of Covid-19 samples will be initiated at Faridkot medical college.”Apart from Faridkot, this lab will provide testing services to the people from the Fazilka, Ferozepur, Moga, Bathinda and Muktsar districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/faridkot-medical-college-becomes-3rd-govt-testing-facility-in-punjab/story-MbtM3OVJ9aHO2MDmkbrdoO.html
09-04-2020||Mumbai||Online system to connect policy makers with locals||Researchers at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) – Patna are developing a multilingual event monitoring system that will connect policymakers and humanitarian organisations with citizens directly or indirectly affected by the Covid-19 outbreak. The platform will also map Covid-19 cases across India, including hotspots, disseminate accurate information and rectify misinformation about the disease on social media. “We have already developed a system for natural disasters such as floods and earthquakes. For Covid-19, we are ready with basic algorithms, but they need to be added to new data that is being generated on the disease,” said Pushpak Bhattacharya, director, IIT-Patna and principal investigator. Their work is an extension of a Ministry of Human Resource Development(MHRD) project the institute bagged in 2018 which involved creating a cross-lingual and multi-lingual event monitoring system in three domains – health, natural disasters and financial disasters - in Indian languages such as English, Hindi, Marathi, Bangla and Tamil.“We are now designing information extraction techniques to collect Covid-19 data on the number of infected, casualty, hotpots from social media tweets, newspapers or any written documents, and information such as symptoms, potential drug names and chemical compounds from existing scientific literature,” said Asif Ekbal, associate professor, department of computer science and engineering, IIT-Patna.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/online-system-to-connect-policy-makers-with-locals/story-eM45zGwJch2xuFZ4IpOyAK.html
09-04-2020||Mumbai||Only 1 person allowed in common areas of Andheri society at a time||At a residential building in Andheri (East), no more than one person is allowed in the common areas at any time. The society has had its social distancing measures in place since March 15.Parshavadeep co-operative housing society in Gundavli, with 80 residents, has enforced strict guidelines for social isolation as part of its efforts to contain the spread of the Sars-Cov-2 virus. Residents who step out of their homes are monitored on closed circuit television (CCTV) cameras. No outsiders, including help, vendors or even relatives, are allowed into the building. Daily groceries are delivered to the building’s main gate and one person from each floor goes down to collect these after each item is sanitised. Each floor has its own ‘shift’ to collect deliveries. Residents stay in touch using a common social media platform, and so far, not one resident has violated any guideline.“We had implemented these rules from March 15 itself, much before the national lockdown was announced. The idea is to protect each resident and ensure there is no inconvenience during this difficult period,” said Devang Ambavi, treasurer of the society. “Essentials including medicines to senior citizens have been provided regularly, and so far nobody over the age of 55 or anyone younger than 16 has needed to step outside.”Resident Avni Shah said, “To keep children engaged at home, residents are using a social media platform for community dance practice every other day.”While security staff has been provided residential facilities within the complex, residents have also developed a roster system to provide food and beverages to them daily. Since the lockdown was implemented, all common areas, including stairs, doors, parking spaces etc. in the society, are sanitised twice daily, using the sodium hypochlorite solution mandated by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/only-1-person-allowed-in-common-areas-of-andheri-society-at-a-time/story-Y3tQvCjKgrkl0eklULNTWL.html
09-04-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: 218 FIRs against those who stepped out on Wednesday||The Mumbai Police on Wednesday continued taking stringent action and lodged 252 FIRs against those found violating the lockdown order. Of the 252, 218 (86%) were booked for gathering in on place.Since March 20, a total of 1,930 FIRs have been lodged against 3, 634 people for violating lockdown orders. Of this, around 1,285 FIRs (67%) are for gathering in public. Another 474 are for needlessly using vehicles. Nine cases are against those who violated home quarantine orders and the remaining cases are against shops and hawkers operating despite being non-essential services. As containment zones in the city have increased to 381, the Mumbai Police is deploying more force and using drones in areas like Dharavi, where cases are rising, and Worli Koliwada, which is worst hit in Mumbai.On Thursday, a police sub-inspector posted at a nakabandi point in Wadi bunder in Dongri tried to halt a bike for checking. The biker instead fled and the officer, who had held on to the back of the two-wheeler, was dragged on the road. The biker, Khajabi Shaikh Naeem, 40, then fell and was arrested. Police have filed 15 FIRs for visa violation under the Foreigners Act against 156 foreigners across the state, including 32 in Mumbai. “Around 128 of them had attended the Tabliqi Jammat’s congregation in Delhi,” said special inspector general (law and order), Maharashtra Police, Milind Bharambe. Around 160 Jamaat members in Mumbai have been quarantined.Kharghar police on Thursday booked 46 men for going out for a morning walk. The men have been booked under the IPC and Epidemic Diseases Act. Five men were arrested for assaulting a 40-year-old engineer from Thane. On Sunday, Anant Karmuse was allegedly taken to NCP MLA Jitendra Ahwad’s house and beaten for posting a comment against the politico for comments against Modi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-218-firs-against-those-who-stepped-out-on-wed/story-s5SrH8yGl5hHRKNWIXCBEO.html
09-04-2020||Lucknow||Replicate intensified lockdown in hotspots of 25 more districts: Yogi||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday said the exercise of intensifying the lockdown by sealing hotspots in 15 districts should be replicated in the remaining 25 districts, where coronavirus positive cases have been found in Uttar Pradesh. However, the state government has not issued any written orders in this regard. Rather, district administration officials have been asked to take suitable steps at their own level.All hotspots in 15 districts were sealed on Wednesday/Thursday night till April 15 morning.Barring medical teams, sanitisation workers and those deployed for home delivery, no one is being allowed to move about in these areas.“We have identified hotspots in 15 districts where six or more coronavirus positive cases have been reported. The district administration there has been asked to allow only the teams of medical and health, sanitization and doorstep delivery. Now, 410 Corona positive cases have been reported in 40 districts. All these districts, where even one corona positive case has been found, should cordon off the hotspot and implement the restrictions,” the chief minister said. He was addressing district magistrates and district police chiefs in a video conference on Thursday.“No one should be under any doubt. We have to check the spread of the coronavirus. I have surveyed some areas and got some survey reports from 15 districts, where intensified lockdown was ordered on Wednesday. Officers have been found careless in some districts….This carelessness can be dangerous for you and people in your districts. You need to implement the restrictions in every district, where even a single case has been found,” the chief minister said.Earlier, while reviewing the situation, Adityanath asked officers to ramp up surveillance in hotspots by deploying a magistrate for each sector there. “Do not allow any movement other than those of medical, sanitisation, and home delivery teams,” he was quoted as saying in a statement issued by his office. “Increase surveillance in the sealed areas,” he said.Among the 15 districts, Agra has 22 hotspots, Ghaziabad 13, Gautam Buddha Nagar 12, Kanpur 12, Varanasi 4, Shamli 4, Meerut 7, Bareilly 1, Bulandshahr 3, Basti 3, Firozabad 3, Saharanpur 4, Maharajganj 4, Sitapur 1 and Lucknow 12.Adityanath also said: “Establish contact with each quarantined person in the state, using the 1076 helpline and ask about their health and well-being.” Talking to top officers engaged in Covid-19 management, he also asked them to ensure that no one stepped out without a face-mask or face cover, and at the same time encourage people to download ‘Arogya’ app on their smartphones to help them keep safe from Covid-19.The chief minister also asked officers to do an audit of ventilators at government hospitals and medical colleges. “Get an audit of the ventilators done, keep them functional. Ensure availability of PPE (personal protection equipment) kit, infrared thermometers, isolation beds, quarantine beds, sanitisers, N-95 masks and triple-layer masks at these hospitals,” he said.The chief minister sought cleanliness drives in cities and villages. He asked for updates on the status of manufacturing of PPE kits, ventilators and masks in the state. Chief secretary RK Tiwari; infrastructure and industry development commissioner Alok Tandon, additional chief secretary (Home) Awanish Awasthi, additional chief secretary (Finance) Sanjeev Mittal and several other officers attended the meeting.Additional chief secretary (Home) Awanish Kumar Awasthi said the chief minister asked officials to prepare details of the population, as well as all the houses located in the 105 hotspots. Health and police teams would prepare a list of coronavirus positive and suspicious people residing in the hotspots, he said.The state government has called upon Tabligi Jamaat members to voluntarily come out of the houses in which they have taken shelter. People in whose houses the Jamaatis are staying should inform the administration, the senior bureaucrat said. The Tabligi Jammat members will be sent to quarantine centres, Awasthi said. The chief minister also directed the DGP and the home department to prepare a list of magistrates and policemen deployed in hotspots. Awasthi said strict action would be taken against people who violated the complete lockdown. Since the nationwide lockdown was enforced on March 25, the UP police filed 12,236 cases and registered FIRs against 39,857 people, he said. The police checked one crore vehicles across the state and collected Rs 5.61 crore as penalty from the violators, the additional chief secretary said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/replicate-intensified-lockdown-in-hotspots-of-25-more-districts-yogi/story-UxVpTrjbdoivmYFTn1dJ2N.html
09-04-2020||Mumbai||BMC’s flying squads found 130 cases so far||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) flying squads, which were formed in all 227 wards to conduct door-to-door checking, have, so far, found 130 coronavirus positive cases. Moreover, the civic body has found 347 Covid-19 positive cases at its walk-in testing labs and three positive cases through monitoring over the phone.Civic health officials have been strictly instructed to curb community transmission in the city and stop the pandemic from entering the third phase. Speaking to Hindustan Times, Dr Daksha Shah, deputy director, health department, BMC, said, “We have decided to gear up testing through door-to-door visits, walk-ins at testing labs and screening of suspected patients through monitoring over the phone. The civic body has increased its testing in Dharavi by this method. We can control the spread of disease in the surrounding area. We have also identified buildings with patients and sealed them.”During door-to-door visits, after getting details such as the address of the patient, a special team (flying squad) identifies all high- and low-risk contacts of the patient. After cross-checking his/her travel history, the health staff tracks every person who has come in contact with the infected person for symptoms and then asks them to go for the test. The BMC has received more than 10,000 calls on Covid-19 helpline, of which 319 symptomatic persons have been referred for the test. The BMC’s health department has advised institutional quarantine for 1,224 high-risk persons through telephone counselling. All low-risk contacts are advised home quarantine for 14 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-s-flying-squads-found-130-cases-so-far/story-aAfbN8mB50RBrWJhbbgz0N.html
09-04-2020||City||Only two hospitals in Thane to admit Covid-19 patients||The Thane civic commissioner has given directives that Covid-19 patients will be treated in dedicated hospitals only. TMC has assigned Thane Civil Hospital and the Horizon Prime Hospital to treat Covid-19 patients in the city. Private hospitals violating this directive will face legal action under the Epidemic Disease Act.TMC chief Vijay Singhal said, “To avoid the spread of the virus in hospitals it is essential that Covidf-19 patients are not treated with others. We have given directives to the private hospitals not to admit coronavirus patients in their hospitals.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/only-two-hospitals-in-thane-to-admit-covid-19-patients/story-ui50eWdyN89eeYFRsiWolL.html
09-04-2020||City||Thane residents can buy veggies through TMC app||Thane Municipal Corporation’s mobile app, Digithane, will soon give residents the option of ordering dairy products, groceries and vegetables. “We have provided a list of grocery shop in every area; residents can contact the one nearest their house and get them delivered. This will ensure that fewer people step out and there is no crowd outside grocery stores,” said Vijay Singhal, TMC commissioner. The list put up on http://essentials.thanecity.gov.in/ has phone numbers of 1,145 shops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-residents-can-buy-veggies-through-tmc-app/story-0XyQyZQuGT7vtnJ0Fy3SbJ.html
09-04-2020||City||Multipronged war helped curbing spread in SBS Nagar||SBS Nagar Punjab’s first containment zone — 15 villages of Banga subdivision in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar — has not got a single coronavirus positive case since March 26. These 15 villages having a population of 27,000 were sealed after Baldev Singh, who has been dubbed as the state’s first super-spreader, tested positive after his death on March 18. Baldev Singh, who was also Punjab’s first coronavirus casualty, infected 27 people, including 18 from SBS Nagar district. The district has 19 positive cases to date. Baldev was a preacher at Pathlawa village dera and the district administration first identified the villages whose residents were frequent visitors to the dera. Deputy commissioner Vinay Bublani said geographical identification for containment zone was a challenge but “we decided to seal villages where the dera had an influence. We covered nearly 80 per cent of the district under the door-to-door survey to examine the people with the help of Asha workers”. “We immediately deployed teams for contact tracing of the positive cases and identified nearly 760 people. We collected swab samples of 400 people of which 377 were found negative for the virus. The villagers themselves came forward to share the information,” said Bublani, adding that the administration set-up a control room headed by the additional deputy commissioner Aditya Uppal, who supervised the coordination between helplines and health authorities for sampling and other purposes. Banga sub-divisional magistrate Gautam Jain said they screened and surveyed nearly 27,000 people in the 15 sealed villages. He said a teams psychiatrists also was pressed into gather maximum information from Pathlawa residents and also to get them out of the panic mode.The administration also formed a WhatsApp group of 100 key members from 15 Banga villages, including sarpanches, panchayat members and youngsters for better co-ordination and gathering information in real time. The villagers would list essential items required in the group and the officials would deliver them at their doorsteps. Six patrolling teams kept a strict vigil across the village round the clock. “We sanitised the 15 villagers three times and also provided chemicals to the villagers to sanitise their houses. Now, we have been keeping an eye on three villages, including Pathlawa, through drones too,” Jain said. SBS Nagar civil surgeon Dr Rajinder Prasad Bhatia said they deputed around 26 door-to-door survey teams while special medical camps were organised for check-ups. We collected more than 200 samples of the close contacts of positive cases in on March 25 and 26 and called special teams from medical colleges of Patiala and Amritsar.”SBS Nagar, senior superintendent of police Alka Meena said around 240 cops were deputed in the 15 sealed villages to ensure that there was no movement of the people, besides 17 inter-district checkpoints were set up and 55 patrolling vehicles deployed across the district. “We also made WhatsApp groups of people from 15 villages to deliver instruction and get feedback,” Meena said. President of Pathlawa-based Bhai Ghaniya Singh sports club Sandeep Singh said villagers were aware of the crisis and fully co-operated with the administration by home quarantining themselves. “We sanitised our village and kept social distancing as suggested,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/multipronged-war-helped-curbing-spread-in-sbs-nagar/story-4ihqhFQkrGGwlyR0JtUQnO.html
09-04-2020||City||Police nakas set up, Covid Commandos arrive as Dera Bassi ‘hotspot’ declared containment zone||With the number of Covid-19 positive cases in Jawaharpur village at Dera Bassi going up to 22 on Thursday, taking Mohali’s count to 37, the district administration strictly banned movement of people in the area, which was declared a ‘containment zone’ by health authorities.This is the second ‘containment zone’ in the state after SBS Nagar, which reported 19 positive cases, once highest in the state. SBS Nagar has not reported any positive case since march 26. Police nakas were set up all around the village, which has a population of around 3,000. Sample testing with a special police force, Covid Commandos, assisting health officials, was continuing in Jawaharpur, located on the Ambala- Chandigarh highway.Three neighbouring villages, Devi Naga, Mehmudpur and Haripur Kurha, have also remained sealed for the past three days.Five Covid Commandos, a specially selected group of fit Punjab police constables trained as a quick response team to handle the pandemic, reached Jawaharpur on Thursday to assist the health teams collect samples for testing. The nakas were manned by 15 policemen.“Any area, where positive cases are reported, is ‘contained’ by us. We have allowed essential supplies to the village. Only entry and exit of the villagers is banned,” said Mohali deputy commissioner (DC) Girish Dayalan said.“We’re focusing only on Jawaharpur village and previously took 118 samples from there. On Thursday, 64 more samples were collected from the village, ” said Dr Manjit Singh, civil surgeon, Mohali.Referring to the families of two village officials, a sarpanch and panch, who had allegedly not followed social distancing norms and organised community meals for labourers and migrants in the village, Dr Singh said their contacts were being traced even as the primary source of the virus was yet to be found.Since the 42-year-old year panch of the village tested positive on April 3, 20 more people —14 part of his extended family — have tested positive for the infection.Harjit Singh, assistant sub inspector, positioned at the main entry to the village said the movement of residents was being closely monitored as no one was allowed to move out of the village boundary. Outsiders too were not allowed.“We are at the gates round-the-clock,” he added.Jawaharpur resident Jaswinder said they were living in fear and not stepping out of their homes. “Feeding cattle is also getting to be a problem as only one person is allowed to get fodder. As there’s a complete ban on entry of outsiders even vegetable vendors are not coming in,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/police-nakas-set-up-covid-commandos-arrive-as-dera-bassi-hotspot-declared-containment-zone/story-0Qp6n6SzHjVRmfQybBbRfJ.html
09-04-2020||Pune||Five state prisons locked down, including Yerwada; jail staff cannot leave||Five prisons in the state have been locked down, Sunil Ramanand, Additional Director General, Maharashtra Prisons confirmed on Thursday.Prisons at Yerawada in Pune; Arthur road and Byculla, in Mumbai, and prisons at Thane and Kalyan are on lockdown to ensure the Covid-19 infection caused by the Sars-Cov-2 virus, does not break out inside.“I have issued the order for the lockdown of five central prisons. Medically examined prison staff will lock themselves up until further orders and administer the prisons without stepping out. The move has been initiated as these five prisons are located in affected areas of the state and hold very large number of inmates, way beyond capacity. This is s preventive measure in view of Corona spread,” said ADG Ramanand.Currently, no cases of Covid-19 inmates have been reported from these five prisons, ADG Ramanand confirmed.Since the nationwide lockdown was announced, inmates coming in to prisons in Maharashtra were to be kept in isolation for 14 days.In an effort to decongest prisons, undertrial inmates in jail for crimes that could lead to imprisonment of seven years or less upon conviction, are currently being released.According to a decision made by a Supreme Court- mandated committee, inmates eligible for release must be residents of Maharashtra.Prisoners in cases involving serious economic offences, or bank scams, or booked under laws like the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA); Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA); Maharashtra Protection of Interest of Depositors Act (MPID); Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS); and Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (Uapa), will not be eligible release, as per directions of the committee.The District legal service authority (DLSA) is filing appeals for prisoners eligible for release and concerned judges are granting personal bonds.The process of release started on March 27.Until April 8, 3,271 prisoners were released from 37 jails in Maharashtra.A total of 465 were released from Mumbai Central jail followed by 343 from Thane, 300 from Taloja and 270 from Yerawada.A recent Supreme Court order also directed prison authorities to provide transport for the released prisoners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/five-state-prisons-locked-down-including-yerwada-jail-staff-cannot-leave/story-8SY0Mgydb5uR82z6dpjxBJ.html
09-04-2020||Mumbai||‘Placement offers won’t be affected by the Covid-19 lockdown’||The ongoing lockdown has affected exams and admission season across the country, but the placement season at higher education institutes might not deal with the same hurdle. While several students have lost summer internship projects, especially engineering students who were placed for six weeks in companies outside India, jobs offered during the placement season will not be affected by the lockdown, say institutes.“Most countries like the USA, Canada, and Germany have cancelled the summer internship this year. In universities, however, some professors are allowing work-from-home internships,” said Dr Subhasis Chaudhuri, director, Indian Institute of Technology Bombay (IIT-B). The situation looks better for city-based engineering institutes, as many are still busy coordinating virtual interviews between interested companies and students. “Most of the Indian companies are not withdrawing offers; instead they are still keen on hiring students. Our team coordinates with at least two companies daily and Skype interviews are held for students in two slots,” said Nitin Gulhane, training and placement officer for Veermata Jijabai Technological Institute (VJTI) in Matunga. “Companies are keen on inducting graduates at the earliest,” said Gopakumaran Thampi, principal, Thadomal Shahani Engineering College, Bandra. Most job offers have come from IT service, IT consulting, investment banking and retail sectors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/placement-offers-won-t-be-affected-by-the-covid-19-lockdown/story-OQnodKorgaIUtVkxetqzdN.html
09-04-2020||Bangalore||The containment plan of Chennai explained||Of the 15 municipal zones of Chennai, 13 have at least one Covid-19 positive case. The city has recorded at least 163 cases of the 834 in the state, as on April 9. The worst affected areas are in the northern neighbourhoods of the city, home to large fishing colonies and industrial workers’ settlements.In Chennai, the containment zones are two-layered. Within 9 large containment zones, there are about 70 smaller containment clusters in the immediate vicinity of those who’ve tested positive for Covid-19. Each containment zone has a protective radius of five kilometres where movement of people is restricted and disinfectant is sprayed regularly. However, with the rapid surge in cases, the Chennai municipal authorities say they are treating the entire city as a containment zone. Here’s what goes on inside the containment zones of Arumbakkam, Purasawalkam, Santhome, Virugambakkam, Saidapet, West Mambalam, Porur, Alandur and Kotturpuram. 1.Mass surveillance: Nearly 2,500 houses in the containment clusters or those adjoining that of any Covid-19 positive individual are monitored for symptoms on a daily basis by Chennai Corporation’s workers, like anganwadi workers. If one is found with symptoms (dry cough, fever, difficulty breathing), a medical team is rushed to the spot and based on the person’s symptom type and clinical and contact history, a decision is made whether to isolate them at home or take them to the hospital. All health workers, including those newly recruited from self-help groups, carry identification cards on them at all times.2. Perimeter control: The containment clusters are pretty much sealed off. People can’t come in or go out; all essential supplies are door delivered.3. Passive Surveillance: According to Alby John Varghese, regional deputy commissioner (south), Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC), there is constant communication through mobile public address systems on preventive measures inside containment zones.Medical camps too have been set up in the containment zones.4.Disinfection: Mass disinfection is carried out everyday in containment zones and clusters. 5. Contact tracing: The containment cluster is where the probability of the spread of Covid-19 the highest. Thus, all possible contacts of an ‘index case’ are identified and listed. They are put under hospital quarantine using ambulances that have been kept on standby exclusively of Covid-19 cases. TR Vivek is a Bengaluru-based writer||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/the-containment-plan-of-chennai-explained/story-y9CdiTBmjYvqebiivUsoTL.html
09-04-2020||City||Helpline for Navi Mumbai home quarantined||Those who are home quarantined in Navi Mumbai can seek help for any mental health problem by calling 022-35155012. The helpline has eight psychologists. “The panel of psychologists will help callers deal with anxiety or any other issues that they find difficult to cope up with,” said the public relations officer of Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/helpline-for-navi-mumbai-home-quarantined/story-Q1OcfHrElKwnEu1XRT3LfP.html
09-04-2020||Lucknow||Number of coronavirus infected people crosses 400-mark in UP||The number of people infected with coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh breached the 400-mark on Thursday with 41 more people testing positive for the virus, taking the total number of cases to 410.Also, the number of districts in which positive cases have been reported increased to 40.Among the fresh cases, 26 are linked to the Tablighi Jamaat. The overall count of Tablighi Jamaat members with the infection stood at 221.Addressing a press conference, principal secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said the total number of patients who have recovered in the state is now 31 and deaths till now reported are four -- one each in Basti, Meerut, Agra and Varanasi.Meanwhile, the health department has quarantined 5,734 people in various districts and 412 people have been admitted to isolation wards. “We had put 63,855 people, who have returned from foreign countries, on watch, out of which 43,140 people have completed their 28-day quarantine period,” Prasad said.The health department had sent 7,451 samples for laboratory tests out of which 6,953 have tested negative for Covid-19, he said and added that 9,442 isolation beds were ready for the admission of patients.Another 12,119 beds have been reserved in the quarantine facilities. The number of the ventilator beds in hospitals across the state is 864, he said.Prasad said the health department has started the process of the acquisition of private hospitals in small towns. Acquisition notices have been issued to six private hospitals in various towns, he said.Under the Epidemic Act, 1897 and UP Epidemic Disease (Covid-19) Rules 2020, covering of the face (with mask) in public places had been made compulsory in Uttar Pradesh, he said.The people can use triple layer mask available in the market or can make mask at home using clean cloth. The three-layer cotton mask is washable. If a mask is not available, people can use gamcha (light cotton towel), handkerchief or scarf, he said. The face mask or cover should be washed before reuse. The N-95 mask is only for doctors and para-medical staff, Prasad said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/number-of-coronavirus-infected-people-crosses-400-mark-in-up/story-OEENkJ5yDEMSeHsyvjfMkO.html
09-04-2020||Lucknow||Aligarh’s first corona positive is 32-yr-old with Jamaat connect||A 32-year-old youth, who had been to Tabhlighi Jamaat meet in New Delhi, became the first case of coronavirus positive in Aligarh on Thursday.Hailing from Firozabad, the man was residing at mosque in Shahjamal area of Aligarh.The team of health department had reached the area to trace other symptomatic persons who will now be placed under quarantine.“A Jamaat member residing in Shahjamal area of Aligarh has tested positive for coronavirus on Thursday. He is basically from Firozabad and was subjected to tests being symptomatic,” said additional chief medical officer (ACMO) Aligarh Dr PK Sharma.“He is being admitted in Homeopathic Medical College in Aligarh for treatment in isolation ward. Team of health department has reached the Shahjamal area where door to door survey would be conducted within one kilometer radius and those found symptomatic would be taken for quarantine,” he added.While nearby Agra district has already 84 positive cases, a positive case has of coronavirus here have put health authorities on toes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/aligarh-s-first-corona-positive-is-32-yr-old-with-jamaat-connect/story-83OV1xhrXoUPSjSJwndYgI.html
09-04-2020||Pune||Sale of veggies only for four hours in PMC as restrictions come into place||The Pune municipal commissioner has brought in restrictions on the sale of vegetables in the city and residents will be able to buy vegetables from 11am to 2pm and 3pm to 5pm from authorised vegetable sellers by maintaining social distance.“With people rushing to vegetables markets and stalls, the idea behind the lock down is being defeated,” said municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad. He instructed the police to take action against all illegal hawkers and asked each vegetable vendor to keep at least 10 feet distance at each stall. Only one customer can purchase vegetables at one time and only five people are allowed near the market.PMC said in its order that the administration is of the view that Covid -19 cases are likely to increase in the city in the coming days, hence, it is necessary to take more precautions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/sale-of-veggies-only-for-four-hours-in-pmc-as-restrictions-come-into-place/story-6nP6MQTBPHa9N7S4zOiPiI.html
09-04-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Maharashtra to cut legislators’ salaries by 30% for one year||The Maharashtra Cabinet on Thursday decided to cut salaries of MLAs and MLCs by 30 per cent from this month till March next year in view of the state’s economy bearing the brunt of the coronavirus crisis.The Cabinet meeting, chaired by Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, also decided to set up two committees to recommend steps for the economic revival of the state.“A decision has been taken to deduct salaries of MLAs and MLCs by 30 per cent from April 2020 to March 2021,” Pawar, who is also the state finance minister, said after the meeting.He said the Cabinet also decided to set up to committees which will recommend how to revive the economy.One of the committee swill comprise economists, industrialists, retired bureaucrats and senior officials of the finance department, Pawar said.The second panel will include Ajit Pawar and senior ministers Jayant Patil, Balasaheb Thorat, Chhagan Bhujbal, Parab, Eknath Shinde and Ashok Chavan. It was also decided to celebrate the foundation day of Maharashtra on May 1 by only hoisting the national flag, he said, adding that no function or parade will be organised.Only guardian ministers of various districts, collectors and select prominent persons will attend the flag hoisting ceremonies across the state.During the Cabinet meeting, the ministers discussed strict implementation of the lockdown in view of the growing number of coronavirus cases, and increasing the capacity of provisionof food in shelter camps for migrant workers as well as the Shiv Bhojan canteens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-maharashtra-to-cut-legislators-salaries-by-30-for-one-year/story-EdLZOOQ5wMdhS7SalMndvN.html
09-04-2020||City||Had jamaat workers restricted their movement, HP would have been Covid-free: Jai Ram||Expressing concern over the spike in Covid-19 cases in Himachal Pradesh in the recent days, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur outrightly held the workers of Tablighi Jamaat responsible for the spread of the virus in the state.“Had the jamaat attendees not hid their travel history to Nizamuddin congregation and restricted their movement, the state would have been free of Covid-19 by now,” the CM said, adding that 40% positive cases are of the jamaat workers and they have contributed to spread this pandemic across the country.Jai Ram said, as many as 172 people, who had been part of the markaz at Nizamuddin, have been identified in the state. Among them, 17 are still in Delhi, while some have been quarantined in the state and some are still being traced.Majority of the Tablighi members, who have been quarantined, hail from Sirmaur, Chamba and Solan districts.So far, over 700 samples have been taken in the state and 28 people have tested positive for the virus, Thakur said, adding that at present, there are 21 active cases in Himachal and all have Tablighi links. Four patients, all members of an industrialist family from Baddi, have been shifted to Delhi for the treatment and two others have recovered. While a Tibetan, who died in Kangra district on March 23, had not informed the health authorities about his ailment and had undergone treatment at a private hospital.Meanwhile, 4,855 people have been quarantined in the state, he added. On extending the lockdown, the CM said that personally he is in favour of continuing the lockdown, but the final decision will only be taken after the video conferencing with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on April 11.‘HP govt will provide all possible help to pharma companies’The Himachal government will extend all possible help to the drug manufacturers having units in Baddi, Barotiwala and Nalagarh area, to ensure smooth manufacturing of various life-saving drugs including hydroxychloroquine, the CM said.Interacting with the representatives of major pharma companies through video conferencing, the CM said most of these firms are trying to meet the worldwide demand for hydroxychloroquine drug amid coronavirus pandemic.As many as 250 pharma units have resumed production in the area.While appreciating the companies for resuming the production, the CM said sufficient number of trucks would be provided to facilitate transportation of medicines from these companies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/had-jamaat-workers-restricted-their-movement-hp-would-have-been-covid-free-jai-ram/story-MUhKa9Mc8JdDpi8nNzsUdL.html
09-04-2020||Chandigarh||PMGK Scheme: 70,000 poor families in Chandigarh to get food grains, pulses from this week||Nearly 70,000 financially challenged families in the city will get food grains and pulses delivered home from this week as part of the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan (PMGK) scheme even as the UT administration started lifting stocks allocated to it by the Central government from Tuesday. Each family will get 15 kg wheat per head and 1 kg pulses per family per month, an additional 5 kg, as part of the scheme for which food quotas were doubled for April, May and June following the India-wide lockdown after the Covid-19 outbreak.Confirming the development, UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida, said, “A list of families who are now getting direct ration money through direct bank transfer (DBT) scheme will get these wheat and pulses in addition to money.”About 156 families under Antyodaya (AAY) and 63,457 priority households (PHH) here get food grains and pulses every month. More than 2.75 lakh persons are likely to benefit from the scheme.For others, the administration will supply ration and food according to arrangements made during the curfew.Door-to-door deliveryIn Chandigarh the ration depots, traditionally used across the country for distribution of food grains to families under the public distribution system, were discontinued around five years ago. Instead, money was transferred directly to the bank accounts of the targeted beneficiaries.“We will ensure door-to-door delivery of food grains and pulses with the recently introduced delivery system in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak. Our sanitised vehicles and staff will carry a list of beneficiaries and deliver it to their homes. Food grains and pulses will be cleaned and packed in five kg packs to be distributed,” Parida said.To distribute the food stock the administration plans to use the door-to-door delivery system it put in place in the colonies and peripheral areas after the curfew.Delay in lifting food grains“The food grains and pulses were allotted four days back and we have started lifting these. To avoid delay due to the tendering process, we have given the job to National Cooperative Consumers’ Federation of India Ltd (NCCF). Unlike other states we do not have a network of fair price shops. We give ration money directly to banks and do not follow the usual PDS system as in the rest of the country. Hence while others may use existing infrastructure we have to create one,” Parida said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pmgk-scheme-70-000-poor-families-in-chandigarh-to-get-food-grains-pulses-from-this-week/story-EQpUHEb9U8g7at5shzwxBJ.html
09-04-2020||Mumbai||HC grants relief to law student rusticated for smoking cannabis on campus||In a relief to a first-year law student from a Vile Parle college who was rusticated in March for allegedly smoking cannabis in college campus, the Bombay high court (HC) has allowed her to appear for internal exams till regular court resumes post the Covid-19 lockdown. The court also stayed her rustication on the grounds that the college could not have based its decision to rusticate her on the basis of Instagram posts as the veracity of the posts were not confirmed.While hearing the student’s petition, the bench of justice Gautam Patel who conducted the hearing through video conferencing, was informed by advocate Mohit Bhardwaj that the college had taken an arbitrary and disproportionate action in the form of rustication on the basis of suspicion without giving her an opportunity to represent herself. Bhardwaj further submitted that the petitioner and another student were rusticated by the college last month and another 18 students were suspended temporarily. The action by the college, Bhardwaj argued, was unwarranted as it neither provided her any reason nor gave her an opportunity to defend herself.However, advocate Manorama Mohanty, representing the college -- Kirit P Mehta School of Law run by Narsee Monjee Institute of Management Studies (NMIMS), argued that even though the exact reason has not been specified in the response to the students’ plea, the college had relied upon some posts on a social media site which showed the students consuming prohibited material inside the campus. Mohanty submitted that the college had confronted the students with the same before the action was initiated against them, however, she was unable to place the photographs and documents before the court due to the lockdown.After hearing submissions, justice Patel observed that since the material pertaining to social media posts and other documents could not be accessed by the college at the moment, it cannot pass an order on merits of the plea and in the meantime, the petitioner should be granted ad-interim relief. He added that the relief would be active until further hearing takes place. The court also allowed a request made by student to appear for internal exams until further orders. Patel, however, warned that if the action by the college was justified the student would have to face the consequence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-grants-relief-to-law-student-rusticated-for-smoking-cannabis-on-campus/story-aQ98AMS6bJy530cO9QFeDI.html
09-04-2020||Delhi||Arvind Kejriwal announces SHIELD plan to combat coronavirus in Delhi||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday announced a comprehensive plan named ‘SHIELD’ to control the spread of coronavirus in the national capital. “We have ordered containment exercise in 21 areas of Delhi where Covid-19 cases have been found. We have SHIELD these areas to control the spread of Covid-19 in the national capital,” said CM Kejriwal while addressing media here on Thursday.“S stands for sealing of localities, wherein, people from a locality will not go to other areas and vice-versa. H means home quarantine i.e.people will remain in their homes only,” said Kejriwal.“I stands for isolation and tracing under which Covid-19 patients will be isolated and people whom they have met will be traced, identified and will be isolated too. E means essential supplies under which we will ensure door to door delivery of essential services,” he added. “L refers to local sanitisation under which areas will be disinfected on a regular basis.While D stands for door-to-door checking under which we will ask every family whether there is any person having symptoms of coronavirus. If any such person is found, their samples will be taken and further procedure will be followed,” Kejriwal said.Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia had on Wednesday said 20 hotspots have been identified in Delhi in the battle to contain coronavirus. However, the authorities added the Bengali Market in the list of the hotspot.Kejriwal said that the Delhi government is giving free rations to 71 lakh people in the city.“Now, we are also providing ration to those who do not have a ration card. We are facing a few problems but we will soon overcome these,” he added.He further said that the Delhi government have made wearing face mask compulsory.There are 669 cases of coronavirus in the national capital at present, including 426 from the Tablighi Jamaat event that took place in Nizamuddin Markaz last month.With 591 fresh Covid-19 cases and 20 deaths reported in the last 24 hours, India’s total count of coronavirus positive cases on Thursday climbed to 5,865, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said.Among the total cases include 5,218 active cases, 478 cured, discharged, and migrated cases and 169 deaths.(This story has been published from a wire agency feed without modifications to the text. Only the headline has been changed.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/arvind-kejriwal-announces-shield-plan-to-combat-coronavirus-in-delhi/story-eRR5oDZQGSK1TtlNgnIvwK.html
09-04-2020||City||TMC arranges dialysis for patients from sealed Mumbra hospital||The Thane Municipal Corporation will soon provide dialysis to the patients who used the dialysis centre at Kalsekar Hospital in Mumbra which was sealed on Wednesday after a staffer was tested positive for Covid-19.Mumbra MP Shrikant Shinde and Thane mayor Naresh Mhaske gave directives to the corporation to ensure no patient of the sealed hospital’s dialysis centre suffers.In a meeting held between mayor Shinde and the health department of TMC, it was decided that TMC will provide ambulance service to the patients who need dialysis and provide dialysis at other centres in Mumbra, Kalwa or Thane. The corporation informed that more than 50 people regularly got dialysis in Kalsekar Hospital.Mhaske said, “We have decided to provide an alternate option to these patients at Wadia Hospital, Lakhichan Fatichand Hospital and Jito Hospital. A list of all the patients taking dialysis in Kalsekar Hospital will be made and the health department will contact all these patients. The patients will be provided with an ambulance to take them to any of the above centre nearest to their homes. They will also be dropped home after the dialysis is over.”Anirudha Malgaonkar, health officer of TMC assured that all the arrangement for dialysis of the patients of Kalsekar dialysis centre will be made.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tmc-arranges-dialysis-for-patients-from-sealed-mumbra-hospital/story-AONksJM2KNfawncN2oxSKN.html
09-04-2020||Mumbai||CAPA urges govt to review decision on advance bookings for domestic flights||Aviation think tank Centre for Asia Pacific Aviation (CAPA) has urged the government to review its decision to allow airlines to open advance bookings for domestic sector for operations from April 15. Calling the move unfair to consumers, the agency said it was not right to allow advance bookings without making a decision on lifting the lockdown and working out the structure of the transition post the lockdown. It said the civil aviation ministry should allow bookings as and when lockdown is lifted. It also suggested that bookings should be allowed only on the sectors operated by Indian airlines during transition and not the entire network. Airlines declined to comment on CAPA’s statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/capa-urges-govt-to-review-decision-on-advance-bookings-for-domestic-flights/story-yiGxPB1cLf7MeVaOM1f9XK.html
09-04-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan’s Barmer reports first Covid-19 case, screening of area begins||Rajasthan’s Barmer district reported the first Covid-19 case late on Wednesday night and the man who tested positive for coronavirus had travelled from Jaipur’s Ramganj, a hot spot of the pandemic, health department officials said.The 58-year-old man is a government school principal in Chohtan block of Barmer district, chief medical and health officer (CMHO) Dr Kamlesh Choudhary said, adding curfew has been imposed in the block and the health department has started screening the area.The man is a resident of Ramganj and he travelled from the area with three other people on April 5. “After reaching Barmer, the man complained of corona symptoms. His samples were sent for Covid-19 tests on April 7. On Wednesday he reported positive,” Dr Choudhary said.Among the three people who travelled with the principal, one has tested negative for Covid-19 and the results of the other two are awaited, he said.The man was kept in isolation at the Barmer government hospital on April 6; he was referred to the Jodhpur government hospital on Thursday early morning, Dr Choudhary said.The man travelled in a private vehicle from Jaipur via Jalore, raising questions how he travelled 700 kilometers and entered Barmer when district borders have been sealed during lockdown.Screening teams removed from check postBarmer health department has removed medical teams at Gandhav check post through which the corona-positive man entered in Barmer.Three medical teams were deployed at the checkpoint for screening of people entering Barmer. CMHO Choudhary said, “Till April 5 three medical teams were deployed at Gandhav checkpoint. Following the district collector’s directive, the three teams were removed. The decision was taken after the borders were sealed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-s-barmer-reports-first-covid-19-case-screening-of-area-begins/story-YnLFyJQnbF9Irp3hL2fHxI.html
09-04-2020||Mumbai||Vocational education institutes to give two-hour online classes to students||Even during the coronavirus lockdown, institutes offering vocational education in the state have been mandated by the Directorate of Vocational Education and Training (DVET) to conduct at least two hours of online teaching for students. In a circular issued recently, the DVET asked institutes to impart online education and report the details of the same to the regulatory body daily. The DVET has made online teaching content available on its learning management information system. The topics available are engineering drawing, employability skills and fitter, turner, among others. The regulatory body has also uploaded many video lectures on its YouTube channel. Meanwhile, DVET has asked managements and faculty of institutes to come up with innovative teaching techniques during the lockdown. Teachers have also been asked to conduct online classes, allot assignments, take online tests and complete assessment of students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/vocational-education-institutes-to-give-two-hour-online-classes-to-students/story-YnjJ00sHj8Q1w4M16rsEZM.html
09-04-2020||Mumbai||HC refuses to interfere with BCI’s rules for legal education||The Bombay high court (HC) has refused to interfere with the legal education rules, framed by the Bar Council of India (BCI) in September 2008, which requires law colleges to obtain fresh approval every five years.The division bench of justice AS Chandurkar and justice Amit Borkar on Wednesday dismissed a petition filed by Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Law College of Rashtrasant Tukadoji Maharaj Nagpur University challenging clause 2(xxiv) of the rules which restricts validity of permanent approvals to five years. The law college moved the HC in 2018 after the Bar Council of Maharashtra and Goa stopped enrolling students who graduated from the law college on the grounds that the college’s approval had lapsed.The college then approached BCI seeking fresh approval but after BCI demanded ₹21.5 lakh for the same, the college decided to move the court.The college argued the 2008 rules were ultra vires which means it was beyond the rule-making power conferred by the BCI Act. The college also said the rules could not be applied to the college as it was established much before the introduction of the 2008 rules and in view of the fact that the college had been granted permanent approval in 1995 under the Legal Education Rules prevailing at the time.The bench, however, refused to accept the contention. It said BCI has been conferred necessary power to prescribe standards of legal education to be observed by universities for the purpose of discharging its function of promoting legal education and laying down standards of legal education.“This rule-making power would thus include power to modify existing rules with a view to maintain and improve standards of legal education in universities,” said the bench.The court added that the expression “standards of legal education to be observed by the universities” in Section 49(1)(d) of the BCI Act, 1961, does not envisage a one-time exercise to be undertaken by BCI or universities.“Maintaining standards of education cannot be confined to a time frame nor can legal education remain static,” the bench said while dismissing the petition, adding, “It has to evolve with the passage of time keeping pace with developments in legal fields across the world.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-refuses-to-interfere-with-bci-s-rules-for-legal-education/story-K0Tyhj2TTj8NWCLvn368EJ.html
09-04-2020||Delhi||At Delhi’s Covid-19 review, no answers to 2 crucial questions on Tablighi Jamaat||Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal on Thursday led a review of the Covid-19 spread in national capital Delhi, the lockdown protocols and the ability of the administration to accommodate a large number of coronavirus patients in case of a spike in cases. In a statement issued later, Raj Nivas put out a statement outlining the status in concrete terms.What it did not reflect, officials said, were the two key concerns that were expressed at the meeting about the Tablighi Jamaat congregation at its headquarters, or Markaz, last month.“There were two questions to which there were no clear answers,” a senior government official told Hindustan Times after the meeting. One, if the authorities had been able to trace the last of the Tablighi Jamaat worker in Delhi who attended the congregation. “And two, have we been able to pinpoint all the clusters linked to the Jamaat”.Complete Coverage: Coronavirus OutbreakA second government official said there were no clear answers to these questions in a city where two-third of all Covid-19 cases have been traced back to the Jamaat. By last evening, the city had 669 Covid-19 positive cases. Of these, 426 cases had been linked to the Jamaat. There were 93 fresh cases last evening. All of them had been evacuated from the Markaz and located in quarantine facilities in north Delhi.This remains an area of concern, the second official said, pointing that the story of the family of three in south Delhi’s Defence Colony who tested positive reinforced this worry.It turns out that the private security guard of the locality had attended the congregation in Nizamuddin in March. He did not volunteer the information when the authorities appealed to people who had been to the Markaz to come forward. He was eventually located after the three tested positive to the Sars-Cov-2 pathogen and health officials started contact tracing.The police registered a case against the guard and sent him to a quarantine facility. “But there could be others, many others,” the second official mentioned above said.The police already have been trying to trace people who may have attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation using their mobile phones. But it is a painfully slow exercise.Also Read: How India performs on 6 steps to flatten coronavirus curveThe use of mobile phones to track people who violated orders to be in self-isolation has led the police to identify 23 violators so far. They have been charged under the penal code and sent to a state-run quarantine facility, the Raj Nivas statement said.In his presentation, the Delhi health secretary outlined the city administration’s medical preparedness considering possible scenarios.“The Health Department is implementing a containment strategy for all possible high risk zones.... ASHAs and ANMs (Auxiliary nurse midwife) have been trained, retired govt/private medical professionals are being engaged to augment human resources,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/at-delhi-s-covid-19-review-no-answers-to-2-crucial-questions-on-tablighi-jamaat/story-MBjV2AUzcFtnnH1UCzV5DL.html
09-04-2020||City||Covid lockdown: Areas in Bawana, Kirari send most distress calls to police||New Delhi: The city police have identified 10 areas in the national capital from where they received maximum number of calls complaining about unavailability of cooked food, ration and other essential items. Based on the number of calls received at their dedicated 24x7 Covid-19 helpline, 011-23469526, the police have categorised these 10 areas into “distress zones” and placed them on top priority so that quick action can be taken in case of a distress call. The police helpline has received 527 calls in total regarding “no food and no ration” between March 24 and April 7 in the ongoing lockdown period. The objective behind identifying the areas is to give maximum focus on people living in such areas and increase the number of volunteers involved in distribution of cooked food, ration and other essential items, said deputy commissioner of police (licensing) Asif Mohammad Ali, who is supervising the helpline. “The calls received from such areas are transferred to the police stations concerned and also to the organisations and individuals who are volunteering in distribution of food packets, ration and other essential items. Hundreds of people are supplying rice, flour, cooking oil, and other food items to our police stations to distribute among the needy. The idea is to ensure nobody sleeps hungry,” said Ali. An analysis of the 527 such calls received at the helpline shows that of the ten “distress zones”, four are in outer Delhi areas while two each in north and south Delhi. The other two places are in central and north-east Delhi. All these areas are inhabited by migrant workers and poor families, whose source of livelihood has been lost because of the 21-day lockdown imposed to prevent the spread of coronavirus, the police said. According to the list of “distress zones”, accessed by HT, outer Delhi’s Prem Nagar in Kirari tops the list as 20 calls related to hunger and non-availability of ration have been received so far. It was followed by JJ Colony in Bawana from where 12 persons called the city police’s helpline, informing that they do not have food, money or ration. A total of 10 such calls have been received from Shastri Nagar while the police helpline got nine calls from Sant Nagar in Burari, eight calls from north-east Delhi’s Karawal Nagar, and seven calls from Swatantra Nagar in Narela, outer Delhi. The helpline received five calls each from south Delhi’s Meethapur and Madanpur Khadar. Four calls were received from outer Delhi’s Begampur while three calls for cooked food and ration have come from Rabhubarpura in central Delhi. The Delhi government said it will coordinate with the police to address the issues in the areas mentioned. “We already have 1,800 hunger relief centres. Many locations mentioned in the list do have such centres. We will alert our area officials to inspect and start more centres if needed. We will also create more awareness about our existing centres in these locations,” an official in the chief minister’s office said. According to DCP Ali, a majority of hunger and no-ration calls are made to the helpline between 8 am and 8 pm. Top 10 areas from where police have received maximum calls of “no food, no ration” :||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-lockdown-areas-in-bawana-kirari-tops-in-sending-distress-calls-to-police/story-85Vcj7zsdN5ILedCm3xT5M.html
09-04-2020||Lucknow||Akhilesh demands NSA against Kannauj MP||Samajwadi Party (SP) national president Akhilesh Yadav on Wednesday demanded that National Security Act (NSA) should be invoked against BJP MP from Kannauj Subrat Pathak for an alleged assault by him and his supporters on a government officer.Pathak along with his supporters allegedly broke open in the house of a tehsildar on Tuesday and assaulted him over the supply of food packets under the lockdown. The Samajwadi Party president has won the Kannauj LS seat thrice--one bypolls and two general elections, while his wife Dimple Yadav has been Kannauj MP twice--one bypolls and one general election. Subrat Pathak became Kannauj MP by defeating Dimple Yadav in the last LS polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/akhilesh-demands-nsa-against-kannauj-mp/story-UvnjqmQhHcyN5DmVYAUaiO.html
09-04-2020||Delhi||Migrants battle boredom and anxiety at Delhi’s shelter homes||“If the morning tea isn’t so watered down, life will be better,” Tuntun Kumar says, with a shy smile.Kumar has just had his lunch — two pooris, potato, rajma and rice. It was preceded by a breakfast of tea and bread pakora and will be followed by evening tea and biscuits, and a dinner of rice and dal. “The food is good, but the lunch timing of 1pm doesn’t suit us. We, masons, are used to eating by 10-11am,” his friend, Rakesh Kumar, quips in.The Kumars are among four masons who had walked 60 kilometres from Sonepat in Haryana to the Anand Vihar bus terminal on March 29 in the hope of getting to their hometowns in Bihar, before they were lodged at the Sarvodaya Co-education Secondary School in Patparganj.It is one of the 328 shelter homes set up by the Delhi government for accommodating migrants and the homeless during the lockdown. The shelters can accommodate 57,270 people in total and are occupied by 11,500 people currently, a senior government official said.The conversation, meanwhile, has woken up Sunder Mahto, a furniture loader in Kirti Nagar before the lockdown, who also failed in his attempt to get back to his home in Bihar’s Begusarai. He was sleeping in late as he couldn’t doze off at night. “There is such persistent buzzing of mosquitoes that it is as if they are trying to lift me from the bed,” says Mahto.The five men are among 153 migrants staying at the shelter, who are battling boredom, worrying about their families and repeatedly calling their employers in the hope of getting their dues.“If the lockdown isn’t lifted after April 14, we plan to leave and walk along the railway tracks till we get back home,” says Tuntun Kumar. He has only ₹1,600 in his pocket. “I call the contractor every day, but I know he is also in trouble,” he says.Government officials, however, said that if the lockdown is lifted, it is unlikely that they will be allowed to leave the shelter and return home on their own. “Lifting the ban doesn’t mean the spread of the virus is over. So, there will be a standard operating procedure in place for transporting them to their homes in sanitised buses, with adequate social distancing,” an official, on the condition of anonymity, said.While white circles painted on the ground help enforce social distancing when the migrants queue up for their meals, the concept of distancing goes for a toss inside the classrooms where they are staying. With a limited number of power outlets to charge their mobile phones, four to five men lie down on mattresses next to each other and watch a film together on a phone.The staffers at this shelter have had it easy with the migrants so far. “The civil defence volunteers have been able to enforce social distancing outside the rooms,” says Anil Kumar, the manager of the shelter.The situation is different a kilometre away, at Sarvodaya Kanya Vidyalaya in Ghazipur, where the volunteers, cooks and contractors are struggling to convince those housed there that the facilities are the best that they can provide in the circumstances.Ashok Kumar, who worked at a factory in Ghaziabad until the lockdown, got into a confrontation with the staffers on Wednesday morning because they insisted that each member of the family should queue up individually for meals. “My mother won’t let anyone leave the room. She is afraid we’ll all contract the disease if we all queue up for meals,” he says.Despite white circles to ensure social distancing under the watch of volunteers, Kumar’s mother remains defiant. “It is better I die than my children.”The management here has refused to concede to their demands. “It is not practically possible for one member of a family to collect food for all of them,” says Rajender Swaroop, the in-charge.Bipin Rai, a member of the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB), which runs 238 shelters in the city, said the government is trying “every means” to provide a comfortable stay at these shelters.“Whenever there is a requirement of soaps and even shampoos, we are providing it to them. We have medical teams deployed at each school, which has been turned into a shelter. The teams check the body temperature of all occupants daily and also provide medicines for regular illnesses. So, we are trying our best to keep them happy and engaged,” he said.Some at the occupants have complained about the taste of food and alleged that stale food is served when they return for a second helping. “My children and I won’t eat your food anymore,” an angry Sunita, who stayed in Nangloi, where her husband used to work as a tailor, tells SK Gulati, the contractor at the Ghazipur shelter.She was also miffed that she and her husband were allowed to take food only in two plates despite informing that they have to feed three children. “We were told to collect food for our children in the two plates,” she says. A total of 23 people live in the classroom she is putting up at, but most of them prefer to stay close by joining cots.Swaroop says that while the supply of raw food materials is sufficient, it is not the same case with disposable plates. Earlier in the day, some women had allegedly attacked them because he had turned down their demand for new plates when they came for a second helping.Contractor Gulati, meanwhile, attempts to pacify Sunita. “Didn’t you like the rajma-rice we prepared? I personally supervised it and used branded spices,” he says, with a gesture that reveals deep bruises on his left arm.“I was beaten up by the police when I went to collect vegetables from the Ghazipur mandi,” he says.As there are 395 migrants at the shelter home, the management has started the token system to keep them in a queue. “When we serve bread pakora for breakfast, some people ate three to four, leaving none for others,” says Swaroop.Electricity connections were pulled out from tubelights to let the occupants here charge their phone. But that hasn’t stopped them from clustering. Some formed small circles to play cards, while others sat in small groups to chat.While these two shelters being run by the government provide the migrants four meals a day, only two meals, at 1pm and 7pm, are served at an NGO-run shelter in Sarai Kale Khan.Among the 50-odd migrants, who are sharing space with the 400 homeless people, who were staying since before the lockdown, is 28-year-old Mandu Tiwari, seated cross-legged under a tree, with a steel plate in front of him, awaiting his first meal of the day.But Tiwari is all smiles.He has taken a bath and has donned fresh clothes after almost a fortnight, as his belongings were stolen outside Nizamuddin Metro station, where he spent the first few days of the lockdown. “Someone at the shelter gave me his clothes,” he says.He had walked for three days from Rajasthan to Delhi in the hope of catching a train, but spent the initial days outside the Nizamuddin railway station until the NGO took him in. “I haven’t spoken to my family all these days. I don’t remember their phone numbers, as they were saved in the phone that got stolen,” he says, brushing aside questions about his prospects of retaining his job at an automobile parts factory.While ‘tehri’ (flavoured rice) and potato-brinjal vegetable are served to him and the dozens around him, a civil defence volunteer scolds a woman who has brought her children for the meal. “None of you are wearing masks. Didn’t I tell you to take food for your children?” Pawan Chauhan tells her.“The government must provide a projector and screen to educate these people about the severity of the threat,” Chauhan says.However, those an official of the NGO running this shelter says that it is getting difficult to provide two meals a day. “The money we receive is sufficient to serve just two meals. We will be in a tight situation if the lockdown continues,” says the official, who didn’t want to be named.Another government official, meanwhile, said that about 1,800 hunger relief centres are also providing lunch and dinner across Delhi to ensure people don’t go hungry. “We are feeding at least 1.2 million people every day,” the official says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/migrants-battle-boredom-and-anxiety-at-delhi-s-shelter-homes/story-QrxuEMYVgERUVlbWa8B8lI.html
09-04-2020||Lucknow||PTR, Dudhwa officials to keep watch on all big cat species||Officials at the Pilibhit Tiger Reserve (PTR) and Dudhwa National Park have swung into action to ensure compliance with a directive from the union ministry of environment, forest and climate change to ensure the well-being of both forest staff and wild animals.This directive was issued to the principal chief conservator of forests (PCCF), UP, after a tiger tested positive for Covid-19 at the Bronx zoo in New York.“The order of the Central Government and the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) would be strictly implemented,” said H Raja Mohan, field director, Pilibhit Tiger Reserve.He said forest officials will monitor all feline species, particularly tigers and leopards. Villagers across the forest belt too were asked to instantly inform the forest officials if they come across any tiger or leopard outside the forest, he said.The advisory issued by Dr Vaibhav C Mathur, assistant inspector general of the central government and National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) to all states, says that groups that rescue tigers and leopards should be vigilant. If any carnivore is found dead in the forest, then its samples must be collected and sent for tests.Foresters must undergo health check-ups to ensure that they are free of the infection before interacting with villagers living around the forests. The guidelines also require that villagers avoid routes that go through the forests.Pilibhit Tiger Reserve is home to around 65 tigers. Apart from the big cats, there are a variety of leopards. According to 2019-20 estimates, PTR has 25 leopards, 119 bears, 5800 deer species, 5400 nilgai (blue bull) and 320 vultures.Two prominent NGOs, the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) and Wildlife Trust of India (WTI) that regularly provide support to foresters, have also been asked by the NTCA to adhere to the guidelines.“Except forest officials and support staff, with proper sanitization, no one will be allowed to enter the forest area,” said deputy director Dudhwa, Anil Patel.He said camera traps would be used to monitor the condition of carnivores.The NTCA guidelines mandate close observation of wild animals having respiratory complications, including nasal discharge, sneezing, coughing or laboured breathing, he said.Even in case of natural death of a wild animal, its samples must be sent to the Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI) Bareilly for analysis, he added.If any carnivore exhibits symptoms of Covid-19, then it will be provided treatment. A committee of wildlife veterinarians along with range officers and forest guards will be formed to regularly monitor the condition of carnivores.“We have prepared a quarantine ward for the animals in the zoo on the instructions of our director, RK Singh. In case any animal shows any symptoms of Covid-19, it will be kept in quarantine and its samples will be sent for testing. All the staff will be properly sanitised before entering the zoo and all will have to wear masks, gloves and disposable apron while feeding animals. Even the vehicles used for transporting food will be regularly sanitized with sodium hypochlorite solution. Our director has ensured that we have sufficient PPEs at the zoo,” said Dr Brijendra Yadav, veterinarian, Lucknow zoological garden.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/ptr-dudhwa-officials-to-keep-watch-on-all-big-cat-species/story-CqPS6FsLE8DEeR1Qvepi5I.html
09-04-2020||City||On the Frontline: Rising cost of essentials to feed the poor is a concern, says Sanjay Bhosale, director, Annamrita Foundation||Annamrita Foundation, an initiative of the International Society for Krishna Consciousness (Iskcon) has been serving Mid Day meals to more than 40,000 school children daily in Pimpri Chinchwad. Led by its Sanjay Bhosale, director of the foundation, food is being served to the poor in the city in these difficult times.What is your role in this crisis? I oversee the entire operations of our centralised, mega kitchen in Pimpri which serves 400 gms to 500gms meals containing approx 400 calories to over 40,000 people daily in Pimpri-Chinchwad and Pune areas. We are also operating a temporary kitchen from Salisbury Park, for which we thank Bindra’s Kitchen for their support. Our team has been working hard to ensure we supply healthy and nutritious food to the needy in these tough times, while maintaining high standards of cleanliness and systems.How does your day begin and roll out? Since I am a follower of Iskcon Mandir, my day begins at 4 am by chanting the names of Shri Krishna for one-and-half hours and Shri Radha Krishna deity worship followed by 45 minutes of walking. Alongside, I am in contact with my kitchen team since their operations begin at 4.30am. I begin contacting vegetable suppliers by 6.30 am to ensure timely availability of vegetables for my kitchen team.Later during the day, a visit to the kitchen in Pimpri and to various areas in which we are distributing meals follows. I try and meet all our volunteers to inspire and thank them for serving in these tough circumstances and to ensure they are following precautions.Also, I spend some time reading Ramayan, Bhagwad Gita and Bhagwat Puran in order to retain some positivity and calm after being involved in this tense situation the whole day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/on-the-frontline-rising-cost-of-essentials-to-feed-the-poor-is-a-concern-says-sanjay-bhosale-director-annamrita-foundation/story-whd9OiqR6IZKphWlklG0sL.html
09-04-2020||Delhi||Bengali Market becomes first Covid-19 containment zone in Lutyens’ Delhi||The popular Bengali Market has become the first Covid-19 containment zone in Lutyens’ Delhi. It is among 23 such places identified by the Delhi government across the city. The upscale neighbourhood made its way to the list after a surveillance team of the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) found 35 workers of a famous pastry shop living under “unhygienic conditions” violating social-distancing norms. Two workers who had fever-like symptoms (common in Covid-19 patients) will undergo tests.The surveillance was conducted after three persons were found positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) from the neighbourhood. The exact location is not immediately known. The team, which comprised officials of the district administration and the NDMC, screened 325 houses, two markets and about 2,000 people in the Bengali Market and Mandi House area. Bengali Market, which was founded in 1930, has now been sealed by the police, who have blocked all entry and exit points. According to an order issued by New Delhi district magistrate Tanvi Garg, the adjoining areas of Todarmal Road, Babar Lane and School Lane have also been blocked for any kind of movement or congregation.The order asked for action against the bakery shop where workers were living in “highly unhygienic conditions” and social distancing was not being followed.Now, residents in the neighbourhood are not allowed to step outside even to buy essentials, which will be home-delivered to them.“Bengali Market area has been sealed. Strict legal action will be taken against people who violate guidelines issued for the hard lockdown. A list of phone numbers has been made public. You can order essential items on the phone. It will be delivered at your doorstep,” a police official said.DM Garg directed the NDMC to “immediately sanitise” the entire area under containment plan to “prevent” further spread of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/bengali-market-becomes-first-covid-19-containment-zone-in-lutyens-delhi/story-g3JFABxlAS1VYGZvkrr4CM.html
09-04-2020||Chandigarh||17 policemen quarantined in Punjab’s Ludhiana after thief tests positive for Covid-19||LUDHIANA: Seventeen policemen were placed under quarantine in Ludhiana on Thursday, two days after a thief they arrested tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The station house officer (SHO) of the local Focal Point police station was among those quarantined after the vehicle thief, Saurav Sehgal, 25, was caught and produced in a court on April 5. He was behind bars for a day at the Jeevan Nagar police post.Two local residents who had helped the police in arresting Sehgal and 11 of the thief’s family members were also quarantined in the city’s Ganesh Nagar locality.On April 6, the duty magistrate found Sehgal had fever and cough and asked the police to put both the accused through a medical examination before sending them to judicial custody.The duty magistrate and court staff have now been asked to go into self-isolation as a preventive measure.SEARCH ON FOR ACCOMPLICEThe police are searching for Sehgal’s accomplice, Navjot Singh, 25, of Jhabewal village, who was also involved in snatchings, and escaped from the civil hospital when they were taken for the medical examination.Assistant sub inspector Gurmeet Singh said Sehgal was unwell but Navjot looked fit. “The thief was sent to the isolation ward but the moment I opened Navjot’s handcuffs, he pushed me and fled,” the ASI said.A case was registered against him under Section 224 of Indian Penal Code.CONTACT TRACINGTen police personnel, including three ASIs, two head constables, two constables and two home guards of Jeevan Nagar police post, had come in contact with Sehgal on April 5 and 6. The thieves were brought to the Focal Point police station for clicking a picture to be released with the press note. It was here that they came in contact with inspector Mohammad Jamil and a head constable.The accused were taken to court and the civil hospital by three police personnel, including two ASIs and a home guard. Two constables, including a policewoman, came in contact with the accused while recording their fingerprints.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/17-policemen-quarantined-in-punjab-s-ludhiana-after-thief-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-eGSkgdduMGWMvYz6OLoAeL.html
09-04-2020||Jaipur||30 more COVID-19 cases in Rajasthan, state count reaches 413||30 more cases of COVID-19 have been reported from Rajasthan, taking the total number of coronavirus cases in the state to 413, state health department informed.According to the official data, Jhunjhunu, Jhalawar and Tonk have recorded seven cases of COVID-19 each. While Jodhpur and Barmer districts have recorded one case each in the morning today.A total of five cases were reported from the district of Jaisalmer while two were reported from Banswara today.Two people who have tested positive for the virus have a history of attending the Tablighi Jamaat event at Markaz, Nizamuddin in New Delhi.With an increase of 540 COVID-19 cases reported in the last 24 hours, India’s tally of coronavirus cases has risen to 5,734, said the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on Thursday.Out of the 5,734 cases; 5,095 are active COVID-19 cases and 472 cases have recovered or discharged, while one case has migrated.The death toll has also risen to 166 after 17 new deaths were reported in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/30-more-covid-19-cases-in-rajasthan-state-count-reaches-413/story-Md4n4F9nTiyr2YwxESczZK.html
09-04-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot orders ration aid for Pakistani migrants living in state||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has directed officials to provide rations to needy Pakistani migrant families living in the state.The decision will benefit the needy migrant families living in Jaipur, Jodhpur, Barmer, Pali, Bikaner, Jaisalmer, Jalore and Sirohi districts, an official statement issued here on Thursday said.Around 7,000 Hindu migrant families from the neighbouring country live in these eight districts. Jodhpur-based activist Hindu Singh Sodha, president of Seemant Lok Sangthan, had written to the chief minister to draw his attention to the plight of these families.Subsequently, the chief minister sought a report from the district collectors and on the basis of those, the decision was taken to provide ration kits to the needy migrant families, the statement said.In Jaipur, ration kits are being distributed to 500 families living in Jamdoli, Govindpura and Mangyawas areas, while in Jodhpur, 618 families are being covered, it said.Similarly, rations are being distributed to nearly 200 families in Sheo and Chohatan panchayat samiti of Barmer, 92 families in Pali and 93 families in Poogal and Bajju tehsil of Bikaner, the statement added.Migrant families in Jaisalmer, Jalore and Sirohi districts are also being provided relief, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-cm-ashok-gehlot-orders-ration-aid-for-pakistani-migrants-living-in-state/story-WiMlGnmq7W4yHRuoiQ6WsM.html
09-04-2020||Chandigarh||Sangrur nurse murder: Accused could face capital punishment||Maninder Singh, 31, who was arrested on January 14 from a news channel studio in Chandigarh while confessing on live television to have murdered a Sangrur nurse at a hotel in the Industrial Area around the New Year eve, could face capital punishment as Chandigarh Police have charged him with Section 303 (punishment for murder by life convict) of the Indian Penal Code in the 2,000-page challan filed in court on Wednesday.Initially, police had booked him under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). It has also been retained besides other sections of cheating and forgery.Before murdering Sarbjeet Kaur, 27, Maninder had killed another woman, with whom he had a relationship as well, in Karnal in 2010, and was awarded life sentence in 2012. Section 303 of the IPC states that “when a murder convict sentenced to life imprisonment commits another murder, he can be punished with death”. Maninder was currently out on bail after he filed a review petition against the Karnal court ruling in the Punjab and Haryana high court.The investigating officer, sub-inspector Sarita Roy, in the chargesheet has described how on January 1, 2020, Sarbjeet was found murdered in a hotel room, with her throat slit. Sarbjeet, who had previously worked in a private hospital in Mohali, had checked into the hotel room along with Maninder on December 30. He had left the premises the same evening.Maninder had studied till Class 12 at Government Senior Secondary School in Sector 27. He used to work as a driver at a factory in the Industrial Area, till about three months before the crime, and had visited the same hotel along with Sarbjeet a number of times.After committing the crime, Maninder had been on the move — staying in Bathinda, Ludhiana, Hoshiarpur, Patiala, Sangrur and Jalandhar — to avoid being traced. His Hyundai i20 car, which was abandoned in Patiala, was recovered two days before he surfaced.PREMEDITATEDAccording to the chargesheet, the murder was premedidated and did not happen in the spur of the moment after a heated argument in the hotel room, , as claimed by the accused.To corroborate their claim, police have attached the video footage of Maninder buying a knife from Big Bazaar in Zirakpur on December 13. The same knife was used to kill Sarbjeet, it is claimed.Police have given two reasons behind the murder. First, Sarbjeet was gradually stepping back from her promise to marry Maninder.Second, Sarbjeet had given ₹6 lakh to Maninder in September 2019 to make arrangements for their runaway wedding. Maninder had spent it on a car and clothes for himself, and feared Sarbjeet might demand the money back if they parted ways.EVIDENCE ATTACHED“I killed her because she was having an affair with her sister-in-law’s brother,” Maninder had said during his interview to the Punjabi news channel.Police have also attached the footage from the news channel office, though its forensic report to establish veracity is awaited. Likewise, reports of biological evidence, including hair samples and viscera of the deceased, are awaited as the work has been suspended amid the Covid-19 lockdown. Maninder had duped Sarbjeet into coming to Chandigarh by creating a fake email ID of “PGI Recruitment Cell” and writing her on December 24 that she had been selected for a job at the All India Institute Of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Bathinda, and has to join training at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) from December 26.Believing the email to be genuine, Sarbjeet’s brother and sister-in-law dropped her at thePGIMER on December 26, from where Maninder picked her up.Police have attached the PGIMER’s response, denying that any such results were declared. In all, 50 witnesses have been named in the chargesheet and around 100 statements have been attached.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sangrur-nurse-murder-accused-could-face-capital-punishment/story-iw95ILiBdAokOM5cFOxe0I.html
09-04-2020||City||Jalandhar reports first Covid-19 casualty with death of 59-year-old man; Punjab toll rises to 10||JALANDHAR: Parveen Kumar, 59, a resident of the Mitha Bazaar locality of Jalandhar city who was found positive in a random test, died at the local civil hospital early on ThursdayDistrict health authorities said Kumar did not have any travel history and had come to the hospital with acute respiratory distress on Tuesday night. He was in a critical condition and put on ventilator support.The district administration sealed the Mitha Bazaar area on Wednesday evening. His family is already in quarantine.Punjab special chief secretary Karanbir Singh Sidhu tweeted that the district administration was working out modalities for the cremation according to the protocol.With this, a total of 10 people have died of Covid-19 in Punjab. These include three deaths in Doaba region with one each in Jalandhar, Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar and Hoshiarpur districts.In Jalandhar, eight cases of Covid-19 have so far been reported out of which three have recovered and one died.Doaba has seen 34 Covid-19 cases so far. They comprise 19 cases in SBS Nagar, eight in Jalandhar, seven in Hoshiarpur and one each in Kapurthala. Of the 34, 12 people have recovered, including 11 contacts of Punjab’s first coronavirus casualty, Baldev Singh, 70.On Wednesday evening, a 55-year-old resident of Chatamli village in Rupnagar district died of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jalandhar-reports-first-covid-19-casualty-with-death-of-59-year-old-man-punjab-toll-rises-to-10/story-c5IMFXTnbjrN5PHqAqWZsN.html
09-04-2020||Delhi||No entry-exit, PPE suits for garbage collection: Life in Delhi’s Covid-19 hotspots||Authorities in Delhi announced on Wednesday a hard lockdown of 23 areas with large number of Covid-19 cases and ordered all citizens to wear masks while stepping out of their homes, tightening curbs to combat the outbreak even as 93 new cases took the total number of infections in the national capital to 669.The three areas added to the list of 20 areas late on Wednesday are Bengali Market, Sadar and Moti Bagh.All movements have been completely barred in Shahjahanabad Apartments - part of containment zone in Dwarka’s Sector 11 - to prevent the spread of coronavirus disease Covid-19. Sanitation is being carried out in the housing society and the gates have been locked.“Nobody will be allowed to enter or exit from these areas,” Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia had said on Wednesday while announcing the list of hostpots.In Bengali Market, latest to be added to the list of hotspots, police said that strict legal action will be taken against violators.“Bengali Market area has been sealed. Strict legal action will be taken against violators. A list of phone numbers has been issued. You can order essential items on phone. It will be delivered at your doorstep,” news agency ANI quoted a police official as saying.The Bengali Market area, along with Babar Road, Todarmal Road, Babar Lane and School Lane were sealed after three positive cases were found in the area. What a hard lockdown means that people will need to mandatorily keep indoors and all businesses - including grocery stores and banks that have been exempted from curbs as essential services - will be shut. Critical services such as food and medicine will be home-delivered by government personnel.Sanitation workers of North Delhi Municipal Corporation (NDMC) wore personal protective gear for the collection of garbage from the houses of the quarantined areas in Paharganj, in central Delhi, reported news agency ANI.The tightening of measures comes at a time when officials are debating whether, and how, the unprecedented nationwide lockdown should be relaxed after April 14, the date when the three-week curbs are scheduled to end.A hard lockdown has been identified as the key containment strategy at this stage, when India is seeing a steady stream of cases that can still be interrupted by stringent tactics that force people into social distancing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/no-entry-exit-ppe-suits-for-garbage-collection-life-in-delhi-s-covid-19-hotspots/story-Wwo7T9kWAr4nVKDxTjFqNL.html
09-04-2020||Noida||UP govt launches helpline number for public needs||Soon after the 22 hotspots in the Noida district were identified to be sealed to contain the spread of coronavirus, the administration has launched an integrated control room for meeting the needs of the public during these restrictions.Gautam Buddh Nagar District Magistrate Suhas Lalinakere made this announcement in a tweet. “Integrated control room 18004192211, We are at your service,” he tweeted.The administration is also mapping the households with travel history. “Team 300 (Cluster containment) has visited 52,130 families so far. They found 338 persons with travel history. They are being monitored.”The District Magistrate announced these hotspots on Wednesday evening, which include 12 clusters, 10 epicentres and 34 localities in total.In Noida, entire Sectors 41, 27, 28, 44, 5, 8 and J.J. Colony will be sealed as they have been identified as hotspots, as they show a concentration of cases and pose the threat of further spread of the virus.The Uttar Pradesh government announced the hotspots in 15 districts which will be sealed for more stringent enforcement of the lockdown.The hotspots also include Hyde Park, Sector 78, Supertech Cape Town, Sector 74, Lotus Boulevard, Sector 100, Alpha 1 in Greater Noida, Nirala Green Shire, Sector 2 in Greater Noida, Patwari village, Logix Blossom County, Sector 137, Noida, Paras Tierra and Wazidpur village.The other hotspots are ATS Dolce, Zeta 1, Greater Noida, Ace Golfshire Society, Sector 150, Omicron 3, Sector 3 in Greater Noida, Mehak Residency, Achega on Greater Noida, Jaypee Wish Town, Sector 128, Ghodi Bacheda village, Stellar MI Omicron 3 in Greater Noida, Palm Olympia, Gaur City -2 in Greater Noida West, Sector 22, Chaudha village, Grand Omaxe, Sector 93-B, and Designer Park, Sector 62.These areas will be sealed as per precautionary measures to contain the spread of novel coronavirus which has so far claimed four lives across Uttar Pradesh. The state has reported 343 confirmed cases.Curfew-like measures will be implemented in these hotspots while normal lockdown measures will be in place in other areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/up-govt-launches-helpline-number-for-public-needs/story-qbNeCmZR7SGdahiPW0NvEI.html
09-04-2020||Delhi||FAQ: Your 14 queries on 23 Delhi containment zones answered||At least 23 areas in Delhi have been declared containment zones and put under a hard lockdown to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Here’s a primer on what to expect in these areas.What does this mean?If the area where you stay is part of a containment zone, it means that you are not allowed to step outside your house.There is a nationwide lockdown anyway…Yes, but it does not ban anyone from stepping out to buy vegetables, grocery items, medicines and other essentials.Then how to get essential supplies?Do not panic. The local administration has tied up with Resident Welfare Associations (RWAs) and market associations to provide door-to-door supply of essential items. Areas where such associations are not active, civic volunteers will be roped in.Will any shop stay open?Nothing, including banks, will be open. Even if you need medicines, it is to be delivered to you.Who is allowed to enter or leave a containment zone?No one other than officials of the local administration, police, health officials and municipality workers. Serious medical cases will be exempt, but after due verification. Entry and exit of every person, including those from enforcement agencies, will be registered in the records. Media will not be allowed to enter these places, but journalists and others involved in essential services staying in these areas will be allowed to go their workplaces. But they have to undergo screening for Covid-19 symptoms each time they enter or exit a containment zone.How long will it continue in Delhi?The containment plans will stay in place “till the potential threat of Covid-19 is not ruled out” in these areas.How do I know if my house falls in a containment zone?The local administration has issued a list of these areas. Additionally, it is informing residents using public address systems. If your house falls in a containment zone, all entry and exit points in that area have been cordoned off or sealed by now. And still, if you step out unknowingly, you will be stopped by the police and informed about the lockdown.What do I expect during this time?There could be multiple screening by health officials, police and civic bodies. People living in containment zones are put under surveillance to track if any person has developed the symptoms of Covid-19 (fever, sore throat ,etc.).How large is a containment area?It can be as small as one lane in a residential colony or it can be a wider area comprising an entire ward or more. The size of a containment zone is directly proportional to the population density of the cluster in question and the scale of the outbreak.My area has been declared a containment zone. Does it mean I live in a Covid-19 hot spot?Not necessarily. While all hot spots are turned into containment zones, all containment zones are not always hot spots. Some lanes and neighbourhoods can be declared containment zones even if there is a single case of Covid-19. A hot spot is an area where multiple cases emerge from a locality (Examples: Nizamuddin Markaz and Nand Nagri).What is the difference between a hot spot and a containment zone?A hot spot is a potential threat area identified by authorities after multiple cases emerge from that place. Following this, a containment strategy is devised to prevent further spread of the infection and to break the transmission chain. Under this strategy, a containment zone is declared. A containment strategy is also adopted when contact tracing of a Covid-19 positive case is unsuccessful (that means when authorities are not able to find the clear source of infection --- travel history or contact with a positive case --- of a patient). What about cleanliness in a containment zone?Sanitizing the area declared under the containment plan is a top priority for the local municipal corporation. It disinfects every nook and corner of the declared area multiple times a day.What happens if one violates the rules?The person may be warned at the first instance. But violators can be booked under various sections of Disaster Management Act, 2005, as well as the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, and provisions of the Indian Penal Code. The punishment can be jail sentence up to two years and/or a fine decided by the enforcing agencies.Which are the 23 containment zones in Delhi?1. Entire affected street near Gandhi Park, Malviya Nagar, New Delhi2. Entire affected street of Gali No 6 , L 1 Sangam Vihar, New Delhi3. Shahajahanabad society, plot no 1, Sector 11, Dwarka4. Dinpur Village5. Markaz Masjid and Nizamuddin Basti6. Nizamuddin West (G and D block) areas7. B Block Jhangirpuri8. H. No 141 to H. No 180, Gali no. 14, Kalyanpuri, Delhi9. Mansara Apartments , Vasundhara Enclave, Delhi10.3 Galis of Khichirpur, including Gali containing H. No. 5/387 Khichirpur, Delhi11. Gali No 9, Pandav Nagar, Delhi 110092.12. Vardhaman Apartments, Mayur Vihar Phase I, Extension, Delhi13. Mayurdhwaj Apartments , I P Extension, Patparganj, Delhi14. Gali no. 4, from H. No. J- 3/115 ( Nagar Dairy) to H. No. J- 3/108( towards Anar wali Masjid Chowk), Kishan Kunj Extension, Delhi15. Gali No. 4, from H. No J- 3/101 to H. No. J - 3/107 Krishan Kunj Extension, Delhi16. Gali No. 5, A Block ( From H No. A- 176 to A-189), West Vinod Nagar, Delhi 11009217. J & K , L and H pockets, Dilshad Garden18. G, H, J, Blocks old, Seemapuri19. F- 70 to 90 block, Dilshad Colony20. Pratap Khand , Jhilmil Colony21. Shastri Market and JJ cluster, South Moti Bagh22. Bengali Market, Babar Road, Todarmal Road, Babar lane and school lane23. Sadar area||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/faq-your-12-queries-on-23-delhi-containment-zones-answered/story-4FazL1lVl6xWFmgVRG0mXI.html
09-04-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka to finalise lockdown exit strategy by April 13||The Karnataka government is currently engaged in discussions with experts, specialists and other stakeholders to decide on its lockdown exit strategy and would take a final view by April 13, a key Minister said on Thursday. “Day after tomorrow we have a VC (videoconference) with the Prime Minister,” Medical Education Minister Sudhakar K, who is in-charge of all matters related to COVID-19, noted when asked about the States strategy. He said a task force of specialist doctors on Wednesday submitted its report to the government, giving its recommendations. “We are meeting lot of stakeholders of the society taking their views,” the Minister said, adding, the Cabinet would also hold discussions. “Finally, day after tomorrow, after discussing with the Prime Minister during the VC, the government will take a view on this by April 13 or so. As of now, we have not taken any view on it. We are studying all the reports,” Sudhakar told PTI. The Minister observed that the COVID-19 cases were slowly spiking in India but not multiplying the way they have in some other countries like Italy, Spain and the United States as the government had declared 21-day national lockdown early and taken other strict measures. “Let’s see for one week and see.” “We need to fight this out collectively and by strictly following the quarantine methods and social distancing,” Sudhakar stressed. The Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa had on Wednesday said his government was in favour of lifting lock-down in districts which remained free from COVID-19 after April 14 subject to approval from the Centre. “If the Prime Minister suggests to States to take decision (on lock-down) based on the situation in their respective States, my position is to take a call (on roll- back) in districts free from COVID-19,” he had said. “This is to allow people to go about their business and move about within the district and not from one district to another, after April 14, after taking the approval of the Prime Minister.” According to State officials, as many as 12 districts continue to remain free from COVID-19. The task force has recommended continuation of lockdown at “hot spots” beyond April 14. It has suggested that schools and colleges be shut till May 31, while non-air-conditioned shops can be opened. Also, IT/BT companies, government offices providing essential services and factories can function with 50 per cent staff, the task force said in its recommendations for 15-day period after April 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-to-finalise-lockdown-exit-strategy-by-april-13/story-KMB1cAO3MaANG0v4KnNHEJ.html
09-04-2020||City||1 more Jamaat attendee tests positive in HP, count now 28||Himachal Pradesh’s Covid-19 count has gone up to 28 with one more Tablighi Jamaat attendee testing positive in Paonta Sahib town.“The patient from Paonta Sahib sub-division in Sirmaur district was staying in a mosque and has a travel history to the Nizamuddin congregation,” additional health secretary, health, RD Dhiman said.His test report was received around Wednesday midnight and he has been admitted to the nearest treatment centre.Dhiman said that a total 128 samples were tested on Wednesday of which 127 were negative.The Sirmaur district administration has sealed the village where the case was reported.Four Covid +ve jamaat workers test negativeMeanwhile, the samples of four Covid-19 positive Tablighi Jamaat workers, three from Una and one from Kangra, have tested negative for the virus, Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said on Thursday.The DC said that their second sample will be tested on Friday. If they test negative again they will be discharged.The three from Una had tested positive on April 2, while the fourth jamaat worker from Kangra had tested positive on April 5.At present, Himachal has 21 active cases. Four patients have been shifted outside the state and two have recovered, while one person had died in Kangra district on March 23.626 Tablighi workers, primary contacts in quarantine: DGP As many as 626 people, who had links with the Tablighi Jamaat, have been kept under quarantine in the state, director general of police (DGP) Sita Ram Mardi said on Thursday.Among them333 have travel history to Nizamuddin congregation, while 293 are their primary contacts, he said, adding that 208 have been quarantined in Baddi of Solan district, 148 in Kangra,113 in Chamba and 39 in Una, that has emerged as Coronavirus hotspot with 12 positive cases.20 FIRs against 97 jamaat workersThe DGP said that the police have also registered 20 FIRs against 97 Jamaat workers for hiding their travel history and misleading the administration by giving false information.577 cases of curfew violationSince March 24, there have been 577 cases of curfew violation and 477 people have been arrested in the state. Preventive action has been taken against 74 others. While, 407 vehicles have been seized and penalty amounting to ₹4, 41,600 has been collected from the violators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/one-more-tablighi-jamaat-attendee-tests-positive-in-himachal-s-paonta-sahib-takes-state-covid-19-count-to-28/story-cvtp9HcBbwf38NlIwQWzmI.html
09-04-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Punjab CM holds discussions with party MLAs, opposition leaders||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Wednesday held consultations over the coronavirus outbreak with party MLAs and senior leaders of opposition parties, seeking suggestions to ensure the gradual return to normalcy. Describing the COVID-19 situation as developing one, the CM told them that though the country was doing better than many advanced countries, one could not afford to be complacent.  A government release said the chief minister held separate discussions over the phone with former Punjab CM and Shiromani Akali Dal patron Parkash Singh Badal, AAP’s Harpal Singh Cheema, CPI’s Hardev Singh Arshi and rebel Akali leader Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa. Earlier, he held a video conference with the Congress MLAs, led by party chief Sunil Jakhar, the government release said. All Congress leaders extended their support to the state government in its fight against COVID-19 and broadly agreed with the government line of action in tackling the problem. The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader favoured the distribution of more food packets through the government machinery in the state, the release said. The chief minister also assured the opposition leaders of all possible help from his government. The Punjab Congress gave the complete authority to the chief minister to take any decision he deemed fit to deal with the situation. The chief minister said steps will be taken keeping in view the interest of people, who also wanted stern measures to tackle the unprecedented crisis. The CM, while sharing the latest status on COVID-19, said there has been a sudden spike of cases in Punjab due to the Tabligh-e- Jamaat incident of Delhi’s Nizamuddin, from where 573 people had come to the state. Of these all but 38 have been traced,he said. In response to a concern expressed by Congress MLA Fateh Bajwa on the “vilification” of NRIs, the CM appealed to the NRIs not to be scared but to come forward and disclose their travel history, assuring them they will not be harassed. The party will fully support the government in any decision taken on this issue in the days ahead, said Jakhar. Responding to queries by certain MLAs, the CM said the state was fully geared to handle the upcoming harvesting and procurement season, with nearly 3,800 mandis being set up. He, however, expressed concern that the Centre is yet to approve the incentive suggested by the state government for farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/coronavirus-punjab-cm-holds-discussions-with-party-mlas-oppn-leaders/story-cD8pdk9clbHNqwyXvsjvoN.html
09-04-2020||Bangalore||Another COVID-19 death reported in Karnataka, toll rises to 6||An 80-year-old woman, who was diagnosed with coronavirus after developing severe respiratory problems died of cardiac arrest in Gadag district early on Thursday, taking the toll in Karnataka to six, district officials said. According to a senior official in that district, the patient was admitted to a designated hospital a few days ago with severe respiratory problems. On April 6, test reports confirmed that she was infected with COVID-19. At 12.55 am on Thursday she died of cardiac arrest.” With this, the number of deaths caused by COVID-19 reached six in the state, whereas the total positive cases as on Wednesday evening stood at 181.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/another-covid-19-death-reported-in-karnataka-toll-rises-to-6/story-EFVc2gsKmBmNe39iCge9nL.html
09-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab govt opens new markets to avoid crowding amid Covid-19 spread||In a bid to prevent crowding amid the coronavirus spread, Punjab government has doubled the number of markets across the state.The notification from the CMO Punjab also stated that all these markets will now have facility of hand sanitizers, masks and soaps.It also stated that adequate arrangements have also been made for the safe and smooth procurement of wheat from April 15.These moves by the Captain Amarinder Singh-led government are likely to reduce the rush in the markets and at the same time will help people to maintain the norm of social distancing.With an increase of 540 positive COVID-19 cases reported in the last 24 hours, India’s tally of coronavirus cases has risen to 5,734, said Ministry of Health on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-govt-opens-new-markets-to-avoid-crowding-amid-covid-19-spread/story-ii6R7XasEjhcTwgjev9qjK.html
09-04-2020||Delhi||2 Delhi doctors out to buy fruits assaulted; man arrested||A 42-year-old interior designer was arrested late on Wednesday night for allegedly molesting, assaulting and threatening two women doctors of a government hospital after an altercation over maintaining social distancing at a fruit shop in south Delhi’s Gulmohar Enclave, the police said.The man, who is a resident of south Delhi, feared that if the two women could get infected and spread the coronavirus disease (Covid19) if they did not maintain social distancing, and ended up abusing and harassing them, the police said.A case of wrongful restrain, voluntarily causing hurt, molestation, criminal intimidation, and sexual harassment was registered under sections 341, 323, 354, 506 and 509 of the Indian Penal Code at the Hauz Khas police station, said deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur.Thakur said the two doctors, who are sisters, were off duty and gone to buy fruits at the shop close to their rented accommodation when the incident took place. One of them, who is 29 years old, alleged that the man, who was present at the fruit shop, asked them to maintain social distancing even as they tried telling him that they are doctors and aware of the guidelines.An argument ensued and the man slapped the sisters, a colleague of the two doctors said. HT is withholding the names of the hospital and doctors as sexual harassment charges have been added in the case.“As the women tried to leave, the man blocked their way, assaulted them and touched them inappropriately. He then left the place. The women approached the police and got themselves medically examined. A case was registered and the suspect was arrested,” a senior police officer, who requested anonymity, said.Delhi health minister Satyendra Jain said on Thursday that legal action will be taken against those who discriminate against doctors, paramedics and healthcare workers.There have been several reports from across the country of people misbehaving with health care workers and doctors over apprehensions that these frontline workers were carrying the disease and could infect others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/safdarjung-doctors-out-to-buy-fruits-assaulted-man-arrested/story-ozVd0nFH7WtOwoZhWTOCiI.html
09-04-2020||City||Punjab’s Jawaharpur village emerges Covid-19 hotspot with 22 of Mohali’s 37 coronavirus cases||MOHALI: Jawaharpur, a non-descript village near Dera Bassi town on the Chandigarh-Ambala highway, accounts for 22 of the 37 coronavirus disease cases in Mohali district, making it Punjab’s new Covid-19 hotspot.All 22 residents who tested positive from Jawaharpur village are family members of the woman sarpanch and a panch and their contacts. The sarpanch and panch are cousins.They organised langars (community kitchens), distributed medicines and masks among the needy and migrant labourers last week, accelerating the spread of the disease.Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said that the 67-year-old father of the sarpanch was the latest to test positive. He has also been admitted to the isolation ward at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur.The panch was the first positive case reported from the village on April 4.“All 22 patients are responding well to treatment. The reports of 16 more residents of the village are awaited,” the civil surgeon said.COVID COMMANDOS DEPLOYEDA strict curfew has been imposed in Jawaharpur to check the spread of coronavirus. Twenty-five policemen, including Covid commandos, have been deployed in the village to ensure that no one steps out.“Five coronavirus patients have been cured and discharged from various hospitals of Mohali district over the past four days,” Dr Singh added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-s-jawaharpur-village-emerges-covid-19-hotspot-with-22-of-mohali-s-37-coronavirus-cases/story-SGWY32ZWsZpk2iGgTiaweI.html
09-04-2020||Delhi||Tablighi Jamaat leader Maulana Saad Kandhalvi traced: Report||The Delhi Police has traced Tablighi Jamaat leader Maulana Saad Kandhalvi, who has been on the run after an FIR was registered against him for organising a religious gathering last month despite restrictions to combat the coronavirus, sources said on Wednesday. The cleric has been traced to Zakir Nagar in southeast Delhi, sources said. His lawyer Tauseef Khan, however, said Saad is under self-quarantine and will join investigation after his quarantine period is over. On March 31, Delhi Police’s Crime Branch lodged an FIR against seven people, including the cleric, on a complaint by Station House Officer Nizamuddin for holding the congregation here allegedly in violation of the orders against large gathering and not maintaining social distancing to contain the spread of coronavirus. A day later, the Delhi Police’s Crime Branch wrote to Saad and others, seeking the details under Section 91 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. A second notice was also issued to him this week. “Saad is currently under self-quarantine and will join investigation once the period of 14 days gets over,” his advocate, Tauseef Khan, told PTI. Saad’s quarantine is expected to end next week. His lawyer said a reply to the second notice will be given soon. In an audio message last week, Saad said he was exercising self-quarantine after several hundreds who visited the Tablighi Jamaat’s Nizamudddin markaz tested positive for coronavirus. Visited by thousands last month, the Nizamudddin centre also turned out to be a hotspot for spread of coronavirus not only in national capital and country. According to the FIR, the Delhi Police contacted the centre on March 21 and reminded them of the government order that prohibited any political or religious gathering of more than 50 people. However, no one paid any heed to the police’s direction, it said. Moreover, an audio recording purportedly of Saad was found in circulation on WhatsApp on March 21, in which he was heard asking his followers to defy the lockdown and social distancing and to attend the religious gathering of the Markaz. On March 24, the government ordered 21-day nationwide lockdown and restricted any social, political or religious gathering. The same day a meeting was held at Hazarat Nizamuddin police station between SHO and officer bearers of the centre. The meeting was attended by Saad, Mohammad Ashraf, Mohammad Salman, Yunus, Mursaleen Saifi, Jishan and Mufti Shehzad and they were informed about lockdown orders. So far, several hundred cases of COVID-19 cases across the country have been found to be linked to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation held in Delhi last month. More than 25,500 Tablighi members and their contacts have been quarantined in the country after the Centre and the state governments conducted a “mega operation” to identify them. At least 9,000 people participated in the religious congregation in Nizamuddin. Later, many of the attendees travelled to various parts of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/tablighi-jamaat-leader-maulana-saad-kandhalvi-traced-report/story-gtJqwONAUNCltfclnJTdgI.html
09-04-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 lockdown: Ration distribution to card applicants starts||The Delhi government on Wednesday started distributing additional ration to thousands of poor families in the city, who are yet to get ration cards, under a scheme to ensure delivery of essential food items to households, amid the ongoing 21-day nationwide lockdown.“Wheat and rice for distribution among people not covered under the public distribution system of essential items were delivered in around 400 school buildings across the city on Tuesday. The beneficiaries would be able to avail of five kilograms of ration,” said Delhi’s food minister, Imran Hussain.Under the scheme announced by CM Arvind Kejriwal on April 1, beneficiaries have to apply online, following which a token, mentioning the centre and time of visit, is issued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-lockdown-ration-distribution-to-card-applicants-starts/story-sXu9gkgsgADgKAkZxwSieM.html
09-04-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: RWAs demand micro data, area-wise break-up of cases||As the number of Covid-19 patients rise in the Capital, residents want the Delhi government to release area-wise or district-wise data of positive cases promptly and clearly, with several resident welfare associations (RWAs) saying the lack of information about the status in their localities is making people anxious and panicky.The Delhi government only releases consolidated data about the total number of positive cases in the city once a day -- usually around 9pm. It gives a break-up number of confirmed cases admitted in hospitals, those in quarantine facilities (both at home and in government-managed), those who have recovered, and the deceased. But it does not provide district-wise numbers from its 11 revenue districts.With nearly 600 cases reported in Delhi, members of RWAs across the city stress on the need for area-specific information. “We recently got to know that two people tested positive in a housing society in sector 11. We have no information regarding the total number of cases in Dwarka,” said Rejimon CK, founder and member of Dwarka Forum (an association of over 300 RWAs in Dwarka).Ever since the national lockdown has announced on March 24, city RWAs have been playing proactive roles in ensuring its implementation in their localities with the help of government agencies.“The government wants people to cooperate as we have to fight this together. Then why are they reluctant in sharing information with people? If we know area-wise information, people will be more cautious. The government should create a dashboard giving daily update to citizens about new cases and areas from where they are reported,” Rejimon said.For instance, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) in Mumbai puts out a ward-wise heat map of Covid-19 cases on a daily basis in the public domain. The Maharashtra government also gives the district-wise break-up of Covid-19 cases in the state.In Bengaluru, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) shares zone-wise data of Covid-19 cases, apart from age and gender data of Covid-19 patients in the city.Atul Goyal, president of URJA, an association of RWAs in Delhi, said the Delhi administration needs to be more proactive.“When other cities can, why can’t the Delhi government share district-wise data? We are not asking for names, but if we know the number of cases in our localities, or neighbouring localities, the RWAs can take necessary measures to protect the area. People, too, will be careful why moving in areas from where a large number of cases have been reported.”In the absence of district and locality data in Delhi, residents say that they don’t know whom to contact to get the details about their neighbourhoods, and the uncertainty fuels rumours, with leads to unnecessary panic.“In Delhi, we don’t know whom to contact for information regarding Covid-19. The government officials are impossible to get through on phones and we know nothing about the cases in our areas. This lack of information exchange from the government’s side will lead to rumours and trust deficit. What’s the need for secrecy? Uncertainty over cases in neighbour areas leads to anxiety, Boothwise planning is needed & RWAs can help. As and when lockdown is lifted, information about high-risk zones or areas will help people take necessary precautions. It will also help the government,” said Rajiv Kakria, member of GK-1 RWA.With Dilshad Garden in east Delhi declared as one of the two hot spots in Delhi – there also seven containment zones -- residents of east Delhi say that there is fear among people.BS Vohra, president of East Delhi RWAs Joint Front, said, “There is panic in the locality if an ambulance is spotted. Lack of information only leads to fake or incorrect news. Today, we don’t know how many cases have been reported in my district.”The flip side to the argument, however, are privacy concerns, and worries that patients may be ostracised.Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung Hospital said that transparency in data of Covid-19 cases will help people, while pointing put that the government must ensure at the same time that it doesn’t lead to victimisation of those who have tested positive.“Transparency is important, as people can be better prepared. It is a policy decision which the government has to take. While giving the data, the government can ensure it is disseminated in a manner that it doesn’t result in direct victimisation,” Dr Kishore said.While the Delhi government on Wednesday announced a list of 20 containment zones in the city, it didn’t give information about the number of confirmed Covid-19 cases in each area. According to a senior Delhi government official, the number varies from two to eight.Despite repeated attempts, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain and other health officials did not respond to queries seeking comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-rwas-demand-micro-data-area-wise-break-up-of-cases/story-spxE3rNWLfdn7hpjjoWTdI.html
09-04-2020||Patna||542 arrested, ₹2.67 crore penalty collected from lockdown violators||In the two weeks since the nationwide lockdown came into force to curb the spread of Coronavirus (Covid-19) outbreak, the police have arrested 542 people and seized 11,205 vehicles for violations in the state. Besides, ₹ 2.67 crore by way of penalty has also been realised from lockdown violators under the amended Motor Vehicle Act. The police said they have registered 723 FIRs across the state for such violations.To enforce the lockdown, superintendents of police in areas like Gaya, Saran, Supaul, Bhagalpur, Buxar have also used drones to monitor activities of people.Gaya SSP Rajiv Mishra said, “The compliance level of the lockdown order has been satisfactory.” In Saran, the police used the drones in busiest areas to keep a tab on violators. “We used the drone in the morning and we caught several people moving on the roads. They were warned by the police asking them to stay at home,” said Bhagalpur SSP Ashish Bharti.“We started using drones to strictly enforce the lockdown and ensure social distancing even when people come out to buy the essential commodities,” said the Bhagalpur SSP.POLICE RESORT TO LATHICHARGEMeanwhile, a police team Wednesday resorted to lathi-charge at several places in Patna to stop people from flouting the lockdown order. Throughout the day, police carried out spot checks of areas known for drawing crowd like grocery shops and vegetable markets.Authorities confiscated dozens of private vehicles, mostly two-wheelers, that were found to be in violation of the mandated curfew and fined many people. The police set road blockades in many areas, including Kankarbagh, Gardanibagh, Patrakar Nagar, Gandhi Maidan, Dak Bungalow Crossing, Boring Road, Bailey Road, SK Puri, and Ashok Rajpath. Police stopped nearly 250 motorists and collected fines from them before allowing them to leave with a stern warning.The worst case of defiance of social distancing rule was witnessed in Sheikhpura where hundreds of people came out of their homes for food and other essential items.When people refused to follow the police order to return home, authorities used light force to disperse the crowd. Similar reports also came in from other areas, including Raja Bazaar, Phulwarisharif, Boring Road, Danapur, Patna City and Kankarbagh where people had gathered in large numbers. ADG (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar said, the lockdown provides for taking action against violators under the National Disaster Management Act and Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). However, police claim that those venturing out of their homes for fetching essential items like food or medicines are not facing any action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/542-arrested-2-67-crore-penalty-collected-from-lockdown-violators/story-QjSZbXm8EjeegqR5Do7cXL.html
09-04-2020||Patna||Want paracetamol, cough syrup? Leave your mobile number with chemist||PATNADrug stores in Patna, Bhojpur and Kishanganj have been asked to prepare a database, with name and mobile number of people buying drugs for fever, common cold and cough, said officials.This was being done in an effort to track down people having symptoms of novel coronavirus (Covid-19), but reluctant to turn up at government facilities for screening, the officials said.In an effort to broaden surveillance, state health authorities had also requested private doctors, including homeopathy practitioners, to report about patients coming to their facilities with influenza-like symptoms.Among the drugs the government is keeping a tab on are paracetamol, antibiotics for upper respiratory tract infection, anti-allergy, cough syrup and bronchodilators, all associated with symptoms of Covid-19, said officials of the drug control administration.“We have issued advisory, requesting drug retailers to note down name and mobile numbers of people buying anti-fever, cough and anti-cold drugs,” said Patna district magistrate Kumar Ravi.“We have also advised them to check, as far as possible, prescription of registered medical practitioner before dispensing such drugs. The idea is to ensure that even people who are less symptomatic to Covid-19 are not left out of screening,” he said.Bhojpur and Kishanganj are other districts which have advised their respective drug control administration to register name and contact details of those taking medicines for flu-like symptoms.“With the help of private doctors and druggists, we are trying to prepare a database on people with influenza-like symptoms so that they can be tracked for screening, if needed,” said Bhojpur district magistrate Roshan Kushwaha.“It is always better to have a database and not use it rather than not having one at all and ask for it when a crisis arises, he said.Bihar’s principal secretary (health) Sanjay Kumar said the advisories were district-specific and had not been extended across the state as of now.There are around 2,500 drug retail stores in Patna and 1,000 (approx) in Bhojpur.Covid-19 cases in BiharCases: 38 Siwan:10 casesMunger 7Patna: 5Gaya: 5Gopalganj: 3Begusarai: 3Balanda: 2Saran: 1Lakhisarai:1 Bhagalpur: 1||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/want-paracetamol-cough-syrup-leave-your-cell-no-with-druggist/story-GoZYYcg2yI0wvxAaCw6d5L.html
09-04-2020||Ranchi||FIR against 11 foreign preachers for violating visa, lockdown rules||Police have lodged an FIR against 11 Tablighi Jamaat foreign preachers on charges of violation of visa rules and 21-day nationwide lockdown, an official said here on Wednesday.The three Jamaat preachers from China and eight from Kyrgyzstan are currently in institutional quarantine at Police Constable Training Centre (PCTC) at Swaspur under Jadugora police station area in East Singhbhum district. They were caught hiding in a mosque at Rargaon on Ranchi-Tata NH-33 under Tamar PS area on March 24 night and brought to PCTC where they have in quarantine since then. They had come to Ranchi from New Delhi on March 19.“We filed an FIR against the 11 foreign preachers on charges of violating visa rules and nationwide lockdown. The case has been filed under sections 188, 269 and 270 of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and section 14(b) of Foreigners Act, 1946. Further action will be initiated as per the guidelines of the higher authorities,” said Rajiv Ranjan, Jadugora PS officer incharge.Jamshedpur senior superintendent of police Anoop Birthare confirmed the development and said passports of all the 11 foreign preachers have been seized and they would be kept under custody in PCTC quarantine centre for a 28-day period. “After their quarantine period is over, we will produce them in court and send to judicial custody whereas they too can appeal for bail,” said Birthare. Police have sent detailed report to the Union ministry of external affairs and home ministry in the matter and further action would be initiated as per their guidelines, he added.East Singhbhum civil surgeon Dr Maheshwar Prasad said the second Covid-19 test reports of these 11 foreign preachers have also come negative.As per official records, a total of 111 people linked to Tablighi Jamaat have been quarantined in East Singhbhum district, while 18 have been quarantined in West Singhbhum and 10 in Seraikela-Kharsawan district. Teams of IB and CID had visited the PCTC quarantine facility and interrogated all the 11 preachers on March 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fir-against-11-foreign-preachers-for-violating-visa-lockdown-rules/story-AhTwxOtYXH2q6aO07Yh8WO.html
09-04-2020||Ranchi||Extend lockdown: Doctors to CM Soren||The doctors, working in both government and private sectors, Wednesday requested chief minister (CM) Hemant Soren to extend the lockdown and implement strict enforcement of social distancing for containment of Covid-19 virus, besides procuring medical kits and strengthening the health infrastructure.They also drew the CM’s attention towards increased prices of essential medicines and protective gears and urged the government to stop black marketing. “During a recently held meeting, the doctors suggested that the lockdown period in the state be extended,” the press statement read. “There is a possibility of quick spread of the virus if the lockdown ends. Social distancing is the best safety measure. We have to give our best effort given our limited resources,” the doctors stated. The suggestions were made at the meeting of the doctors and private hospital owners convened by the state government to find best possible ways to tackle Covid-19.The meeting was crucial before Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s video conferencing with all chief ministers on April 11.The CM while briefing the doctors said that the state government will apprise the Union government of the suggestions discussed.He said his government is doing good on social security while admitting that Jharkhand lags behind in health services.The chief minister said the state still has less number of Covid-19 patients but the matter should not be taken complacently. He said, “The Coronavirus has given us time, we should gear up and prepare ourself for the coming days.”He sought cooperation from the medical fraternity and asked the doctors to suggest more measures to the government.Hemant said that the impact of lockdown is visible while expressing concern over the lacklustre attitude of people in the urban pockets.He said several hundreds of people are stranded outside Jharkhand and it will be a real challenge when they return after the lockdown is lifted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/extend-lockdown-doctors-to-cm-soren/story-M71GEH8ULtozsfJ8uAhJ1O.html
09-04-2020||India||Covid-19: 3 of a family in Defence Colony test positive||Three members of a family in Defence Colony, whose private security guard had attended the congregation at the Tablighi Jamaat Markaz in Nizamuddin in March, have been found Sars-Cov-2 positive. The police have registered an FIR against the guard for withholding the information from his employers, deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur said. “The family lived on the ground floor of a building. They have been admitted to a private hospital. Other members of the family and those living on other floors of the building have been asked to remain in home quarantine,” the DCP said. Another senior police officer said the guard continued to work despite having Covid-19 symptoms. He said during the contact tracing of the affected family, it was found that their security guard had attended the Tablighi meeting at Markaz. The police found the guard at his home in Okhla. “The local SDM was informed and the guard has been sent to a quarantine centre for screening and testing,” the DCP added. Ranjit Singh, president of the Defence Colony residents’ welfare association said, “Some members of the family had recently travelled abroad. I have not been able to speak to them....After the matter came to light, the SDMC has not satisfactorily disinfected the area. The family’s residence has been disinfected but what about the rest of colony?”.The police, however, said that all family members were tested after they returned from abroad more than a month ago. “Their reports were negative. Also, the notice, which reads ‘home quarantine’ was not pasted outside their residence,” the officer said.In a separate case, the police in Dwarka registered an FIR after two bottles filled with liquid, which looked like urine, were found on the premises of Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) flats in Dwarka, which have been turned into quarantine centres. Also, a man who had attended the congregation was booked for misbehaving with staff at Bakkarwala quarantine facility in outer Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-3-of-a-family-in-defence-colony-test-positive/story-8n0wblyrECpcEQdtJfhdaM.html
09-04-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Chandigarh admn gives ₹50L life cover to frontline health workers||Health workers involved in handling the Covid-19 crisis in the city have been given a life insurance cover of ₹50 lakh, in case of loss of life due to the infection, the UT administration has announced. In March, after the Centre announced a ₹50 lakh insurance package for workers at the frontline of the epidemic, the UT administration had taken up the case for its own workers.On Wednesday, Chandigarh finance secretary Ajoy Kumar Sinha, in a daily review meeting, chaired by Punjab governor and UT administrator VP Singh Badnore, said requisite arrangements to pay the insurance sum had been put in place. The procedure for claiming the sum has also been established and shared with the health department.Even private sector healthcare workers in the current crisis have been covered under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY). The UT administration is also working on introducing a similar compensation for personnel of police and sanitation department.Badnore also expressed his concern over the spurt in coronavirus cases in Dera Bassi. He advised officers to strictly take measures to prevent its spread in Chandigarh by tracing people who might have come in contact with those patients and quarantining them. The Mohali deputy commissioner was also advised to remain in touch with his Chandigarh counterpart and start joint containment operations.UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida said extra care is being taken to ensure visitors from outside do not spread the infection in Chandigarh. Pvt schools can announce summer holidays: DEODistrict education officer Alka Mehta on Wednesday said city schools can declare the lockdown period as summer vacations. In a letter written to the secretary of the Independent Schools Association (ISA) on April 6, Mehta said the schedules of summer and winter vacations were finalised by private schools at their own level. Therefore, schools had the liberty of declaring these holidays as summer breaks as per the Right to Education Act, CBSE and MHRD guidelines. The move comes after the Chandigarh ISA sought directions from the education department on the matter on March 30. The body has 77 schools, with over 50,000 students, as members. There is no clarity on a similar decision for government schools, said sources.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/coronavirus-chandigarh-admn-gives-50l-life-cover-to-frontline-health-workers/story-QX1RKQqQMGtw4dJibAXLAJ.html
09-04-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC traces 245 contacts of 18 coronavirus patients||The contact tracing team of the municipal corporation has completed the task of tracking all those who came in contact with the 18 Covid-19 positive patients of Chandigarh, seven of whom have recovered. The count is 245 and they all are under home-quarantine.A total of 1,446 people were put under home-quarantine, of which 245 had come in contact with positive patients; 163 people attended or came in contact with persons who attended the Tablighi Jamaat’s Markaz event in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area; and 103 had attended a kirtan function in Sector 27 by Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa, who died of Covid-19.So far, 900 persons have completed their home-quarantine period.Chandigarh had reported its first positive case on March 18 — a 23-year-old woman from Sector 21 with foreign travel history. She had come in contact with 60 people before she was admitted to an isolation ward, hence, all 60 were put under home quarantine.Five people, including her mother, brother, cook and two friends, contracted the infection from her in Chandigarh, besides one in Mohali and a salon worker in Panchkula, the district’s first case. The only other positive case so far in Panchkula is a nurse who attended to the salon worker at the local civil hospital.The 23-year-old has since recovered and was discharged on April 6.The highest number of contacts were traced back to a 22-year-old man from Sector 30, who had returned from Dubai and tested positive. He came in contact with 130 people and ended up infecting three — his mother and two friends.Another positive case, an NRI man from Sector 33, came in contact with 29 people and infected three, including his mother, wife and a 10-month-old daughter. His wife’s mother also tested positive in Mohali. Similarly, a man from Sector 35 came in contact with 15 others before he tested positive.After that, a nursing officer at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education And Research, came in contact with two persons, while a doctor from Sector 49 came in contact with six others before testing positive. They were all home-quarantined.An MC official requesting anonymity said, “This does not mean that our work of contact tracing is over. Now, the focus is on the list released by the central government and other updates regarding persons returning from other high-risk cities or states.”NOW, APP TO MONITOR PEOPLE IN ISOLATIONThe municipal corporation has started monitoring people who are quarantined at home through a mobile application.The app makes it mandatory for the person in isolation to update their medical condition on a daily basis. In the last two days, all those under home quarantine downloaded the app. An official involved in the process said it was a far better way to keep tabs on those in quarantine instead of keeping in touch through phone.The total number of persons in home quarantine has crossed over 1,000, making it hard for authorities to keep a daily track of their health, especially when UT has extended the quarantine period for those in isolation. Even those who have served a quarantine period elsewhere are being put under another 14-day isolation term upon reaching Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-traces-245-contacts-of-18-coronavirus-patients/story-YD8pkxz8XuJ7pMi0zV1IAP.html
09-04-2020||City||Dera Bassi count surges to 21, Mohali’s to 36||Ten new Covid-19 positive cases were reported from Jawaharpur village of Dera Bassi in Mohali district on Wednesday, taking the district count to 36, highest in Punjab as well as the tricity.Since a 42-year-old year panch of the village tested positive on April 4, 20 more people —14 part of his extended family — have tested positive for the infection.Over the past few days, 118 samples were collected from the village to check for community spread, and 10 samples tested positive on Wednesday. Four of them are from the panch’s family. As many as 80 samples were negative and results of 28 samples are awaited.Situated on the Ambala-Chandigarh highway, Jawaharpur village has a population of 3,000.With the village becoming the new disease hotspot, the district administration has sealed it and the neighbouring Devigarh and Mehmudpur villages, deploying 75 cops with three PCR vehicles to ensure no movement.Those testing positive from the panch’s family include a 53-year-old panch of the village, a 56-year-old man, who is the sarpanch’s paternal uncle, and two other cousins of the 42-year-old panch. The other six patients include an employee of the public health department in Chandigarh and another runs a shop in the village. They all either came in contact with the panch or the sarpanch, who had tested positive on Tuesday.“None of the 21 patients has travel history. Most of them were asymptomatic and detected only though testing,” said Girish Dayalan, the Mohali deputy commissioner.He said some Tablighi Jamaat members had stayed in the village, but left before anyone could get information about them. “We suspect that the panch came in contact with his factory workers, who had met the Tablighi Jamaat members, which led to spread of the virus,” the DC said, adding that so far they had traced 138 contacts of the 36 positive patients in Mohali district, which will help in containing the spread of the virus.After the 42-year-old panch tested positive on April 4, his father (67), brother (38) and wife (43) were confirmed to have contracted the infection on April 6. A day later, his mother (61), brother’s wife (35), and her children, aged 16 and 12, also tested positive. The village head (sarpanch), aged 39, her husband (43), who is the panch’s cousin, and their daughter (19) were also confirmed positive on Tuesday.All 21 patients are admitted to Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur.“The village has been totally sealed. No one is allowed to move out. Our effort is to contain the cases in the village itself. Further sampling of all family members of those testing positive will be done,” said Manjit Singh, civil surgeon, Mohali.INFECTION’S SOURCE STILL A MYSTERYAuthorities are still trying to track down the source that brought the infection to Jawaharpur village. “We are working to ascertain the source, which is still not clear,” said Dera Bassi sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Kuldeep Bawa.The panch owns a tent house and a tile factory, and had come in contact with eight labourers, who had further met attendees of Tablighi Jamaat’s Markaz event in Delhi. However, none of these contacts is positive. He also frequently travelled to Delhi for supplies for his tent house. “We are tracing his travel history using mobile phone locations and call details,” said Harmandeep Singh Hans, superintendent of police (investigations), Mohali.HELPDESKS SET UPAs three villages have been sealed in Dera Bassi, a helpdesk has been set up in each village to assist villagers. “The villagers will call the helpdesk, and we will provide whatever they need at their doorstep. No one will be allowed to move out,” said SDM Bawa. The villages are home to a large number of migrant workers, who will be provided food by the administration. Announcements have been made from local gurdwaras and temples directing people to stay indoors.NO FRESH CASE IN CHANDIGARH, PANCHKULANo fresh Covid-19 case was reported in Chandigarh for the sixth consecutive day on Wednesday while in Panchkula, too, no new case surfaced for eighth day in a row.However, reports of seven suspect cases are awaited in Chandigarh.In Panchkula, even as all 50 people who had attended Tablighi Jamaat events have tested negative in the past two days, the health department on Wednesday confirmed 65 more such persons have been admitted to the isolation ward of the civil hospital and their samples have been collected for testing. These people were put up in quarantine facilities at the Nada Sahib gurdwara and a village in Raipur Rani last week. Reports of 12 other suspect cases are also awaited.Meanwhile, the PGIMER, Chandigarh, while appreciating the UT administration’s decision to make masks mandatory in public places, cautioned that there is no need to wear N95 masks by the general public as these are required by healthcare workers screening patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dera-bassi-count-surges-to-21-mohali-s-to-36/story-Sq5PP62jhAIAs1kkHI41TN.html
09-04-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Chandigarh admn taking no chances, contingency plan on the anvil||The UT administration is preparing a crisis management plan in case the number of positive Covid-19 cases surges in the city.As per the proposed plan that factors in Chandigarh’s estimated population of 12 lakh, a contingency protocol is being laid down which has to be followed by different authorities including the health department. A three-level facility for housing the patients is being worked out. Covid care centres are proposed to be established for people with mild symptoms. Hotel Parkview, Panchayat Bhawan, and other community bhawans are likely to house such centres. Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, and Government Multi Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, will house the Covid health centre for positive cases with moderate symptoms. Covid-exclusive facility for severe positive cases will be created at the Post Graduate Institute Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) and the civil hospital in Sector 48.UT home-cum-health secretary Arun Kumar Gupta along with medical experts is preparing the plan on the directions of Punjab governor and UT administrator VP Singh Badnore in view of surge in number of COVID-19 cases across the country in the past one week. While no fresh positive case of coronavirus has been reported in the city in the past six days, a senior UT official privy to the development, said that the plan will be put in place to deal with any worst-case scenario as the cases are surging across the country.“Though the situation in Chandigarh remains far better than other parts of the country, we do not want to take any chances. The key focus in the plan would be requirement of ventilators, medical equipment and experts, accommodation and other protocols to be followed,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/coronavirus-chandigarh-admn-taking-no-chances-contingency-plan-on-the-anvil/story-eQPebdexmg2sEwldstXNCM.html
09-04-2020||Chandigarh||Stuck at home, Chandigarh cricketer Rajni focuses on fitness||The Covid-19 enforced lockdown came at a time when Chandigarh’s U-23 and senior women teams were gearing up for the One Day cricket tournament quarter-finals, respectively. Leg-spinner Rajni Devi, who had scalped 18 and 15 wickets in the U-23 and senior women One Day tournament leagues stages (Plate Group), was raring to shine for Chandigarh in the knockouts as well. An experienced bowler, who has played seven seasons for Punjab, it was 21-year-old’s debut outing for Chandigarh. “Although, I played seven seasons for Punjab, I never got so many matches to play. Chandigarh getting BCCI affiliation came as a fresh lease of life for cricketers like me who were struggling to find chances when with the Punjab U-23 and senior teams. And just see, players like Amanjot Kaur, Kashvee Gautam, Nandani Sharma and Monika Pandey all have blossomed while playing for Chandigarh. All of us were usually warming the benches in previous seasons for Punjab,” felt Rajni, who comes from a humble background. For someone, who received a state award from UT Administration for leading Chandigarh team to maiden national school games U-19 cricket title back in 2015, cricket has been a way of life since she joined the academy at GMSSS, Sector 26, a decade ago. She played for Punjab U-19, U-23 and senior teams in the previous seasons.Her main weapon for wickets turned to be ‘googly’ on which she worked on under coach Khyati Gulani before the start of the season. Rajni, who idolises India leg-spinner Poonam Yadav, said that a seasoned coach like Khyati helped her raise her game. “The camps conducted by UT Cricket Association this season brought a different learning curve to my game. I could learn so much from Khyati ma’am and had time to incorporate her inputs. She made a personal connect with all players and encouraged. If you have a coach who backs you and is ready to make you learn all the time then a player does well and improves season by season,” added Rajni, who is a resident of Bapu Dham colony, Rajni lost her father over a decade ago and had to depend all through on her two brothers meager income, who sell snacks on a ‘rehri’ in Sector 19 market in Chandigarh.The cricket academy at GMSSS, Sector 26, brought hope for Rajni and her life took a turn for good like a few others. “Cricket has brought a meaning to my life. I want to make my life worthy and train harder to reach the top. It was good to win all Plate Group league matches in the U-23 and senior One Day Tournaments. Next season, we will get to play in the Elite Group. I will start to train in the off-season for the next season. Doing well against the teams in the Elite Group will help me garner attention from the national selectors,” said Rajni, who wants to work on her batting for the next season and is nowadays working on her fitness at home. She also sends her videos to coach Khyati to keep her updated.Heaping praise on Rajni, coach Khyati Gulani said, “She has the hunger to do well in challenging situations. You give the ball to her when the opposition are dominating, she will get you a breakthrough. She is a superb fielder and gives 100 percent on the field. More specialized camps and practice matches will help Rajni become a better cricketer. Cricket all around the year will help players like Rajni reach the next level. She needs to do strength training and work on her batting.” Rajni hit two consecutive boundaries to help Chandigarh record a win over formidable Pondicherry in the Plate Group league game in the One Day tournament for senior women.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/stuck-at-home-chandigarh-cricketer-rajni-focuses-on-fitness/story-GaRDFkvU7jCB6a3USWkXRI.html
09-04-2020||Chandigarh||With uncoordinated rationing, Chandigarh’s poor sleep hungry||My family is starving, cries an eight months pregnant Sona, who lives at Kacchi Colony in Dhanas. “I have four children at home but the administration provided food for just one. I don’t have any ration at home. How will I feed my children with just a small bowl of dal and four chapatis that they gave?” laments Sona with an empty plate in her hand.Similar is the story of Chandravati who had gone to a queue set up in the neighbouring street for ration distribution. “The workers kicked me out saying that I have already taken food. I have six people at home, and no money or ration, and they just give me a handful of rice and a katori of dal and expect me to feed them. I will have to stand in line again,” said Chandravati. Sona and Chandravati are among the many residents of Kacchi Colony who have failed to get ration and supplies to keep themselves sustained amid the lockdown. The only source of food for them is the community food being given twice a day by various NGOs and the administration, who are also struggling to reach out to the real needy.Hoarders an issueSumit Jain, a volunteer who distributes food in Motor Colony of Manimajra, said, “Initially we used to pack the food in packets. Some people used to take multiple packets depending upon their family size, but we are not sure if that reached the beneficiaries or was it just for hoarding. Now we have asked them to get their own utensils to get the food in. I also have around 100 packets of ration with me, but we are not distributing them all as many people have hoarded them.”Jain added that some people are getting ration twice or thrice. “Some areas are flooded with ration, so now we are distributing it with the help of police officials as they are aware of the needy,” he said.Vivek Mehra, another volunteer for ration distribution, said, “Many people with an intention of having more food call us up multiple times, despite already being given ration. The administration should intervene and coordinate with NGOs for better working so that the doubling of the ration can be avoided.”Sub divisional magistrate (SDM, central) Nazuk Kumar, the nodal officer for ration distribution, said, “It’s our responsibility to ensure that everyone gets food. We give food to everyone who stands in line. However, we don’t have any means to know how many family members a particular beneficiary has.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/with-uneven-rationing-chandigarh-s-poor-sleep-hungry/story-c3xvu6WF2SvJIYopf5D6fM.html
09-04-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh issues advisory amid surge in demand for hydroxychloroquine||Following a surge in demand for hydroxychloroquine (HCQ), the UT health administration has issued an advisory regarding its use.The health administration has assured that there is no shortage of the drug in the market or in government-run pharmacies. But the advisory has also stated that the drug is not recommended for prevention of coronavirus infection.HCQ is used to prevent and treat malaria. Other uses include treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and lupus erythematosus (an inflammatory disease caused when the immune system attacks its own tissues).“Three days back, we received 1 lakh tablets to be used by frontline health workers only. Residents are advised not to take it without medical consultation,” said UT health secretary Arun Gupta.India is the biggest manufacturer of HCQ, a derivative of antimalarial drug chloroquine. The drug is being aggressively sought by US President Donald Trump for treatment of Covid-19 (the disease caused by coronavirus). However, experts have said there is not enough proof of the same.The advisory states that if at all it has any role, it is in Covid-19 patients where it may enhance the response of supportive treatment. For that, too, there is not sufficient evidence, the advisory states.The general secretary of Chandigarh Chemist Association, Vinay Jain, said on an average 10-15 people were calling up and visiting every single store to buy this medicine.“We are educating people that there is no proof to suggest HCQ can prevent Covid-19. There is no shortage (of the medicine), but we are not selling it without prescription. With the drug making news, people have started coming to shops and asking for the medicine without prescription. When we inquire about the need, they say the drug will cure Covid-19, which is not the case,” Jain said.He added that those complaining of a shortage were the ones turned down for not having a prescription.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-issues-advisory-amid-surge-in-demand-for-hydroxychloroquine/story-SOtMfrGVPoXJE8HB0k4pGJ.html
09-04-2020||India||1,135 cases in Maharashtra within a month; where did state go wrong?||Maharashtra on Wednesday reported 117 more cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), taking the number of infected people in India’s worst-hit state to 1,135. The state crossed the 1,000-case mark in 30 days, from March 9 to April 7, with a 5.98% mortality rate, more than twice the country’s rate of 2.66%. The past five days accounted for 56.8% (645) of the state’s cases. Maharashtra’s capital, Mumbai, is the worst-affected city in India with 714 cases, which is 62.9% of the state’s total. At 45 deaths, Mumbai recorded 62.5% of the state’s toll of 72, including eight deaths on Wednesday.Doctors and medical experts attribute these figures to “porous and faulty” policies of the state health department, including “delayed” universal screening of passengers from abroad and “inadequate” testing — one test per 4,208 citizens – in Maharashtra.On March 9, Maharashtra reported its first case of Covid-19 when a couple from Pune, who had travelled to Dubai, tested positive for Sars-Cov-2, which is the virus that causes Covid-19. The next day, three more people in the city who had come in contact with the couple tested positive. All five of them were admitted to Naidu Hospital in Pune. On March 11, two people in Mumbai who were co-passengers of the Pune couple tested positive, making them the financial capital’s first cases. All these people were part of a 40-member tourist group that returned to Mumbai from Dubai on March 1. They were not screened at the Mumbai international airport as the United Arab Emirates (UAE) was not in the list of 12 countries for compulsory screening at airports to find any infected patients. This is despite the World Health Organization (WHO) already declaring an “outbreak” of coronavirus. According to the Airport Health Organisation (AHO), universal screening of passengers started from March 17. “In Maharashtra, more than 40% of the infections were owing to travellers who returned from the UAE. Even though Maharashtra’s first case was of a Dubai returnee, the state government waited for 10 days to start screening travellers from the UAE. This was a major loophole in the screening process,” said Dr Avinash Bhondwe, president of Indian Medical Association, Maharashtra. If the government didn’t have adequate kits to run tests on thousands of travellers, they should have quarantined them for 14 days, said doctors.Dr Bharat Purandare, infectious diseases expert, Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital, Pune, said, “In retrospect, we can say that the government should have made universal screening of all passengers mandatory much earlier. Also, we should have stopped international flights in the first week of March.”“The outbreak of the infection was reported in China in the last week of December. Despite this, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) didn’t make arrangements to quarantine international travellers until they started the SevenHills Hospital facility on March 18. Mumbai has one of the biggest international airports, so the government should have kept a more diligent eye on travellers,” added Dr Bhondwe.Doctors have also blamed the state’s testing policy for the spread of the infection, pointing to the example of a 43-year-old Covid-19 patient with no travel history or close contact with an infected person. She is undergoing treatment in an intensive care unit (ICU) in Fortis Hospital, along with her son. On March 19, when she developed symptoms, she contacted the civic-run Kasturba Hospital for a test. But the hospital refused as she was not a high-risk patient. On March 27, she was diagnosed with the disease through a test conducted in a private laboratory, but it was too late as her son and mother were already exposed to the virus because of the delay in diagnosis.Similarly, there are several other patients with no international travel history or close contact with infected people, but owing to the “rigid testing policy of the state government”, many were refused the test, which further spread the infection, said doctors.Maharashtra has a population of 11.50 crore, but only 27,090 tests have been conducted till Wednesday night — which is one test per 4,208 citizens.Experts said this is inadequate as the number of asymptomatic patients in the state has increased to 76%, according to the state health department.“A freely accessible testing policy through both private and public-sector clinics, which is available on demand and with assured privacy of results, should be the first national priority to identify and quarantine asymptomatic patients. This is likely to increase the numbers of Covid-19 patients, but is essential to determine the extent of the spread in order to contain it,” said Dr Ramen Goel, president, Indian Association of Gastrointestinal Endosurgeons (IAGES). Another lapse that has recently come to light is the lack of appropriate standard operating process (SOPs) in private hospitals to diagnose asymptomatic patients. More than 60 medical staffers have been infected with the virus after unknowingly getting exposed to Covid-19 patients. Nursing associations have criticised the government for not providing adequate training to them in handling coronavirus patients. Along with that, lack of personal protective equipment (PPE) has turned into a big hurdle in treating Covid-19 patients. A doctor from King Edward Memorial (KEM), Parel, said they aren’t given proper PPE to screen or treat patients. “We are using protective kits for HIV while treating Covid-19 patients in ICU or isolation wards,” said the doctor, on condition of anonymity.Dr Manohar Kamath, general secretary of Consumer Guidance Society of India (CGSI), said, “In China, due to the same mismanagement, more than 3,000 medical staffers got infected. In this situation, we need more medicos. We can’t afford to get front-liners infected. The government should have planned about the procurement process earlier, considering the size of the state.”During the beginning of the outbreak, the state health department stated that surgical masks were enough for medical staffers in hospital setups. But soon, as doctors started contracting the infection from asymptomatic patients despite wearing surgical masks, the health department on Wednesday has made it mandatory for everyone who steps out to wear masks. “This is a new strain of coronavirus, so medical knowledge about the virus is very limited, but health officials should have taken notes of the mistakes done in China. We have done several things wrong, which led to the spread,” said a senior epidemiologist, on condition of anonymity. Some doctors are suggesting bringing in the Army, like in the United Kingdom (UK), to streamline healthcare supply logistics. “In addition to immediate policy action, the Indian Army, too, can be asked to step in for the protection of healthcare facilities. Without our soldiers — both literal and proverbial — India’s ability to reduce the fatalities of this war could be severely crippled,” said Dr Goel.Anup Kumar Yadav, commissioner (family welfare) and director, National Health Mission, Maharashtra said, “The screening of passengers at the airport comes under the Central government and we just followed their guidelines. Maharashtra has done the highest number of tests so far in the country, so it’s unfair to say that we haven’t done adequate testing. We are setting up thousands of makeshift shelters for high-risk people to break the chain of transmission.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/1-135-cases-within-a-month-where-did-state-go-wrong/story-2VltIRZSF2tPIXZ5EEB8PN.html
09-04-2020||Mumbai||Is Maharashtra in stage three of outbreak? Govt says not yet||Has Maharashtra moved on to the dreaded stage three (community transmission) of the coronavirus outbreak, which means the source of the infection cannot be traced? While the state government maintained that Maharashtra is still in stage two, where disease transmission is limited to those with travel history to affected countries or those in contact with the infected person, experts feel that the next few days are crucial, against the backdrop of the infection’s steep upward curve in the past eight days. From April 1 to April 8, the state has recorded 833 cases and 62 deaths from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), 73.39% and 86.11% of the state’s tally and toll respectively. Nearly 11% of them have no source of infection established, which has prompted the phase three question.State public health minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday said the state is yet to enter stage three. The minister also said that although the numbers are increasing, they are not multiplying. On Wednesday, Maharashtra recorded 117 more patients and eight deaths, taking the tally to 1,135 and toll to 72. Of the eight deaths, five are in Mumbai, two in Pune and one in Kalyan-Dombivli. Two of the victims are above 60 years of age, while the remaining six were between the ages of 44 and 59. As of Wednesday, Mumbai has 714 patients, the highest in the country, followed by Pune at 166. A total of 25 patients are linked to the Tablighi Jamaat programme organised in Nizamuddin in New Delhi last month and which has emerged as the largest hotspot of cases in the country. Of them, eight are in Latur, six in Buldhana and two each in Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad and Ahmednagar.Most of the state’s cases are from densely populated areas, such as Dharavi, Worli Koliwada in Mumbai and Gultekdi, Market Yard in Pune, where maintaining social distancing has become a herculean task. The state government is now worried if its machinery falls short in containing the spread in the slums.Tope, however, said that they have been able to trace index cases in positive cases from these areas. “If we have reached stage three (community spread) or not will be decided by the World Health Organisation(WHO). Daily data is sent to WHO through the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Based on the data we have collected, we have not reached stage three,” Tope said.Medical education minister Amit Deshmukh said the picture will be clearer early next week. “Yes, we have 10% of cases without contact history, but that does not mean we have reached the third stage. Sometimes, the patients are not able to trace their contact links, leading to difficulty in establishing the contact. We are hopeful that we do not slip into the third phase as the timely lockdown in the state has worked. We are way better than other countries like Spain, United States of America (US), United Kingdom (UK) and can easily say that community spread has not started yet,” he added.Dr Om Srivastav, infectious diseases specialist, said that the data can establish if we have reached stage three. “To prove if the virus is present in the community and it’s leading to the community transmission, aggressive testing is required. Only then can we contain the spread in the hotspot. If the government is claiming that we are still in phase two, based on data, we will have to believe it. As far as the current spike is concerned, there is nothing surprising and it is as per the trend witnessed in other countries,” he said.The state government has now intensified its strategy by monitoring the hot spots at a micro level. “We are targeting at least 5,000 people around every positive case in the densely populated area and then treat them accordingly. We have also putting more restrictions in these areas to ensure that there is no rapid spread. In some areas, ‘curfew’ has been imposed by restricting movements for even essential services. The rapid testing being introduced will help in establishing the vulnerability to the Covid-19 infection and the portable clinics started in Mumbai will help us identify more cases,” said an official from Mantralaya.Tope, too, attributed the high mortality rate in Maharashtra to comorbidities in Covid-19 victims. The mortality rate in the state is 6%, which is more than double the country’s fatality rate. “The Covid-19 deaths are in a higher percentage in old patients with comorbidities,” he said.The official said that though the number of tests conducted in Maharashra is highest among all states, non-availability of kits is another reason the labs are not running to their full capacity. He said that portable testing centres and the rapid testing facility will, however, help in screening more suspected cases. “Still we are not in phase three, which sees the multiplication of cases on a day-to-day basis. Here we are witnessing a rise of just 10% or so. It is true that the mortality rate is high, but it’s because of a delay in admissions and comorbidity among patients,” he said.Tope said the health department has categorised hospitals and patients will be admitted in these hospitals, depending on the severity of the case. The health department has marked five hospitals where asymptomatic and mild Covid-19 cases will be treated. The severe and critical cases will be treated at four dedicated hospitals, where specialist doctors to tackle comorbidities in patients will also be stationed.“Asymptomatic patients or those who show mild symptoms will be admitted at Sushruta Hospital, Bombay Hospital, Poddar hospital, Lilavati Hospital and Sai Hospital. Severe and critical cases will be admitted to SevenHills hospital, Kasturba hospital, Nanavati hospital, and Saifee Hospital. All these hospitals will have tertiary care to treat people with other issues. The idea is to try and lower the mortality rate,” Tope said.Tope said the lockdown should be strictly followed in Dharavi, which has seen 13 cases and two deaths. He said that he has instructed the police and officials of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to take all necessary care to reduce crowding and maintain social distancing in the area.“It is a matter of concern as Dharavi is a densely populated area…I have visited Dharavi yesterday. I have informed the home department, local DCP, and Praveen Pardeshi that social distancing should be followed strictly in Dharavi. The crowding in public toilets should be avoided to curb the spread of infection. I do not think there is any need for a lockdown today. Whatever lockdown is there, should be implemented properly in Dharavi,” he said.“We are monitoring how the number of cases are increasing in districts. We are also looking at the advisories of the Centre. Based on that, we can decide to relax lockdown in areas where there are no cases. However, the process to lift the lockdown has to be scientific and a protocol has to be followed,” he added.The state health department, in conjunction with the Indian Medical Association, is also planning to start “rakshak” clinics at taluka level and “mobile clinics” in urban areas.The minister said that the Centre did a flip-flop on the clearance for commencing rapid testing or antibody tests. “The Centre once said yes for the testing, later said not to do it. Now again it has given its clearance. One thing is that the rapid tests cannot give 100% result on coronavirus cases. We cannot rely on it completely. We are awaiting kits, once they provide it. we can start it in Mumbai and Pune,” he said. He added that the state has sought a time frame from the Centre to procure personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, N95 masks and ventilator. Tope said that if there is going to be a delay, the state government will ask manufactures in Maharashtra to increase its capacity and provide these types of equipment||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/is-maharashtra-in-stage-three-of-outbreak-govt-says-not-yet/story-gUMYNj7NIDIYBlvAI5TiaO.html
09-04-2020||Delhi||Rendered jobless due to lockdown, they are working at shelter homes; feeding the needy||Sitting next to a pile of bottle gourd, 25-year-old Vishal is busy peeling the vegetable. It is 2.30pm and he has just two hours to finish the pre-cooking preparations, including dicing 30 kg of the vegetable for the next meal which will be served at 7pm at a shelter home in south-east Delhi’s Sarai Kale Khan.Vishal, who used to work at a bookstall in the Nizamuddin railway station, says he does not know how to make food. But in the last two weeks, he has picked up some basic skills while helping a team of cooks at the Delhi government-run shelter home.“Everything changed after the janta curfew (March 22),” said Vishal, who hails from Ujjain, Madhya Pradesh, and worked at the bookstall for three years, earning Rs 8,000 per month.“I had shifted here a few months ago to save money, but now I don’t know if I’ll get my job back or not as the bookstall owner has also suffered huge losses due to the lockdown,” he said. Vishal says he has a younger brother, who is in class 11, and a grandmother back home to support.But the shelter home has given him hope. “I’m told that I’ll get some money. It might not be as much as I used to earn earlier, but it will be enough to survive this period,” he said.Besides Vishal, there is a team of eight-nine people, most of them rendered jobless due to the lockdown, who have taken charge of providing meals to hundreds of needy at the shelter home.It was Santosh, a cook at a roadside eatery at the CGO (central government office) complex who lost his job due to health concerns a few months ago, who got the team together. The 46-year-old manages the open-to-sky kitchen at the shelter home. Every day they cook for nearly 600 people.A few kilometres away at another shelter home in Yamuna Pushta, 42-year-old Ram Lakhan says he does not have free time anymore as most of his day is spent in the preparation of the two meals a day that he and six-seven others prepare for almost 3,500 people.Lakhan, who hails from Itah in Uttar Pradesh and used to work with a catering service as a cook, says he is one of the lucky ones who, despite losing their jobs, are able to earn some money. close to Rs 700-800 per day by working at the shelter home. He has found work with Safe Approach, the NGO which runs the government shelter home.“Though I’m not able to earn as much as I used to a few weeks back, something is better than nothing,” said Lakhan.Safe Approach director Santosh, who runs the 51 Delhi government shelter homes, said he has hired people from the shelter homes to cook meals as the workload increased manifold post the lock down. “The workload is too much now. These people were hired as we have known them since sometime and can trust them with food preparations,” said Santosh. Bhanu Singh (33), a mechanic by profession and a resident of Morena in Madhya Pradesh, had come to Noida on March 20 for an interview at a factory. He was told to join from March 29. While the first few days after his arrival he stayed at the factory, he didn’t have a place to stay after the lockdown was announced on March 25 and couldn’t go back home also.“I did not know anyone in Noida, so I called a friend who lives at this shelter home. He asked me to come. I walked a few kilometres and somehow reached here,” said Singh, who now helps in cooking and serving food to people at the Sarai Kale Khan shelter.Rajesh Kumar, executive director of Society for Promotion of Youth and Masses, who runs close to 62 shelter homes in Delhi, said: “Initially after the lockdown was announced, we had a lot of mouths to feed as migrant labourers had queued up at our shelter homes. It was difficult to manage the rush with our old staff strength. Then, some of these people, who knew how to cook, volunteered. They are a huge help to us.”Working at the shelter home, all of them say, has helped them sail through a tough period when hundreds are struggling for even one square meal a day.Vishal, who has studied until class 8, says he hopes to go back to selling books at the railway station when all this is over. “I started working at the bookstall as I love reading. I just pray that the lockdown is not extended and things go back to normal. Thankfully, I don’t have to worry about food… We thought the lockdown was for a day. Had I known that it would get extended, I would have brought some books with me,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rendered-jobless-due-to-lockdown-they-are-working-at-shelter-homes-feeding-the-needy/story-opt0j0LQ1SJhsZBrF5qpgJ.html
09-04-2020||Gurugram||Coronavirus lockdown: Gurugram Police officials at checkpoints get tents as day temperature rises||The police on Wednesday said that they are setting up tents at several checkpoints across Gurugram for the convenience of the officials posted there. The decision was taken after the city witnessed high temperatures in recent days.According to the police, several checkpoints were set up across the city after the authorities announced a complete lockdown in the wake of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak and officials were posted there for round-the-clock duty.Subhash Boken, spokesperson, city police, said that the tents were provided to the officials under the supervision of police commissioner Mohammed Akil. “As the temperature is soaring, we do not want our officials to stand under the sun while keeping vigil. Hence, it was decided to set up tents at the checkpoints across the city. Our officials are working hard to maintain law and order amid the lockdown and asking people to not leave their homes,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/covid-lockdown-gurugram-police-officials-at-checkpoints-get-tents-as-day-temperature-rises/story-s1sb0yaWVT1GAJ8aLOr7FJ.html
09-04-2020||Gurugram||Haryana announces Rs10,000 rebate on fixed power charge for industries||The Haryana Electricity Regulatory Commission (HERC) issued a notification on Wednesday announcing flat rebate of ₹10,000 in fixed electricity charges for industrial consumers for the months of March and April. However, industry owners’ association said this was too little to make any difference and that they had demanded complete waiver of the fixed charges from March to May. The relief package was announced in view of the economic slowdown brought on by the Covid-19 outbreak and after the Haryana government received numerous representations from industry owners and their associations recently. “After receiving representations from industry owners it has been decided by the Haryana government (through the Haryana electricity regulatory commission) that the fixed charges of consumers having load 20 KW and above for the month of March and April shall be waived off subject to a ceiling of ₹10,000 per month provided the monthly consumption of the consumer is 50% or less,” the notification said. Fixed charge is an additional, but major component of the electricity bill that the department, such as Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN), calculates at ₹170 per kilo watt in addition to the electricity consumption.A consumer having, for instance, 100 KW sanctioned load currently pays ₹17,700 as fixed charge to government per month. After rebate, s/he will have to pay ₹7,700. “Most of the industry owners pay ₹2 lakh to ₹3 lakh fixed charge every month in addition to electricity consumption. For us, ₹10,000 relaxation is negligible. We are disappointed. Rajasthan and UP governments have waived off fixed charges. We gave representation for complete waiver of fixed charges for three months, March to May. We will write to the government in this regard,” Manmohan Gaind, general secretary of Manesar Industrial Welfare Association, said.“We were hoping the government would waive off fixed charges completely for three months since we are witnessing economy slowdown also – our industries are shut and we are in loss, our businesses have been halted by virus outbreak,” said Manoj Jain, joint secretary of Gurgaon Industrial Association.HELP FOR SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRIESThe industries are big electricity consumers of the DHBVN and their connections range from 20KW to 1000KW and above. The DHBVN maintained the ₹10,000 rebate was good relief for thousands of small-scale industries.“This rebate will bring relief to industries having 50 KW load or less as their average monthly fixed charges are normally less than ₹10,000 and they will have to pay no amount in the fixed charge category,” said KC Aggarwal, DHBVN chief engineer Gurugram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/haryana-announces-10-000-rebate-on-fixed-power-charge-for-industries/story-eICdeSTXmgTAMxyAJqxvFJ.html
09-04-2020||Gurugram||Teams to survey 400,000 households in Gurugram||With 12 new confirmed cases of Covid-19 in one day, the district tally for the coronavirus disease shot to 30 on Wednesday, prompting the district administration and the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) to announce a a door-to-door survey to trace symptomatic cases. In a statement, deputy commissioner Amit Khatri said the survey was being conducted to identify those who require immediate medical help and appealed to citizens to provide accurate information.Of these 12 new cases, 10 attended the Tablighi Jamaat gathering Delhi and had taken shelter in Sohna’s Raipur village in the last week of March; they are natives of Himachal Pradesh. Hundreds of cases of Covid-19 across the country have been traced to a Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin in mid-March. The other two patients are from Agra who are under treatment in a private hospital. The remaining cases reported since March are from sectors 9, 50, 83, 47 and 39, Palam Vihar, Sushant Lok-1, Devi Lal Colony and wards 14 and 11 of Pataudi. About 1,200 small teams have been formed to survey four zones of the city to cover at least 400,000 households in urban, semi-urban areas, villages and slums, officials said on Wednesday. They will enquire about the health condition of family members and requirement of household rations.“At least 799 units (teams), along with an additional 400 units for urban areas have been formed. Each unit will include one government employee, an NGO {non-government organisation} worker or volunteer, who will inquire about the health condition of all members of every household to trace symptomatic Covid-19 cases. They will also check if the elderly, physically disabled or migrant workers need food or medication. A single team would cover least 250-350 households in their specific zone,” said VS Kundu, CEO, Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) and the monitoring officer for Covid-19 cases in Gurugram. Kundu added that the administration was strengthening the grassroots workforce to understand the requirements of the people, share them with the supervisory officer and address them. The survey will be handled by zonal officers, sector officers and units at three levels. Kundu, in a meeting with officials on Wednesday, said that to prevent them from catching the infection during the survey, teams should be apprised of precautionary measures such as the need to maintain a physical distance of 1 metre, not touching any object and using a pen to press the doorbell. District administration officials have been in touch with resident welfare associations (RWAs) for the last two weeks and they anticipate no hindrance in carrying out the survey in gated colonies. MCG’s teams are aiming to reach out to migrant workers, people in the unorganised sector, senior citizens, pregnant women, and people with special needs on a priority basis. MCG additional commissioner Mahabir Prasad said that at least one of the team members will be familiar with the area and will identify those who may be vulnerable to the infection. Units will be active in 203 gram panchayats. Each unit will include the sarpanch, village secretary, auxiliary nurse midwife (ANM) and accredited social health activists (ASHAs) of their villages. As per the 2011 census, there are at least 312,075 households in Gurugram. Officials said there had been a 25% increase in this number since, leading them to estimate the number now at around 400,000 households.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/teams-to-survey-400-000-households-in-gurugram/story-4rp7uk1EGKfuOQpIY8mrQP.html
09-04-2020||Delhi||Covid lockdown helps relax zoo animals, make them feel ‘almost at home’||Vijay, 12 has been enjoying long naps, lots of playtime with his favourite wooden log, and peaceful walks around his enclosure. Six years ago, it was during one such evening stroll that Vijay, one of Delhi zoo’s white tigers, was confronted by a 22-year old man who had jumped or fallen into the enclosure. Vijay killed the man, an act that changed his life. He was initially kept under observation. Then, when he was released, he realised he had become a celebrity. He got used to having people screaming to attract his attention, even (when the zoo officials were not looking), throwing things at him. he also got used to the incessant clicking of mobile phone cameras. Now, with the zoo close to public, Vijay is enjoying his non-celebrity lifestyle, according to his trainers, who add that he has actually become more relaxed and responsive.It isn’t just him; most animals have become less shy and stress-free since the zoo closed for general public on March 18, after the Covid-19 epidemic had started to spread in the national capital. With a national lockdown for three weeks being declared from March 25, zoo authorities appointed an animal behaviourist to analyse behavioural changes in the 1,200 animals kept in captivity here. Two biologists of the zoo accompany the behaviourist to record activities of the animals on a day-to-day basis to asses if there is any change.A report on the assessment based on the stress levels, diet, sleep, mating and defecation patterns of the animals will be submitted to the Central Zoo Authority (CZA) after the lockdown is over.Suneesh Buxy, director of Delhi zoo, said initial observations show that most of the wild animals are now stress-free and enjoying the absence of visitors.“The stress factor has reduced. There is no noise. Except for the zoo staff, there is no human interaction with animals,” Buxy said, adding that the research could be useful. “If some pattern is observed, it will be a good for further research.” Explaining the changes observed in the big cats over the last fortnight, zoo officials who are involved in the study said that the animals are now showing more activity, have become more playful, and that their aggression levels have gone down. One tiger, which otherwise is the most aggressive of the lot, has remained mostly calm, Buxy added.Scientists have also observed that the Asian elephants and apes were spotted roaming freely around, without any coaxing from their keepers. Previously shy foxes, rarely seen during the day, are venturing out. And lion-tailed macaques are using the swings installed for them, more frequently now.The bowel movement of animals such as elephants and apes are also more regular and the faeces is not as constipated as it used to be, zoo officials said -- one indicator that they are not under stress. Another change is that they are drinking enough water now. Many of these animals earlier used to hesitate to drink water, because many water troughs are open to public view. Some even risked dehydration, officials said.“Apart from the limited human interaction, animals are now also getting fresh meat, which we are slaughtering in the zoo itself. As a result, we have observed that there is no wastage” said Saurabh Vashisht, range officer at the zoo. The zoo used to source meat from suppliers before. It was granted special permission to slaughter animals in the zoo during the lockdown. Among big cats, the zoo has nine tigers, four leopards, two jaguars and four lions.The story seems to be similar in zoos around the world. Martha Deen, a senior zoologist at the US’s Montana State University, has been heading a project to analyse the behaviour changes in various categories of animals in America’s zoos since their interaction with humans became limited.“Our observations are still ongoing, but we have seen that while wild animals such as tigers and lions are more stress-free and are even mating on their own, performing and petting animals — such as chimpanzees, walruses and wild goats — were showing signs of loneliness and depression,” Deen said, in an email response. She said that in many state-run zoos in the US, people are allowed to pet and play with animals and they are used to having humans around. These animals were seen to shows signs of “attention deficiency”, she added. “For instance in Ohio’s Columbus, we have got reports that zoo keepers have to be around the bonobo (a monkey), because every day at 2pm they have a little show for the public...They are like performers, who are missing their audience.” .Vijay clearly isn’t.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-lockdown-helps-relax-zoo-animals-make-them-feel-almost-at-home/story-KwxkoAhgQu9KO0Ln0AII8I.html
09-04-2020||Delhi||Coronavirus: Delhi likely to see rise in number of Covid cases, but experts say nothing to be worried about||With the Delhi government planning to ramp up mass testing and random testing in the city’s coronavirus disease (Covid) hotspots, will there be a spike in the number of infections in the capital? Yes, experts say, but it is not something to be alarmed about.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s government has ordered 50,000 kits for testing people and wants to procure 100,000 kits for rapid or antibody testing in the city where, until Wednesday night, 669 people had tested positive for the disease and nine had died. Follow latest updates on coronavirus here “Naturally, if you start testing more people, there will be an increase in the numbers. But it is not something people should be scared of. More aggressive antibody testing will help us detect cases early and treat them, reducing the mortality,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of community medicine at Safdarjung Hospital.The city-state’s government is aiming is to double testing from 500 samples a day to 1,000 samples.The government has already put in orders for 50,000 kits. Another 100,000 rapid testing kits have also been ordered to test people in the hotspots.“If you do not test, you will never know where the cases of corona (Covid-19) are. We will scale up testing in Delhi just like in South Korea where they tested and identified each and every person with the infection and treated them or sent them to quarantine so that they could not spread it to others,” Kejriwal said on Tuesday.Also read| Covid-19: Masks must in Delhi, 23 ‘zones’ sealed fullyExpecting a surge in the number of cases, the government has also laid out a plan for treating up to 30,000 active cases at a time. “We are on a growth trajectory and any increase in the numbers should not scare the people because the government is prepared even for the worst-case scenario,” said Dr SK Sarin, director of the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences and head of a five-member panel advising the chief minister on Covid-19 preparedness.Kejriwal said on Tuesday hat the rapid testing kits that have been ordered will reach the Delhi by Friday, when increased testing in the hotspots will begin.“In the meanwhile, we are preparing guidelines on who should be tested in the hotspots. Once the kits arrive, the priority will be Nizamuddin area as there is a high likelihood that the people in the area might have come in contact with those from the Markaz,” said an official from Delhi’s health department, on condition of anonymity.Also read: No dearth of anti-malaria drug, say states amid local concernsOf Delhi’s 669 cases of Covid-19, 426 have been linked to the mid-March congregation of a Muslim missionary group, the Tahblighi Jamaat, in the Markaz, its six-storey headquarters in Nizamuddin Basti, which has emerged as the biggest hotspot of the disease in the country.An 82-year-old patient from Nizamuddin West had in March end tested positive for the disease without any travel history or clear history of contact with any of the positive cases reported until then. Another man from the area, a 73-year-old,who died on March 31 at Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital, also did not have any clear history of travel or contact with a carrier of the infection.The authorities are planning random testing in hotspots like Nizamuddin and Dilshad Garden.“We cannot do door-to-door testing; besides the cost, there is also an issue of consent. However, the known contacts with the positive cases or at high risk to get the disease should be tested,” said Dr Sarin.These tests will also help the government in deciding containment strategies.“More testing means more information. Yes, the numbers will likely shoot up, but it will improve the government’s response. In high-risk areas, the antibody tests can help in detecting the asymptomatic cases as well and ensure that they get quarantined. Apart from that, if there is high positivity in an area – for example you test 1,000 people and 800 turn out to be positive – then the government can decide to physically lock down the area to prevent them carrying the infection to other parts of the city,” said Dr Shobha Broor, former head of the department of microbiology at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences.The converse is also true. “If there are 40,000 people in a quarantine area, and more than half test negative then we can say they were never exposed to the infection,” said Dr Sarin.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Rapid testing is also a helpful way of establishing the burden of Covid-19.“The rapid testing is antibody or blood-based and the samples can be easily collected without too much risk of healthcare workers getting the infection. If we are able to do a large number of tests, we will come to know the burden of disease. It is helpful in the study of epidemiology later on but in the short term, it also helps in planning response. Based on the antibody levels in the population, we can predict how many infections are likely to happen in an area rather than going blind as we are currently doing,” said Dr Kishore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-likely-to-see-rise-in-number-of-covid-cases-but-experts-say-nothing-to-be-worried-about/story-UYLtRXpwe2jZWZTVMUSxlK.html
09-04-2020||Noida||Two more test positive in GB Nagar, total Covid-19 cases now at 60||The Gautam Budh Nagar district health department confirmed two more Covid-19 cases in the district on Wednesday, taking the tally of cases to 60, of which 48 are active cases. Twelve persons have so far been discharged from the isolation wards of different hospitals after being cured of Covid-19.Gautam Budh Nagar chief medical officer Dr AP Chaturvedi said the two women were the latest to test positive for Covid-19. “While one patient is from Supertech Capetown in Sector 74, the other is from Chouda village in Sector 22,” he said. The husbands of both women are employees of fire safety firm, Ceasefire, and they had both tested positive earlier.Dr Chaturvedi further said as of Wednesday, 693 people are admitted in different isolation wards of the district, including 346 in Galgotias University hostel and 174 at the district hospital building in Sector 39. “Besides them, we have also kept 127 patients in isolation at Dr BR Ambedkar SC/ST hostel in Gautam Buddha University, 28 at the super specialty child PGI, 15 at the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) and three at Sharda Hospital,” he said.The CMO further said so far, the medical teams of the district have visited 15,350 houses and screened 53,582 persons. “Among those screened, we have traced the travel history of 211. The samples of 1,111 persons have been collected so far and sent to different laboratories for testing,” he said.Of the 60 positive cases in the district, 41 are linked to Ceasefire, whose employees had jumped their quarantine and caused the disease to spread. Even the two cases confirmed on Wednesday are linked to the company, as the husbands of both women were employees of the company.On Tuesday night, the district administration shifted around 200 slum dwellers from Sector 8 to a quarantine centre at the Galgotias hostel as a precautionary measure to curb community spread of the disease. Last week, four people from the slum colony in Sector 5 had tested positive for Covid-19. A domestic help, who worked at the house of an employee of Ceasefire, as well as three of her family were among those who tested positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/two-more-test-positive-in-gb-nagar-total-covid-19-cases-now-at-60/story-auAIL5EDv3SvuZuqySKoPM.html
09-04-2020||Noida||Of all polluted cities in UP, Noida and Greater Noida register the best improvement||With the 21-day nationwide lockdown bringing to a halt vehicular movement across cities and also shutting industries, both polluting and otherwise, the air quality has markedly improved, especially in Noida and Greater Noida, a recent analysis of major cities of Uttar Pradesh shows. Both industrial districts – Gautam Budh Nagar (Noida and Greater Noida) and Ghaziabad – had been consistently listed as the most polluted cities of the country, with excessively high concentration of particulate pollutants.The analysis done by Greenpeace India compared the levels PM2.5 – particles in air with a diameter less than 2.5 microns – of seven top polluted cities of the state for the period from March 24 to April 4 for the years 2020 and 2019.While all cities have shown a reduction in PM2.5, the drop in Greater Noida is 68.83%, Noida 65.87%, Ghaziabad 65.75%, Agra 58.92%, Lucknow 55.25%, Kanpur 50.25% and Varanasi 46.96%. Greenpeace India procured its data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the apex body for monitoring ambient air quality in the country.“This analysis clearly shows humane activities such as burning fossil fuel, transport sector, and the energy sector contribute significantly to particulate matter in cities and it can be controlled by transitioning from fossil fuels to renewables,” said the Greenpeace India analysis. It added that PM2.5 is the major pollutant that causes serious health risks such as cardiovascular diseases, respiratory diseases, and lung cancer.According to the report, the average concentration of PM2.5 for Greater Noida was 26.98 microgrammes per cubic meters (Ug/m3) for period between March 24 and April 4, 2020, against 86.56 Ug/m3 for the same period last year. The average concentration for Noida was 29.80 Ug/m3 this year against 85.40 Ug/m3 last year. The average concentration of PM2.5 for the given period for Ghaziabad was 35.74 Ug/m3 against 104.40 Ug/m3 last year.The safe limit for PM2.5 is 60 Ug/m3, according to the national standards, while the World Health Organization keeps it 25 Ug/m3.“Although we are seeing a reduction in air pollution across cities owing to the lockdown, we should not see it as a relief. The changes are very temporary, and will not contribute much to the annual average pollution levels. Once the lockdown ends, the pollution will increase again,” Avinash Chanchal, senior campaigner, Greenpeace India, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/of-all-polluted-cities-in-up-noida-and-greater-noida-register-the-best-improvement/story-icu5uxLE3nqu1sdMhsAvNO.html
09-04-2020||City||12 hot spots in GB Nagar, 13 in Ghaziabad to be under intensive lockdown till April 14||With the Uttar Pradesh government Wednesday announcing the sealing of 105 Covid-19 hot spots across 15 districts, 25 such clusters in the NCR -- 13 in Ghaziabad and 12 in Gautam Budh Nagar – will be under intensive lockdown measures for a week, with residents confined indoors, all shops and banks shut, and all vehicular movement completely curtailed.The order comes into effect on Wednesday midnight and will remain in force until the morning of April 15. During the period, the government will carry out extensive sanitisation of the identified areas, and facilitate doorstep delivery of food and other essential supplies. ,,,,,A decision to seal the Covid-19 clusters – areas having six or more coronavirus-positive cases --- was taken after chief minister Yogi Adityanath met senior officials to review the implementation of the 21-day nationwide lockdown announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi from March 25.The hot spots are spread across Agra (22), Ghaziabad (13), Gautam Budh Nagar (12), Kanpur (12), Lucknow (12), Meerut (7), Saharanpur (4), Maharajganj (4), Shamli (4), Varanasi (4) Bulandshahr (3), Basti (3), Firozabad (3), Bareilly (1) and Sitapur (1). “We have identified these hot spots in consultation with the director general of police (DGP) Hitesh Chandra Awasthy,” said Awanish Awasthi, additional chief secretary for home in the Uttar Pradesh government.Till Wednesday, Uttar Pradesh has reported 361 Covid-19 cases from 37 districts and three deaths. “We have identified clusters where Covid-19 positive people live or had links with. We will enforce the complete lockdown and sanitise the clusters,” DGP Awasthy said.Addressing a joint press conference, Awasthi and the DGP said Adityanath had directed government officials to implement the lockdown more strictly in the hot spots. In the remaining areas of the 15 districts, the lockdown ordered on March 25 will continue, they said.Avnish Awasthi said a curfew will be clamped in the hot spots and people will not be allowed to move out of homes. All commercial establishments, including banks, groceries and subsidised public distribution system outlets, will be shut and the movement of traffic banned. No one will be allowed to enter the clusters until the morning of April 15.“The areas will be segregated from other areas with the help of barricading and banks, shops, etc will remain closed. All the medical and general supplies will be delivered at doorstep. Movement in these areas will be restricted like under a normal curfew situation,” DGP Awasthy said.Police and health teams will carry out house-to-house searches to identify people infected with the coronavirus, officials said. People who have come from other districts will be identified and their contacts traced.The hot spots will be inaccessible to the media as well, and the government photographers will release pictures to the media. The fire services department will carry out an extensive sanitation drive in hot spots. All lockdown passes issued to civilians will stand cancelled. Drones will be used to watch the densely populated neighbourhoods. The administration will use loudspeakers to pass on information to residents of hot spots, officials said.“The police will deploy UP-112 vehicles and will take up extensive surveillance using drones. Residents will be kept informed through loudspeakers. Extensive sanitisation will also be taken up with the help of fire tenders. Banks and shops will remain closed in all such areas. The restrictions will be only for hot spot areas and the remaining parts of the district will be under the normal lockdown,” Awasthi said.Another senior police officer said the number of hot spots may increase if more Covid-19 positive cases are detected in any other neighbourhoods. Responding to reports of people resorting to panic-buying, officials said people should not panic as all essential commodities and medicines will be supplied to their doorstep.Clarifications were later made by officials of Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar districts that the orders were only for hot spot areas and not for the entire district as such.“There are reports doing the rounds that curfew will be imposed in Ghaziabad. These reports are incorrect. The lockdown is in place and supplies and services will continue as usual. Residents should not violate the lockdown rules, else we will take legal action,” Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate, Ghaziabad, said.“The sealing orders are for 12 hot spot areas in Gautam Budh Nagar. But this does not mean that essential supplies such groceries, medicines, fruits and vegetables will not be available. The administration will ensure delivery at doorstep. So we request everyone to follow the lockdown rules,” Narendra Bhooshan, chief executive officer of the Greater Noida authority, said.“We are now going to issue an order that everyone who moves out of their homes will have to mandatorily cover their face with a mask or cloth in order to prevent the spread of the infection,” Amit Mohan Prasad, principal secretary (health), said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/12-hot-spots-in-gb-nagar-13-in-ghaziabad-to-be-under-intensive-lockdown-till-april-14/story-aWdlsVWOKXmj6eCO0XHIjN.html
09-04-2020||Delhi||Art of living through the Covid crisis||Parvesh Bansal was known for her sketching skills in her teens. But her artistic pursuits got no encouragement from her parents, who always told her not to waste time on doodles and rather focus on studies. By the time Bansal was in college, she had given up her hobby.Fifty-two years on, at 70, a few days back, she borrowed a pencil from her neighbour’s school-going son and drew again—a house in the hills, surrounded by the towering pine trees.“My son lives in the United States and I live alone. I was feeling anxious and restless, having remained holed up in my apartment, all alone, for almost two weeks now,” says Bansal, a retired teacher who lives In Noida. “I wanted to distract myself from all that is happening in the world. Drawing immediately soothed me. I have done a few sketches in the past three days and exhibited them on Facebook. My relatives gave encouraging comments, and I felt 18 again. Believe me, there is no better way than art to deal with isolation.”Parvesh is not the only one – thousands of people from various backgrounds and age-groups — doctors, lawyers, teachers, students , are taking to art, giving expression to their experiences of social distancing and lockdown. Social media – especially Facebook and Instagram-- are full of such artwork these days.Take for example the works of Muskan Sharma, a Delhi University BCom student, who has done a series of paintings, depicting doctors’ importance in society. One of her paintings on Sunday showed a doctor surrounded by a multitude of people of different nationalities, wearing masks depicting their national flags. “I wanted to show how doctors are critical to our survival and how the world is rallying around them,” says Sharma.While doctors may be a subject of many artworks these days, many doctors themselves are turning to art for its therapeutic effects.Dr. Aparna Govil Bhasker, a Mumbai- based bariatric surgeon, has done a series of paintings in the past few days dealing with various aspects of lockdown—the stigmatisation of health care workers, including doctors, the condition of migrants, the role of invisible heroes such as sweepers and vegetable vendors in easing lives of people. “ Today we all want to say something but we get caught up in taking sides. For me art is the most effective medium of expression. It allows me to say whatever I want to say; people can interpret it however they want. Art keeps me sane in these fraught times”. Similarly, Dr. Rajesh Gupta, a pulmonologist with Fortis hospitals, likes to paint for an hour every evening after work. “These days I get an enormous number of queries from family, friends, neighbours and patients who fear they might have contracted Covid-19. A doctor’s job is always stressful even in normal times, but currently it is much more so. Art allows me to relax, prepare for the next day,” says Gupta. “The right brain qualities, which are related to imagery, visual and drawing skills also hold me in good stead in today’s digital, image-based world of medicine.”Vasvi Srivastava, co-founder, Abhyaantar, a Delhi-based organisation that facilitates wellness and healing through creative arts, says that the lockdown has given people an opportunity like never to discover their creative selves, and to do things they always wanted to do, but never got time.“Art puts you in a meditative state, relieving depression, general anxiety, and a host of other mental health issues. Even science has proved its healing powers,” says Srivastava, also a psychologist and an expressive arts therapy facilitator. “Art is the first thing we do as a child, much before writing, but unfortunately children have never been encouraged to take up art. I hope the current lockdown eventually will lead to a better appreciation of arts in our society.”Krishna Das, who runs Kriya, an organisation that encourages artists from different walks of life, has launched an initiative, Artists of Kovid -19, to showcase works done by both professional as well as amateur artists during the lockdown. “The best art happens when artists have time and solitude to look within and be themselves. In normal times, we never introspect or retrospect, which requires both solitude and courage. The lockdown has given people that rare opportunity,” says Das.She refers to legendary American psychologist Abraham Maslow’s hierarchy triangle, comprising a five-tier model of human needs, which also puts emphasis on the need for creative activities as a means of self-actualisation. “ Art is very important for us to become a better society, ” says Das.One of the many artists who have contributed to Artists of Kovid -19 project, is Simran Wadhwa, a professional artist. Among the many works that she created during the lockdown is a brightly coloured face of a woman against a pitch dark background.“The dark background represents the difficult times we are going through, and the bright colours on the face represent positivity of the person, her ability to see light at the end of the tunnel,” says Wadhwa, adding that in the past two weeks she has seen a change in the attitude of people towards art. “ A lot of parents are contacting me these days to do online art sessions for their children, which they feel is a creative way of spending time. But only time will tell if this change in outlook towards art will last.”Manroop Chawla, another contributor to the Covid-19 project, has painted a young girl with long dark hair standing against a blue background, her face painted light blue.“The blue in the background conveys a sense of solitude that pervades all around us, and the blue on the face of the girl represents how people are getting affected by the bleak atmosphere around them,” says Chawla. “ Art is helping me fight my own blues.”In fact, not just Das, many other art organisations have also launched several projects and competitions related to Covid-19, social distancing and quarantine. On 25th March, the day the country-wide lockdown began, Mumbai-based Milind Sathe, an art promoter, who runs Indiaart , an online art platform, launched “Art in the time of Corona - hope and positivity through creativity”, a project exhorting people to create and share their work -- be it a doodle, sketch, painting or anything else--- during the lockdown.“I have always believed in the power of art in tackling negativity and despair. At a time when there is constant negative news all around, I thought that people should create something positive and not be just passive listeners to the stories of doom. Apart from the joy of creation, art can also soothe the stressed minds and give everyone a strong reason to live another day,” says Sathe.The response to Sathe’s initiative has been overwhelming, with people from diverse age-groups and backgrounds-- homemakers, doctors, IT professionals, school children and college students and others sending their entries.“I have been pleasantly surprised by the quality and depths of some of these works,” he says.On Tuesday, Aparna Bhasker put up a new piece of art on her Facebook page. This time, it had a message: “In the end we washed the virus offAnd no evidence of infection did we findBut deep down, the feeling of being stigmatized was somewhat left behind#EndCoronaStigma”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/art-of-living-through-the-covid-crisis/story-GtHwrRoq51SAEZcGFIumYL.html
09-04-2020||Chandigarh||Facing threat, Sikhs, Hindus in Afghanistan awaiting India’s response on asylum pleas||As they are receiving death threats from terror organisations following the attack on historic Gurdwara Har Rai Sahib in Kabul, which killed 27 Sikh devotees on March 25, the Sikh and Hindu families living in Afghanistan are eagerly wanting to be evacuated from the terror-hit country at the earliest and waiting for India’s response on their pleas for asylum.Talking to HT over phone, Hira Singh, a prominent Afghan Sikh leader who left Afghanistan in 1993 after the civil war and is living in Delhi as a refugee, said several Afghanistan-based organisations, including Hindu-Sikh Welfare Society, Khalsa Diwan Society and managements of gurdwaras, have written to the Indian government seeking asylum and they have also approached Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal to take up the matter.“However, we don’t know the fate of these pleas of Afghan Sikhs. The government’s response is awaited yet,” he added.In a letter written by managing committee of Gurdwara Dashmesh Darbar Karte Parwan, Kabul, to Union home minister Amit Shah, external affairs minister S Jaishankar and Harsimrat on April 3 through Manjinder Singh Sirsa, president of Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC), the Afghan Sikhs stated, “The conditions here are very volatile and dangerous. There was another attack on March 25 during the funeral services and explosives were found near the gurdwara. Finally, members of the community received phone calls from anonymous individuals, who claimed to be (belonging to) ISIS and told us to evacuate Afghanistan in 10 days or they will attack again. We have taken this threat very seriously”.As Afghanistan has planned to evacuate more than 2,500 Afghans stranded in India amid Covid-19 lockdown and charted flights to evacuate them from New Delhi, the Sikhs and Hindus approached Indian embassy in Kabul to send them to India on these flights which would be going empty otherwise.“Lives of the remaining Hindu and Sikh families are in grave danger and they need to leave Kabul in next 2-3 days because of the threat from ISIS”, reads this letter.When contacted, Sirsa said, “We are pursuing the matter”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/facing-threat-sikhs-hindus-in-afghanistan-awaiting-india-s-response-on-asylum-pleas/story-2yn4See00zlJlleUknbp6O.html
09-04-2020||Pune||COEP faculty, students develop mechanical ventilator for Sassoon Hospital in Pune||Faculty members and students from the prestigious College of Engineering Pune (COEP) have developed a prototype for a low-cost mechanical ventilator to help in the massive effort to contain the Covid-19 pandemic in the country.COEP director B B Ahuja said the Biomedical Engineering and Technology incubation centre at COEP has been developing medical devices along with Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Bombay and Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technology (VNIT Nagpur). “We have been in touch with the Sassoon Hospital which asked us to develop medical devices for them,”Dr. Ajay Chandanwale, dean of B J Medical College and head of Sassoon General Hospital said COEP undertook the mechanical ventilator project at their request. “The prototype is being tested by our doctors and we will convey our feedback to the COEP team,” he said.Ventilators are medical devices which help a critical patient with assisted breathing. While ventilators cost between Rs 25,000 to upwards of Rs one lakh of rupees, the COEP prototype was developed at a cost of around Rs 10,000, Ahuja said.A team of six members including Ahuja, two faculty members and four research students worked on the project for two weeks. “Initial tests have been satisfactory and we now await a feedback from the doctors at Sassoon Hospital,” Ahuja said. He said the cost could further reduce with mass manufacturing. Once accepted by the doctors, COEP will tie-up with a startup or existing manufacturers to manufacture and market the much-needed medical device, the COEP director said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coep-faculty-students-develop-mechanical-ventilator-for-sassoon-hospital-in-pune/story-sGO8sLrMDQk61dH2YOsJbJ.html
09-04-2020||Pune||Covid-19 kills 10 in Pune; total of 18 deaths in city||On Wednesday, Pune reported 10 deaths of persons having tested positive for the Covid-19 infection, caused by the Sars-Cov-2 virus, taking the total count of deceased in the city to 18. Of the 10 deaths on Wednesday, five were reported from Sassoon hospital, two from Noble hospital, and one each from Naidu hospital, Sahyadri hospital and Inamdar hospital. “Today’s death toll is 10, so total is 18,” confirmed PMC health chief Dr Ramchandra Hankare. Four of the Covid-positive patients that expired on Wednesday were all in hospitals with comorbid conditions. The deaths of two males, aged 44 and 50, were reported from Naidu hospital and Sassoon General hospital, respectively.Speaking about the 44-year-old male, a resident of Raviwar peth, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) commissioner, Shekhar Gaikwad said, “He had uncontrolled diabetes and was admitted to Naidu hospital on April 4. He became breathless at midnight on Wednesday. Although he was maintaining oxygen saturation with ventilation, he went into renal failure and succumbed early on Wednesday morning.” On the death of the 50-year-old male at Sassoon, divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar said, “The 50-year-old who had respiratory issues and was at the Rao nursing home at Bibwewadi earlier, died at Sassoon on Wednesday. He was on the ventilator.”According to the PMC health department, the third case, a 73-year- resident of Sayyed nagar, Hadapsar, was admitted for breathlessness on April 2. He was intubated and critical on ventilator support. He did not have any travel history or known contact with any Covid-positive person. He was declared dead on Wednesday morning at 9.21am. Noble Hospital, executive director, Dr H K Sale, said, “The cause of death is determined to be Covid-19 with multiorgan failure. He also had diabetes and hypertension. He was declared dead on Wednesday at 9:15 am.”The deceased from Inamdar hospital in Fatima nagar is a 57-year old woman. The entire hospital staff has now been advised home isolation. This includes doctors and nurses,At Noble hospital, a 62-year-old male residing at Indiranagar, Handewadi road, Hadapsar, was admitted with breathlessness on April 4. He did not have any travel history or contact with positive patient. He was declared dead on Wednesday at 3:28 pm. “The cause of death has been cited as Covid-19 with multiorgan failure and diabetes mellitus with hypertension,” a PMC health department statement said.Dr Sunil Rao, group medical director, Sahyadri hospital, speaking on the death at the hospital said, “Although he tested positive for Covid-19, he was also suffering from liver cirrhosis. He was a 48-year-old male residing at Wagholi. His Covid-19 infection was improving, but due to the cirrhosis his health was deteriorating. He was on the ventilator.” Fatal disease March 30First Covid-19 related death in the city - 52-year-old businessman at Deenanath Mangeshkar HospitalApril 250-year-old woman at Sassoon General HospitalApril 5Three deaths reported - 69-year-old resident of Gultekdi died at Aundh Hospital52-year-old-man with co-morbid conditions and 60-year-old woman (who had earlier tested negative) at Sassoon General hospitalApril 7Three deaths - all senior citizens and on ventilators at Sassoon hospital||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-kills-8-in-pune-total-of-16-deaths-in-city/story-05OYQVgVMTIHMGOFDWv9jN.html
09-04-2020||Pune||Leisure buying must stop, says Pune police commissioner K Venkatesham||Pune police commissioner K Venkatesham urged residents of Pune to stop buying non-perishable essentials on a daily basis and stock up for a few days to reduce the number of people on the streets.“People must stop buying things on a daily basis. Stock up for the next 8-10 days. It is necessary to reduce the number of people on the streets. We have finished two weeks of lockdown and Pune citizens have supported us so far,” said commissioner Venkatesham.“There was no complaint of crowding and the two hours of relaxation for buying of essential goods were observed by the residents of Kondhwa very well. We spread awareness through mobile public announcement systems and the masjids in the area,” said Suhas Bawche, deputy commissioner of police, Zone-5 of Pune police.Commissioner Venkatesham was speaking on the second day of curfew announced in four parts of the city in light of increase in positive cases in the city. The rest of the city, along with the entire country, remains under lockdown until April 14. However, in the curfewed areas, shops providing essential goods, except pharmacies, will remain open only between 10am and 12 noon. “A geospecific map of places where positive cases were found was drawn up and the curfew was announced based on that,” said commissioner Venkatesham.He visited the Katraj chowk along with joint commissioner Ravindra Shisve; additional commissioner Sanjay Shinde, where over 200 policemen performed a route march to assert their presence in the area.Two companies of state reserve police force (SRPF) have been provided to the city police and are being kept on reserve for enforcement of the curfew and assembly prohibition orders. “We have almost finished the list of people who were present at the Markaz (Tablighi Jamaat, Nizamuddin). The foreign returned nationals as well as those in home quarantine are being tackled by the PMC and revenue department officials. We have developed the HQTS system where a person in home quarantine can upload a selfie (to ensure they are at home),” he said.He also warned citizens of police action if they failed to adhere to the lockdown rules. So far, 9,900 vehicles have been seized and over 4,500 cases under Section 188 of Indian Penal Code for violating lockdown rules have been registered in the city, he claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/leisure-buying-must-stop-says-pune-police-cp/story-uuDOyQQkAcXOAzCT9UiXQJ.html
09-04-2020||Pune||No public Holy Week services, as Thomas Dabre, Bishop of Pune urges priests to ‘live’ stream masses||Holy Week for Catholics in Pune will see no public observances on Maundy Thursday, Good Friday or Easter Sunday, as advised by a public notice issued by the Rt Reverend Fr Thomas Dabre, Bishop of Pune.“This is one of the important weeks for the Catholics in Pune, but because of the pandemic situation of coronavirus, celebration of Holy Mass has been suspended,” said Bishop Dabre. Following the norms laid down by the Vatican and the Conference of Catholic Bishops in India, Bishop Dabre has instructed priests to hold private services, with no more than five persons present, and to ‘live’ stream the same so that the laity can partake in their own homes.Bishop Dabre himself will say the Good Friday (day marks the crucifixion of Jesus) and Easter Vigil (observed by Christians as day of Jesus’ Resurrection) services, both of which will be streamed online.Catholics in Pune plan to pray with their family members at home.Raymond Martin, a musician and senior citizen, living in Kondhwa said, “Though we cannot go to the church, it does not exempt us from the holy things of the season, beginning with Maundy Thursday, which is the celebration of the institution of the priest hood. I plan to attend mass online. The family will pray together.”According to Bishop Dabre’s instructions to the Pune Diocese , the private celebration of the Mass this year will omit some of its most distinctive features, including the lighting of the Easter fire with procession. This year only the Easter Candle will be lit.According to Benitta Jacob, living in Pashan, “Usually, Good Friday is a day of mourning. There is no celebration. On Sunday, it is Easter, Christ has risen, so Easter eggs are gifted to each other, but this year, the mood is very sombre that gives us no reason to celebrate.” “With all that is happening around the world the best way we can celebrate this Easter would be family prayer and an online mass. Easter eggs can be made at home. The most that we can contribute this Easter to this world would be to stay at home with family,” said Jiji Johnson, resident of Vimannagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/no-public-holy-week-services-as-bishop-dabre-urges-priests-to-live-stream-masses/story-UBFtlqShprzDmBpBBQtqfL.html
09-04-2020||Pune||As many refuse to cooperate, PMC health dept takes police help to conduct contact tracing survey||With the city reporting increasing number of Covid-19 (coronavirus) infections daily, it is imperative for the civic body to be able to trace the contacts of the positive cases to prevent the spread of the Sars-Cov-2 virus. However, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) employees have complained that some of the Covid-19 positive patients are not cooperating with the civic staffers who approach them to gather information for contract tracing. The non-cooperation has prompted the Pune civic body to take the help of police officials.As per the protocol, once a Covid-19 positive case is detected, the first job of the PMC health team is to start search of the first contacts of the patient. However, with number of cases rising rapidly and lack of cooperation from positive patients, the task of the health department officials has become difficult. Vaishali Jadhav, assistant health chief of PMC, who is incharge for contact tracing, said, “As positive cases have increased, the work for our teams is increasing day by day to identify the contacts of the positive patient. We conduct a survey in the 1km and 3km radius, but at some sensitive places, people are not cooperating with us. They do not give the correct information and even treat our staffers badly. Hence, we are seeking police bandobast to conduct the survey.”Jadhav added, “Our team recently visited the residence of a deceased three days before he was admitted, but the family members did not give correct information about symptoms despite asking repeatedly. If the family members had given proper information, there were chances that this person would get treatment in time and survive. We are also planning to file first information reports against such people who are not cooperating.” Meanwhile, mayor Murlidhar Mohol appealed to citizens to cooperate with the PMC health staff who are conducting the door to door survey. Mayor said, “It is in the interest of citizens if they provide true and proper information about symptoms and any contact with positive patients as well as travel history. It will help control the spread of Covid-19.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/as-many-refuse-to-cooperate-pmc-health-dept-takes-police-help-to-conduct-contact-tracing-survey/story-wHRvIfdfQqcM2qF6RM1jjK.html
09-04-2020||Pune||361 ventilators in Pune district hospitals, more on the way, says collector||While the Pune district administration has accounted for 361 ventilators in district hospitals, district collector Naval Kishore Ram said, “There is no dearth in the number of ventilators for the district or in the number of isolation centres. We are buying more ventilators and as the demand for the ventilators grows we will buy as per the requirements. We have requested more from the state government.” As per data from district health department, there are a total of 1,184 isolation beds currently reserved for Covid-19 patients which can be increased to 2,374 beds if the situation worsens. There are 389 ICU (Intensive care unit) beds available in the district and 361 ventilators in the district hospitals.Pune district has a population of 94.29 lakh (2011 census) and includes Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad munciipal corporations; Pune, Khadki and Dehu Road cantonment boards and 14 talukas.Dr Dilip Sarda, member, Maharashtra Medical Council said more ventilators are needed in Pune. “Looking at the current situation this is a very less number. This cannot be increased overnight because the expertise to handle ventilators and isolation bed patients is also less. We cannot just have the infrastructure; we need the necessary expertise too. The less number of ventilators or lacking infrastructure is a result of ignoring health and not allocating the necessary budget for health over the years.” Facilities created in Pune Division(includes Pune, Solapur, Satara, Kolhapur and Sangli districts)* population: 2.34 crore* 88 quarantine centres with a capacity of 12, 850 beds.* 52 isolation centres with 2167 beds.* total of 1465 ventilators: 137 in government hospitals and the rest in private hospitals- Source: Pune Divisional Commissionerate List of some isolation/ICU facilities in the city· Around 36 private hospitals and 3 government hospitals with 238 beds organised for rural/municipal council areas in Pune district. This can be increased to 489 beds.· 500-bed sports complex at Balewadi, Pune, converted to isolation facility· Sports hostel at Sanas Ground has been converted into a 200 bed isolation facility.· Army’s Southern Command in Pune, has offered quarantine facilities.· Ammunition Factory, Khadki (AFK) has created a 30-bed isolation ward· SVP Cantonment General Hospital- institutional quarantine facility for 10 people and Isolation ward with 30 beds.· Symbiosis University Hospital MOU with Maharashtra Government to serve as Covid-19 nodal centre with 500 beds and 30 ICU beds· Bharatiya Jain Sanghatana has committed 250 rooms with attached toilets at its Wagholi educational complex.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/361-ventilators-in-district-hospitals-more-on-the-way-collector/story-yS5D8UjQiCavD5YY6rcbtM.html
09-04-2020||Pune||Kabaddi defender Vikas Kale raids the hill every morning to keep up his fitness during lockdown||A quick run in the morning on the hillock next to his home in Susgaon, is how defender Vikas Kale, is keeping up his fitness routine even during the lockdown. Kale, who represented Haryana Steelers in the Season 7 of Pro Kabaddi League also plays for Maharashtra and Satej Club Baner. The 32-year-old, Kale is taking complete care of his training by including terrace sessions in the evening.“I go to the hillock only in the morning as there is no one there and avoid stepping out in the evening as I know we are not allowed to step out,” explains Kale, listing his daily schedule.Morning sessionI wake up at 5:30am -this is the one habit which I have not changed since my childhood. At 6:30am, I go to the hillock as nobody is there and I can train myself in a peaceful environment. I do long running, tyre running and speed running – each of which is schedule two days in a week. I take Sundays off, but on other days I follow this routine strictly. Once I return from practice (8:30am), I have a heavy breakfast, full of proteins.I also help my parents by doing household chores or if there are any essential commodities which have to be bought.Afternoon sessionAfter having lunch, I read. I like reading motivational books and currently, I am reading a book on Mary Kom – Unbreakable -her autobiography in Marathi. I also sleep for an hour and 30 minutes.Evening sessionIn the evenings, I train on the terrace and do stretching exercises which include squats, push-ups, lunges, core and burpees. Sometimes, I also do skipping. The session continues for two hours and finishes at 7:30pm. Then, I play with my dog ‘Chiku’ for sometime – he loves me watching at home and I spend almost an hour playing with him. After dinner, I watch television news and the entire family discusses the day’s events. I respect all police and medical professional who are currently fighting this war against coronavirus. I sleep early at night.Tyre, heavy stones replace gym weightsOne cannot have all the gym apparatus at home, so I have different tyres of varying weight and I have also kept stones of various weights at my terrace, which helps me do weight lifting exercises at home. I miss my teammates from the local club (Satej Club Baner) with whom I practice every day on normal days. With many sports events getting postponed or cancelled, I still hope Pro Kabaddi League will happen in 2020.HobbiesI love gardening and have a small garden on our terrace. Watering the plants twice daily is also in my schedule.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/this-kabaddi-defender-raids-the-hill-next-to-his-home-in-susgaon-every-morning-to-keep-up-his-fitness-during-lockdown/story-iKCDDnjRCvn0Mz9BieBb8L.html
09-04-2020||Pune||Man held for providing false information to police about community gathering in Khadki, Pune||A man has been arrested by Pune police on Wednesday for providing false information to the police about a gathering of a community at a religious centre in Khadki. According to police, the accused has been identified as Prakash Pandurang Dalvi, 40, a resident of Mula road in Khadki.On April 1, the accused called the police control room and complained about gathering of eight to ten people on Mula road, said officials.As per the orders of Ravindra Shisve, joint commissioner of Pune police, gathering for a prayer of any religion and assembly of people for any other reason is prohibited in the city until April 14 due to the 21-day lockdown implemented to curtail the spread of Sars-cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 (coronavirus) infection.Therefore, the police rushed to the spot to find the religious premises locked from the outside. The site was opened and checked, but the policemen found nobody in the premises.The police traced the number of the caller and found that the accused had used his friend’s mobile number to make the call. The accused was arrested on Wednesday.A case under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 182 (false information, with intent to cause public servant to use his lawful power to the injury of another person) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Khadki police station against the man.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-held-for-providing-false-information-to-police-about-community-gathering-in-khadki/story-8RifL6GtwHydaM3lhYoCDN.html
09-04-2020||Patna||10p/unit reduction in Bihar’s power tariff||The Bihar Electricity Regulatory Commission (BERC) on Friday reduced power tariff by 10 paise per unit across all the categories of consumers while introducing metered connections even for those living below poverty line (BPL).The new tariff rates will be applicable across the state from April 1.The BERC has reduced power tariff for the first time in 15 years of its existence. The state-run discoms wanted to keep energy charges constant, while proposing a minor hike in fixed charge per kilowatt for the next fiscal.The domestic consumers in Patna and other urban areas would now pay between ₹6.05 and ₹8.50 per unit, while those in rural areas would have to pay between ₹6.05 and ₹6.95 per unit.Similarly, commercial establishments in Patna and other areas would be charged between ₹6.30 and ₹ 7.40 per unit. Bihar also became the third state after Gujarat and Tamil Nadu to abolish meter rent. Meter rent is a monthly fixed charge, which discoms recover from consumer for energy meter provided at their respective premises. It varies depending on the category of connection, say for instance ₹18 for a single phase domestic urban connection and ₹45 for three-phase connection.The regulator reduced the minimum billing demand from 85% to 75% under demand based billing for those who do not consume the contracted energy load.Bihar also became the first state to link recovery of fixed/demand charges with availability of power supply. It allowed full refund of fixed/demand charge if discoms failed to provide an average daily 21 hours power supply in a month. This was, however, not meant for agriculture and street light consumers.It also gave low tension to industrial consumers, including those having rice mill, cold storage, etc. the option to choose the rate at which, they wanted to draw power at peak load, off-peak and normal rate, by introducing “time of day tariff” on optional basis. Bihar goes to polls later this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/10p-unit-reduction-in-bihar-s-power-tariff/story-GdCIHSGL4I354G3UIn7wzI.html
