11-04-2020||Delhi||One in every 25 infected persons is a healthcare worker||: One in every 25 people with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Delhi is a health care worker, with at least 42 doctors, nurses or hospital staff infected, according to data from the state health department — a statistic that once again highlights the risks faced by front-line responders and concerns over adequate personal protection equipment (PPE) kits.Delhi reported a total of 1,069 cases till Saturday.In addition, more than 400 health care workers across the city have been quarantined after coming in contact with people who later tested positive.Two nurses tested positive for the infection Friday night -- one of them was posted in Lok Nayak hospital, making her the first health care worker testing positive in what is the biggest Covid-19 treatment centre in the city where at least 651 Covid-19 confirmed or suspected cases are admitted. Around 25 others who came in contact with the nurse have been asked to go into quarantine. “She did not come in direct contact with any of the suspected patients. She has more of a managerial role and supervises the wards. And, we make sure anyone entering the wards dons personal protective equipment,” said a hospital official who asked not to be named.The other nurse to test positive worked at Dr Ram Manohar Lohia hospital -- also the first from the centre to test positive.Doctors from across the country have been complaining about the shortage and poor quality of PPE gear, such as masks, face shields, coveralls and gloves.“When health care workers are affected, it takes away active people from the service and also results in clusters around hospitals. It can paralyse the health system in pockets, with hospital after hospital being closed down because of infections,” said Dr T Jacob John, professor emeritus and former head of the department of virology at Christian Medical College, Vellore.With 22 of its staff testing positive, the highest number of health care workers have tested positive at the Delhi State Cancer Institute, which has now been closed. Two of the first doctors to have tested positive were from mohalla clinics in north-east Delhi.“This trend is more than worrying. And, not only in Delhi, this is happening across India. And the problem lies in government denying community transmission. There are some universal precautions to protect the eyes, nose, and mouth that must be taken by all health care workers in primary, secondary or tertiary settings. But because the government kept denying community transmission, we kept screening people depending on their history of travel or contact,” said Dr Jacob John.Community transmission is the third of the four stages of the spread of an infectious disease. The first is travel history, the second is local transmission, the third is community transmission, and the fourth is epidemic. India has maintained that the disease is in the second stage, or between stage two and stage three with “limited community transmission” in some clusters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/one-in-every-25-infected-persons-is-a-healthcare-worker/story-onidM7DucaQCiHwWPg6nzH.html
11-04-2020||Mumbai||Six employees belonging to Taj Group test positive for Covid-19 in Mumbai||Six employees of the Taj Group, including a few from Taj Mahal Palace in Colaba, have tested positive for Covid-19 in Mumbai. They have been admitted to Bombay Hospital, officials from the hospital and Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said.Gautam Bhansali, consultant physician, Bombay Hospital confirmed that six employees of the Taj Group have tested positive and are admitted in Bombay Hospital. Their condition is stable.Daksha Shah, Deputy Executive Health officer of BMC also confirmed that six employees of the Group have tested positive and have mild coronavirus symptoms.In a statement the Taj Group said, “IHCL has been supporting the government with various humanitarian initiatives by offering its hotels to the medical fraternity, health workers, supporting certain states with quarantine facilities and also providing almost 4 lakh meals till date to doctors, health workers and migrant workers. The President, Taj Lands End, Taj Santacruz and Ginger Andheri are also hosting the medical fraternity in close cooperation with BMC.”“In keeping with our values of being a responsible company and as a matter of abundant precaution, we have been proactively ramping up testing criteria for our employees, especially those who are in the frontline at these times,” the statement read.“Approximately, 500 of our employees who are at work in our Mumbai hotels have been tested to date. Those who have tested positive mostly were asymptomatic showing absolutely no signs of illness. However, staff testing positive and symptomatic were duly hospitalized and others who were in contact with them have immediately been put in quarantine in accordance with World Health Organization (WHO) guidelines issued by government authorities. Taj Mahal Palace and Tower does not have any guests at the current time and only very minimal staff in areas like housekeeping, security, maintenance and staff dining are present to ensure the upkeep and maintenance of the hotel,” the statement said.“The safety of our associates and their families remain paramount during these unprecedented times. We remain committed to operating under all the guidelines of the WHO, governmental agencies and other regulatory bodies,” a spokesperson representing the Indian Hotels Company Ltd said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/six-employees-belonging-to-taj-group-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-mumbai/story-YXNuaEmKIBPij7hNTkZV4N.html
11-04-2020||Mumbai||Dharavi reports 4th death; BMC starts screening 7L locals||Eleven days after the first case of Covid-19 was reported in Dharavi on April 1, four people from India’s largest slum have succumbed to the disease. While the number of positive cases stood at 28, with no new cases on Saturday, an 80-year-old man died at Kasturba Hospital on Saturday. His 35-year-old daughter, too, had tested positive for Covid-19.Responding to the spread of the Sars-cov-2 virus in Dharavi, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has started screening around 7 lakh residents of the area – an exercise that is expected to take around two weeks to complete.The 240-hectare slum pocket has 850,000 residents and a population density of 66,000 per square kilometre, making it one of the more congested spaces in Mumbai, the world’s fifth-most densely-populated city. Activists and health workers had expressed concerns over how social distancing is practically impossible in an area where an average of 10-12 people live in each of 57,000 housing units measuring around 250 sqft.The civic body has already planned a 1,000-bed quarantine facility in Dharavi, where those wanting institutional quarantine will be kept. Of these, 300 beds will be available at the Rajiv Gandhi District Sports Club and the remaining 700 are being planned at the Dharavi transit camp municipal school.Explaining the action plan for Dharavi, Kiran Dighavkar, assistant municipal commissioner, G/North ward under which Dharavi is located, said, “We have formed 10 teams to conduct screening of all residents in Dharavi. We are using 500 sets of personal protection equipment (PPE), 2,000 masks, and 18 thermal scanners for this purpose. Screenings are being done at Kalyanwadi, Mukund Nagar, Social Nagar, Muslim Nagar, Madina Nagar, etc.”According to BMC officials, they are looking to screen around 7 lakh citizens in the coming two weeks for cough, cold and fever.Dharavi has around 225 public or community toilets that are also being disinfected daily for which a special treatment solution and machine has been imported from New Zealand.Two more individuals from Dharavi who had attended the Tablighi Jammat event in Delhi in March tested positive on Friday. Overall, the BMC has traced 25 people who had attended the event, however, in many of the cases, reports are still being awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/dharavi-reports-4th-death-bmc-starts-screening-7l-locals/story-64iVTW9esihE4ibBJOAF1J.html
11-04-2020||City||Panvel corporator booked for partying amid lockdown||A BJP corporator from Panvel was booked for calling 10 people to his house to celebrate his birthday on Friday night. The police have also booked the 10 people.Corporator Ajay Bahira, 42, a resident of Takka village, was partying on the terrace of his three-storey bungalow. “We received a complaint about the party and we raided the house. All 11 people were booked. We also seized a bottle of alcohol,” said Ajay Kumar Landge, senior inspector from Panvel City police station.The police said Bahira was partying with five relatives and five friends from his village. None of them was wearing masks or practising social distancing.They were booked under sections of Indian Penal Code, the Epidemic Diseases Act, the Maharashtra Covid-19 Regulations, 2020, Disaster Management Act and relevant sections of the Maharashtra Prohibition Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panvel-corporator-booked-for-partying-amid-lockdown/story-yoSU774H1xThux929dJnlI.html
11-04-2020||Mumbai||479 violators caught; police book some, shame others||With lockdown violations continuing across the city, the Mumbai Police has registered 265 FIRs against 479 people on Friday. However, as a large number of people are violating lockdown orders the police are not finding it practical to book all of them, and hence they are dealing with violators by giving them different types of punishments such as making them do sit-ups or hen-punishment in public. There have been instances of lathi charge as well. 4,617 booked for lockdown violation till dateOf the 265 FIRs registered on Friday, 170 are for gathering in public and 75 are for unnecessary use of vehicles. Of the 479 people booked, 311 have been arrested. Majority of the cases were registered in parts where most of the containment zones are located. 86 cases were reported from central region and 63 in western. Since March 20, a total of 2,470 FIRs have been registered including 1,709 for gathering in one place and 4,617 people have been booked across the city with 3,485 arrests. The Mumbai Police on their Twitter handle are receiving complaints from across the city about gatherings. Cops take to shaming violators As the number of violators has increased, police are cautiously booking the violators in a bid to avoid crowd gathering at police station. A police officer from western suburbs said, “We are making announcements regularly, but some people will never listen. As it’s not practical to register FIR against all of them, we have to resort to other tactics like hen punishment.”Sangramsinh Nishandar, deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, carried out a parade on Friday in Dongri, Pydhonie and JJ Marg urging people to stay home. Nishandar said, “Several people are not ready to listen and come out of their buildings making false excuses that they want to buy onions or oil. This is misuse of lockdown rules. Youngsters who are coming down may contract the disease and spread it among their family members. Even parents convince their children not to venture out in such testing times. We have started taking action against youngsters found roaming unnecessarily.” 87 cases of hate speech related to Covid-19 “Till Saturday a total of 172 cases have been registered for fake news, rumours and hate speech on social media sites across the state including 87 cases for hate speech related to Covid-19. Of these cases, What App had 85 cases, Facebook 49 cases, Tiktok 3 cases and twitter 2 cases. 32 people have been arrested while another 108 accused have been identified,” said Balsing Rajput, SP, Maharashtra Cyber. Trio booked for murder attempt on cop Bangur Nagar police on Friday arrested two men and detained a minor on charges of attempt to murder after they knocked down a 54-year-old on-duty policeman when he tried to stop them on Friday. Assistant sub inspector Uttam Raut, 54, suffered a maxillary bone fracture on his jaw and minor injuries above his eye and face in the incident.Cops restrict hawker movementAbhishek Trimukhe, DCP of zone 9 which has 57 confirmed Covid-19 cases, said, “We have stopped all hawkers and vendors to operate even outside containment zones so people do not venture out. At the same time, measures are being taken to ensure people get their essential supplies.”Meanwhile, the number of policemen who tested positive for Covid-19 rose to three.(With inputs from Faisal Tandel)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/479-violators-caught-police-book-some-shame-others/story-0VcKL8HSYaYseFOXm3LXMM.html
11-04-2020||Lucknow||Nine Covid patients test negative, discharged from hospital in Meerut||After hectic schedule of treating over 50 Covid-19 patients in past two weeks, doctors and nursing staff shared a moment of joy and happiness with the discharge of nine patients after their successful treatment, on Saturday.The nine patients include the first Covid patient, who was tested positive on March 27, his seven relatives, and a student who has been pursuing her medical studies in Philippines. They have been discharged and directed to stay in quarantine for 14 days in their homes, said Dr R C Gupta, principal of LLRM Medical College.Gupta said that these nine patients were discharged after their second samples were tested negative. “Initial reports of three more patients have tested negative. We are waiting for their second report and if it comes negative, they will be discharged soon,” he added. He said, “It is a happy moment for all of us, patients and their family members who passed through the burden of utmost stress in the past two weeks.” Dr Gupta said, “The successful treatment of the nine patients is like a reward for the entire team of doctors and nursing staff.” Relatives of patients, who arrived at the hospital to take them, thanked Dr Gupta, doctors, nursing staff and others for their noble service.Sharing his experience, Dr Gupta said that the successful treatment would allay doubts and fear among people regarding treatment of Covid 19.So far 50 persons have been tested positive in Meerut, including these nine people who were discharged on Saturday. A 72-year-old patient (father-in-law of first Corona patient) died of Covid 19 on April 1.A crockery trader, who had arrived from Amravati of Maharastra and stayed at his relative’s house here in Sector 13 of Shastri Nagar locality, was the first tested positive and later his relatives were also found infected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/nine-covid-patients-test-negative-discharged-from-hospital-in-meerut/story-WnO1eTARzonsAnSnjgeRTN.html
11-04-2020||Mumbai||FDA permits industrial manufacturers to produce medical oxygen||The Food and Drugs Administration (FDA) has permitted manufacturers of industrial oxygen to produce medical oxygen for Covid-19 patients, anticipating a rise in the number of cases in the state. As the number of coronavirus cases in the state has increased to over 1,500, FDA is trying to boost oxygen production for critical patients. They have already issued a circular allowing industrial oxygen manufacturers to approach the apex drug regulatory body for approval to produce medical oxygen. “Once a manufacturer approaches us, within 24 hours our officer will inspect the factory. We will give approval if the producer has adequate safety mechanism in place,” said Vikas Biyani, joint commissioner (drugs), FDA.Covid-19 often leads to breathing complications leading to patients needing oxygen support, according to doctors. Currently, Maharashtra has 82 licensed medical oxygen manufacturers. Medical oxygen maintains sufficient oxygen level needed in our blood, while industrial oxygen is used in applications such as welding. “As industrial oxygen manufacturers don’t come under our umbrella, we don’t have the exact data on the number of producers. But we hope to soon be able to double up oxygen production in the state,” added Biyani. In India, around 6,500 metric tonnes (MT) of oxygen is produced every year of which 5,500 MT is used for industrial use and the remaining 1,000 MT for medical purposes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/fda-permits-industrial-manufacturers-to-produce-medical-oxygen/story-IqHzATvovGJB6d4uq2rJiL.html
11-04-2020||Gurugram||Man held for assaulting wife after she asked him to wear a mask||A man was arrested for allegedly assaulting his wife after she tried to stop him from going to work during the lockdown and asking him to wear a mask in Jamalpur, Farrukhnagar, on Friday. According to the police, the incident took place around 7am when the victim, identified as Anita, was at her house. The police said her husband runs a local eatery in Farrukhnagar. A police officer privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said that the woman told them that her husband had refused to close down his eatery during the lockdown and had been serving alcohol illegally. In the FIR, she said that she had been scared about the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and had repeatedly pleaded with her husband to wear a mask. “He refused to wear a mask and said that the virus would not spread in the area. When I told him to wear a mask, he rebuked me and hurled abuses. On Thursday night and Friday morning, he and my mother-in-law assaulted me with a belt after an argument over wearing the mask and shutting down his shop,” she said.The police said the woman alleged that her husband, Rajbir, kicked her out of the house and threatened to kill her, following which she filed a police complaint.“The man was arrested on Friday and released on bail. We are verifying the allegations that he had violated the lockdown orders,” said a police officer.A case was registered against the man under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code at Farrukhnagar police station on Friday, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/man-held-for-assaulting-wife-after-she-asked-him-to-wear-a-mask/story-6aJoRV0zxX2Vf65CJpEHZN.html
11-04-2020||Gurugram||With dwindling rations, Rohingya refugees on the verge of starvation||For the past two days, Mohammad Hussain, a Rohingya Muslim refugee, has been largely surviving on cucumbers and other raw vegetables that he can source from his neighbours. The 23-year-old who lives in a refugee camp in Nangli, Nuh, says that his family of three finished whatever little ration they had and is at the mercy of neighbours. “The rations dried up two-three days ago. Since then, we have been surviving on cucumbers or tomatoes, which some refugees continue to have. Neither can we step out to buy anything nor do we have enough money to buy more vegetables,” Hussain, who lives with his wife and mother, says.Before the lockdown, he used to work as a labourer at construction sites across Nuh. However, with the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and the national lockdown, he has been out of work for over a month now. “I haven’t been able to work for the past month. Earlier, there used to be some opportunity for work at construction sites or houses, but there has been a lull on that front for over a month. Due to the lack of money, we could not stock up or buy anything before the ban,” Hussain says, adding that he is scared of venturing out due to the heavy police presence on the streets.Besides the lockdown, the Nuh district administration has sealed 36 villages as containment zones. Like Hussain, other refugees too are struggling to make ends meet and secure food for the day. The national lockdown has dealt a blow to Rohingya refugees living across all seven camps in Nuh district. While some refugee camps have run out of rations, residents in the other camps are surviving on the bare minimum and fear that supplies will only last for a day or two. Residents of these camps said that they had not received any food or ration from the administration since the lockdown started.“Food is drying up now. We had received some ration from the UNHCR’s implementing partner 10 days ago but most families have exhausted their supply. There are 5-6 members in each family and even with judicious consumption, food hardly lasts beyond a few days now. We don’t know how we will survive through the next few days,” a camp coordinator says on condition of anonymity. He says that similar conditions were prevailing across all the camps in Nuh, with some camps surviving on supplies from do-gooders. “In certain locations such as Chandeni, some people from the neighbourhood step forward to help once in a while but circumstances in three camps in Nuh are particularly grim. Rations in all the camps are either over or on the cusp of drying up,” says the coordinator.According to Pankaj (known by his first name), deputy commissioner, Nuh, the administration is committed to providing food to everyone. Following HT’s call, the administration has also reached out to the camp residents. “The supply will be sent to them. They want dry ration whereas we can only provide cooked food to them. The administration can help with food packets twice a day,” Pankaj says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/with-dwindling-rations-rohingya-refugees-on-the-verge-of-starvation/story-K2vYwy2AXdUUl2D1NTpRuM.html
11-04-2020||Gurugram||MCG launches mist machines for sanitising city roads and highways||The Municipal Corporation Gurugram (MCG) on Saturday launched eight mist machines that spray sanitising solution for disinfecting streets, lanes, national highways, and arterial roads across the city.Each machine is mounted on a truck, and according to MCG officials, will carry a solution of isopropyl alcohol hydrochloride that will be discharged in the form of mist for disinfecting and sanitising purposes. While five machines have a capacity of 10,000 litres each, three machines have a capacity of 5,000 litres each.These machines were launched by Mayor Madhu Azad and MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh outside the MCG office in Civil Lines and subsequently covered areas nearby and Mini Secretariat, Rajiv Chowk.The MCG commissioner said the civic body already has a mechanism in place for cleaning public places such as residential areas, parks, community centres, medical and grocery shops, bank branches, ATM kiosks, government offices, police stations, and hospitals with hand-held sprays.“It was realised that for covering bigger spaces such as national highways, arterial roads, streets, and lanes, we needed machines that could disinfect and sanitise larger surface areas. The MCG has been working on a war footing to contain Covid-19. The aim of the MCG is to ensure that no area of the city remains untouched in any of the sanitization operations,” said Vinay Pratap Singh, commissioner, MCG.MCG has so far carried out two rounds of sanitisation in over 650 residential areas as well as 600 bank branches and ATM kiosks, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mcg-launches-mist-machines-for-sanitising-city-roads-and-highways/story-cdonLNz4iiUliZhqiY2daL.html
11-04-2020||City||Gurugram: Sector 51’s Blossom II society makes sure residents spend minimum time outside||Gurugram Blossoms II residential society in Gurugram’s Sector 51 has taken several measures to combat the spread of Covid-19. With the 21-day nationwide lockdown in place to curb the spread of the virus, the residents say they have been complying with rules of temperature screening and hand washing at gates, social distancing and are staying at home to make sure their society remains infection free. The society installed a wash basin at its main gate and has mandated all residents and staff to wash and sanitise their hands. Guards have also been equipped with infrared thermal thermometers to detect anyone with a high temperature. “No outsiders are allowed inside. We have installed a wash basin and hand sanitisers have been provided,” said Amit Tyagi, president of the Resident Welfare Association (RWA). He added that skeletal staffs of 15 have been coming in for cleaning and upkeep on alternate days. “We try not to make them work for more than six hours,” said Tyagi. The society, which has approximately 1,400 residents, also has a temple inside its perimeter. The temple for now is shut as no gatherings are being allowed. On alternate days, though, a resident volunteer cleans the temple.The society has also formed a “think tank” of close to seven resident doctors to share information on latest developments surrounding the pandemic and also for advice on the best course of action to be taken to keep residents safe.“All the doctors living in the society were roped in for this group. We keep sharing information on the group as we come across it. We also helped give shape to the measures to be taken inside the society,” said Dr Rita Prakash, an ENT surgeon who has been living here for the past five years. She adds that having a group like this ensures residents are not in the dark on the latest development, which often leads to residents coming forward to help each other out. In one instance, she said the neighbours had come forward to cook for a resident who had undergone emergency surgery and was unable to do so. “It helps us manage the situation without letting people from outside get involved,” she said. The group, from time to time, also shares lifestyle tips to best tackle the virus at home with habits such as healthy eating, workouts and yoga. Prakash adds that the group recently suggested that residents opt for vegetables like cabbage, mustard, cauliflower, broccoli and kale to keep themselves fit.The society has a grocery store that has been catering to the essential item requirements of the residents; they place their orders ahead of visiting the store and get it delivered to their homes. Alternatively, residents visiting the store have been asked to prepare a list beforehand so as to cut down on time spent outside. “At the grocery store, residents have to queue up, wait at the markings made six feet apart and ideally have a list ready. No resident is allowed to enter the store; they can read out the items from the list and the employees ready their order. This has been done to reduce as much contact as possible,” said Tyagi. The shopkeeper of the store is also helping residents distribute home cooked meals to the underprivileged. Residents can cook meals as per their choice and pack them, and the packets are collected by him. “My wife cooks the meal. It is usually rice or puri sabzi. One packet is a complete meal for an individual. We usually provide five to six packets. They get collected once a day by the storekeeper and are distributed by him to those in need,” said Nitin Sharma, a resident. The society discourages residents taking morning or evening walks outside, unless they are to go out for essential needs. The RWA insists on minimum time spent outdoors.“The symptoms are not shown by all. At the gate, we can screen for temperature but fever as a symptom is not displayed by a majority of cases. How do you know who has been infected by the virus and who hasn’t? In such a scenario, the best way is to limit time spent outside and contact. It is not safe to step out even if fresh air is good for your health,” said Dr Prakash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-sector-51-s-blossom-ii-society-makes-sure-residents-spend-minimum-time-outside/story-QdXB3oIjRBr2PF3uCQGwOL.html
11-04-2020||Gurugram||Condo residents complain of problems relating to supply of essentials||Confusion prevailed among residents of the containment areas within the city over the supply of vegetables, fruits, milk and other daily essentials on Saturday, after the Gurugram Police and district administration started barricading these colonies to prevent the movement of people outside their homes. Nine areas in the district were declared as containment zones on Friday to prevent the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19).With the movement of people restricted in these areas, residents complained that they were not able to visit the markets to buy fruits, vegetables, milk and other essential commodities. What made things more complicated was that the movement of vendors and online suppliers was also restricted. Locals said suppliers were being allowed only up to the main gates in sealed areas. This meant that senior citizens, women and those living alone found it difficult to fetch these essential supplies from the gates.In Palam Vihar’s Park View Apartment,which has been sealed, the movement of residents was completely restricted by the administration and the residents’ welfare association (RWA). “We are allowing moving out only in case of emergencies and no movement is allowed in common areas. Tower six has been completely sealed with no one being allowed to get inside or move outside the tower,” said SC Kumar, president of the RWA.As a result of the sealing, the residents of tower six have been totally dependent on the maintenance staff and guards, who are supplying them essential commodities. “This is a difficult situation but we have to manage it,” said Kumar.In Palam Vihar, residents resorted to panic buying to ensure that they had enough food during the lockdown. “Some people bought ration for the next three months after the sealing was announced. Around 300 families bought supplies from me and situation was same in most shops,” said Samar Bahadur Singh, a resident of Block-C and the owner of a store.A similar situation prevailed in Sector-9, where availability of medicines and access to medical facilities emerged as the main concerns for the residents.“Effectively, the administration restricted people’s movement from Friday evening onwards. We were worried about the supply of milk, fruits, vegetables etc for Saturday. Nonetheless, the milk and vegetable vendors did come on Saturday. However, things are going to get difficult from Monday . We do not how and who will provide us essential goods,” said Prashant Chauhan, a resident.An elderly couple, who was not keeping good health and needed access to medical facilities and medicines, told HT that a medical shop should have remained opened with facility of doctors.Sarla Devi, who has a breathing problem, said, “We pray all goes well for all of us. We hope that the administration and our RWA take care of our needs. We cannot visit market inside the sector but we need medicines frequently.”Naresh Kataria, RWA president, said, “Today, vendors were allowed as it was first day of containment zone order. From Sunday onwards, our volunteers will be supplying fruit, vegetables etc to every doorstep. In the market within sector, one shop each for fruits, vegetables, medicines etc will remain open. We are working with the administration and the police to tide over this crisis.” Situation was the same in the upscale Nirvana Country on the eastern side of the highway, as residents were apprehensive about the lockdown effect. “There are 15,000 residents in this society living in villas, floors and apartments. As such, it would be difficult to provide home supply in an area spread over 300 acres. We have had discussions with the authorities to ensure that supplies are available at the gate and residents can come in their vehicles to collect the same,” said Ashok Bhaskar, a resident. The society had faced some issues in the morning as the supply of milk, food and other essentials got disrupted due to barricading by the police.In Suncity residential colony on Golf Course Road the availability of food, milk and other essentials was low, said residents, who said ban on entry of online providers had further caused problems. “Very few things are available in the market inside the complex and milk vendors, vegetable carts and other suppliers are not allowed entry as all gates are closed,” said Rajesh Malik, president of the RWA. There is a need for the authorities to reassess the situation as the only two Covid-19 positive cases found here have been treated. No new cases have been reported.”In Palm Garden society in Sector 83, the residents faced similar issues as main gate of the complex was closed and entry was banned by the police for both residents and outsiders. The shops inside the complex have also been closed and supplies like milk, vegetables, and other things are being managed through maintenance staff and security guards. “No one is allowed to venture outside the apartments and we are now getting supplies through the maintenance staff, who collects the essentials at the gate and hands them over to the residents,” said Pankaj Gupta, a resident.There are around 500 families living in the complex located in Sector 83.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/condo-residents-complain-of-problems-relating-to-supply-of-essentials/story-AbY4PyIv5TUB5DX8HMEBgM.html
11-04-2020||Gurugram||Amid lockdown, pastors take Easter sermon online||This Easter will be like no other, ever. As the faithful fold their hands in prayer on Sunday, they will be doing so facing their phones and computers as churches in the city said they would livestream the service because of the 21-day lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). While there is some dismay, many pastors have taken the opportunity to utilise technology well and bring joy to the congregation in such difficult times. “There will not be any Easter procession like the church members take out every year at sunrise. The service will be online and congregation members will not be in the church; Easter service will not be the same,” Rev Danny George from the Church of Immaculate Conception in Sector 45 said.However, some churches “hacked” a way out to bring some much needed cheer with songs and performances which would all be woven into a joyous video of the complete Easter Service. “We recorded the entire service on Saturday where I have shot my part of the sermon; a singer recorded the song, different people who contribute to the worship service shot their part and sent it to us and then we put it all in a video. The compiled video will be sent out to the people through Facebook on Sunday,” said Rev Daniel Nazareth of the New Life Church in Sector 43 said. Given the circumstance, pastors said, a Facebook Live or YouTube Live was the best way to listen to the word of God. However, the pastors did admit that preaching to empty chairs would not be the same as addressing a gathering. Rev Joy Gill of the DBF Central Gurgaon Church in Sector 14 said, “It surely doesn’t feel quite the same because the whole idea of worship service is so people can meet one another.”Understanding this need for interaction, an important aspect of worship service, few churches logged on to Zoom, a web conferencing app, for the Good Friday service and said it did bring smiles to everyone’s face. “Meeting people is an important part of a church service. So, for the Good Friday service we did a Zoom call with congregation members. We were able to interact online, as a group, through a video conference call,” Rev Nazareth said. Pastors said conducting a service in front of a camera was something many of them hadn’t done before, but were encouraged by the positive response. “Doing an FB Live was something new for us, but we have adjusted well,” Rev Daman Rodgers of the Epiphany Church in Civil Lines said. Like Christmas, Easter Sunday is a day when even those who do not go to the church each Sunday make it a point to attend the mass. While they were grateful for the safety of their homes, devotees said they would miss the gaiety of gathering in celebration. “This is for the first time in my life that I will not be attending the Easter service in church. Having an online worship service is not the same, but in the circumstances this is the best option,” Anthony Masih, resident of Sector 14, said. Staying at home also meant that Christians won’t be able to interact with their loved ones, friends or have an Easter egg. “All churches give egg as a symbolic gesture of resurrection so we are certainly going to miss that part. However, the situation has also helped us move our focus from symbolic things like the Easter egg to the resurrection of Jesus Christ,” said Jayan Matthews, resident of Sector 49.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/amid-lockdown-pastors-take-easter-sermon-online/story-gBbm6DyqydYoMETRVspwKN.html
11-04-2020||Noida||Landlords to be booked if found evicting, harassing medical personnel over transmission scare||The Gautam Buddh Nagar Police has decided to book landlords under the National Disaster Management Act and the Epidemic Act, if it is proven that they are harassing or evicting medical personnel and their families over the transmission scare of coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The order came on Saturday and will be applicable till April 30, after which it will be reviewed depending on the health situation in the district.“This order is for medical personnel, their families and anyone working at the ground level in this ongoing crisis. We have not had many complaints against landlords. However, we don’t want a repeat of the incidents that have occurred in other districts or states. This is why this decision has been taken,” said Akhilesh Kumar, additional commissioner of police (law and order).The order, signed by additional deputy commissioner of police Ashutosh Dwivedi talks about harassment of the medical community at the hands of landlords.“Medical staff and paramedical personnel are playing an essential role in combating the current crisis and are offering their services to take care of patients at great risk to their own safety. It is coming to our attention from various sources that landlords and society management are pressuring these medical personnel to empty their houses for fear of transmission. In the ongoing scenario putting such pressure will hamper with the work and safety of the community(sic),” said the order from Dwivedi.The order further said that in case evidence is found of such actions on the part of landlords or residential management, then such people will be booked under Section 51 of the National Disaster Management Act, 2005 and relevant sections of the Epidemic act, 1897. Officials also said that action can also be taken under the provisions of the National Security Act, 1980.“I believe that these personnel are integral to the system, and creating any hindrances at their homes will negatively their services. Hence under Section 144, we are ordering people to avoid any such acts in the entire district,” said Dwivedi.Families of medical personnel and foreign travellers had earlier alleged ostracization at the hands of neighbours and residential bodies. The commissioner of police had also said that action will be taken against RWAs imposing restrictions on residents that are not approved by the government.The Gautam Buddh Nagar administration had earlier ordered on March 28 that landlords will not force their tenants to pay rent for the month (or till the issuance of further orders) in an attempt to stop migrants from leaving after they were forced out of their jobs after the lockdown was announced on March 24.Under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, a person can be imprisoned up to one year along with a fine and it can reach up to two years if any life or loss of assets takes place following the act of the defaulter.Officials also said that on April 14, when the three-week lockdown officially ends, they will also review whether or not the imposition of Section 144 in the district has to be extended.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/landlords-to-be-booked-if-found-evicting-harassing-medical-personnel-over-transmission-scare/story-2e6r1KVU8bnBj22Z3GJtbN.html
11-04-2020||City||Ghaziabad: Govt doctor among two new Covid-19 cases, 90 staffers of Dasna health centre sent to quarantine||Ghaziabad: The superintendent of Dasna community health centre (CHC), apart from another man, tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. According to officials, this is the first case of a medical staff being infected with SARS-CoV-2 virus in Ghaziabad district. Nearly 90 health care workers of the CHC have been sent to quarantine.The doctor had also been deputed as the nodal officer for the quarantine centre at Sundardeep College which is 180-bed facility.“The doctor had wo days ago voluntarily taken up the test and his reports came positive. The other patient is about 22 years of age and hails from Masuri. He had attended a religious congregation in Delhi and his first test report was negative. We later sent him to home isolation on April 9. But his second test report turned positive,” Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer (CMO), Ghaziabad, said.According to officials, the 22-year-old from Masuri was brought to MMG Hospital on April 7.The CMO said two new patients are admitted to the Level 1 Covid-19 hospital in Muradnagar.According to officials, the district now has a total of 27 Covid-19 cases and 15 of them are linked to people who attended religious congregations.“Five of 15 are from Masuri area which is already declared as a hot spot and was sealed till the morning of April 15 on the state government’s directions. The family of the 22-year-old patient has already been quarantined. Apart from that, the health care workers of the CHC have been quarantined and the other contacts of the doctor are being traced,” Dr Gupta added.According to officials, the doctor was also present at an event in Sanjay Nagar hospital on April 7 when a sampling booth was opened but they said social distancing was maintained there.According to the officials of the Uttar Pradesh government, the total number of Covid-19 cases in the state is now 448 (till Saturday evening).“We have identified about 2,428 persons linked to Tablighi Jamaat and 2,231 of them are under quarantine. The passports of 259 foreign nationals have also been seized as they had come on tourist visas and attended religious congregations,” Awanish Awasthi, UP’s additional chief secretary (home), said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-govt-doctor-among-two-new-covid-19-cases-90-staffers-of-dasna-health-centre-sent-to-quarantine/story-CyaHQQfYTK0lYAhVLIgeUK.html
11-04-2020||Gurugram||Two drive-through testing centres launched in Gurugram||To minimise the chances of contracting infection, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) and two private health sector companies launched two drive-through testing centres for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Saturday at the Tau Devi Lal Sports Complex and the Leisure Valley Park in Sector 29.At both the centres, people with symptoms can simply roll down their car windows and a technician wearing a Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kit will take a swab sample from them and subsequently send them their test report via email a few days later, MCG officials said.The centre located at the parking lot of the cricket stadium in the Tau Devi Lal Sports Complex near Rajiv Chowk was opened by Healthians, a home-health test company while the centre at Leisure Valley Park in Sector 29 was opened by SRL Diagnostics, a private diagnostic chain.As per MCG officials, in a normal medical testing facility, despite precautions, there remains a possibility of the virus being transmitted onto surfaces or through respiratory droplets.By minimising human interaction through this drive-through concept, wherein people are tested while seated inside their own vehicles, chances of infection being spread to another person are minimised.“The drive-through concept that started in South Korea is quickly spreading across the rest of the world. It is one of the safer options for use as it not only minimises human interaction with suspected Covid-19 patients but also prevents it from being spread to others. Hence, we are looking to introduce these centres in as many places as possible to ensure a higher number of people are tested for the infection and faster-containing measures can be subsequently adopted,” said Vinay Pratap Singh, commissioner, MCG.MCG officials added that a similar centre would soon also be opened at the ground opposite Police Lines in Sadar Bazar by Healthians while at the Leisure Valley Park, they would also be opening their own centre.As per Healthians officials, their drive-through collection centre is equipped to conduct 150 tests per day and the capacity can be doubled in 48 hours if needed.They further said that they were conducting trial runs at the centre on Saturday and it will soon be opened for residents, after which detailed instructions for booking and the process for getting tested will be shared. They, however, did not elaborate on the expected timeline.Healthians’ officials further said that they are in discussion with the MCG for launching a URL from where bookings can be made.The drive-through facility of SRL diagnostics is situated in the parking area of Leisure Valley Park next to gate number two.As per SRL officials, at their centre, the patient can sit in the passenger seat – next to the driver or in the left rear seat, the nasal or throat swab sample will be taken through the car window and the entire process from entry to the centre and exit will take under 10 minutes. This swab will then be sent to a laboratory for testing and the patient can receive the report the same day, provided the sample is taken before noon.To book an appointment at their centre, a person needs to call their toll-free number -1800 222000- and subsequently send a prescription from a doctor along with identification documents online through the SRL website.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/two-drive-through-testing-centres-launched-in-gurugram/story-yON43fBlFfeXbiBddUzlvL.html
11-04-2020||City||One more hot spot in Ghaziabad, psychological counselling of patients begins||The officials of the Ghaziabad district administration said Saturday that one more Covid-19 hot spot was identified in the district after a government doctor was tested positive for the disease. The officials said that high-rise tower, Skardi Green near NH-9, where the doctor resides, will be sealed by Saturday night.With this, the number of hot spots in Ghaziabad is 14. The 13 other hot spots are Nandgram near mosque; KDP Grand Savana, Raj Nagar Extension; Savoir Park society, Mohan Nagar; B-77/G-5, Shalimar Garden Extension 2; Pasonda; Oxy Home highrise, Bhopra; Vasundhara sector-2B; Sector-6, Vaishali; Girnar society, Kaushambi; Naipura, Loni; Masuri; Khatu Shyam Colony, Duhai and Covid-19 Level 1 hospital, Muradnagar.According to fficial figures, the 13 hot spots have a population of 74,208 persons.“The officials are working at the tower where the doctor resided and it will be sealed by Saturday night. One other area near Sahibabad, from where a nurse who tested positive hailed, will not be declared a hot spot as she had stayed at a Delhi hospital where she worked and has been admitted there,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate.“She is working at a hospital in Delhi and her count is added to overall count of Delhi. Due to her duties, she did not visit her home, so the area will not become a hot spot. But we have taken up containment measures and sanitised the area. The building tower where the Ghaziabad doctor resided has also been sanitised and it will be a new hot spot area. The recommendation has been sent to the district magistrate,” Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer, Ghaziabad, said.According to state officials, the number of hot spots in the state has gone up to 125 across 15 districts as against the previous tally of 104 when the intensive lockdown was announced on April 9.“The hot spots have 14,1110 houses and a population of about 8.95 lakh. These hot spots have a total of 329 Covid-19 positive cases of a total of 448 cases as on Saturday evening. There are 55 other areas where the respective district magistrates are taking up measures. These areas have one or more cases. The Covid-19 cases in these 55 areas are 68. So, through the intensive lockdown of hot spots we are trying to contain the spread of the disease,” Awanish Awasthi, additional chief secretary (home), Uttar Pradesh, said.Ghaziabad district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey on Saturday said he has roped in several government and private counsellors for psychological counselling of Covid-19 patients and their families.“The counsellors will visit patients at hospitals and will also meet their families at home or in quarantine centres. They will take up counselling sessions with the patients. The team will also provide Information about Covid-19, address current problems of patients besides addressing issues relating to stress and anxiety, irritation and anger outburst, depression, impulsiveness and behaviour,” Pandey said.For the purpose a team of five specialised doctors has been formed and it has already started the work.“The counsellors will also take up individual and group sessions, identify those suffering from psychological issues and will also inform authorities about their needs. It is generally seen that Covid-19 patients are already fearful about the outbreak and need to be motivated to take up treatment and keep themselves well,” he said.For patients in isolation wards and quarantine centres, the eighth battalion of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) in Ghaziabad on Saturday provided 650 ‘dignity kits’ to the district health department.“The kits include 20 items for both men and women. The kits include clothes and other daily use items which a person requires. The kits have been prepared and items stored in sealed buckets. They are meant for patients who are in isolation wards or in quarantine. The health department will distribute the kits to patients,” an official from NDRF said. The battalion is based at Govindpuram in Ghaziabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/one-more-hot-spot-in-ghaziabad-psychological-counselling-of-patients-begins/story-IPrVgNgo7r14U8wcdcqbmI.html
11-04-2020||Noida||Noida garment industry set to produce 50,000 PPE kits a day||In what comes as a breather for workers associated with the garment industry in Gautam Budh Nagar, some companies have decided to make personal protective equipment (PPE) kits and face masks to meet the rising demand for protective gear due to the Covid-19 outbreak.Some garment companies have already started manufacturing the PPE kits and masks after getting a nod from the district administration and the state government, officials said, adding that the state industries department has received 39 applications for producing PPE kits, N-95 masks and three-layered masks. According to the Noida Apparel Export Cluster (NAEC), a representative body of manufacturers and exporters of apparel products, around 20 garment companies are ready to make 50,000 PPE kits and masks daily, and will employ at least 3,000 tailors and supporting staff. “As per the directions given by chief minister Yogi Adityanath and Union textiles minister Smriti Irani, the garment industry in Gautam Budh Nagar is all set to fulfil the requirement of PPE kits and masks in the country at the time of coronavirus crisis. The government has agreed to give relaxation to our workers during the lockdown. We have been asked to maintain social distancing and provide healthy environment to our workers. Only four workers will be working in a 20 feet by 20 feet room,” said Lalit Thukral, president of NAEC.He further said that the companies will soon begin manufacturing PPE kits and masks after getting the administrative approval. Giving details about materials of a PPE kit, Thukral said it will be made of laminated non-woven fabric, which will be light and water-repellent. It will be synthetic and blood-penetration resistant. Besides, it will have good air permeability. “The seams of PPE kits are covered by special sealing tape, which effectively blocks viruses, bacteria and micro-organisms. Meeting ISO16603 class 3 exposure pressure, the PPE kits are of high strength and tensity, which can be used by medical staff at isolation and quarantine wards, as such kits help health care workers protect themselves from the deadly virus,” he said.Anil Kumar, deputy commissioner of the District Industries Centre (DIC), said 39 firms have sought approval for making PPE kits and masks so far, and they will get approval in a couple of working days. “Some of them have already got the approval and started the production of PPE kits and masks on a large scale. A company in the district is already making 50,000 kits per week. It will open a new unit in Sector 63 soon. After that, this company will start production of 1.5 lakh kits per week. All companies have been asked to supply the kits and masks, as per the government approved rates,” Kumar said.Thukral of the NAEC said that five companies in the district have already arranged the machines and workers for the production of PPE kits and masks. “Besides, six other companies, after making proper arrangements of machines and manpower, have also applied for the production of the PPE kits, consisting of masks, gloves, apron, face protector, face shield, special helmet, eye protector and shoe cover. If the administration approves their applications, the ready-made garment companies, under NAEC, will start producing at least 50,000 PPE kits per day,” he said.The NAEC president also said that these companies will supply masks as per the government rates for A+ quality. “The ministry of health has fixed the price at ₹900 (excluding taxes) for the best qualities. For the medium range, the price will be ₹700 plus taxes and the rate of a simple PPE kit has been determined ₹600 plus taxes. Our units will supply the PPE kits at these rates to the government and the private hospitals,” he added.Pallavi Agarwal, who runs a garment export company in Noida Phase 2 that has recently started making PPE kits, said that the garment companies will be able to earn only about 5% profit on a kit. “In the production of a ₹900 PPE kit, our workers will get ₹200 and the material, manufacturing and transportation cost will be around ₹625. We have started the production of kits so that workers can earn some money,” she said.She also said all manufacturing units are following social distancing parameters, providing proper ambience and other facilities like safe drinking water and toilets to workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-garment-industry-set-to-produce-50-000-ppe-kits-a-day/story-QRq9cx4fLutVReSr6Iz16K.html
11-04-2020||Noida||Cremations in Noida affected as wood availability low due to lockdown||The cremation ground in Sector 94, Noida, is running low on wood needed for cremation owing to the ongoing lockdown. The lack of labour is also hampering its operations.According to the management, they now have stock only for another 15 days with no foreseeable solution in sight.“The ground comes under the Noida authority but we have been managing it for years now. These days, we also have a problem of not enough workers due to social distancing norms, and most of them are staying away anyway. However, we are managing for now but the real problem is that we have limited supplies left and have already dipped into our wood reserves which may hod out for another two weeks at the most,” Mahesh Saxena, general secretary, Noida Lok Manch, the social organisation managing the ground, said.He said they have two wood vendors who supply from Bulandshahr. “There is also a shortage of labour for chopping the wood. They have the requisite permissions from Noida, but they face problems at the border as there is a severe lack of coordination. The reserve wood we are using these days is dry and so we end up using more of it as dry wood burns fast,” Saxena said.He said they now use about five quintals of wood per body, up from the earlier three. On average, the ground uses 1,000 quintals of wood a month and the management hopes that they get support from the government officials.“Maybe, the forest department could chip in and contribute. We have to prepare ourselves mentally. What if the situation becomes worse going forward? We can’t keep using more fuel also. There are two CNG machines here, one of which has been defunct for a while. The authorities need to come up with alternative plans to supply us with fuel,” he said.Saxena said he has written to the national fuel suppliers to provide fuel at a subsidised price but has not heard back from them yet.“This is a national crisis and every state will face this problem. The government has to prepare a contingency plan. We are still awaiting instructions on how bodies of Covid-19 patients have to be disposed of. Our staff should also receive the necessary protective gear. A few more days and operations will come to a halt,” Saxena said.Police said that they have given passes to wood vendors. “We will speak with our counterparts in Bulandshahr and try to resolve any border issues,” Sankalp Sharma, deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, said.Noida authority officials said they are prepared for all scenarios.“We have already instructed the horticulture department to supply the required wood in the next 10 days. We also have a surplus CNG machine and we are working on repairing the defunct one. The firm that does the maintenance is under lockdown currently. A few bodies are cremated using wood and while the others are burned using the CNG machine. There will be no problems in this regard,” Vijay Rawal, senior manager, circle 9, civil department, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/cremations-in-noida-affected-as-wood-availability-low-due-to-lockdown/story-8EfllG6VN0Cfb9wf6bhUwM.html
11-04-2020||Noida||Noida Authority starts using drones for scanning people, disinfecting slums||In order to prevent the possibility of community transmission in some of the slum clusters in the city, the Noida Authority, on Saturday, started using a multi-purpose corona combat drone (CCD) for scanning people venturing out their houses and to disinfect the slum areas. So far, the health department of the Noida Authority has disinfected slums located along the Shahdara drain that originates from Delhi’s Chilla and ends in Sector 94 merging into the Yamuna river. Thousands of people live in these slums located in sectors 16, 17, 14, 15 and near the DLF Mall of India. The drone has the facility to carry a thermal camera, a night vision camera, a disinfectant tank, a loudspeaker and spotlight, said officials of the Noida Authority.“This CCD will help in scanning of people, who have higher temperature than normal and also disinfect the areas, which are densely populated. If it works properly, then we will use this facility in other slum clusters and densely populated areas of the city,” said Ritu Maheshwari, CEO, Noida Authority.The Noida Authority has a staff of around 5,000 workers and around 300 senior officials, who are engaged in sanitation and food distribution to homeless people across the city spread over an area of 20,000 hectares of land adjoining Delhi. They are finding it very tough to disinfect slum clusters, which are located along city’s polluted drains, vacant plots and in flood plains of the Hindon river, among other areas. The authority officials fear that if Covid-19 disease spreads in slum areas, then the risk of community spread will increase manifold. The authority decided to disinfect slum clusters after a positive case surfaced in Sector 5 slum area, where at least 200 suspected cases have been kept in quarantine in a university in Greater Noida. According to the health department, 64 positive cases of Covid-19 have been found in Gautam Buddha Nagar, out of which 12 have been discharged, while the remaining are under treatment. Apart from this, the authority teams are disinfecting sealed hotspots and other areas in order to contain the spread of the virus causing Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-authority-starts-using-drones-for-scanning-people-disinfecting-slums/story-68gZMPMswohamKrgfrmRoO.html
11-04-2020||Mumbai||Maha hospitals divided in 3 categories to treat Covid-19 patients: Report||Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Saturday said that as per the intructions by the central government, hospitals in the state have been classified into different categories to treat three types of Covid-19 patients namely asymptomatic, patients with mild symptoms and patients with serious symptoms.“91 per cent of the total patients in the state are from Mumbai, Pune, Thane, Navi Mumbai and Palghar. Rest nine per cent are scattered in various parts of the state. 70 per cent of the total positive patients are asymptomatic, 25 per cent patients have mild symptoms and 5 per cent patients are in a serious condition,” said Tope while addressing the media through Facebook live video.He continued saying that Maharashtra has conducted the highest number of coronavirus tests in the country. Total 33,000 tests have been conducted in Maharashtra till today while 1652 patients have been found positive for Covid-19 so far, he added.“Our aim is that no patient should go undetected, we are taking all steps for the same. Mumbai has 61 per cent of the total positive Covid-19 patients of Maharashtra. Navi Mumbai has 10 per cent patients and Pune has 20 per cent patients of the state in total,” said Tope.The State Health Minister added that Maharashtra has a mortality rate of 5.5 per cent among its total positive patients.“Mumbai’s Seven Hills Hospital has 300 beds for the coronavirus patients, here patients of all three categories can be treated. PM has requested to implement Arogya Setu App in Maharashtra also for contact tracing,” said Tope.“We have decided to give online training to our paramedical staff to look after Covid-19 patients. We have proposed a pattern of pool testing for Covid-19. This pattern of testing will save time and testing kits,” he added.According to the State Health Department’s latest update, earlier today 92 new positive cases were reported in Maharashtra. The state tally of infected people on Saturday climbed to 1,666, recording the highest number of coronavirus case in India.(This story has been published from a wire agency feed without modifications to the text. Only the headline has been changed.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-hospitals-divided-in-3-categories-to-treat-covid-19-patients-report/story-cpTReLxXMZmWTvTM9E6aJI.html
11-04-2020||City||Patiala village refuses to allow cremation of native||Patiala: Residents of Kassiana village, around 10km from district headquarters, where residents have set up a self-isolation naka did not allow the family of a 65-year-old native, Paramjit Singh Dhillon, to cremate his body on Saturday. Villagers feared that he was a covid victim. Dhillon was a resident of a Tricone City on the Patiala-Sirhind Road and had died due to complications arising out of diabetes, his family and police said. “Dhillon possessed the voter identity card of Kassiana village and his family members wanted to cremate him there. When the villagers objected, we were informed,” Aman Mandi SHO Gurnam Singh said, adding that when they reached Kassian, the family had shifted the body to Hardaspur village, 2km from Kassian, where too the panchayat was not willing to allow the cremation. “A team from Faggan Majra police station was rushed to Hardaspur village and convinced the panchayat, following which the last rites were performed there,” the SHO added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patiala-village-refuses-to-allow-cremation-of-native/story-IpFi0Nv23JO7i4A6iZ4pUJ.html
11-04-2020||City||Son of 67-year-old Covid-19 casualty booked for misleading health dept||In an unprecedented move, a case has been registered against the son of a 67-year-old man who died at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education & Research, Chandigarh, due to Covid-19 for hiding information and misleading the health department on Friday.The accused, Chetan Singh Kohli, 45, has been accused of not cooperating with health workers who are tracing the contacts of his father and mother-in-law who also tested positive on Friday. The complainant, Dr Rajinder Ray, who is also the in-charge of the quarantine team in Ambala, said, “The accused unwillingness to share the travel history and contacts of his father, family members and maids has lead to the spread of Covid-19 in the area and has risked many lives.”Chief medical officer Dr. Kuldeep Singh said, “Since day one, the family is not giving us the complete information about the three maid-servants who frequented their house till the elderly man got unwell. They did not tell us about the deceased man’s brother who visited them regularly.” Superintendent of police Abhishek Jorwal said, “The accused is under home quarantine at the moment. A decision regarding his arrest will be taken once the quarantine period ends.” The case was registered under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 271 (disobedience to quarantine rule) of the Indian Penal Code, sections of the Epidemic Disease Act and sections of the Disaster Management Act at the Ambala cantonment police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/son-of-67-year-old-covid-19-casualty-booked-for-misleading-health-dept/story-oBTptlHgKWPBWqUlvGiqWM.html
11-04-2020||City||54-year-old Belapur man dies; Covid cases rise in Thane||A 54-year-old man from Belapur, who had tested positive for Covid-19, died on Friday. He was admitted to Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation Hospital (NMMC) at Vashi. NMMC has a total of 35 Covid-19 positive cases. A 40-year-old woman from Kamothe, who works in a hospital in Mumbai, tested positive on Saturday. “She has been admitted to Bhabha hospital in Bandra,” said Ganesh Deshmukh, Panvel City Municipal Corporation chief. The total number of coronavirus positive cases in PCMC is 22. Badlapur city recorded three positive cases of Covid-19 on Saturday. This is the first time coronavirus cases were recorded from this town, 16km from Kalyan. A 21-year-old woman, her 42-year-old mother and 23-year-old man have tested positive. The women had travelled to Satara for the final rites of a relative and got infected there. They were home quarantined after they returned to Badlapur. Later, they developed symptoms and were taken to Central hospital in Ulhasnagar. The man works in a hospital canteen in Badlapur.Two cases of Covid-19 were reported from nearby city Ambernath on Saturday. On Monday, a 50- year-old-man died after being infected by the virus. In Kalyan, a 22-year-old woman tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday, taking the Kayan-Dombivli count to 50. The city has recorded two deaths till now. Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation (UMC) has sealed private-run Shivneri hospital in after a Thane resident, who had visited the hospital tested positive. The civic body will test the 30 employees of the hospital and also quarantine them. The hospital had six patients who were discharged. “We are also preparing a list of high and low risk contact at the hospital,” said Raja Rijhwani, medical officer, UMC. In Thane, six people tested positive for coronavirus on Saturday, taking the count of positive cases to 44. Among the six is an assistant police inspector from Thane Nagar police station. He is the second cop to test positive after a senior police inspector tested positive. The number of Covid-19 positive cases in Mumbra is 15, while Kalwa has 13 cases. The Thane district collector has issued orders to shut the borders of four talukas in Thane district. Private vehicles or public transport cannot enter Ambernath, Badlapur, Shahapur and Murbad talukas. Thane district collector Rajesh Narvekar said, “We have sealed the borders of the four talukas. We will take action against anyone found violating norms.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/54-year-old-belapur-man-dies-covid-cases-rise-in-thane/story-CAXUZCa1nqHFOIeIODiYaJ.html
11-04-2020||City||In fight against corona, 3 docs, 6 medics from region positive||Chandigarh/Jammu/Shimla: Nine health workers, including doctors, have been tested positive for coronavirus from the region to date. Six health staffers are from Haryana, two from Himachal Pradesh and a microbiologist from J&K (UT). In Haryana, a nurse of Panchkula’s general hospital, a microbiologist at civil hospital, Gurugram; and an anti-malaria worker at Faridabad civil hospital were among those infected with the virus. While the microbiologist has recovered, the other two are responding well to the treatment, director general, health services, Dr SB Kamboj said.A 36-year-old staff nurse of Karnal’s Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College and Hospital was tested positive on Saturday and efforts are on to find out from where she contracted the virus. Earlier, a woman doctor and staff nurse of the same hospital were tested positive as they were in contact with a coronavirus patient who died.Two paramedics of a private hospital at Baddi town in Solan district of Himachal Pradesh also tested positive. As per officials, they were primary contacts of a Delhi-based industrialist’s 70-year-old wife who died of Covid-19 at PGIMER, Chandigarh, on April 3.In Jammu, a microbiologist engaged in the war against Covid-19 was tested positive at the Government Medical College and Hospital on March 30. He remains hospitalised there but his report on Saturday declared him negative for the virus. He needs another negative report before he can be discharged and quarantined at home, an official said. His wife, mother-in-law and a domestic help were also found positive.No health worker has been found positive for the virus in Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/in-fight-against-corona-3-docs-6-medics-from-region-positive/story-c16inzC2bKK1azvJjJjOTJ.html
11-04-2020||City||With six more cases, Covid count climbs to 168 in Haryana||With six new patients, the number of Covid-19 positive cases in Haryana reached 168 on Saturday.Among the newly diagnosed patients is a nurse, who worked at Karnal’s Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College and Hospital (KCGMCH). Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Yadav said the 36-year-old nurse’s samples were tested at the newly setup lab at KCGMCH. The woman’s son’s samples have been collected and he has been quarantined. Yamunanagar reported its first cases of Covid-19 after two locals affiliated with the Tablighi Jamaat, who attended a religious congregation held in Gujarat last month, tested positive.Civil surgeon Dr Vijay Dahiya said, “A 20-year-old man and 36-year-old man have tested positive. Both belong to Mamidi village in Jagadhari tehsil of Yamunanagar district. They had stayed in Gujarat for three days and returned on March 20. Their samples were collected on April 8.” The health department’s evening bulletin said that one case each had been reported from Palwal, Faridabad and Hisar. The senior doctors said that while the infected person in Palwal had Tablighi links, a person associated with the pharmacy industry had tested positive in Faridabad and a 63-year-old man Hisar resident, with no travel history had tested positive for Covid-19 in a private hospital in Gurugram.Dr Yogesh Sharma, chief medical officer (CMO), said that the man had first reported his symptoms at a private hospital in Hisar on March 31, but the test came out negative.1,608 TABLIGHIS TRACKED, 14 BOOKEDHealth minister Anil Vij said that so far 1,608 Tablighis, who had attended the markaz at Nizamuddin last month, had been tracked of whom 107 were foreign nationals, 1,021 were from other Indian states and 480 were from different parts of Haryana and 107 had tested positive.Vij said nine Tablighis had been booked under Section 307 (attempt to murder) and 188 (violating prohibitory orders) of the Indian Penal Code in Mewat, five were booked in Yamunanagar for reporting to the district administration after April 8, the deadline given by the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-six-more-cases-covid-count-climbs-to-168-in-haryana/story-A3CEANNxhahSEu8RPOI8tL.html
11-04-2020||Chandigarh||Virtual Baisakhi initiative in Canada aims to celebrate by helping others||Although the coronavirus pandemic has led to the cancellation of the April 25 Baisakhi parade in the Canadian city of Surrey, deemed the largest outside India, the community through a new initiative called ‘Virtual Vaisakhi’ will honour the sacred holidays spirit of ‘seva’, a media report said. Through the initiative, a collective of Sikh groups, including a Surrey gurdwara, was invoking the spirit of Baisakhi by raising money for community outreach organisations and nonprofits, said the Surrey Now-Leader newspaper in a report.“This year, we are directly asking and inspiring Sikhs and non-Sikhs to collectively open their wallets and hearts to help invoke the spirit of Vaiskahi to address the most pressing and emerging needs with organizations working with local food banks, seniors outreach, marginalized communities and domestic support services,” said Jessie Kaur Lehail of Kaur Project.The Surrey Vaisakhi parade draws in a crowd of more than 5,00,000 people every year, reports the Vancouver-based City News.Canada has so far reported 22,148 confirmed coronavirus cases, with 570 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/virtual-baisakhi-initiative-in-canada-aims-to-celebrate-by-helping-others/story-wx99mLdS3pwQ14x9X73DrO.html
11-04-2020||City||Pvt varsity girl student tests positive in Phagwara||A 21-year-old girl student of a private university in Phagwara tested positive for the coronavirus on Saturday.The authorities, however, are yet to trace the source of the virus even as over 2,000 students and 500 staffers are still on the campus. Though the varsity is closed, the girl, who is a native of Maharashtra, has been living in the hostel as she couldn’t travel back to her home state due to the lockdown. Kapurthala civil surgeon Jasmit Kaur Bawa said the girl was suffering from fever and the varsity authorities informed the health department and a team from Phagwara civil hospital took her blood sample and she was found positive. “We have shifted her to the isolation ward,” Bawa said. Varsity officials said “they will provide all cooperation to district administration to avoid spread of the virus”. Deputy commissioner Dipti Uppal said the university has been sealed and “no one will be allowed to move out of the campus till all the people are screened”. “There are around 2,000 students, who are from different states and countries, staying on the campus. Also, around 500 staff members are there. I have directed them to not come out or meet anyone till health department conducts their test,” the DC said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pvt-varsity-girl-student-tests-positive-in-phagwara/story-GkRh8TsyUabufSDYnSaHSM.html
11-04-2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus patient made to wait under tree at KEM for 13 hours||A 33-year-old woman suffering from a kidney ailment and who has tested positive for coronavirus had to wait under a tree for close to 13 hours at the city’s biggest civic-run hospital, King Edward Memorial (KEM) Hospital, owing to “unavailability of a bed for a coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patient”, on Friday. The civic body’s health department is holding an inquiry into the matter, which counts as a violation of safety of the patient and others during a pandemic as the woman may have transmitted the virus to people at the hospital premises. The patient was waiting near the entrance of the old KEM building, where many doctors, patients and their kin usually walk by.On Friday, the patient from Vile Parle, who has been on dialysis for the past four years, was diagnosed with Covid-19 after a swab test at a private laboratory. The Shanti Charitable Trust, based in Vile Parle, which helped her undergo the test, sent the patient to Nehru Nagar Health Post, Vile Parle. The doctor-in-charge referred the patient to KEM Hospital with a letter that read, “She (the patient) has done her last dialysis on April 9...her test was done on April 8 and came positive of Covid-19 on April 10. So, kindly admit the patient.”As per protocol, the police dropped the patient at KEM around 12 noon on Friday. But she was refused admission due to unavailability of beds for coronavirus patients. The has 16 isolation beds under emergency medical service and another 30 beds in ward 4A. All these beds are occupied most days, said doctors.“We weren’t even allowed to sit inside the hospital when the guard got to know that my wife is a Covid-19 patient. Since they asked us to wait outside, we waited under a tree at a tea stall inside the hospital premises,” said the patient’s husband. After waiting till 11.30pm, the hospital’s guards started forcing them out of the hospital. “They abused us and accused us of spreading the infection by sitting on the ground,” he added. When the patient asked for an ambulance, the hospital refused to provide one. “I couldn’t take her to Kasturba Hospital without an ambulance. They didn’t provide us one and the police there also refused to help us,” he said.When HT got to know of the incident, this reporter informed Dr Daksha Shah, deputy health officer, who immediately jumped into action to transport the patient to Kasturba Hospital. The ambulance service refused to get to the hospital until they got a direct call from a staff member to ferry the patient. Despite repeated calls, Dr Hemant Deshmukh, dean of the hospital, did not respond for a comment. It was around 12.30am that Dr Shah got an ambulance sent from Kasturba. In the meantime, KEM Hospital agreed to admit the patient and she was finally admitted to the Covid-19 ward. But due to unavailability of beds, the patient was kept on a stretcher. “They have run two more tests on me and have put me on saline. So far, [till Saturday 4pm], I haven’t been given any medicines. They have kept me on a stretcher until they can avail a bed,” said the patient on phone. Dr Shah said she has initiated an inquiry against the hospital staff . Patients with comorbidities such as kidney failure are most vulnerable to the virus. Despite this, keeping a patient waiting without providing basic protective gear outside a hospital is a gross violation of safety of the patient and others at the hospital, said activists. “If the hospital didn’t have any bed, they could have sent the patient to another one in an ambulance. Not all hospitals have Covid-19-specific dialysis centres, so the patient was referred to KEM Hospital. The staffers risked so many lives by keeping patients exposed inside hospital premises,” said Jitendra Tandel a counsellor at Runga Kalyan Seva Samajik Sanstha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/coronavirus-patient-made-to-wait-under-tree-at-kem-for-13-hours/story-onECi7eLliK1kzweBbTifL.html
11-04-2020||City||Increase in cases with no contact history adds to Punjab’s worries||CHANDIGARH Even as the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has denied the start of ‘community transmission’ of Covid-19 in the country so far, Punjab has witnessed at least 25 cases till date, out of its total tally of 157, in which the source of infection is not known yet to health officials.The fact that at least eight such cases were detected in the current week and most of them belong to densely populated city areas has added to the worries of state health officials.On Saturday, seven new positive cases surfaced in Punjab and the health department does not have any contact history in two of these.While one man, who tested positive in Patiala, was working as gardener at the house of a Punjab Civil Service (PCS) officer, the second is a truck driver from Dhar block of Pathankot district, who had returned from Gurugram to his village after the lockdown.The Pathankot administration is also clueless about the original source of infection to 14 positive cases in Sujanpur town of the district. Seven out of these belonged to one family.In this case, one young boy from the affected family had come from Chandigarh after the lockdown and initially, the health officials suspected him as the ‘main carrier’, but during the tests, the boy’s report came negative.Later, the health officials even floated the theory that one NRI from Canada had visited the family in January this year and the family may have got the virus from the guest. In Ludhiana district also, two such cases belong to city areas -- a woman from an influential family and a housewife who died on March 30. The source of infection is not known in both these cases.In Jalandhar city too, health officials do not have any information about the source of the virus in three positive cases, in which the patients are a housewife, a hakeem and a youth working in a private hospital.All these cases have been reported from densely populated city areas. One of these patients, Parveen Kumar who was working as hakeem, lost his life. Three family members of the deceased also tested positive later.In Mohali, the worst-affected district of Punjab, the source of infection in two patients who have died is not known. One of these patients belonged to the Nayagaon area on the outskirts of Chandigarh and the second was from densely populated Kharar town. In the latter case, a 78-year-old woman was tested positive for coronavirus after her death.Even as Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Friday stated that there was no trace of source of infection in at least 23 cases in the state, a senior health department official, however, downplayed the figures.“We have 13 to 15 cases where the source of infection is not known yet. Still we can say that it’s the start of the first phase of the community spread,” the official said, seeking anonymity.However, Punjab health and family welfare minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said it would be too early to comment on the ‘community spread’ stage. “Things would be clear in the coming eight to 10 days. Few cases in which the source of infection is not known is a cause of concern for all of us,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/increase-in-cases-with-no-contact-history-adds-to-punjab-s-worries/story-kd2JOyiJ0L3PjRnCPddTKK.html
11-04-2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus outbreak: Victims’ families refuse to collect ashes after last rites||Families and relatives of coronavirus patients, who have died, have not been returning to crematoriums after the final rites to collect the ashes of their loved ones. At the city’s three major crematoriums — Vaikunt Dham Hindu Electric Crematorium at Reay Road; Municipal Electric Crematorium at Chandanwadi; and Electric Crematorium at Worli — the ashes of 10 victims have not been collected by their families 10 days after the final rites had been performed. The staffers at the crematoriums told Hindustan Times that the victims’ families fear virus transmission through the ashes and so have not returned to collect them. “As per protocol, we call the families to collect the ashes, but most of them refuse and ask us to immerse them in a water body because they are afraid of contracting the disease,” a staffer at the Chandanwadi crematorium said. Some families have also been apprehensive about paying their final respects. Prakash Salave, one of the staffers at the Reay Road crematorium, said, “The families and relatives of the victims are in so much fear that several of them even abstain from paying their final respects to the patient. I am witnessing such a scenario for the first time in 25 years since I’ve worked here.”The civic body said it has issued guidelines to its health department to be followed during the cremation of patients who have died due to coronavirus. As per the guidelines, health staffers have to wrap the bodies in a plastic bag. The health department also has to ensure that the crematorium staffers follow all the guidelines to prevent transmission among them or those present for the final rites. “Through your newspaper, I want to appeal to the citizens that there is no possibility of the infection transmitting after the cremation of the body. It is safe to collect the ashes as it does not carry any infection,” said a civic official, on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/coronavirus-outbreak-victims-families-refuse-to-collect-ashes-after-last-rites/story-WmejjSfyDMWAuoehX3qRqO.html
11-04-2020||Mumbai||Lockdown stress for couples expecting kids||Vaibhav Joshi, 31, a resident of Kharghar, had planned to reach Hubli, Karnataka to be with his pregnant wife, Krithika, on March 25. However, since the national lockdown was imposed, Joshi has been stuck in the city, trying to reach out to different authorities for permission to travel and be with his wife at this crucial juncture.“She is expected to deliver anytime now,” said a worried Joshi. “Her parents are above 60 and both are diabetic. She is anxious that they may be at risk of contracting the virus if they accompany her to the hospital. All our relatives also stay in Bengaluru and can’t make it to Hubli during the lockdown,” he said.Living under the pandemic lockdown could pose great stress for pregnant women, with concerns for health safety and the availability of medical aid. The World Health Organization has released guidelines to address issues related to pregnancy and childbirth during the pandemic.In Virar, 31-year-old Archana Periera has been checking travel websites to see if her husband, 36-year-old Robin can take a flight from Barcelona after April 14. Pereira is eight months pregnant and lives alone in their flat.“I have not been able to step out for my tetanus injection or get groceries and medicines,” said Periera. Her family members have not been able to help and since they shifted to a new apartment, she does not know people living nearby. “I have had a miscarriage before. I just want to be careful,” she said.“Expectant mothers are very anxious about the availability of doctors and more importantly, reaching the hospital during the lockdown, as everyone does not have a personal vehicle,” said Sapna Krishnan, a lactation counsellor who has been running a pan-India mother-child helpline to counsel expectant mothers during the lockdown.“We get a lot of calls from anxious mothers. Those who have gone to stay with their mothers are stressed because older parents will not be allowed in hospitals as they are at a higher risk of contracting the virus. And in cases where the mother has an older child, the grandparents need to take care of that child too,” Krishnan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/lockdown-stress-for-couples-expecting-kids/story-2G4QFsiw8gf6VQjzKVhuuJ.html
11-04-2020||Mumbai||Lockdown: IIT-B platform to streamline relief work||A group of students of the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B), with the help of alumni, have created a platform to connect those providing relief aid during the Covid-19 outbreak to the volunteers who have resources or manpower.There are various organisations and support groups across the country lending a helping hand to those who are worst affected by the global pandemic and the subsequent nationwide lockdown. While many are providing food and shelter to migrant workers and daily wage labourers, others are providing essential commodities and medical supplies. There are a host of volunteers, too, who are helping with the relief work. An online platform or interface called ‘URHope’, designed by the students of IIT-B will help in bringing these organisations and volunteers together.“If any of us want to help by volunteering or providing resources, we can use this interface to find an organisation that may need help. It will act as a connecting bridge between those who can provide help to those who may need it,” said a student involved in the project.The first step is to get registered on the interface through https://bit.ly/coronareliefindia.Here, one can register as an individual or organisation and provide details of the services one wishes to provide or requires. Once registered, you can find a match based on the database.“There are people who wish to volunteer in the relief process, but don’t know where to go. So, to ease the process of accessing, as well as providing relief, some of us [students and working professionals] have come together to create an online platform/interface called URHope. One can register: if one needs help [for food, medicine, accommodation etc.], if one is providing help or if one wishes to volunteer with someone who has already initiated a relief process,” read a statement by the student group, IIT-B for Justice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/lockdown-iit-b-platform-to-streamline-relief-work/story-KyTbuxsS1QFYO39UbuV8LP.html
11-04-2020||City||Nine new cases in Punjab, tally now 160||Nine more persons were tested positive for the coronavirus in Punjab on Saturday, taking the total number of those infected by the disease in the state to 159.In Jalandhar, three more patients, all family members of the city’s first coronavirus casualty, were found as infected. The patients are Mitha Bazaar resident Parveen Kumar’s 60-year-old wife, 34-year-old son and a six-year-old grandson.The 34-year-old is learnt to have distributed ration among people along with Congress MLA from Jalandhar (North) Bawa Henry, who has also gone into self-quarantine. The health department was yet to take a decision on collecting the MLA’s samples and their other contacts.So far, a total of 15 cases have been reported in the Jalandhar district. Jalandhar health department nodal officer Dr TPS Sandhu said, “We have collected 367 samples of suspected patients of which reports of 130 are awaited. Ninety-one samples were collected on Saturday.” Also, a 21-year-old Lovely Professional University (LPU) student was tested positive for the coronavirus, making her the second person to be found Covid-19 infected in Kapurthala district. The woman, who hails from Maharashtra, could not go to her native place due to the national lockdown and stayed put in a varsity hostel.2 more found infected in Mohali hotspotWith two more persons testing positive for Covid-19 at Jawaharpur village in Dera Bassi town on Saturday, the total count of coronavirus cases in Mohali district touched 50.A 38-year-old man and a 58-year-old man who tested positive were in contact with the sarpanch and a panch, who are undergoing treatment for Covid-19 at Gian Sagar Hospital, Banur.With this, the total number of positive people at Jawaharpur village, which has emerged as Punjab’s biggest Covid-19 cluster, has gone up to 34.The samples of their family members and their contacts are being collected for testing. The district administration has already declared the village with a population of 3,000 a containment zone, completely banning the movement of people. Three neighbouring villages of Devi Naga, Mehmudpur and Haripur Kurha have also been sealed.PCS officer’s gardener is Patiala’s second caseIn Patiala, a 35-year-old gardener, who was working and staying at the official residence of a Punjab Civil Service (PCS) officer, tested positive for coronavirus on Saturday. He is the second positive case in the city and was admitted to the Government Medical College and Rajindra Hospital.Patiala civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said the gardener did not have any travel history and was not in contact with any other Covid-19 patient.“Our teams have collected samples of his wife and two children. We have also initiated the process to quarantine the PCS officer and her contacts for medical investigation,” he said.The patient was staying in the servant quarters of the PCS officer’s residence on Passey Road, which houses civil and judicial officers and has been sealed to check the spread of Covid-19.33-year-old is third patient in FaridkotIn Faridkot, a 33-year-old man of Mistrain Wali locality tested positive, taking the district’s tally to three.The man with no travel history and his three family members were admitted to the isolation ward of the Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital. Their other contacts were asked to go in home quarantine. The health department has started the identification of more contacts.Faridkot civil surgeon Dr Rajinder Kumar said, “The Mistrian Wali locality was turned into a containment zone on Wednesday as the second positive patient also lives there. The man is a contact of the second Covid-19 positive patient.”Another case in Pathankot In Pathankot, the number of those infected with coronavirus reached 16 on Saturday, with one more person testing positive. The patient is from Phangota village near Dunera in the district’s Dhar block and is close to the Punjab-J&K border. He is a truck driver and returned to his native village from Gurugram after the national lockdown was announced.A woman from Sujanpur town, who was found Covid-19 positive, had died on April 5.Deputy commissioner GS Khaira said the reports of five samples sent for testing four were confirmed as negative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nine-new-cases-in-punjab-tally-now-160/story-ORrIala0YqeeYOpreu0tvI.html
11-04-2020||City||Thane senior cop tests positive for coronavirus||A senior police inspector from Thane commissionerate has tested positive for Covid-19. “The 52-year-old inspector was on a round-the-clock deployment in Thane but went on sick leave to his Nashik home. In a few days he developed fever. His first report of Covid-19 was negative; however, the second report was positive,” said the police.Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) said he had come in contact with some members of Tablighi Jamaat, who had attended the event in Delhi. TMC deputy commissioner Sandip Malvi said, “We are yet to find the number of people he had come in contact with. He used to go to different areas, asking people to not step out and also speaking to the media about the situation of the area.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-senior-cop-tests-positive-for-coronavirus/story-o9FFUKsFq1rSGjRsAkrIXI.html
11-04-2020||Pune||Covid-19: One death in Pune on Saturday; toll stands at 29||One Covid-19 (coronavirus) related death was reported in the city on Saturday, taking the total death toll to 29.During the day, a total of 29 fresh positive cases were reported, taking the count of progressive positive cases to 236 in the city.The latest victim of the virus was a senior citizen with co-morbid conditions.The Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) health department reported one critical patient at a private hospital.The latest victim was a 69-year-old female who died on late night on April 7 and her test results came on Saturday. She had hypertension and diabetes mellitus, health authorities said.As of April 11, the city reported around 236 positive cases of which 26 were discharged after full recovery. These included 23 patients from the Naidu Infectious Diseases Hospital and one each from Sahyadri Hospital (Ahmednagar Road), Bharati Hospital and KEM Hospital.A total of 138 patients are still in hospital and include 86 at Naidu Hospital, Symbiosis Centre (35), one each at Poona Hospital, Sahyadri hospitals at Karve Road and Hadapsar; KEM (4), Deenanath Mangeshkar (4); Jehangir Hospital (2) and Ruby Hall Clinic (2).The rest of the positive cases were at Sasson Hospital. 21 out of 29 deaths reported from SassoonOf the 29 Covid-19 deaths reported in Pune as of 6 pm on April 11, 21 or 72% of the deaths occurred at the government-run Sassoon General Hospital.Dean of Sassoon hospital, Dr Ajay Chandanwale said most of the deceased at the hospital had co-morbidity conditions such as diabetes, hypertension or other serious conditions even when they were being brought to the hospital.“At the Naidu Infectious Diseases Hospital, on the other hand, most patients were with a foreign travel history. We have patients with other health ailments too. We currently have around 18 positive patients out of which 3 are on ventilator,” he said. Seventeen of the deceased had acute respiratory failure due to bilateral pneumonia as per the data from the Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-one-death-in-pune-on-saturday-toll-stands-at-29/story-i6255egeS0BW5l1gDvQq8J.html
11-04-2020||Chandigarh||50 teams to launch door-to-door screening in Amritsar today||The district administration has deputed 50 medical teams to conduct door-to-door screening of the residents of Amritsar city from Sunday to contain the Covid-19 outbreak, additional deputy commissioner (ADC) Himanshu Aggarwal said on Saturday.Under the pilot project of the drive, the administration, with the help of the municipal corporation (MC) and health department, has selected two localities—Sultanwind road and Kirshna Nagar localities—where two deaths were reported due to coronavirus. A total of 11 coronavirus cases have been reported in the city. ADC Aggarwal said, “The medical teams will screen all members of every family and check their body temperature. They will also maintain travel history of people to trace their contacts. If anyone is found to be symptomatic, he or she will be tested for the Covid-19.”“The screening of all the residents of the city will help in tracing the infected people and prevent the further spread of the disease,” he added.Amritsar civil surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore said, “Each medical team will consist of 2 ASHA workers and 2 ANM staff members, beside the doctors. ASHA and ANM workers have been given training on Saturday and medical kits have been provided to them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/50-teams-to-launch-door-to-door-screening-in-amritsar-today/story-aw6RWFUp9hepAuleUvFxNI.html
11-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab facilitates return of 825 foreign nationals||The Punjab government has facilitated return of 825 foreign nationals, including NRIs, to their home countries between March 31 and April 9, director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta said on Saturday. He added this was in line with the Centre’s Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) on making transit arrangements for foreign nationals stranded in the country. The protocol is that only those who are asymptomatic for covid-19 are being allowed to leave the state. Those helped return include 28 from Finland; 86 from Denmark; 43 from Sweden; 50 from Norway; 14 from Latvia; six from Japan and two citizens each from Russia, Slovenia, Czech Republic and Belarus and one from Uzbekistan. In addition, 170 citizens of Canada and 273 of the US were also facilitated. Next in line are British nationals for whom their government was arranging repatriation flights from Amritsar and Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-facilitates-return-of-825-foreign-nationals/story-MTNWXQb44XC5PDBItgJ8hO.html
11-04-2020||City||Kalyan hospital to treat only Covid patients||Patients will not be able to undergo dialysis at Holy Cross Hospital in Kalyan because Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) has decided to admit only Covid patients here. KDMC commissioner Vijay Suryavanshi said, “We will make sure the regular patients get slot at three hospitals.”A representative of Holy Cross Hospital said, “We are in talks with the civic body to dedicate the hospital for Covid patients only. We will make alternative arrangements for dialysis patients.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kalyan-hospital-to-treat-only-covid-patients/story-eesnEMh5pTUd7aEbsTSw4J.html
11-04-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Staff anxious as parts of 2 Tarn Taran rehabs turned into isolation wards||The Tarn Taran district administration’s decision to turn parts of two government-run drug rehabilitation-cum-out patient opioid assisted treatment (OOAT) centres into isolation wards for quarantining those with symptoms of Covid-19 has caused anxiety and fear among their staff. It is not only the fear of the coronavirus infection but also their concern for hundreds of drug addicts getting themselves treated at these centres. The 40- and 30-bedded isolation wards at these centres are situated at Tharu and Bhagupur villages of the district. Even as the district has 13 OOAT centres, the Tharu and Bhagupur facilities not only take care of the rehabilitation of drug dependents, but also of registration of new patients. The two are registering more than 400 addicts on daily basis. “Soon after an isolation ward was created in our centre, some of the admitted addicts left saying they could not stay here as suspected Covid-19 patients were to be isolated. There is only one entrance to the centre. It is not only making us as well the addicts vulnerable,” said Dr Paramvir Singh Sidhu, medical officer of the Tharu centre. Another doctor said, “This will not only hamper the anti-drug drive, but also increase chances of cross-infection that can be catastrophic. Experts have been advising complete separation of healthy and suspected individuals. The administration should shift both the OOAT centres elsewhere as it was done in Amritsar.”Tarn Taran civil surgeon Dr Anoop Singh said, “The two centres are among 15 Covid care isolation centres. We will try not to use these two until others are filled to capacity.” Deputy commissioner (DC) Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal said, “If there is a danger of infection spread, the two centres will not be used as Covid isolation wards.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-staff-anxious-as-parts-of-2-tarn-taran-rehabs-turned-into-isolation-wards/story-6vb2s8Mb9wBpYlw5B4t4yH.html
11-04-2020||Mumbai||Two vehicles parked outside ATMs stolen in Sakinaka||In two separate incidents on Thursday and Friday, two vehicle theft cases were registered at Sakinaka police station where an autorickshaw and a bike was stolen by unidentified persons. Both the incidents occurred when the owners stopped their vehicle and stepped inside different ATMs to withdraw cash.In the first instance, 32-year-old Pramod Yadav, a resident of Ashok Nagar in Sakinaka, had parked his motorcycle outside an ATM at Udaynagar junction at around 6.10 am on Thursday, and had gone in to withdraw money. When Yadav returned he could not find his bike.The second case happened on Friday evening when 47-year-old Vinayak Waghmare parked his autorickshaw outside an ATM at AK Road in Sakinaka, and went inside to withdraw cash. When Waghmare returned, he could not find his auto.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/two-vehicles-parked-outside-atms-stolen-in-sakinaka/story-sRypnFfqAgA9LYBYmJjyWK.html
11-04-2020||Education||Bengal schools hike fees, colleges stop paying part- time lecturers amid coronavirus crisis||Amid lockdown in West Bengal a number of private and unaided schools affiliated to various boards have hiked fees while some colleges have stopped giving monthly remuneration to part-time lecturers, forcing the government to take exception.“The state government is doing its level best to contain the spread of Covid-19 as well as protect the well-being of citizens by way of a number of measures like waiving of various fees, deferment of paying licence fees/taxes…It is unfortunate to note that many private and unaided schools affiliated to various boards have not only increased the fees during the current academic year but also pressing the parents/guardian to deposit the same during this lockdown period,” Manish Jain, principal secretary, state education department wrote to the heads of various schools on Friday.Though the government did not name any institution, Jain said in his letter that the fees have been hiked despite an appeal from education minister Partha Chatterjee not to do so and treat with sympathy cases of non-payment of fees by any parent during the lockdown.“However, it has been reported that a few schools have not yet given a positive response so far. The matter has been seriously viewed by the state government,” Jain wrote to the schools and advised the schools to “restrain from enhancing school fees during the current academic year.”Significantly, a number of part-time lecturers in different colleges have alleged that they did not receive their remuneration for the month of March (due in April) and the college authorities told them that the payments were not made because no classes were held during the lockdown.Part time lecturers are employed on contract, usually to make up for posts of permanent lecturers that are lying vacant, and paid a fixed amount. These lecturers were appointed by college management committees and not the state government.On Saturday, state education minister Partha Chatterjee said, “It has come to our notice that some colleges who had appointed part-time lecturers on their own have stopped paying them. We have received several complaints. We are telling the colleges not to stop payment of remuneration until the government announces some measures.” The education department will also give these instructions in writing, said Chatterjee. “I did not receive this month’s payment. When I inquired, the college authorities said no part-time lecturer is being given remuneration because only a few classes were held in March and the college will be closed in April,” said a part-time lecturer in physics who teaches in a college in North 24-Parganas district.No college authority could be contacted for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/bengal-schools-hike-fees-colleges-stop-paying-part-time-lecturers-amid-coronavirus-crisis/story-KITFnOrparQCWaGKy0ZeGM.html
11-04-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19 lab in Karnal starts testing||The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) testing laboratory at Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College and Hospital in Karnal, which is the first testing facility in northern Haryana, started functioning on Saturday.The laboratory’s first trial was successfully conducted on Thursday, and on Saturday samples of 41 people were collected.Karnal deputy commissioner (DC) Nishant Yadav said the lab will add to the testing capacity of the state and will also ensure that patients’ reports are received without delay.The lab, which has a testing capacity of 144 samples per day, will remain operational round-the-clock and staff has been hired accordingly, the DC said.He said the RT-PCR machine for the lab had been brought from the National Dairy and Research Institute, Karnal. Besides, Karnal the lab will also test samples from the Kurukshetra and Kaithal districts.So far, there have been six Covid-19 positive cases in the district and one death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-lab-in-karnal-starts-testing/story-E5877eQNiu8ihelTKohTSP.html
11-04-2020||Lucknow||HC seeks reply from central, UP govts on PPE||The Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court on Friday sought a reply from the central and UP governments in a plea seeking directions to prepare a detailed plan of action with regard to procurement of personal protective equipment (PPE) and N-95 masks. The court gave the respondents a week to reply.A division bench comprising justice Pankaj Kumar Jaiswal and justice Japreet Singh passed the order in chamber on a public interest litigation (PIL) petition filed by one Salil Tripathi.The petitioner had requested for issuance of a directive directing the central and UP governments to prepare a detailed plan of action with regard to procurement of personal protective equipment (PPE) and N-95 masks.According to the petitioner, the PPE and N-95 masks are not available in the market, while as per directions issued by the UP government, the mask is must in view of the Covid-19 outbreak.“Considering the aforesaid and the averments made in the writ petition, we direct the respondents to seek written instructions within one week in the matter,” the court ordered directing the case to be listed after a week.MANOJ KUMAR SINGH||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/hc-seeks-reply-from-central-up-govts-on-ppe/story-oLYV1GvNKJFZC5u6kItIGJ.html
11-04-2020||Chandigarh||1,500 held for curfew violation in Doaba, 10,000 challans issued||The Punjab Police arrested around 1,500 people for curfew violation in Doaba region since March 23. The police also registered around 1,000 first information reports (FIRs) in this connection till Saturday to tighten the noose around violators and ensure community distancing in view of the Covid-19 outbreak. Around 750 people were arrested and 485 FIRs registered in Jalandhar. Similarly, 407 violators were arrested in Hoshiarpur in 287 cases, followed by 278 violators in 174 cases in Kapurthala. In SBS Nagar, police registered 66 FIRs and arrested 84 offenders. However, those arrested were released on bail later.Besides, over 10,000 traffic challans were issued and around 1,500 vehicles impounded in the region as their drivers were found roaming on the roads without any urgent work. Jalandhar superintendent of police (headquarters) Ravinderpal Singh Sandhu said that most of the people are staying at homes, but still many were seen coming out on streets without any work. They were arrested and their vehicles impounded.Commissioner of police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said that a viable mechanism has been put in place to ensure strict implementation of curfew.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/1-500-held-for-curfew-violation-in-doaba-10-000-challans-issued/story-oT8XSyM7Jxwp3CkxrdbybL.html
11-04-2020||City||42-year-old man dies in Hisar, doctors suspect Covid-19 infection||A 42-year-old man complaining of respiratory problems and high fever passed away at a local civil hospital on Saturday. Doctors suspect that he may be have been suffering from the novel coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The health department took the patients samples and started the process of cremating the body under Covid-19 guidelines.Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Yogesh Sharma said, “The 42-year-old man had been suffering from a cough and fever for the last four to five days. The patient was a resident of Hisar.”If the man is found to be positive of Covid-19, the entire area will be sealed and his contacts will be traced and quarentined.Two sent to isolation ward in Kurukshetra Karnal: Two persons suspected of having the coronavirus disease were sent to the isolation ward in Kurukshetra on Saturday.The patients are a 20-year-old woman from Taraori of Karnal district and a 32-year-old Kurukshetra resident. Kurukshetra chief medical officer Sukhbir Singh said, “They are suspected of having Covid-19 and have been admitted to the isolation ward of the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Government Hospital in Kurukshetra. Their samples have been sent to the Government Medical College and Hospital for confirmation.” The 20-year-old woman’s samples were taken on April 9 after she developed Covid-19 symptoms and the 32-year-old patient had reportedly reached Kurukshetra by train on March 17 and later he developed flu-like symptoms. However, the CMO said that he is not currently exhibiting any symptoms but his samples will be taken again. So far, no Covid-19 cases have been reported from Kurukshetra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/42-year-old-man-dies-in-hisar-doctors-suspect-covid-19-infection/story-M1sPMmNgQeJXyNqi7vR44J.html
11-04-2020||Chandigarh||10-yr-old Ludhiana covid suspect was denied admission at pvt hospital||In at least the third case in the district of patients with covid-like symptoms not being admitted or treated at the first hospital they visited, it has emerged that the 10-year-old girl, who died at the Ludhiana civil hospital on Friday night was denied admission at the Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital at Shastri Nagar, a private hospital. The girl is a resident of Dhandra Road in Dugri Phase-2 locality and this hospital was around 6km from her home. The civil hospital is around 20km from her home. Her covid-19 report is awaited. Dr Harleen Kaur, in-charge of the emergency ward of the Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital, when the girl’s father, Joginder Singh, rushed her there, said, “We have dedicated one bed for treatment of covid-19. This bed was occupied, so we referred the girl to the civil hospital.” Joginder said, “The on duty-doctor told us that they did not have a paediatric ventilator. On seeing the symptoms of my daughter, the staff and the doctors did not even let us enter the emergency and maintained distance.” Ludhiana civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said that the matter of refusal of admission by the private hospital was being looked into. “We tried to resuscitate the girl, but couldn’t save her,” he added.Incidentally, reports of over 100 samples collected on Thursday and Friday were also pending till the time of the filing of this report. The girl’s body has not been handed over to the family, which has been asked to home quarantine till the report comes. A health department rapid response team conducted a survey of the area around the girl’s residence. She has no travel history and according to the family, except for playing with other children of the locality, had not visited anyone else. Two other such cases over past two weeksIn the case of district’s first casualty, Puja, 42, on March 30, a similar pattern of hospitals refusing to make timely admission or provide treatment was seen. Her relatives have claimed that she had visited the civil hospital for treatment of flu-like symptoms multiple times from March 19-26. On March 29, she was rushed to the civil hospital with breathing difficulty, referred to the Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH), then to the ESI hospital, then a private hospital on the Mall Road before being admitted, ironically, to the civil hospital itself. From here, she was rushed to the Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, for want of ventilator, where she finally died. On April 5, another 35-year-old Dugri woman, suffering from renal failure (symptoms similar to covid-19) was first referred to the CMCH from the civil hospital. From the CMCH, she was referred to a private hospital in Model Town, before being referred to the civil hospital on April 7. She is critical. Her covid report is also awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/10-yr-old-ludhiana-covid-suspect-was-denied-admission-at-pvt-hospital/story-0bLQzGobzAiYIWx9q3ybcL.html
11-04-2020||Chandigarh||HP govt treated coronavirus threat casually: CPI(M) legislator||The state government had no count of persons who returned from China and treated the coronavirus threat casually, said CPI (M) legislator Rakesh Singha on Saturday.Singha had also raised the issue in the Budget Session on February 27. “Even as the threat was looming large, samples of those returned from China were not collected and they were only placed under home quarantine,” he said. The state government in its reply in the House had said that no request was made to the Centre to provide funds to tackle any exigency arising out of the spread of coronavirus in the state.Meanwhile, Singha said that if the government was serious about the crisis, it would not have made such a casual reply in the session.“I had sent a letter seeking the government’s reply in the matter. It is easy to blame others. The state government didn’t understand the gravity of such a pandemic,” said Singha.The central government too made a statement on March 13 that virus was not a health hazard, Singha said.“Now, instead of strengthening the infrastructure, pace up tests and contact tracing, the government is resorting to unusual gimmicks to divert the attention of the public,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hp-govt-treated-coronavirus-threat-casually-cpi-m-legislator/story-O1NeL8FrnBaF0tKB6SAEfN.html
11-04-2020||Mumbai||Lockdown: Dabbawalas struggle to make ends meet, association comes to the rescue||As thousands of dabbawalas working in the city are out of work owing to the lockdown, their association has now come forward to provide essentials to them.The Mumbai Dabbawala Association, an umbrella body of dabbawalas, has started providing food-kits to members of the community over the last few days. So far, nearly 200 dabbawalas have got basic food supplies like food grains, pulses and cooking oil. “The community is in dire need of help at the minute. We feed lakhs of people every day but delivering tiffins, but owing to the current situation, our own families are struggling to make ends meet. Many of our members were not able to collect their payments for the month of March. The association has thus decided to help them in all possible ways,” said the president of the association, Subhash Talekar.Each kit costs the association nearly ₹1,500. It has pooled some money from social workers, local activists and organisations.The association has asked members to form groups of five and buy food supplies from their nearest grocery shop. “We then transfer the amount to the shop owner directly. This way, there is no handling of cash involved,” Talekar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/dabbawalas-struggle-to-make-ends-meet-association-comes-to-the-rescue/story-2k3CcXTE5LTwtxAGYZQ2RM.html
11-04-2020||Chandigarh||Rohtak shelters have become second home, say migrant workers||Migrant workers taking refuge at shelters in Rohtak amid the lockdown say they are comfortable and the shelters have become their second homes. At present, 520 people, including migrant workers, are staying at the nine shelter homes in Rohtak. Razban, a cotton mill labourer from Uttar Pradesh’s Bareilly, says, “We get timely meals three times a day. The shelter has become our second home.” However, worried about the economic fallout of the lockdown, he says, “We don’t have money and our family members in the village are running out of cash, too. The government should provide us work in crop procurement at the earliest.” While appreciative of the efforts of the district administration and NGOs, Man Singh, a manual labourer from Rajasthan’s Nagor said that he felt the government had ignored them and had not drafted any plan to ensure their families’ survival before implementing the nationwide lockdown: “I am getting food here but my family of six in Nagor is struggling. They are unable to have two square meals. I am the sole breadwinner in my family. I don’t know how long the lockdown will continue. How shall we survive?” Raju, a construction worker from Bihar, says he had boarded a bus from Narnaul to go Delhi but was stranded in Rohtak due to the lockdown: “The government should have ensured that we were sent home, before issuing the lockdown,” he said. Washrooms not up to the mark, say women However, a group of women staying in another shelter on Bhiwani-Rohtak road say they were not satisfied with the facilities at the shelter homes. “The condition of washrooms is not up to the mark. The government should arrange for us to go to our homes because we cannot live in shelter homes for any linger,” they said.Rohtak deputy commissioner RS Verma said 45 shelter homes had been established in Rohtak to accommodate 14,694 people. “The 520 migrant labourers have been provided accommodation and food facility. A team of doctors also visits regularly to enquire after their health. The people living in shelter homes are maintaining social distancing. These homes are operated by the administration in collaboration with some NGOs and social organisations,” Verma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/rohtak-shelters-have-become-second-home-say-migrant-workers/story-UZ0N7D2oV5AdjQZo0vPC9K.html
11-04-2020||Lucknow||Allahabad HC rejects objections of BJP MP in petition challenging her election||The Allahabad high court on Friday rejected the preliminary objections raised by BJP MP Sanghmitra Maurya against the election petition filed by Samajwadi Party (SP) leader Dharmendra Yadav challenging her election from Badaun parliamentary seat in 2019 Lok Sabha polls. While rejecting the objections of the BJP MP, justice Ramesh Sinha fixed May 6 as the next date for framing of the issues in the matter. Former MP from Badaun Lok Sabha seat, Dharmendra Yadav had filed the election petition challenging the election of Samghmitra Maurya who had defeated Yadav in the last general election.“In my considered opinion, the contention advanced by counsel for Sanghmitra Maurya that the petitioner Dharmendra Yadav’s statement in the election petition raises no cause of action, is wholly unfounded. It is well settled law that if the election petition speaks about the material facts and concise statement on which the election petitioner relies upon are stated in the election petition, the same should not be thrown at the threshold,” the court observed.The petitioner had challenged the election of Sanghmitra Maurya, who is daughter of UP cabinet minister Swami Prasad Maurya, on the ground that it was a case of improper acceptance of her nomination. It was also contended that in the nomination, there was no disclosure of her marital status and other facts and also there was no disclosure of the assets of her spouse.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/allahabad-hc-rejects-objections-of-bjp-mp-in-petition-challenging-her-election/story-c1Po8tEcRnBjvCVSVMaF3L.html
11-04-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan records 117 new Covid-19 cases, total cases at 678: Report||Rajasthan recorded 117 new cases of coronavirus on Saturday, taking the tally in the state to 678, an official said. The virus has so far claimed eight lives in the state. “As many as 117 new cases have come up today,” Additional Chief Secretary Rohit Kumar Singh said. The total number of coronavirus positive cases in the state has risen to 678, he added. Among the fresh cases 65 are from Jaipur, 18 in Tonk, 14 in Kota, 13 in Banswara and four in Bikaner and one each in Dausa and Jaisalmer districts. The four new cases in Bikaner are family members of an elderly woman who had died of Covid-19, Singh pointed out. Two Italian citizens aside from 50 people brought back from Iran and quarantined at Army health centres in Jodhpur and Jaisalmer are among the total Covid-19 cases in Rajasthan. Jaipur has reported the highest number of coronavirus cases in the state at 286. Rajasthan is under a lockdown from March 22, three days before the nationwide one was enforced, while large-scale survey and screening is underway to trace the contagion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-records-117-new-covid-19-cases-total-cases-at-678-report/story-uc7HhV3BD00yhDPDhXaUbK.html
11-04-2020||Pune||Authorities, experts call for mass testing in Pune as mortality rate nears 12%||With a population of 94 lakh Pune district has tested 2,914 samples since the outbreak of Covid-19, till April 9.Of these, 209 cases have been positive, 25 of whom have died. This puts the mortality rate for Pune district at close to 12 per cent, while Mumbai, with a population of 1.84 crore, has 876 positive cases and 54 deaths, and a mortality rate of 6.16 per cent.Experts say that now is the time for Pune to test every symptomatic patient as the infection is no more restricted to close contacts of positive patients, or those with a travel history.The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and other district authorities are still continuing with the protocol to only test those who show symptoms from high-risk areas, which include the recently earmarked containment areas. Pune is the second hotspot in the state after Mumbai. A senior doctor from a well-known chain of hospitals, requesting anonymity, said, “Of course the number of cases in the city will be low. The city administration tests only if a person shows symptoms and is from a high-risk area. At this stage anyone is likely to be infected.” Dr Abhijit More, public health expert, said, “At this stage the infection is not just restricted to travel history, or close contact with a positive patient. Many positive cases are coming forward wherein the patient does not know how s/he caught the infection. Every symptomatic patient, with a cold, cough, fever or difficulty in breathing, must be tested. Those going for door-to-door surveys must be given the immunoglobulin-M kits, which is easy to test, cheap and the sample collection needs minimum training. This can be followed by the Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) which requires a lot of training for swab collection, packaging and transporting to the labs. It is time Pune does mass testing” Currently, the PMC has sent out teams for door-to- door surveys of people with flu-like symptoms and those in the high-risk groups, with diabetes and high blood pressure. Those found with symptoms are then sent to the nearest PMC clinic or referred to Naidu hospital or Sassoon hospital, depending on the seriousness of the symptoms. Pune district collector Naval Kishor Ram agreed that mass testing needs to be started. He said, “Currently we are testing about 30-40 samples everyday which is why we are seeing such a rise in the number of cases in recent days, but I am strongly in favour of mass testing. About 300-400 samples should be tested everyday if we want to contain the spread.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/authorities-experts-call-for-mass-testing-in-pune-as-mortality-rate-nears-12/story-yM7Ta8oFcpb2hTP55cve4N.html
11-04-2020||Lucknow||UP police caution people about cyber fraudsters||At a time when people are contributing to government relief funds for the fight against Sars-Cov-2, cyber fraudsters are busy duping using fake IDs. The cybercrime wing of Uttar Pradesh police has cautioned people to not transfer money on random addresses.Several identical IDs have been doing the rounds on social media and sometimes people are getting messages to donate or fund one-time food. The moment they clicked on the link, they lost all the money to the fraudsters, said the cyber cops.One popular UPI address is ‘pmcares@sbi’ and cybercriminals have made several identical IDs with little spelling changes to cheat the people. SP Cybercrime Rohan P Kanay said people were falling into the trap sans accurate information.“Cyber police are coming across such cases across the country, including Uttar Pradesh. We are sensitising people to not fell prey to such tactics,” he said. The government has blocked some such IDs but there are several other portals.The cybercrime wing of the UP police has issued a communique, explaining about the modus operandi of cyber fraudsters. “Most of the cases are about identical fake IDs. People do not check IDs properly and donate amount on wrong IDs created by fraudsters,” Kanay added. Such cases were reported mainly in urban areas, said cops.Sometimes people get a message about funding one-time meal of a poor person. “The message has a link and when someone clicks that link, his or her phone goes on remote control mode. A remote access software is automatically installed on your phone. It is like someone else can see your screen and activities. And when you pay a small amount with the intention to fund one time meal, they may copy your UPI password and steal all your money,” said Kanay.“People are advised to use only the government websites to donate money instead of opting for other options,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-police-caution-people-about-cyber-fraudsters/story-0zJZXSPfkYu90BFvmTDYJJ.html
11-04-2020||Pune||On the Frontline: I ensure that nobody sleeps hungry in my area, says Saleem Mulla, chief coordinator, Hadiya Social Foundation||Saleem Mulla, chief coordinator, Hadiya Social Foundation, Kondhwa, has set up a community kitchen at the Baitul Uloom madrasa in the area and distributes meals to at least 750 needy persons that have been affected by the lockdown. He speaks to HT about the challenges he faces.What is your role in this crisis?Ours is a social organisation in Kondhwa that is serving food to the poor and to those who lost their jobs due to the lockdown. We are in turn working with a number of other social organisations and well-wishers who have helped with food, food grains and financial assistance to feed the poor. Now we have set up a community kitchen which is serving lunch and dinner to at least 750 daily wage workers in the area. My job is to coordinate the food distribution operations and ensure that nobody goes to sleep without food.How does your day begin, and roll out?I wake up early in the morning and take stock of the situation on the ground. After that, along with a close group of social workers we go to the market to buy vegetables and necessary essentials. The cook is briefed and the cooking starts at 10 am and by 1 pm , we deploy the food packets to the distribution area. The evening session for dinner preparations begins at 5 pm and ends at 8 pm.What precautions are you taking?We are following all the guidelines of the district collector and state health department. Everyone observes social distancing and it is compulsory for everyone in the kitchen to wear masks. We have sanitisers to keep hands clean.What is your view of the Covid-19 situation in Pune?The situation in the city appears to be serious and citizens must follow social distancing and stay indoors. We are all concerned but the government and the local police are doing good work in preventing the spread. The Kondhwa police officials and people on the ground have put in special efforts to help us.What gaps do you see in health and relief work?We need more residents to come out and help the government and the people in this crisis. The corporate sector in Pune must donate more for the city through their corporate social responsibility initiatives so that poor people can be fed during the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/on-the-frontline-i-ensure-that-nobody-sleeps-hungry-in-my-area-says-saleem-mulla-chief-coordinator-hadiya-social-foundation/story-ETPAKZeF756f9jGQBvuQ4H.html
11-04-2020||Lucknow||KV schools told to give pep talks to students||Principals of 1200 Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan (KVS) schools spread across the country have been asked to reach out to their students, via email or dedicated portal, and cater to their mental well-beings by providing counselling to them not only during but even after COVID-19 outbreak period.In a letter dated April 6, officiating joint commissioner (academics) KVS, Priya Thakur has pointed out that the current scenario may pose various challenges to students which have to be addressed and attended to and hence it is suggested that respective schools follow several measures to attend to this problem.The KVs have been asked to start their online session with pep talks to boost the morale of the students. The session may end with inspirational songs like ‘Hum Honge kamyaab or Yeh waqt naa thehra hai, yeh waqt naa thehere gaa’.The KVS has asked deputy commissioners of all 25 regions to instruct principals of schools under their jurisdiction to create an e-mail ID, specially dedicated to guiding and counselling, where students can send in their problems and apprehensions.Each school has been asked to entrust the responsibility of counselling the students to two or three teachers, possessing good counselling skills. The teachers who have undergone the guidance and counselling course from NCERT (National Council of Education and Research Training) may also be roped in for the assignment, says the missive, a copy of which is with HT.The schools have been told that assistance of trained counsellors may also be taken, if required. “Taking prompt action, we have created an ID (kviiitcounselling@gmail.com) for the students and the counsellor of the school, Shubhita Shukla and the librarian Madhuri Rawat would be helping the students”, said principal of KV, IIIT Jhalwa, Vijejesh Pandey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/kv-schools-told-to-give-pep-talks-to-students/story-uS6lDZiJz2YFGsZDDQnr9K.html
11-04-2020||Pune||Crackdown against fake news; 161 cases registered in Maharashtra||The Maharashtra police have registered 161 first information reports (FIRs) as of April 10 regarding spreading of fake news, rumours and hate speech on social media.According to the cyber cell officials, most of the rumours are regarding Covid-19 (coronavirus). There is also a rising trend in hate speech cases and out of total registered cases, 73 are regarding hate speech over social media.A total of 39 accused have been arrested and 33 others have been identified, said a police official.In the last 48 hours, a total of 30 FIRs have been registered in Maharashtra. The accused have mainly used WhatsApp, Facebook and Tiktok for spreading misleading information, said officials.Balsingh Rajput, superintendent of police (cyber) said that the department is making coordinated awareness efforts to reach to the people in order to sensitise them about fake news via social media handles of each district. The platforms and intermediaries are also being notified to filter the fake news video and posts to reduce the spread.“In this fight against fake news and hate speech participation and cooperation of citizens is pivotal. I will request citizens to be careful while forwarding messages. Maharashtra cyber and all district cyber police stations are taking stringent legal action against this. Residents must help police in enforcing law and maintaining public order,” said Rajput.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/crackdown-against-fake-news-161-cases-registered-in-maharashtra/story-aeBH9LbspNtUU8LUPabATN.html
11-04-2020||Lucknow||SNMC lab to start COVID-19 testing from Monday||Agra based Sarojani Naidu Medical College (SNMC) will start testing Covid-19 samples at its microbiology laboratory from Monday.So far, samples are sent to KGMU, Lucknow and it consumes a lot of time to get reports of the suspected patients.Confirming the development, district magistrate, Agra Prabhu N Singh said, “The department of microbiology of SNMC is ready to start the Covid-19 testing facility in Agra from Monday after receiving primer and probes from KGMU under the leadership of Dr Arti Agrwal, HOD at microbiology department.”“Other corona warriors are- Dr Vikas Gupta (faculty), Dr Vikas Chaudhary (junior resident), Madhav Agrawal, Vinay Verma, Neha Mani and Sharad (laboratory assistants) and Massy and Rajesh (laboratory technicians),” he added.According to reports, National Institute of Malaria Research (NIMR) has provided chemical and other testing equipment to the microbiology laboratory of SNMC recently. SNMC has also purchased equipment, related with the testing of the Covid-19.Samples are sent to KGMU, Lucknow by road till now as the load of the testing is also increasing at KGMU. So when the test of samples would start in Agra, it would save time, informed an official of SNMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/snmc-lab-to-start-covid-19-testing-from-monday/story-I7g7eAIThG2kGMCYElpq4L.html
11-04-2020||City||Punjab CM suggests extension of national lockdown by at least a fortnight||CHANDIGARH: The national lockdown should be extended by at least a fortnight, Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh suggested during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s interaction with chief ministers on Saturday.As India battles the Covid-19 crisis, the Prime Minister held a video conference with chief ministers primarily to take their feedback on whether or not the 21-day nationwide lockdown should be extended beyond April 14 to stem the tide of infections.Though the restrictions are causing a lot of hardship to the people, India cannot afford to take any chances, Capt Amarinder Singh said, a day after extending curfew in his state to prevent the spread of novel coronavirus.The disease has claimed 11 lives and infected 151 people so far in Punjab.Capt Singh suggested health and relief measures and asked for special concessions for the industrial and agricultural sectors.The chief minister said there is huge uncertainty over the incidence rate of the disease and that the nation is in for a long fight. Given the trend in China and several European countries, it is necessary to continue the lockdown, he said.The chief minister informed the meeting that the Punjab government had already decided to go for curfew or complete lockdown till May 1, with all educational institutions to be closed till June 30.State board examinations have also been deferred till further orders, he said.Prohibitory orders that prevent the assembly of five or more people at one spot remains in place, along with prohibition of public service vehicles till May 1, a state government statement said.SPECIAL RISK INSURANCE COVER SOUGHTHe also sought a special risk insurance for all government employees, including police personnel, sanitation workers and all other employees, who are working day and night to help mitigate the miseries and stress of people in these trying times, it said.He also said there was a need to substantially increase the number of tests being done for Covid-19 and to go for rapid testing.RS 500 CRORE FOR HOSPITAL INFRA UPGRADEThe chief minister requested Rs 500 crore for quick upgrade of infrastructure of government hospitals in Punjab, which is currently at Stage-2 of the pandemic, the statement said.He also called for speedy approval by the Centre to the state’s proposal for a Rs 550-crore Advanced Centre for Virology.On urgent relief measures for Punjab, Capt Amarinder Singh urged the Government of India to defer the recovery or waive interest and penalties on industrial loans for six months.WANTS RELIEF FOR DAILY-WAGERS, LABOURERSEmphasising that industrial establishments cannot continue to look after their workers for a long time, he asked the Centre to think of innovative solutions for relief to daily wage workers and industrial labour either through ESIC funds or under MGNREGA.The government of India can allow village panchayats and municipalities to utilise the 14th Finance Commission grants for emergency relief, including food and medicines for the poor and needy, Capt Amarinder Singh suggested.WANTS ONE-TIME INCREASE IN BORROWING LIMITThe statement, quoting Singh, said he asked for a one-time increase in borrowing limit from 3% to 4% of the state’s GDP by amending the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Amendment (FRBM) Act, 2003.The Punjab government is sending a complete proposal in this regard to the Union finance ministry.SEEKS BONUS FOR FARMERSReferring to the harvesting and procurement operations set to begin in Punjab next week, the chief minister reiterated his demand for a bonus to farmers to incentivise staggered and delayed procurement of wheat.He also called for quicker movement of food grains lying in Food Corporation of India godowns in Punjab, along with waiver of three months’ interest on crop loans and deferment of recovery of crops loans by commercial banks.Thanking the Centre for releasing substantial funds since the last meeting with chief ministers, Capt Amarinder Singh stressed on the need for early release of pending arrears of GST on priority to help the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-cm-suggests-extension-of-national-lockdown-by-at-least-a-fortnight/story-GsuBzyHMQqrxAdscJT4lXP.html
11-04-2020||Lucknow||Azamgarh SP offers reward for info on ‘Jamaat’ members||Azamgarh superintendent of police (SP) Triveni Singh on Friday announced that the person giving information about any Tablighi Jamaat member hiding in any area of the district will be given a reward of Rs 5,000. “Several people from the district went to Markaz (centre) in Delhi. After attending the event, they returned to the district. Many of them were traced in a door-to-door search, quarantined and tested for corona infection,” the SP told journalists in Azamgarh.“We have inputs that several such people, who attended Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi, haven’t informed about it after returning from Markaz. They are living secretly in their homes. They also have symptoms like cough and cold. However, they haven’t come to hospital for corona testing despite repeated requests by the administration to them to do so,” Singh added. “I want to appeal to people that if they come to know that any such person having symptoms like fever, cough and people, they must inform us about them. A reward of Rs 5,000 will be given to the person if the information is found true after police verification,” the SP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/azamgarh-sp-offers-reward-for-info-on-jamaat-members/story-CzFBvYn0ZYinvhaaFcjGmO.html
11-04-2020||City||Haryana govt rules out community spread; contact history of only three patients untraced||CHANDIGARH: Haryana’s health authorities have ruled out the community spread of the coronavirus disease in the state so far, though they admit they are yet to ascertain the contact history in three (2%) of the 162 positive cases in the state.For instance, a 38-year-old woman, who tested positive for Covid-19 on March 30, did not have any travel history. Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences, Rohtak, Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Dhruva Chaudhary says that the woman’s contact history is yet to be traced. Her two children had also caught the infection from her.The woman runs a paying guest (PG) facility in Sirsa, while her husband owns a similar business in Chandigarh and visited Rajasthan, Punjab and Union territory recently. Doctors suspect the woman’s husband contracted the infection and passed it on to his wife. He is healthy due to better immunity.FAMILY FUNCTION ATTENDED BY NRIsIn Ambala, the health department is yet to ascertain how a 67-year-old heart patient, who died at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) on April 1, caught the infection. His 65-year-old woman relative has also tested positive.Ambala chief medical officer Dr Kuldeep Singh says a family function was held on March 20 at their residence which was attended by non-resident Indians (NRIs). Though the woman’s daughter-in-law, who works at a bank in Patiala and deals with NRI accounts, tested negative, the woman could have got infected due to low immunity.SOURCE OF INFECTION A MYSTERYThe source of infection of the 58-year-old first Covid-19 patient of Karnal district, who had died at PGI, Chandigarh, is yet to be ascertained. On April 2, he tested positive for Covid-19 and died two days later. He, however, left his son, a doctor and a staff nurse of Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College and Hospital infected.Ruling out chances of community spread in Haryana, the director general, health services, Dr SB Kamboj said the Karnal village resident was a chronic diabetic and was frequenting hospitals in Gurugram and Panipat before getting admitted to the Karnal hospital.“A case qualifies to be a case of community spread when we fail to get absolutely no traces of the contact history. In all these cases of Ambala, Sirsa and Karnal, we at least know the possible route of the contact,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-govt-rules-out-community-spread-contact-history-of-only-three-patients-untraced/story-cF915LzXZXZAwX7hYmHeIM.html
11-04-2020||Delhi||52 people at Delhi’s Chandni Mahal test positive for Covid-19||As many as 52 people out of the 102, who were found living in 13 mosques in Delhi’s Chandni Mahal area, have tested positive for the novel coronavirus and many of them had last month attended a congregation in Nizamuddin, a Covid-19 hotspot, officials said on Saturday.There are 30 Covid-19 hotspots in the national capital and Chandni Mahal was declared one on Friday.In the last four days, at least three people from the central Delhi area have succumbed to the coronavirus disease, a senior government official told PTI.Watch: COVID-19 | Over 50 test positive in Old Delhi’s Chandni Mahal, area cordoned During intensive verification drives conducted in the last five days, government agencies found that 102 people, including foreigners, were living in 13 mosques in the Chandni Mahal area. After preliminary medical examinations, 52 of them tested Covid-19 positive, the official said.All of them were sent to different quarantine centres.Many of these 102 people had attended the congregation of the Tablighi Jamaat at the Nizamuddin Markaz last month.The authorities have launched a sanitisation drive in Chandni Mahal and introduced a containment plan after the detection of such a large number of people living in religious places.Those who came into contact with the three people who died and those who tested positive have been put under home quarantine.No resident of the locality is allowed to go out of their homes and essential items are being delivered at home, another official said.So far, over 500 Covid-19 positive cases and about 20 deaths in the country have been found to have links to the Nizamuddin congregation.Over 2,300 activists, including 250 foreigners of the Islamic organisation Tablighi Jamaat, were found to be living at its headquarters at the Markaz building in Delhi’s Nizamuddin in the later part of March, despite the 21-day lockdown imposed from March 25 to check the spread of the coronavirus.At least 9,000 people had participated at the congregation at the Nizamuddin Markaz last month after which many have travelled to various parts of the country for missionary works.Among the participants include citizens of 41 nationalities. They are 379 Indonesians, 110 Bangladeshi, 77 Kyrgyzstan, 75 Malaysian, 65 Thai, 63 Myanmarese and 33 Sri Lankan citizens besides others.The home ministry had also asked Delhi Police and police chiefs of other states, where these foreigners are currently living, to take legal action under the Foreigners Act and the Disaster Management Act.The ministry had said that about 2,100 foreigners have come to India since January 1 and indulged in Tablighi activities in different parts of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/52-people-at-delhi-s-chandni-mahal-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-SkYQTahrMyhtyA6m6tGbtI.html
11-04-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: Exiled in self-isolation||There is nobody else in his Lajpat Nagar pad. The young man is alone in this prolonged lockdown following the coronavirus pandemic.Actually, he is totally alone in the world, in a manner of speaking.Kalsang Jigme laughs at the suggestion. He is talking on WhatsApp — the photos are taken on the phone screen that connects him to this reporter.“But I have John Berger with me,” he says, showing his half-read copy of the said author’s Understanding a Photograph. Mr Jigme, 29, is a freelancer photographer, in fact. And he’s also a documentary filmmaker.Just before the lockdown began, his three roomies—all Tibetans like him—went to their families in the hill town of Mussoorie.Mr Jigme doesn’t have the luxury to return to his family in this period of crisis. “My folks are in Lhasa,” he says, chuckling, referring to the the Tibetan capital. He left his family when he was just six. Mr Jigme explains that his parents realised that education opportunities for Tibetans were far more superior in India where their spiritual leader, the 14th Dalai Lama, already ran the Tibetan government in exile. He was smuggled across the international border with a group of forty kids. “The journey took two months,” Mr Jigme recalls. Though time has passed, he clearly recalls the hardships. “We would walk at night and sleep during the day in secluded places… beside the rivers, inside the caves, under the blue sky.” Many a times he would cry on thinking of his parents—he would miss them more when hungry. It was true of other kids, too. “Then the brokers who would be in charge of us would hush us up saying that the Chinese soldiers would hear us!”The trip ended in Dharamshala, the seat of the exiled Tibetan government. Mr Jigme later finished his schooling in a Tibetan institution in Mussoorie. Later he graduated in a Bangalore college and learned photography in a Delhi institute.“I have never met my parents or my siblings since the time I left Lhasa,” he replies calmly. Not even a single phone call has been exchanged between them. “Because the Chinese government eavesdrop on phone calls and that might put them in trouble.”Nevertheless, Mr Jigme believes that his parents sent him to India “for the sake of my better future and also because I was the middle child, so I could be spared.”He keeps up with the contemporary life in his homeland through literature. “I read a lot of modern Tibetan fiction... about people in the small towns of Tibet and their daily struggles.”Mr Jigme now moves about his phone, showing the nooks and corners of his cozy apartment. Books lie stacked against statues of Buddha. A thick mattress on the floor serves as his bed. A table is placed beside a long window covered in white curtains—the scene looks serene.“And that’s my country’s flag!”These days Mr Jigme is learning to write the Urdu Inquilab in Urdu script. “I came across it on YouTube. Inquilab denotes a struggle for freedom, and the conditions in my country is like India before 1947...” He goes on to talk of his inspirations, who include icons of India’s freedom struggle such as Bhagat Singh and Chandra Shekhar Azad.Smiling radiantly throughout the course of this chat, Mr Jigme appears to have an optimistic temperament. He is hopeful that the pandemic shall end sooner than later. And then he’ll be back doing what he loves most—“walking around the lanes of (Delhi’s Tibetan refugee enclave) Majnu ka Teela with my camera.”And obviously he will also meet his parents. “One day, yes, I’m sure,” he says, looking pleased. Perhaps visualising that distant prospect in his heart’s eye.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-exiled-in-self-isolation/story-my8JpXlrwRf9IYa4y35YjM.html
11-04-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand reports 3 new Covid-19 cases, total count rises to 17||Three more COVID-19 cases were reported in Jharkhand on Saturday, taking the total number of people afflicted with the dreaded disease to 17 in the state, health department officials said.One person from Hindpiri locality of the state capital Ranchi tested positive for the coronavirus, while two others, who were diagnosed with the infection, are from Koderma and Hazaribagh districts, they said.Bokaro district has reported six positive cases, Ranchi eight, Hazaribagh two and Koderma one.A 72-year-old man from Gomia’s Sadam village in Bokaro district had died of coronavirus on Wednesday.Jharkhand had registered its first positive case on March 31, when a 22-year-old Malaysian woman tested positive for the virus. She was staying at Ranchi citys Hindpiri locality.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-reports-3-new-covid-19-cases-total-count-rises-to-17/story-wUOhYrpvltzygwjjy5Y4KP.html
11-04-2020||Ranchi||Tablighi Jamaat attendee from Jharkhand’s Bokaro Covid-19 test||A 35-year-old man from Pipradih village under Bokaro’s Chandrapura block was found infected with novel coronavirus on Thursday late night, bringing the tally of Covid-19 cases in the district to six and in Jharkhand to 14.The affected man had travelled to Bangladesh and also attended Tablighi Jamaat in New Delhi’s Nizamuddin last month.He was in the same group of other five people of Tello village who had attended Tablighi Jamaat and were detected positive for Covid-19.The six positive cases in the district are spread over three different villages in two blocks. While four cases are reported from Tello village and one from Pipradih village under Chandrapura block, one case is registered in Saram village under Gomia block.The state’s first Covid-19 death was also reported from Bokaro district after a 75-year-old man from Gomia’s Saram village died on Thursday morning.“The spread of Covid-19 has now reached another village Pipradih. The affected man from this village is linked with the group of Tello village. All these people went to Bangladesh and returned here after attending Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi,” said Dr Ashok Pathak, Bokaro civil surgeon.“The corona-infected man has been admitted to Bokaro General Hospital (BGH). Contact-tracing exercise has been started in this village and health screening of the residents is in progress. Samples of throat swabs of the family members of the affected man have been taken for test,” he added.The state has now a total of 14 positive Covid-19 cases, including one death. The maximum number of seven cases are recorded in Ranchi district, followed by Bokaro (six cases) and Hazaribag (one case).Over 1.29 lakh people are currently observing home quarantine and over 15,000 people observing hospital quarantine in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/tablighi-jamaat-attendee-from-jharkhand-s-bokaro-covid-19-test/story-IzrCvZ3fZte0rwNikuuJdJ.html
11-04-2020||Lucknow||‘If nationwide lockdown is extended, BSP will welcome it’: Mayawati||If the Centre decides to extend the nationwide lockdown imposed to combat coronavirus, the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) will welcome the move, party supremo Mayawati said on Saturday.“If after serious review, the 21-day nationwide lockdown imposed in view of COVID-19, is extended by the Centre, then the BSP will welcome it,” she said in a series of tweets in Hindi.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemic 1. कोरोना वायरस के घातक प्रकोप की वजह से देश में जारी 21-दिवसीय लाॅकडाउन को, इसकी हर स्तर पर गहन समीक्षा करके व व्यापक जनहित का भी पूरा-पूरा ध्यान रखकर यदि केन्द्र सरकार इसे और आगे बढ़ाने का कोई फैसला लेती है तो बी.एस.पी. इसका स्वागत करेगी।Mayawati also appealed to the central and the state governments to rise above caste, religion and party politics at this hour of national crisis and keep in mind the interests of the poor, the weaker sections, labourers, farmers, etc., and help them before taking any decision.Click here for the latest updates from the coronavirus outbreak 2. लेकिन केन्द्र व राज्य सरकारों से भी अपील है कि वे इस राष्ट्रीय संकट की घड़ी में जाति, धर्म व दलगत राजनीति से ऊपर उठकर व कोई भी फैसला लेते समय खासकर गरीबों, कमजोर तबकों, मजदूरों व किसानों आदि के हितों व इनकी मदद का जरूर ध्यान रखें।“The Centre and state governments should act fast to save the doctors, nurses, policemen, health workers and others indirectly involved in fighting the novel coronavirus, and their families, so that their confidence level is boosted,” the BSP chief said in another tweet. PTI NAV IJT||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/if-nationwide-lockdown-is-extended-bsp-will-welcome-it-mayawati/story-k6QtDFANeqoDmUm1T4oKGO.html
11-04-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19 patient from Assam allegedly commits suicide in Maharashtra||A 30-year-old migrant worker from Assam, who had tested positive for coronavirus on Friday and was undergoing treatment at a government hospital in Akola city of Maharashtra, died after allegedly slitting his throat early on Saturday, officials said.The victim, a migrant labourer from Nagaon district of Assam, had been admitted to the isolation ward of the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) here on April 7. He had tested positive for coronavirus on Friday, a senior official of the GMCH said.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemic“The man allegedly slit his own throat at around 5 am and was found on the bathroom floor by the hospital staff,” the official said, adding that the victim succumbed to his injuries while undergoing surgery.Three persons had tested positive for coronavirus in Akola on Friday and the deceased was one of them, the official said.Click here for the latest updates from the coronavirus outbreakWhen contacted, an official of the City Kotwali Police Station said it appears to be a case of suicide and investigations are on.So far, 13 persons have tested coronavirus positive in Akola district with six from Akola city, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-covid-19-patient-from-assam-allegedly-commits-suicide/story-aVUPfLUDH7T3P26b42ntLL.html
11-04-2020||Lucknow||Coronavirus: UP Forest dept plans isolation enclosures at tiger sanctuaries after Bronx Zoo scare||The Uttar Pradesh Forest department has identified isolation enclosures and quarantine areas for wild cats in the two zoos, tiger reserves and sanctuaries in the state after reports of a tiger testing positive for coronavirus in New York’s Bronx zoo.Besides this, places have also been identified to set up quarantine facilities for the Forest department staff attending to the wildlife, in case of any requirement or emergency, Chief Conservator of Forests and Zoo Authority in-charge of Uttar Pradesh Dr Ramesh Pandey said.Following directives to maintain a state of highest alert and monitor wild cats and animals round the clock, almost half of the staff of the two zoos in Lucknow and Kanpur have been sent on leave to maintain social distancing and those attending to the animals asked to take all necessary precautions like using gloves, face masks and sanitisation before entering the cages, he said.“Soon after getting the news of a tiger in Bronx zoo in New York testing positive for the COVID-19, clear directives have been issued to the two zoos, tiger reserves and sanctuaries of the state, as per the guidelines of Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI) Bareilly, to maintain highest alert for safeguarding the wildlife,” Pandey said.Special care has been taken to conduct regular health checks of the staff attending to the wild animals in the zoological gardens and those deployed in the areas falling along the path of movement of tigers, leopards or other endangered species in the forests, he added.Instructions are clear that staff complaining of normal cold, cough or fever are to be promptly removed as well. In the Katarniyaghat sanctuary, a place has already been earmarked to quarantine the departmental staff, Pandey said.Though animals have far better immunity than humans and there are far lesser chances of the spread of the virus among them, the state Forest Department is taking no chances after the New York incident and has initiated all steps necessary to ward off any problem, he said.Directives have been issued to take extra care in all the zoological gardens of the state, Pandey said, adding that roads, boards and railings were being sanitised regularly.Regular spraying of sodium hypochlorite as well as sprinkling of limestone powder and Vircon S is underway, he added.In the tiger reserves and sanctuaries, all security norms are being followed for sanitisation and detailed monitoring of the wildlife, Pandey said.Entry to all zoos, tiger reserves and sanctuaries are currently restricted.The Katarniaghat Wildlife Sanctuary in Bahraich district and the Dudhwa Tiger Reserve in Lakhimpur district had been closed for tourists even before the lockdown was imposed.Arrangements have been made for round-the-clock monitoring of the areas with the help of CCTV cameras and staff, Pandey said.Thermal cameras installed in the tiger reserves and sanctuaries have been checked and activated. Instructions have been issued to install CCTV cameras in the cages and enclosures of the zoos and check those already in place, he said.The Central Zoo Authority of India and the National Tiger Conservation Authority have also issued instructions for the same, Pandey added.According to reports, a four-year-old Malayan tiger at the Bronx Zoo in New York has tested positive for the coronavirus infection.The female tiger, named Nadia, is believed to be the first known case of an animal infected with COVID-19 in the US. It is suspected that she contracted the virus from a caretaker who was asymptomatic at that time.Besides two zoos, Uttar Pradesh has a lion safari and a national park, three tiger reserves and 14 wildlife sanctuaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/coronavirus-up-forest-dept-plans-isolation-enclosures-at-tiger-sanctuaries-after-bronx-zoo-scare/story-cOW2ng8F6CvRPaT6Vg6p8J.html
11-04-2020||Lucknow||Covid-19 pandemic: Ansys partners with IIT-K to develop ventilators||Ansys, a renowned global engineering simulation company of Pennsylvania, has entered into a Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) agreement with an IIT Kanpur-led consortium to assist in the development of NOCCA V110 ventilators to fight the Covid-19 outbreak in the country.Under the supervision of the IIT Kanpur consortium, NOCCA Robotics Private limited, an IIT-K incubated start-up, is developing indigenised rapidly scalable, low-cost invasive ventilators with the objective of promoting healthcare, including preventive health care.Ansys is the first company, which has joined hands with the IIT-K consortium and FIRST, the section 8 company of the institute that oversees incubation activities at IIT Kanpur, to speed up the development of these ventilators.Engineers at NOCCA Robotics Pvt. Ltd, have prototypes of a portable machine ready. They are being tested on artificial lungs, a prosthetic device that provides oxygen and removes carbon dioxide from the blood. The machines that can be tested on patients will be out in a matter of days.Once the beta prototype is out, the team targets to produce 30,000 units by May 2020. As a part of their CSR initiative, Ansys has come forward by offering a dedicated grant to the project. The grant provided by Ansys will be utilised for procuring materials, testing, trials and other expenses.Professor Abhay Karandikar, director, IIT Kanpur, said, “We are very happy to have Ansys on board with us for the development of this indigenous, low-cost ventilator.”Speaking about the CSR agreement, Rafiq Somani, area vice president - India and south Asia Pacific, Ansys, said, “Amidst COVID-19, the global pandemic that we are all facing today, one thing that is constantly worrying the government and the hospitals, is ventilator shortage.”Nocca Robotics and IIT Kanpur have created a consortium of biomedical engineers, doctors, research and development leaders, supply chain and MedTech businesses to harness their expertise and take the design from the idea to the actual product. The entire project is being coordinated by Prof Amitabha Bandyopadhyay, professor-in-charge, Start-up Innovation and Incubation Centre (SIIC), IIT Kanpur.Nocca V110 is a modular, power efficient invasive ventilator that operates in a pressure-controlled mode and the IOT enabled design allows multiple ventilators to be controlled remotely.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/covid-19-pandemic-ansys-partners-with-iit-k-to-develop-ventilators/story-aOUGxn9kcCmzj4l7QjELzL.html
11-04-2020||Education||AKTU to announce semester exam date sheet after lockdown||Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University (AKTU) on Friday said it will announce the date sheet of semester examination after the lockdown is lifted.“The institutes have been told to conduct their internal exam and class tests through online medium. In this way, the syllabus of students will complete,” said vice chancellor Prof Vinay Kumar Pathak, while addressing students through live session on Facebook and Youtube.Earlier this week, the AKTU postponed its May 10 state entrance examination (SEE), the Uttar Pradesh state entrance examination (UPSEE) to fill up engineering seats in government and private engineering colleges in Uttar Pradesh. The new dates will be announced later, an official said.VC said online pool placement drive will be held soon.“Online test will be conducted soon for the online pool placement drive of Byju’s Company. Besides, the university students will be given online internship,” he said.Prof Pathak pointed out that the university was launching helpline number 080-67612338 with Art of Living to help (mentally and physically) students in the growing transition of COVID-19. “This helpline number will work continuously from 9:00 am to 9:00 pm daily, counselling will be done through the helpline number,” he said.AKTU is going to start a special campaign for pregnant women in association with IMUMZ. Through this IMUMZ App, pregnant women will be able to consult a doctor about their various problems and get necessary counselling.He said 287 ideas were sent by the students of the university in Weekly Kovid-19 Ideathon. Selected winner will be announced by the screening committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/aktu-to-announce-semester-exam-date-sheet-after-lockdown/story-GYTXFtPDFmLCDPDbGZiaRO.html
11-04-2020||Delhi||Delhi Waqf Board designates graveyard for Covid-19 victims||In view of the “major problem” faced by people in paying last rites to Covid-19 victims, the Delhi Waqf Board has designated one of its graveyards for the burial of those, who have passed away due to the virus.“As you are aware that we are facing a hard time due to the spread of Covid-19 and its effects. There are so many difficulties emerging on daily basis. One of the major problem faced by the public is to pay the last rites of Covid-19 victims. It has been reported that due to the lack of information, the general public is not allowing to bury the victims of Covid-19 in graveyards of Delhi, which is unfortunate,” Delhi Waqf Board CEO SM Ali said in a letter to Secretary (Health), Delhi government.“In order to facilitate the last rites of Covid-19 victims, the office of Delhi Waqf Board is pleased to designate one of its graveyard as ‘Covid-19 graveyard’. The graveyard is situated at Ring Road near Millennium Park and known as ‘Jadeed Qarustaan’. This graveyard may be used for the burial of Covid-19 victims,” the letter added.Ali mentioned that the letter has been issued with the approval of PR Secretary (Revenue) and in consultation with the members of Delhi Waqf Board.With 40 deaths and 1,035 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, India on Saturday witnessed the sharpest ever increase in coronavirus cases, taking the tally of the infected people in the country to 7,447, according to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-waqf-board-designates-graveyard-for-covid-19-victims/story-6tEdJsTW5IS2URKgT99L0J.html
11-04-2020||City||45-year-old gardener at residence of Punjab bureaucrat in Patiala tests positive for Covid-19||PATIALA: A 45-year-old gardener, who was working and staying at the official residence of a Punjab Civil Service (PCS) officer on Passey Road in Patiala, tested positive for coronavirus on Saturday.He is the second positive case in the city and has been admitted to the Government Medical College and Rajindra Hospital.Patiala civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said the gardener did not have any travel history and was not in contact with any other Covid-19 patient.“Our teams have collected samples of his wife and two children. We have also initiated the process to quarantine the PCS officer and her contacts for medical investigation,” he said.The patient was staying in the servant quarters of the PCS officer’s residence on Passey Road, which houses civil and judicial officers and has been sealed to check the spread of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/45-year-old-gardener-at-residence-of-punjab-bureaucrat-in-patiala-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-O4SlLnoVkKAy3x8wrKtFeI.html
11-04-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka BJP MLA Jayaram celebrates birthday with villagers amid lockdown||Despite the nationwide lockdown, BJP MLA from Turuvekere constituency, M Jayaram, was on Friday seen celebrating his birthday with several villagers in Gubbi taluk in Tumkur.A sizable number of people were seen gathering in Gubbi taluk to celebrate the BJP legislator’s birthday.Click here for the latest updates from the coronavirus outbreakMeanwhile, scores of people around the country are getting booked for violating the lockdown. In Uttarakhand alone, more than 4500 people have been arrested until Friday for violating the norms of lockdown. Click here for the latest updates from the coronavirus outbreakLast month, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had called for a three-week lockdown, urging people to practice social distancing to prevent the spread of coronavirus. The total number of COVID-19 cases in the country has mounted to 7,447 of which 6039 and 239 deaths have been reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-bjp-mla-jayaram-celebrates-birthday-with-villagers-amid-lockdown/story-kKMhGW9lowkbt4OWc05jdO.html
11-04-2020||Kolkata||Liquor seized from ambulance in Bengal; many arrested||Amid reports the price of Indian made foreign liquor (IMFL) had sky-rocketed on the black market during the lockdown in West Bengal, the state excise department seized huge quantity of alcohol and made arrests in Malda and Murshidabad districts between Thursday night and Friday morning.Several bottles of IMFL were seized from an ambulance in Malda, during one of the raids.Raids were conducted at two hotels owned by a local Trinamool Congress leader and a local Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader respectively. Leaders of both the parties distanced themselves from the two leaders and disowned them.The first raid was conducted at a hotel owned by the BJP leader in the Raghunathganj police station area of Murshidabad. The leader was not present but an employee was detained by excise department officials. The second raid was conducted at the TMC leader’s hotel at Mathurapur in Raghunathganj area. “The hotel doesn’t have a license to sell liquor. The manager was arrested,” an excise department official said on condition of anonymity.“We have seized more than 65 litres of liquor from the two hotels. The arrested men were produced before a court on Friday,” the officer added.In the third incident at Habibpur in Malda, three men were arrested while they were smuggling a huge quantity of liquor in an ambulance.“We arrested three youths. They have been identified as Babla Saha, 23, Abhijit Haldar, 22, and Biswajit Mukherjee, 22,” Purnendu Mukherjee, inspector-in-charge of Habibpur police station, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/liquor-seized-from-ambulance-in-bengal-many-arrested/story-IoUyieZeLON2mK8sd6Ir9O.html
11-04-2020||Patna||Coronavirus: Village in Bihar’s Siwan declared hot spot after 19 fresh cases||The Bihar government Friday imposed a hard lockdown in a village after it emerged as a Covid-19 hot spot in Siwan district that accounts for 29 of the state’s total 60 cases. As many as 19 cases in the district have been reported since Thursday.A hard lockdown in containment zones mandates people to stay indoors and leads to closure of all businesses, including grocery stores and banks otherwise exempted from curbs as essential services. Critical services such as food and medicine are home-delivered to people in containment zones“Within the 3-km containment zone of Panjwar village, barricades have been set up at a distance of 200 m, 500 m, 1 km, 2 km and 3 km to ensure that people stay indoors,” said health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh. “We are doing active surveillance and also undertaking an intensive disinfection drive by spraying sodium hypochlorite in the affected village,” Singh added.Bihar chief secretary Deepak Kumar on Friday directed top officials to camp in Siwan to enforce the complete lockdown in Panjwar. District authorities have also deployed drones for surveillance in Panjwar and pressed National Disaster Response Forc personnel into service .Two people tested positive on Friday belonged to the same family of the village, where a 33-year-old had returned from Oman on March 21, said Bihar’s principal secretary (health) Sanjay Kumar. The super-spreader tested positive on April 3 and is believed to have infected six immediate family members, besides 21 of his extended family and two co-travellers, said heath officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/coronavirus-village-in-bihar-s-siwan-declared-hot-spot-after-19-fresh-cases/story-KGru8teYGdTIy65VCOlYJN.html
11-04-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus in Chandigarh: Prayers offered online on Good Friday as churches remain closed||Good Friday, a day of repentance and meditation on the agony of Christ on the cross, passed quietly with all the 25 churches closed and prayers offered online because of the curfew to prevent the spread of the disease.Heads of various churches conducted prayer services through YouTube, Facebook Live and WhatsApp for the 20,000 members of the Christian community here.Addressing the devotees through YouTube, Ignatius Mascarenhas, Bishop of Simla and Chandigarh Diocese, said, “We ask Lord Jesus Christ to stop the coronavirus pandemic which has infected nearly half a million people and disrupted countless lives. Good Friday is a time of repentance when the faithful are supposed to admit their guilt and find ways for improvement. Jesus Christ transforms the person,” he said.Pastor of Church of North India (CNI), Sector 18, Reverend Denzal Peoples, in a Facebook Live session, said, “Good Friday is marked as the day of crucifixion of Jesus Christ on the cross for the mankind. It’s the first time in the History that the churches were closed across the Globe on the Good Friday, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/coronavirus-in-chandigarh-prayers-offered-online-on-good-friday-as-churches-remain-closed/story-6xwIYyxUnxfqHAYljs1bQP.html
11-04-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Experts say repeated screening must to pick asymptomatic coronavirus cases||With the UT health department starting screening of around 12 lakh population of the city to combat the novel coronavirus disease (Covid-19), experts believe such an exercise will be successful only if “accompanied with testing” and “repeated”, as the first round is likely to leave out a large number of asymptomatic people.On Thursday, UT administrator VP Singh Badnore directed the department to screen the population, and by Friday, 2.19 lakh people were screened by multipurpose health workers and samples of two people were taken for testing.However, Dr Digamber Behra, senior pulmonologist from the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), said, “This practice is called active case finding, which is done in hotspots. Provided the UT health department has enough manpower to screen every house, there is a good possibility that more number of positive cases will be detected.”However, screening has its own limitations, Dr Behra said. “Firstly, it is highly likely that some people will not reveal the truth regarding their symptoms. Secondly, there will be those who are asymptomatic, unaware of carrying the infection. So to detect such cases, it is important to do repeated screening.”An epidemiologist from PGIMER, wishing not to be named, said, “The screening will only serve the purpose if those with symptoms are tested. As the incubation period of the infection is 14 days, the exercise must be repeated to make it a success.”UT home-cum-health secretary Arun Gupta said, “Around 50 teams of multi-purpose health workers screened over two lakh people. Out of these, some who showed mild symptoms were screened by doctors and two fit the criteria for testing. The report of one is negative and that of the other is awaited.”Gupta said, “We cannot take samples of everyone with mild symptoms, as they do not fit the criteria set by the central government.”MAX HOSPITAL GETS NOD TO COLLECT SAMPLES  Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan on Friday granted permission to Max Super Specialty Hospital, Phase 6, to collect samples for Covid-19 testing, making it the first such facility in the district. Dayalan said the management of the hospital has been told to comply with the directions issued by the Punjab government and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) in this regard. The hospital will collect samples and send them to Max Super Specialty Hospital, Smart, New Delhi, for testing as per government guidelines at rates as fixed by the ICMR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-experts-say-repeated-screening-must-to-pick-asymptomatic-coronavirus-cases/story-cfwCMWVR2BLZd4D7ORrcQM.html
11-04-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s arrest move: Homemade masks in focus||A day after UT’s decision to arrest people not wearing face masks to stave off Covid-19, health experts, including those from the PGIMER, apprehending panic buying of medical-grade masks, have asked people to go for homemade cloth masks. Notably, UT adviser Manoj Parida in a tweet on Wednesday suggested that cloth masks were least effective in containing the virus while Punjab CM Amarinder Singh tweeted on Thursday that a piece of clean cloth was all that one required to stay safe. However, medical experts whom HT contacted on Friday say that cloth masks may not be fully protective but offer a certain degree of safety from the coronavirus to relatively healthier persons, provided that it is properly used.Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) director Dr Jagat Ram said that surgical or N-95 masks should better be left for frontline health workers as they are more exposed to the risk than healthy persons staying in a safe environment. It is advisable that the latter make masks at home, preferably with cotton fabric and use it properly, he said. “Medical-grade masks are already scarce, forcing our health workers to use homemade masks who are repeatedly exposed to the virus greatly,” Ram said.Dr Ravindra Khaiwal, additional professor, environmental health, School of Public Health, PGIMER, too said that homemade masks protect the wearer from unknowingly spreading the virus to others. “The masks are useful when several people who have Covid-19 are showing no symptoms. Any face covering is better than nothing,” he added.What government advisories say?A document issued by the office of the principal scientific adviser to the Government of India on April 3 said that although social distancing and personal hygiene are key to prevent Covid-19 infections, certain countries have claimed benefits of homemade face covers for the general public. But this face cover is not recommended for either health workers or Covid-19 patients.“A normal healthy person must make two sets of homemade face covers so that one can be washed while the other is in use... Such face covers should also not be thrown anywhere but kept safely, washed properly with soap and hot water and dried properly before they are used everyday,” it added.US Centre for Disease Control and Prevention recommends two layers of tightly woven 100 percent cotton fabric, such as bedsheets with a high thread count to increase the protection level of homemade masks.Box: USE IT RIGHTThe mask should be made out of clean cloth available at homeWash the fabric well and dry it well before making the face coverIt must cover mouth and noseEach member in family should have a separate face coverBefore reuse, wash the face cover in soap and warm water and leave it to dry in hot sunSuch face covers should also not be thrown anywhere but kept safelyFollow the link (https://www.mohfw.gov.in/pdf/Advisory&ManualonuseofHomemadeProtectiveCoverforFace&Mouth.pdf) to know how to stitch homemade masks(Source: Ministry of Health and Family Welfare)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-s-arrest-move-homemade-masks-in-focus/story-Ky85UyB7tiGXtfK4K261UI.html
11-04-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Chandigarh admn to hike pay of frontline health workers||The UT administration will increase the salaries of the frontline health workers as a token of gratitude for their service amid the coronavirus pandemic.The move comes a day after the Haryana government announced to pay double salary to doctors, nurses, paramedical staff and others at the forefront of the fight against coronavirus.Confirming the development, UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida, said, “We will be writing to the central government for considering an increase in the pay of the frontline health workers in the city.”The quantum of the pay increase, Parida said, is yet to be finalised.Chandigarh has so far recorded 19 positive cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Recently, an insurance cover of ₹50 lakh was also given to Chandigarh’s health workers involved in handling of Covid-19 cases at the PGIMER and GMCH-32, in case of loss of life due to the infection. APPRAISALS FOR UT EMPLOYEES TO WAITMeanwhile, the UT administration extended the last date for filing of appraisal by UT employees by three months. Due to the lockdown imposed in the city in the wake of coronavirus outbreak, the administration has decided to revise the timelines for writing the annual performance appraisal report (APAR) online (through e-HRMS Manav Sampada Portal) of Group A, B and C officials for the year 2019-2020, as a one-time measure.The cadre controlling authority will generate APAR form online for the reporting officer by June 1 and the official will submit the form online to the reporting officer by June 30. Earlier this date was April 10. The reporting authority will have to submit APAR to the next higher authority by July 31. The reviewing authority will record its remarks and submit it online to the next higher authority by August 31. The accepting authority will have complete the appraisal process by September 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-chandigarh-admn-to-hike-pay-of-frontline-health-workers/story-AdyQwMRiPa5mV22bYA2MBO.html
11-04-2020||Chandigarh||Mohali MC House approves ₹3 crore for Punjab CM’s Covid-19 relief fund||The municipal corporation (MC) House held its monthly meeting through video conferencing on Friday. As many as 44 councillors participated in the two-hour meeting, which started at 11 am. The five-year tenure of the House will end on April 26.The meeting was presided over by mayor Kulwant Singh from Municipal Bhawan in Sector 68.The members approved an amount of ₹3 crore which will be donated to the chief minister’s relief fund to help in the battle against the Covid-19 pandemic. Mohali municipal commissioner, Kamal Kumar Garg said, “We are taking all measures to prevent the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Densely populated areas are being sanitised. Even our sanitation workers are working daily to keep the city clean.” The House also approved a new water supply pipeline in the city costing ₹15 crore and agendas worth ₹13 crore related to maintenance and development works.The House also approved the proposal for fining those found wasting water, from April 15 to June 30. A fine of ₹1,000 will be imposed on the first-time violators, while second and third-time violators will be fined ₹ 2,000 and ₹5,000, respectively, and water connection to their house will be cancelled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mohali-mc-house-approves-3-crore-for-punjab-cm-s-covid-19-relief-fund/story-C0qxGGwgDL8oRRr6EXTmjI.html
11-04-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana man held for making threat calls to Congress leader Surjewala||Police have arrested a Kaithal man for making threat calls to Congress leader Randeep Surjewala, who lives in Sector 6, Panchkula. The accused has been identified as Agrim, who is in his mid-30s. Police said Surjewala has a house in Kaithal and the accused lives near his house there.Sector 5 station house officer inspector Lalit Kumar said that Surjewala submitted a complaint online stating that the caller, claiming to be from a gang in Uttar Pradesh, threatened to kill him and his cousin Sudeep.The SHO said Surjewala received three calls between 9.50am to 10.15am on his landline on April 1. “The caller identified himself as a member of a gang headed by Mukhtar Ansari, Raja Bhaiya and Pappu Yadav from Uttar Pradesh. He threatened to kill my cousin Sudeep Surjewala and me and disconnected the call. He called a minute later and said that he knew where I lived, had complete details of where I go and my vehicles. He called again, extended the same threat, and identified himself as Agrim,” the complaint stated.The Sector 19 crime branch team of Panchkula then started investigating the matter. Officials privy to the investigation said the mobile number from which calls were made was traced to Kaithal and the caller was arrested. A case has been registered under Section 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code at Sector 5 police station. Surjewala stated in his complaint that he had earlier received threat calls and letters on behalf of gangster Surinder Geong. So, he had approached the Punjab and Haryana high court, asking for his personal security in 2016. The court had granted him ‘Y’ category security through a central agency, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-man-held-for-making-threat-calls-to-congress-leader-surjewala/story-Octk1J36nnMHH58wurow1L.html
11-04-2020||Mumbai||Maha records over 200 cases for a second day; toll is 110||Maharashtra recorded more than 200 cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) for a second consecutive day on Friday, with 210 new infections taking the state’s tally to 1,574. The state had reported 229 cases, highest in a single day, on Thursday. The death toll, too, rose by 13 to 110 on Friday. The number of Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra has recorded a 147.8% jump since April 4 – a week – when there were 635 infections. Mumbai has also seen a spike of 167% (377 to 1,008) in the number of cases during the same period. State health department officials attributed the rise in cases to more testing across the state, especially in Mumbai. “We are not waiting for people to come forward… we track contacts of infected persons and those in containment zones and test them. Private laboratories have been given permission to test too. The rise in figures is because there is more testing,” said an official, who did not wish to be named.Maharashtra, as per the health department data, has conducted 33,093 tests so far – the highest in India. However, with the number of cases rising rapidly, the state government is mulling extending the lockdown in urban areas, while it may ease a few restrictions in rural areas, especially at locations where there are not many cases. A decision on this is expected on Saturday, after Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s video conference meeting with chief ministers of all states.State health minister Rajesh Tope had earlier indicated that the situation “would not come back to normal after the 21-day lockdown ends on April 14”. Senior Mantralaya officials, on condition of anonymity, said the government is looking at various options, including keeping Mumbai, Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad – the areas with most of cases – under lockdown, while relaxing restrictions in other parts of the state. However, movement of people between districts and curb on transportation is likely to continue, said the officials. The government has also decided to use technology to carry out “surveillance and sanitisation” in Mumbai, which is the worst-hit in state. Tope said drones will be used by Mumbai Police for “effective” implementation of the lockdown in densely populated areas and by the civic body to spray disinfectants in Dharavi. “The number of cases in Mumbai is increasing and it is a cause of concern. However, the state government is implementing measures under the containment survey action plan,” Tope said, in a statement, adding that the state would deploy State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) in densely populated areas and near containment zones. “The rise in the number of cases in Mumbai is worrying. Therefore to reduce crowding in densely populated areas, SRPF will be deployed. A request has already been made to the home department. Reducing crowding in areas is crucial. The control room will monitor [crowding] through CCTVs, and drones will be used for surveillance in these areas. Drones will also be used to spray disinfectants by the BMC in Dharavi. We have also asked BMC to increase sanitisation in public toilets in Dharavi.”The minister also held a meeting with Union health minister Harsh Vardhan via video conferencing on Friday and sought quicker standardisation for personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, so that its manufacturing can begin. The state sought additional testing facilities in five cities – Nanded, Aurangabad, Jalna, Latur and Amravati.Tope said the state has 3.25 lakh PPE kits, 8.25 lakh N95 masks, 2125 ventilators, but it needs more such equipment. “Maharashtra has five to six manufacturers, but the standardisation has to come from the Centre. The chief minister has already written to Government of India seeking a timeframe to provide additional PPE, masks and ventilators,” he said. State health department officials said that chief minister Thackeray would take up the issue with the Prime Minister during the meeting on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-records-over-200-cases-for-a-second-day-toll-is-110/story-I9CRUUwwh3XRbatGESZLOJ.html
11-04-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai records 1,008 coronavirus cases, 64 Covid-19 deaths in a month||A month since the first infection of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) was reported in Mumbai, the city’s case count crossed the 1,000-mark on Friday. Mumbai reported 132 new cases and 10 deaths on Friday, taking its tally to 1,008 and toll to 64. Mumbai breached the 100-patient mark on March 31, almost three weeks after an Andheri couple were identified as the first to be infected by the disease in the city. On April 2, the city’s tally crossed 200 and since then cases have tripled in the past week.Follow live updates on coronvirus The number of fatalities, too, have spiked in the past four days, with the city reporting 24 deaths. The first Covid-19 death in Mumbai was recorded on March 17, when a 64-year-old man succumbed to the infection at Kasturba Hospital. The G South ward, which comprises areas of Worli and Prabhadevi, has been the worst-hit in Mumbai with 199 cases. E ward (Byculla, Mazagaon) has 69 cases, followed by D ward (Malabar Hill, Grant Road) that has 61 cases.For complete coverage of coronavirus crisis, click hereBrihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) chief Praveen Pardeshi said rise in the number of cases was directly proportional to the number of tests being conducted in the city. “High level of testing is our weapon. It’s through testing that we have identified many positive cases at an early stage, thereby, reducing the chances of community transmission. We are tracing more and more cases before the 14-day cycle of the virus, so that the numbers don’t grow and emerge as community spread,” said Pardeshi.Also Read: Covid-19 cases near 2,000 in Maharashtra, cross 900 in Delhi and Tamil Nadu: A statewise tallyTo increase testing, the BMC has given temporary permission to Suburban Diagnostics, a private laboratory, to set up Covid-19 testing booths at public parking lots.The civic body has also decided to procure 50,000 rapid testing kits, which will help it deal with the outbreak in densely populated areas. “This antibody test will be made available in the next three-four days,” said a senior officer from the civic health department.However, medical experts said instead of high level of testing, the government should opt for random community testing. “It is necessary to do testing on a large scale, but it is not enough. In addition to that the government should go for random testing in an area such as Dharavi and Worli to get information about community spread of virus,” said Dr Shashikant Ahankari, a community health specialist, and president of Halo Medical Foundation. Meanwhile, on Friday, six more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Dharavi, taking the total cases in India’s largest slum to 28, a BMC official said. The state health department, however, was yet to confirm these cases. Two of the six, who tested positive, had returned from the Tablighi Jamaat event held in Delhi. “One of them is from Dr Baliga Nagar and the other one from PMGP Colony. We have already started tracing their high risk contacts,” said Kiran Dighavkar, assistant commissioner of the G/North Ward.Two nurses, aged 27 years and 42 years, of Dadar’s Shushrusha Hospital, too, tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday, after which authorities asked the hospital to stop taking in new patients. The BMC asked the hospital to quarantine around 28 nurses.With inputs from Sagar Pillai||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/1-008-cases-of-coronavirus-in-maharashtra-64-deaths-in-mumbai-in-a-month/story-OcScJUXwTR5jzr5tQ9iWBP.html
11-04-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Fear, concern at South Delhi’s residential hub of doctors||Thirty-two-year-old Sushil Kumar rubs clean the last orange from his bag and places it on top to pinnacle his pyramid of oranges. Finally looking up after completing this elaborate exercise, Kumar tends to a group of customers waiting patiently for him to dole out their orders.Despite the national capital’s lockdown to control the spread of Covid-19, the lanes of South Delhi’s Gautam Nagar are busy with people going out to buy medicines, fruits, vegetables and basic groceries. Some are seen just walking around with large bags over their shoulders.“Many doctors and nurses live here. They are either coming back from their duties or going to them. This place is usually bustling with activity despite movement restrictions,” said Kumar, adjusting his face mask.With central government hospitals such as Safdarjung and All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) just a kilometre away, Gautam Nagar, a middle-class neighbourhood adjacent to several posh south Delhi neighbourhoods, has become a hub of young doctors and nurses looking for cheap housing near their workplace.Residents say house owners have been renting out to healthcare professionals for years now. However, over the last two days, many medicos living in the area have been gripped with fear. Videos of two doctors narrating their horrors of being roughed up by a local while they were out buying oranges, has been circulating all over. In hospital groups, doctors residing in these areas have been asked to “lay low” and “not engage with the general public”.“We are out there risking our lives to save people and when we come home, this is what we have to face?” said Sheeba Panamketty, a junior resident at Safdarjung Hospital, who lives in Gautam Nagar with four other doctors.While Panamketty voices her fear, the owner of a grocery shop where she has placed an order for two water cans, clarifies that the incident with the doctors took place at the neighbouring Gulmohar Enclave.Carefully maintaining distance while talking, Panamketty says, “The shift timings are so erratic that we have no other option but to shop for essential items whenever we find the time. We do everything we can to ensure our own safety and of the people around us.”Other healthcare professionals living nearby too say that they do feel threatened since the attack on the two doctors at the marketplace. “There is confusion among the general public that any doctor nearby is on the Covid-19 team, which is not the case. Besides, there is anxiety among people here, which is understandable, but it’s equally difficult for us,” said Akanksha Nidhi, a doctor who lives here.Dr Harjit Singh Bhatti, employed with a private medical facility and a resident of Gautam Nagar, said that people by and large do have apprehensions about living in the same neighbourhood as those from the medical fraternity at this time, as the latter has a greater degree of exposure to the contagious Sars-Cov-2. “This has emerged as a common sentiment, that people look at doctors with a suspicion of being infected. While some hospitals are planning for make-shift arrangements for their Covid-19 teams within the hospital compound or at a place nearby, proper facilities are required for an extended stay to ensure the medical personnel don’t have to come back home during this period,” said Bhatti.Dhriti Singla, a resident of the area, said the hospital administration or the government should provide doctors with alternative accommodation until the Covid-19 outbreak is brought under control. “We are not against doctors; they are doing a great job by saving so many lives in the time of this pandemic. However, there is a fear that the community could suffer. There are old people and children living here,” she said.Amid uncertainty on both sides, the administration is trying to assure residents of their safety while they stay at home during the lockdown, in an effort to control the spread of coronavirus. Deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Thakur said the area is being patrolled intensively and announcements are being made urging people to not panic or take the law in their hands in any situation. “We are urging people to maintain social distancing norms and will ensure strict action against anyone breaching the rules of the lockdown,” the DCP said. The municipal body is also ensuring that residents are at peace with each other. Anil Kumar Sharma, a local councillor, said the incident of violence against the doctors was a “one-off” case. “This colony’s main income is rent from tenants, many of whom are medical professionals. Why would anyone want to upset their tenants and ruin their income? This area is safe; women can walk in and out without fear at any time of the night. We assure them (doctors) that we will keep them safe while they fight for everyone’s safety,” Sharma said.While many shop owners, especially after Wednesday’s incident, have been supportive and are ensuring that essential items reach the doorsteps of medical professionals living here, there are some who are hesitant about living in close proximity with healthcare professionals who are at a greater risk of contracting the virus.“Doctors in our society are treated like gods. I have told all my delivery agents to ensure that orders from medical professionals are delivered on priority. We are all with them in fighting this pandemic,” said Manohar Lal, the owner of a grocery store in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/fear-concern-in-south-delhi-s-gautam-nagar-a-residential-hub-of-medicos/story-KTnR4t0p0WKa0JRPz5pkZM.html
11-04-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Drones drive surveillance in Delhi’s containment zones||As a drone hovered over a narrow lane in east Delhi’s Dilshad Garden, a group of men loitering the lanes ran inside their houses, while those standing outside a ration shop quickly queued up ensuring adequate distance among one another.Parts of Dilshad Garden, one of the first coronavirus (Covid-19) hot spots in the country, have been sealed to contain the spread of the pandemic.From chasing violators of the prohibitory orders, enforcing social distancing on the roads and spraying disinfectants, the city police and civic agencies have adopted drones as an extension of their forces.The world has taken a cue from China’s use of drones for surveys and deliveries, and agricultural drones for a variety of purposes during the Covid-19 pandemic, as early as February 2020. Several European and central Asian countries, such as France, Italy and Kazakhstan have since modified drones to remotely identify lockdown violators in crowded areas and also installed public announcement (PA) systems on drones. In India, Madhya Pradesh’s Indore was among the first to use drones to spray disinfectant, followed by Hyderabad and Bengaluru.In central Delhi’s Karol Bagh, civic officials were busy filling a drone with disinfectant to conduct an “aerial spray”, as the corporation’s large 3,000-litre tankers could not easily be manoeuvred in the narrow by-lanes.Officials of the Delhi Police and civic agencies say the drones are a success.The deputy commissioner of police, Shahdara, Dinesh Gupta, said that drones come in handy at locations with high population density, where keeping a watch on residents is not easy.“At present, there are at least 12 coronavirus positive cases from my area. Because it is a sensitive area, with five containment zones (two in Dilshad Garden and one each in GTB Enclave, Dilshad Colony and Vivek Vihar), at least 12 people had to be prosecuted for violating the lockdown in the last five days, due to which we started surveillance using drones. We have three drones that cover these five areas. We are also using the drones to make public announcements,” Gupta said.He said because congested and densely populated areas like Seemapuri and Shahdara also come under his jurisdiction, keeping a watch on residents in every lane isn’t an easy task. “This is where our drones take charge. We have seen that the moment a drone takes flight, people start returning to their houses. Those who are sitting on terraces get inside, people at shops start maintaining a queue at an adequate distance and those loitering also hurry indoors. ,” Gupta said.Police are using drones extensively to watch at ration shops, banks and religious places in every subdivision, where people gather.Deputy commissioner of police, central, Sanjay Bhatia, who is using a drone to keep a vigil on dense pockets of Daryaganj, Chawri Bazar, Chandi Mahal, Karol Bagh, Rajindra Nagar, Paharganj and Kamla Market, said that they have not prosecuted anyone, based on drone surveillance, but detain 100-150 people every day.“Our police teams accompany the drone handler, who is a civilian, for his security. Once the drone captures a violation, we either take a screenshot and alert local staff or immediately rush our Covid Bike Patrol squad to the spot. Those caught out on the streets are sent home with a warning, after proper verification. Roughly, since Day one, we have detained more than 2,000 violators,” Bhatia said.Even in south Delhi’s Sangam Vihar, one of Delhi’s largest unauthorised colonies, where lane number 5, 6 and 7 in block L1 have been declared as one of the two containment zones in south Delhi, police are detaining at least 200-300 lockdown violators every day. “On Thursday, we detained more than 200 violators who were caught in our drone cameras. Since Day one of the lockdown, we have detained at least 3,000 violators in Sangam Vihar alone. Roughly, around the same number of people were caught in Hauz Rani, the second containment zone. The number of detainees who were caught solely with the help of a drone is much higher for the entire district. Action under the DP Act, IPC sections and DM Act is ensured against the violators,” Thakur said.Flying drones is prohibited in Delhi because of security risks. Only government agencies are allowed to use it. “Initially, some of our officers complained that children threw stones. But now, everyone knows that if the flying objects is used by the government,” a police official said.The police and civic agencies used the drones in Delhi’s Nizamuddin, another containment zone. A six-storey building in the area, the headquarters of the Tablighi Jamaat, has emerged as the largest Covid -19 hot spot, with cases from across India being traced back to gatherings at the Markaz. While Nizamuddin Basti and Nizamuddin West have been cordoned off by the police, the civic agency is continuing its work of aerially spraying disinfectants.“The solution (1% Sodium Hypochlorite in water) is strong enough to emulsify the lipid (fatty) outer layer of the coronavirus, which is 900 times smaller than the width of human hair, through its soap-like action. However, it’s too weak to harm humans,” said Dr Deepak Mittal, deputy health officer (DHO) with the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC).Dr Ashok Rawat, municipal health officer (MHO) of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation, said that using drones for aerial spraying is better because the nozzle of the drone turns it into mist form, due to which no significant quantity of the liquid falls on any one person. “It will only effectively sanitise the air and kill any coronavirus particles on surfaces like tin sheds, doors and walls.”The private company that has lent its drones to the north civic body said these were originally ‘agricultural application drones’ used to spray pesticide on crops. Prashant Pillai, co-founder of the Indian Robotics Solution Pvt. Ltd, said, “There are few food crops like sugarcane, which go up to 20 feet in height. Spraying pesticide on them manually is not possible. That’s where these drones, with carrier boxes of up to 10 litres capacity, help. In the Covid-19 scenario, China first modified these drones to carry disinfectants, followed by South Korea and then other countries.”Explaining how the civic agency used drones in Nizamuddin, the SDMC’s leader of the house, Kamaljeet Sehrawat, said, “We were under tremendous pressure to sanitise the entire area in a short span of time. Besides, many by-lanes of the Nizamuddin Basti are narrow and our large tankers could not enter. We have deployed hundreds of backpack sprayers; but for them to do it manually, it would have taken ages. That’s why we went for drones.”Ujjawal Kumar Mishra, who works for Idea Forge Tech Pvt Ltd, which helps Delhi Police operate drones, said that when fully charged, a drone can fly for up to 30 to 40 minutes on one battery. “We keep spare batteries depending on the duration it is needed for. From one spot, we can cover up to 800 metres in high-definition, and drones can reach a height of 400 metres. We use cameras with 10x optical feature, through which we can zoom from one spot and capture high definition images without lowering the drone.”Delhi Police said that while they are currently hiring drones, they plan to buy the machines and train personnel as handlers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/eye-in-the-sky-drones-drive-surveillance-in-delhi-s-containment-zones/story-uD2n3ZLLmgNRabOEEMHo8M.html
11-04-2020||Delhi||SDMC councillor’s husband booked for ‘misleading’ police, man claims political conspiracy||The police on Friday booked south corporation councillor Santosh Shokeen’s husband, saying that despite being tested positive for Covid-19 and infecting two family members (including the councillor) , he misled authorities about having visited the cheadquarters in Nizamuddin last month. The man, Sukhbir Shokeen has denied the claims, and labelled the charges a “political conspiracy”. He tested positive for Covid-19 on April 1.A case under the Epidemic Diseases Act and sections 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease danger­ous to life) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against him at Chhawla police station. Santosh Shokeen is the South Delhi Municipal Corporation’s councillor from Nangli Sakrawati municipal ward.The six-storey headquarters of the Tablighi Jamaat has emerged as the biggest hot spot for Covid-19 across the country, after a March congregation attended by hundreds of foreigners (some infected) and a few thousand Indians has been identified as the source of several infections around the country.Shokeen’s family lives in Deenpur village, which is among the 23 areas in the city that have been declared “containment zones” by the Delhi government after cases of the contagious virus surfaced in those neighbourhoods.Deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka) Anto Alphonse said the village was declared a containment zone after Shokeen and two of his family members were tested positive for Covid-19. A kilometre-wide radius around the village has been sealed completely.“The man (Shokeen) was placed in home quarantine by health authorities around two weeks ago. He was not home when a physical verification of people in home quarantine was being carried out. When questioned later, he hid the facts about his past travel and movements,” read a statement released by the Delhi Police on Friday. A police officer said that after Shokeen’s medical tests confirmed he had Covid-19, he was shifted to a hospital. Later, two of his family members also tested positive. Since the health and police authorities were not able to ascertain how the man got infected with the disease, his cellphone’s call detail records were analysed, and the location data tracked, the officer said.“The technical investigation confirmed his visit to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Nizamuddin. But the man withheld this fact during the repeated medical and police enquiries,” Alphonse said.However, inn a phone call with Hindustan Times, Sukhbir Shokeen — who is being treated at Ambedkar Hospital in Rohini — claimed he has never visited the Tablighi Jamaat’s headquarters at Nizamuddin.“I’m a practising Hindu. I have no connection with the Markaz and I have never been there. It is a political conspiracy as my wife is the only Congress councillor from among the 25 municipal wards in Najafgarh zone. I’m being framed.”Shokeen said he has been distributing food and essential items to needy people in his ward, ever since the lockdown. “I have been travelling to different areas. I could have contracted the infection from anywhere. I got my test done from a private laboratory, and got admitted to the hospital on April 1 after testing positive. My wife and daughter have also tested positive and are recovering in hospital.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/sdmc-councillor-s-husband-booked-for-misleading-police-man-claims-political-conspiracy/story-qJcmg2bd0CmoMD9TyvZuYI.html
11-04-2020||Delhi||Coronavirus: Operation SHIELD a success as Dilshad Garden now declared Covid-free||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Friday said east Delhi’s Dilshad Garden is “coronavirus free”, with no new cases reported in the last 10 days from the area, which he said was due to measures taken under the government’s ‘Operation SHIELD’. Dilshad Garden, which emerged as one of the hot spots for the coronavirus disease in the national Capital, was declared a containment zone on April 8. The government’s medical teams screened the entire area under Operation SHIELD (Sealing, Home quarantine, Isolation, Essential supplies, Local sanitation and disinfection, and Door-to-door checking) — a strategy of contact tracing to contain the spread of Covid-19, announced by Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday. Jain said, “Under Operation SHIELD, 123 medical teams screened more than 15,000 people living in 4,032 houses. Thousands of people were quarantined and tests were done. The hard work of the health officials and the successful implementation of the Operation SHIELD have made Dilshad Garden coronavirus free.”Dr SK Nayak, a district administration officer in Shahdara, said: “By working round-the-clock in the last 15 days, Operation SHIELD has been successful at Dilshad Garden. Not a single positive case has come from the area in more than 10 days from the area.”Dilshad Garden, which was declared one of the first 10 Covid-19 hot spots in the country, saw a spike in coronavirus cases after a 38-year-old woman tested positive. Five of those she had come in contact with, including a mohalla clinic doctor, subsequently tested positive. “I feared a massive Covid-19 outbreak in the Dilshad Garden area after seven people were found positive. It was transmitted from the woman who had returned from Saudi Arabia and was found Covid-19 positive. Thereafter, chief minister Kejriwal instructed to implement Operation SHIELD at Dilshad Garden. It was the first such implementation,” said Jain. In a massive exercise, 81 people who had come in contact with the woman were traced in the area and quarantined. The woman’s son, two daughters and mother had also tested positive. The Delhi government took the help of CCTV cameras to find out the movement of her son and traced the places or the people he visited, said a Delhi health department official.“When the woman tested positive, we rushed to her residence to ask her family for names and addresses of the people who had visited them since March 10, the date of her return from Dubai. Her son was not very cooperative, so we had to seek the help of the local police to get information. We also used footage from the CCTV cameras installed near their home to identify those who needed to be put under surveillance,” said Dr Nayak. While strict enforcement measures have been in place since March 18, when the woman tested positive, the area was declared a containment zone only on April 8, along with 22 other locations. The state government, with the help of the Delhi Police, had imposed a curfew in Dilshad Garden and Old Seemapuri, said the senior official. The whole area was sealed, along with Old Seemapuri, after a Mohalla clinic doctor tested positive. “The state government is still tracking the people of the area and if there are symptoms then they are being quarantined. The Delhi government will also initiate random testing of the residents soon,” said Dr Nayak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/operation-shield-a-success-as-dilshad-garden-a-hot-spot-now-declared-coronavirus-free/story-8Gwr0MrHciIBtAQqMIF1GM.html
11-04-2020||Delhi||Coronavirus in Delhi: Govt sets up buffer zones around 19 sealed pockets of the city||After naming 30 areas as containment zones and sealing them, the Delhi administration has set up buffer zones in 19 of these to prevent transmission of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), senior government officials said Friday.Buffer zones are geographical areas immediately surrounding containment zones, as described by the Union health ministry in a document — Containment Plan for Large Outbreaks — released earlier this week.Officials said it is not necessary to set up buffer zones around four apartments and gated colonies — three in east Delhi and one in south-west Delhi.Work on demarcating buffer zones in the seven additional areas notified on Friday was ongoing and will be announced soon, the officials said.The buffer zones will also be under constant surveillance, with residents being directed to maintain a strict quarantine. Even business establishments dealing in essential goods and services have been advised to stagger their timings in these zones.The modalities of setting up such zones were discussed in a meeting chaired by Delhi’s Lieutenant Governor (L-G) Anil Baijal on Thursday. In the blueprint sent to the chief minister’s office, seen by HT, the periphery of each containment zone is marked in red, while that of the buffer zones is marked in purple.The containment zones comprise apartment blocks, gated communities, slums, streets, even entire neighbourhoods. “Similarly, every buffer zone is different in its own way. It can range from a few adjoining lanes and roads to few adjoining buildings and shanties,” a district magistrate who did not wish to be identified said.Tanvi Garg, district magistrate (New Delhi), who has two containment zones under her jurisdiction, said: “Buffer zones are created for enhancing enforcement of surveillance and quarantine norms in the core containment zones. They are an essential part of the policy.”“The size, perimeter and other specifics of buffer zones depend on the core containment zones in question, in terms of its population density, the scale of the outbreak and potential rate of transmission,” said BM Mishra, district magistrate (South Delhi), who has two containment zones under his jurisdiction.Rahul Singh, district magistrate (South-West Delhi), who has two containment zones under his jurisdiction, said: “The basic idea is to create a graded progression between the normal lockdown, which is in place, and stricter containment policy. Health officials are playing a major role in the demarcation of these zones.”In terms of enforcement of surveillance, sanitation and other measures, a buffer zone is a semi-quarantine zone, a senior government official said.Another official said that similar to containment zones, all roads and lanes connecting the buffer zones with arterial roads are blocked by the police. These areas are disinfected but at longer intervals compared to the containment zonesNobody other than residents, the police, health officials, sanitation workers and essential goods and services providers are legally allowed to cross the barricades.Those delivering essentials have to wait at the last barricade, and are not allowed to venture further.Unlike containment zones, residents in buffer zones can step out of their homes wearing face masks, but might be questioned by police, who will patrol the areas around the clock and also be deployed in temporary pickets. So far, there are no door-to-door drives being conducted by health workers in the buffer zones, to check residents’ health for flu-like symptoms but this exercise is soon likely to be added in the protocol, the official added.In containment zones, all shops are closed and essentials, including medicines, are procured through orders routed though appointed community leaders and residents’ welfare association office-bearers. These are delivered to common collection points by health workers and sanitation workers.In buffer zones, shops dealing in essentials — medicines, milk, fruits, vegetables and groceries — are open but have been subjected to staggered timings. Police and government officials personally monitor social distancing norms outside these shops, when open, the official said.According to Jugal Kishore, head of community medicines department at Safdarjung Hospital, creating buffer zones around containment zones is a conventional policy approved by the World Health Organization (WHO) years ago. “It is a welcome move. In India, it was successfully implemented to prevent cases of H1N1 and Zika viruses.” While some RWAs said that they were briefed by the district administration in the last 48 hours about the buffer zones, others said that they are still awaiting clear instructions.“Proper briefings were conducted by the subdivisional magistrates (SDMs). It is a good move. Safety comes first. After the briefings, pamphlets with contact details of RWA members are being published and distributed in the buffer zones. This has already been done in the containment zones,” said BS Vohra, president of the Joint Front RWA in East Delhi, where there are nine containment zones, the most in the city.KC Rana, general secretary of Khirki village, which is a buffer zone, said, “It is a welcome move, but we are awaiting a briefing. We have been getting a lot of calls from anxious neighbours and there is panic shopping happening. That has to be controlled.”Five sub divisional magistrates individually confirmed that briefings in the containment zones are almost done and are likely to be completed in buffer zones by Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/admin-sets-up-buffer-zones-around-19-sealed-pockets-of-the-city/story-ObOzSk9SKpe755v64ZQejJ.html
11-04-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 in Delhi: Three test positive, one dies at ‘hotspot’ Delhi State Cancer Institute||The Delhi government-run cancer hospital – the Delhi State Cancer Institute – has emerged as one of the hot spots of Covid-19 with 22 healthcare workers and three patients testing positive for the infection. One of the three patients who tested positive for Covid-19 late Thursday night succumbed on Friday afternoon.The hospital had shut its out-patient clinic after one of its doctors – a 35-year-old senior resident – tested positive for the infection on March 31. When three of the 19 staff members who had come in contact with the doctor also tested positive, the hospital decided to move around 48 of its patients to other facilities.“We were waiting for the test results of the patients before moving them to other facilities. Three of the 19 patients we tested turned out to be positive. One person died. Now, we have asked all our staff members to get tested,” said Dr Ravinder Singh, Joint Director, Delhi State Cancer Institute.So far, at least 40 hospital staff from the city have tested positive for the disease.Accidental exposure to patients who later developed symptoms has resulted in around 130 staff members being quarantined at Max Hospital, Saket. “All of them tested negative and will soon be out of quarantine and ready to join back,” said a hospital personnel. Another 114 people have been quarantined and two have tested positive at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital. Around 81 staff members are under quarantine from Maharaja Agrasen hospital, against which action was initiated for not following protocols.Around 60 to 70 of the staff members from the DSCI have been tested so far. The 100-bed hospital has already been sanitised twice and will again be sanitised on Saturday. “However, the hospital will not start working immediately; not until all authorities agree that there is no chance of people getting infected. The hospital treats cancer patients, who are all immuno-compromised and are likely to get severe infection,” according to an official from the hospital. Teams from the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme are still looking for a source of the spread of the infection. Two family members of the first doctor to have tested positive had visited him in February. However they have not tested positive for the infection.“The authorities are doing detailed contact-tracing to see how the infection came to the hospital. We are looking at whether the staff had some get-togethers or cultural gathering,” according to a hospital personnel. On Friday, Delhi recorded the highest number of cases in a day -- 183 -- taking the total to 903. Two deaths were reported -- one of an 80-year-old man from Daryaganj admitted to Venkateshwara hospital in Dwarka. He had chronic kidney disease and was undergoing dialysis when he had a cardiac arrest. His sample tested positive on Thursday when he died.Details of the other death are awaited. The Delhi State Cancer Institute death is likely to be added to Delhi’s toll on Saturday.“The death is added after proper review and it will likely be added only by tomorrow only after all details are received,” said an official from Delhi’s health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/three-test-positive-one-dies-at-hotspot-delhi-state-cancer-institute/story-caCHoRGkwNkTMCTeCgN2cP.html
11-04-2020||Delhi||In Delhi, the faithful ‘worship from home’ this Good Friday and Easter||In preparation for the Good Friday and Easter Sunday in the time of lockdown, Reverend Prateek Pillai of the St James’s Church in Kashmere Gate, the oldest in Delhi, took inspiration from the life of Jesus Christ.“Jesus had his Last Supper indoors, together with his disciples with whom he shared bread,” Pillai said. “So, this year, we, too, encouraged our laity to observe Good Friday at home with their families. With so much talk of “work from home” happening, we told our congregation to “worship from home” this time.”One of the most sacred days of the Christian calendar, the Good Friday, or the day Christ was crucified, was observed across homes in the national capital and suburban towns. The occasion was made even more sombre for the over 2 billion followers of Christ as the world reels under the Covid-19 pandemic. Churches adhered to all instructions from the government, their diocese and, in the case of Catholics , the Vatican.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicEver since the Delhi government had banned the congregation of people in the city for any purpose, churches had informed their members of timings when sermons, services and mass will be broadcast online so that the faithful could virtually be a part of the service.But for Leelamma Mathew, 52, of west Delhi’s Janakpuri, who had not missed a single Good Friday service at church till now, says the virtual experience was “not to her liking”.Mathew’s daughter had helped her tune in to their local church’s service over phone. “But the church gave us a feeling of being in the presence of the lord,” she said. “Normally, it is also the time that we would break the fast by receiving the Holy Communion followed by some gruel. This time, we had to make do with whatever we had prepared at home.”Click here for the latest updates from the coronavirus outbreakHer feelings were echoed by others as well. “Due to the lockdown, we are stuck at home,” said Amol Benny, a resident of Noida. “Other times, we would meet our relatives and have food together. This time, it was in front of the TV with family.”Ceremonies during the Holy Week were cut short, as several of the rituals such as the washing of the feet, the Holy Communion and touching of the cross would have required violating social distancing norms.For priests too, the experience was a novel one, not to mention a lonely one.“Several priests, including myself, had gone to the church to officiate the mass,” Father Christopher of the Rosary Church at Kingsway Camp said. “It was surreal to do it before empty pews.” “For those who did not have access to the live streaming of the Good Friday service, we sent out PDF files in advance, so that they could get them printed and hold the Good Friday service at home,” Reverend Pillai said.On Easter Sunday, which will also mark the culmination of the Holy Week, Catholics across the globe will tune in to listen to Pope Francis, who will lead the virtual prayers. In India, where the Easter prayers would have been completed by then, watching the Pope on TV would give many strength during this difficult time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/the-faithful-worship-from-home-this-good-friday-and-easter/story-22Mi3AEZthVMTFYwzX6BgO.html
11-04-2020||Gurugram||Smart City centre turned into Covid-19 war room||The Gurugram police has started using the Integrated Control And Command Centre (I-CCC)—developed by the GMDA under the smart cities mission so that technology could be used for more efficient management of utilities—as a designated war room for Covid-19 surveillance, monitoring the movement of people and supplies, its distribution, and maintaining law and order, the police said.Through the 350 closed-circuit television cameras (CCTVs), the police are keeping an eye on vehicular movement and gathering of people at sensitive locations, including some containment zones. The district has nine containment zones. All containment zones are not connected to the I-CCC as cameras were yet to be installed, the police said.The I-CCC is mainly being used to ensure social distancing in crowded areas such as Chakkarpur, Jharsa, Nathupur, Sadar market, Sohna Road, Wazirabad, Khanda Mandi, Mohammadpur Jharsa and places with higher population density.The war room is also being used for tracking people under quarantine and suspected cases, said police. The teams are also coordinating with the district administration and health teams for doing real-time tracking of ambulances and disinfection services. “We are using wireless phones to pass on messages. A daily record is maintained which is sent to the commissioner of police. We are also checking of anyone is misusing the passes issued and loitering,” said Chander Mohan, DCP (East) who is also the chief executive officer, mobility. Police commissioner Muhammad Akil said another prime focus of the centre is to track the movement of food supply and to check if it is being delivered at the right places. “Our call centre (100, 112, 0124-2316100, 1091 and 1098) is operational and most of the calls we receive are for supply of food and ration. We are taking serious note of all calls and a rescue team is being sent to the spot from where the call is received. Many people in distress are reaching out to these helplines to check the symptoms of coronavirus,” he said. The I-CCC also helps monitor whether the police personnel deployed across the city are conducting checks properly, Mohan said.“It is important to keep a check on the police working as they have to check each vehicle before allowing them to cross a checkpost. We monitor each vehicle and take down their registration number and if we find any suspicious activity we immediately report to concerned SHO or duty officer of that area,” the DCP said.Police said that through the war room they were keeping a close watch on all traffic junctions and vehicles on the road to ensure no violation takes places. Mohan said that there are 350 cameras and locations which are tracked by them round-the-clock. “A team of 12 police personnel is working in eight-hour shifts. They are coordinating with all the station house officers and traffic inspectors to ensure better functioning across the city,” he said.He said that a team was also in touch with the Delhi Police to update them about the situation in areas close to the border so that if any group is seen walking or rushing of vehicles towards the border, they are informed well in advance.I-CCC is a single dashboard system and as many as 12 operators are working on it at any point of time with a team of 10 additional people who refer complaints to the officials concerned, within seconds after the system displays it.Two technical members of NIC are also deployed in the centre for any technical support if required, said police.The I-CCC, which was created for improved efficiency of various departments (water, electricity, parking, streetlights, agriculture, sewerage, roads, garbage disposal, traffic, crime tracking, GIS mapping), earlier synchronized with the centre, are currently on hold and all the focus is on the ground situation during the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/smart-city-centre-turned-into-covid-19-war-room/story-8IDQ2MOCu7oQhG4iYeZdCJ.html
11-04-2020||Gurugram||RWAs to restrict movement within nine Gurugram containment zones||After the district administration declared nine areas as “containment zones”, the police on Friday ordered the respective residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) to keep a close watch on the movement of the residents.The RWAs will have to maintain a register to record the reasons for why residents would be moving out of the containment area and this will be routinely checked by the local police. Residents will be allowed to move out of the area only once a day. Further, if a resident wished to leave the containment area for personal reasons, they will be free to do so, but will not be allowed back until the lockdown measures are lifted. Online food services too would not be allowed.The administration on Thursday had declared Bestech Park View Residency in Palam Vihar, Laburnum in Sushant Lok phase 1, Suncity in sector 54, Emaar Palm Gardens in sector 83, Close South in Nirvana country, Abhinav apartments in sector 9, sector 39, ward number 11 in Pataudi and Raipur village in Sohna as the nine containment zones in the district. Police commissioner Muhammad Akil, who held a meeting with RWAs on Friday, said, “It is left to the discretion of the RWAs to allow its residents for morning or evening walks in the containment zones. Any unnecessary movement to nearby markets will be prohibited by the police. RWAs can allow pet owners to take their pets early morning at designated areas. But as a part of the order, no online food services like Swiggy or Zomato will be allowed to enter any residential areas.” The district administration also clarified that grocery stores in condominiums and nearby market areas falling under the containment zones will remain operational. This is unlike in Delhi where the movement of people in the containment zones is strictly prohibited. Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner, said, “Essential services will be provided by the administration.” All security guards have been instructed to wear all safety equipment while dealing with delivery men and have to sanitise themselves thrice a day. Their medical checkups are mandatory before the deployment in the area.The authorities, however, said that RWAs cannot harass their residents in the wake of current orders. Akil said that people can approach his office if they face any harassment.Nilesh tandon, RWA president, Fresco apartment in Nirvana Country said, “We will share details with police weekly. We have passed strict instructions that no one will move out as our area is declared as containment zone and we have to take all precautionary measures,” he said.On Friday, the administration also revised its containment zone order stating that Sub-divisional magistrates (SDMs) in coordination with the police will define the boundaries of the containment area, along with the entry and exit point to ensure that all the necessary essential services, emergency movements and authorized pass movements may be facilitated.“In the last three-four days, our teams have screened almost 15,000 people in the areas where Covid-19 cases have been reported. Maximum screening has been done in Pataudi where five coronavirus cases have been reported,” said Dr Sudha Garg, district surveillance officer. “In sector 39, we found 4 cases with flu like symptoms and we have asked them to quarantine.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/rwas-to-restrict-movement-within-nine-ggm-containment-zones/story-g6vSuVO4Y3cUhigbG1MczL.html
11-04-2020||Gurugram||Concerns prevail among residents over supply of essentials, containment area||Residents in Gurugram’s nine containment zones on Friday said that they were awaiting clear instructions from the administration regarding the supply of essentials in their areas. They said they had no idea when and how the administration would start supplying essentials, and how they were supposed to function until then. Residents in Sector 9 and Palam Vihar also complained that these areas were plotted colonies spread over a vast area and blanket sealing of them was not needed. Nilesh Tandon, RWA president of Fresco Apartments in Nirvana Country, said that while the containment plan was good for curbing unnecessary travel, it was clouded in ambiguity with little clarity over supply of essentials. Tandon said that he learned about the containment plan via news reports and no prior intimation regarding the sealing had been shared with the RWAs.“The update about the creation of containment zones reached us via the media last night. The administration didn’t reach out to us. Ideally, the administration should have written to the RWA about the sealing and given us time to make arrangements. In the absence of clear instructions, we are at a loss,” said Tandon.Asha Johari, a Nirvana Country resident, said that panic was created after it became clear that a hard lockdown was being put in place. “There was panic for a few hours in the afternoon when the RWA communicated the message regarding the sealing. Items started flying off the shelves in shops within the complex. Later, when the MCG bus for supply of essentials came, there were huge queues. I also heard that some residents had ordered food and the delivery persons were not allowed to enter Nirvana,” said Johari.Tandon added that residents had been going out to the nearby markets to buy essential items till Friday morning. But, with police barricading the locality later in the day, people were dependent on shops within the complex. “Barricades have been placed all around. Residents are being compelled to buy items from shops within the complex which are selling essentials at inflated prices. How will the residents survive till the administration kicks into action? We even wrote to the deputy commissioner, who said that he’d share detailed instructions with us but that hasn’t happened so far,” said Tandon.He added that the initial containment order had created confusion, since it mentioned Nirvana Country and Sector 54 together where as the township is located in Sector 50. On Friday, the administration re-released the order again that listed Nirvana Country and Sector 54 separately but clubbed them as one of the nine containment zones. Tandon also said that the inclusion of Nirvana County in the containment zones didn’t seem prudent since Covid-19 cases in Nirvana Country had emerged last month and the affected individuals had recovered two weeks ago. “If there is no positive cases right now, what is the point of including Nirvana Country in the containment zones? Even if they were making a containment zone, they should have first made arrangements for supplies. The administration is not doing anything due to which we are forced to take steps,” said Tandon. The Fresco RWA had tied up with a milk delivery service for the supply of milk from Saturday, but there is little clarity if these services will be allowed to function.Naresh Kataria, RWA president of Sector 9 — a plotted township developed by Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran, 20 years ago — said that earmarking the whole area under a containment zone was unfair. “There are some gated group housing societies in the sector which are separate from the plotted areas. A virus-positive case had emerged in one such high-rise, Abhinav Apartment, last month and that person has returned home after getting cured. Specific condominiums could have been earmarked instead of the whole sector,” said Kataria.RWA members of Laburnum Society, another containment zone, said that they were awaiting clarification from the administration regarding the containment zones. “We don’t have details or instructions regarding what these containment zones mean. Till we are clear about what is happening, we can’t say much. There are shops within the complex that are catering to our need of essentials as of now,” said Ashok Tankha, president of Laburnum Society.Sunil Yadav, former president of the Palam Vihar RWA, said that he was surprised by the inclusion of Palam Vihar among the containment zones. He said that Covid-19 cases were traced from a specific condominium that should have been sealed instead of the whole of Palam Vihar. “Areas close to the affected condominiums were left out while the whole colony was put in the containment zone. We will obey the roles in place but there should have been better earmarking of zones. Palam Vihar is a colony spread over 650 acres. How will essentials reach the whole plotted colony? We don’t know. Implementation should have been done based on ground realities,” said Yadav.“Delivery of essential items from online delivery retailers will be allowed in the nine containment zones provided all necessary safety precautions are undertaken by the agent delivering the items as well as the residents taking them,” said Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner, Gurugram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/concerns-prevail-among-residents-over-supply-of-essentials-containment-area/story-wwA3OZlCUDzHMJxSPJqaCI.html
11-04-2020||Noida||MeT dept predicts dry, warm days ahead; temperature to rise by 5 degrees by next week||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has warned of warm and dry days ahead with temperatures likely to increase by three to five degrees by early next week.According to the weather analysts, while the maximum temperature is hovering between 33-35 degrees Celsius, it is likely to reach 38-39 degrees Celsius by April 14. The minimum temperatures may also rise up to 23 degrees Celsius during the same time period, as against current average of 16 to 17 degrees Celsius.“Temperatures have already spiked by three degrees over the past few days and they are likely to further. This is usually the trend during this time of the year during the pre-monsoon season. Between April 14 and 20, the maximum temperature is likely to rise to 38 to 39 degrees Celsius, while the by the month-end, the maximum temperature will hover around 42 degrees Celsius, which will be season’s normal by then,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD. He also added that while the season’s normal is expected to be around 42 degrees Celsius by the month-end, the same will spike to 45 degrees Celsius by the first week of May.Weather experts have also said that there will be weekly spells of thunderstorms due to approaching western disturbances in Delhi-NCR. However, the effects of the rains and the thundershowers will be short lived and the temperature will spike back soon.“There will be intermittent western disturbances reaching the region bringing along with them moist air. The moisture mixed with the heat may form convective clouds. Although there are chances of rain, dark clouds with thunder and light drizzle is likelier. Even if it drizzles, the overall temperature will remain the same,” said Mahesh Palawat, director, Skymet — a private weather forecasting agency. Meanwhile, Friday saw a rise in the maximum temperature by two degrees in Noida and adjoining regions. The maximum temperature was recorded at 36.2 degrees Celsius, as against 34.7 degrees Celsius a day earlier. The minimum temperature was recorded at 17 degrees Celsius, three notches below the season’s average, as against 16.6 degrees Celsius on the previous day.According to the IMD, Saturday may see the maximum and minimum temperatures hovering around 35 degrees and 18 degrees Celsius respectively. “There are chances of thunder with lightening. However, it is unlikely to rain,” said an IMD official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/met-dept-predicts-dry-warm-days-ahead-temperature-to-rise-by-5-degrees-by-next-week/story-eDsecCujx21m4OSE1KGU8H.html
11-04-2020||Noida||GB Nagar admin gives 24 hours to declare if anybody has Covid-19 symptoms||The district magistrate of Gautam Budh Nagar, under orders from the Uttar Pradesh government, has asked anyone who shows symptoms of Covid-19 or had come in contact with anyone from Tablighi Jamaat or come in contact with an infected person to present themselves before the chief medical officer (CMO) by Saturday evening.As per the order, legal action will be taken under the Epidemic Act 1897 and Uttar Pradesh Epidemic Covid-19 Act 2020 against anyone who fails to present themselves before the CMO of GB Nagar.On Friday, Greater Noida police registered cases against 13 people — including 10 Tablighi Jamaat members — for violating the lockdown. The three locals were booked for providing shelter to the Jamaat members in Surajpur. The Jamaat members include five men and five women, who belong to Usmanabad in Maharashtra. They had attended the congregation in Nizamuddin markaz and then visited Greater Noida. All the 10 people had not disclosed to the authorities that they had attended the congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin last month.“The state government has given 24 hours to people showing symptoms of Covid-19 and links with Tabhlighi Jamaat or infected persons or area to present themselves by Saturday evening in front of the CMO, so that their sampling can take place,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate, GB Nagar. The order was passed on Friday afternoon.The measure has been taken to ensure that people don’t hide details related to Covid-19. So far, there have been 64 Covid-19 positive cases in the district.There are many incidents where people were found jumping their quarantine period. In one such case, an FIR was lodged against Ceasefire company in sector 135, whose three employees — including the managing director — had jumped their quarantine period, which lead to spread of the virus in various sectors of the district. Till now, 41 people attached with Ceasefire have been found positive for the infection.The Expressway police has lodged an FIR against Ceasefire under section 45 (Punishment of offences committed within India), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code.Containment and surveillance work has been launched in the district with the help of 300 teams. These teams are covering three kilometre area around each of the 22 hotspots that have been marked by the district administration in Gautam Budh Nagar.These teams are informing residents about precautions required to avoid getting the virus, techniques to sanitize the house and hand washing techniques. Officials will also be collecting information about people who have any travel history in the last one or two months. Officials will also be finding out if any local has shown any symptoms of the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/gb-nagar-admin-gives-24-hours-to-declare-if-anybody-has-covid-19-symptoms-or-contact-with-jamaat-members/story-czsr40DDESLMuugNTT18aL.html
11-04-2020||Noida||650 FIRs filed; 2,316 people arrested for violating lockdown||The Gautam Buddh Nagar Police department, till Thursday, has registered 650 first information reports (FIRs) against violators of the ongoing lockdown, while 2,316 people have been arrested since the lockdown was announced by the Central government.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on March 24, had announced a 21-day nationwide lockdown to tackle the outbreak of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. Additionally, Noida,on April 8, had sealed 22 hotspots in the district to contain the disease.Since the lockdown began, the Noida police had registered 507 FIRs till April 3 while another 143 were registered till April 9, thereby bringing the total to 650.“The lockdown in the district is being enforced strictly and strict action is being taken against the violators. We have checked 42,197 vehicles during this period, of which 6,079 vehicles have been issued challans, 543 have been seized and a total 650 FIRs have been registered,” said Alok Singh, commissioner of police.The district police is also taking action against rumourmongers. Seven such people been arrested so far out of the total 2,316 people arrested for violating the lockdown. Further, Section 144 (which forbids gathering of more than four people) has been imposed in the district.Police officials also said that they have collected ₹1.02 lakh in fines so far. Three people were also arrested in three cases of violation of the Essential Services Act.“Footage from CCTVs installed at various public spaces is also being scanned. In addition to making the public aware about social distancing, 288 loudspeakers are being used for announcements. These announcements urge people to stay inside and wear masks in public spaces. All borders have been completely sealed and 200 points are being barrier checked including the hotspots,” said Singh.To avoid any gatherings for Friday prayers, the Noida police has also worked with clerics to request the public to offer prayers from the safety of their homes.Officials also said that three fire tenders are being used for sanitising the hotspots, while others are working in the other parts of the district on a daily basis.“In places with dense population, drones are being used for sanitisation. We will also take strict action against people venturing out without masks. They should only go out in urgent cases and not crowd in public places,” said Singh.Police officials are constantly patrolling and interacting with public in sealed areas to take note of the problems being faced by them. They are also using drones to keep an eye on the situation in the district.The department has also helped more than 1.6 lakh underprivileged people with ration and essential supplies while the commissioner’s office located in Sector 108 also has also commissioned a centralised godown for grocery supplies.On Friday, another 11 FIRs were registered for violations, while 37 people were arrested. A total of 332 vehicles were checked, 68 vehicles issued challans and six seized. The Noida police also started a disinfection tunnel at the police lines office in Greater Noida. Additionally, six fire tenders were appointed for sanitisation work in the district and The fire department has already sanitised 143 spots in Gautam Buddh Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/650-firs-filed-2-316-people-arrested-for-violating-lockdown/story-qpuHC3JOVisXDQW0SIJ2NO.html
11-04-2020||City||In Hisar, women enrolled under NRLM are churning out 70 PPE kits daily||In five small villages of Hisar, at least 25 women are spending hours on their sewing machines. They are playing their part in the fight against coronavirus by preparing personal protective equipment (PPE) kits for the medics working on the frontline. These women from Rawat Khera, Tayal, Kheri Jalab, Koth Kalan and Kanwari villages are enrolled under the National Rural Livelihood Mission (NRLM) and are churning out up to 70 kits everyday. So far, the local administration has received 250 such kits, which will be distributed to the doctors who are testing the samples of Covid-19 patients. NRLM project manager Virender Sheoran said they bought the raw material for PPE kits from three different places with consent of a team of doctors and local administration. “We brought the material from Hansi, Rohtak and Bhiwani. The material is quite robust in terms of prevention from the virus. A team of principal medical officer selected the best material available,” he added.“We faced some hiccups initially as our previous model got rejected. But, after a thorough discussion, we prepared another fresh model, which even doctors accepted. Our target is to make at least 3,000 such kits,” Sheoran said. He said the total production cost is ₹610 and the retail price would be ₹850. “The women who are making these kits are also getting paid,” he added. Hisar deputy commissioner (DC) Priyanka Sonia said, “Though we have sufficient PPE kits for the doctors, to rule out any possibility of shortage, we have enrolled NRLM women to make more such kits. After a few hurdles, they finally came up with a prototype. One single woman is making about four to five PPE kits daily. These kits will help the doctors if the number of Covid-19 patients shoots up in Hisar.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/women-enrolled-under-nrlm-churning-out-70-ppe-kits-daily-in-hisar/story-Y0cJAcz4Mduncm1P5ALGQJ.html
11-04-2020||Delhi||Complete list of 30 Delhi hotspots sealed as of Friday evening due to coronavirus||As coronavirus cases in Delhi reach close to the thousand mark, the administration has widened the number of containment zones, also called Covid-19 hotspots, in the national capital to 30 from 26. GTB Nagar and Zakir Nagar are among the new additions made to the list which has been revised at least 4 times since it was first released with names of twenty localities on Wednesday. Earlier today, the government had added two new places to the list-- Nabi Karim and Chandni Mahal.Here is the full updated list of Delhi neighbourhoods that have been ordered to be sealed limiting the movement of people to a bare minimum except for the personnel delivering essential services.1. Entire street affected near Gandhi Park, Malviya Nagar2. Entire street affected of Gali No 6, L 1 Sangam Vihar, New Delhi.3. Shahajahanabad society, plot no 1, Sector 11, Dwarka.4. Dinpur Village5. Markaz Masjid and Nizamuddin Basti6. Nizamuddin West (G and D block) areas.7. B Block Jhangirpuri.8. H. No 141 to H. No 180, Gali no. 14, Kalyanpuri Delhi9. Mansara Apartments, Vasundhara Enclave, Delhi10. 3 Galis of Khichirpur including Gali containing H. No. 5/387 Khichirpur Delhi11. Gali No 9, Pandav Nagar, Delhi 110092.12. Vardhaman Apartments, Mayur Vihar, Phase I, Extension, Delhi13. Mayurdhwaj Appartments, I P Extension, Patparganj, Delhi14. Gali no. 4, from H. No. J- 3/115 (Nagar Dairy) to H. No. J- 3/108(towards Anarwali Masjid Chowk), Krishan Kunj Extension, Delhi15. Gali No. 4, from H. No J- 3/101 to H. No. J - 3/107 Krishan Kunj Extension Delhi.16. Gali No. 5, A Block (From H No. A- 176 to A-189), West Vinod Nagar Delhi 110092.17. J & K, L and H pockets Dilshad Garden18. G, H, J, Blocks old Seemapuri19. F- 70 to 90 block Dilshad Colony20. Pratap Khand, Jhilmil Colony.21. Shastri Market and JJ cluster, South Moti Bagh22. Bengali Market, Babar Road, Todarmal Road, Babar lane and school lane23. Sadar Bazaar, Central District24. Nabi Karim25.Chandni Mahal26. In and around area of G-174, Capital Greens, DLF, Motinagar27. In and around area of B-1/2, Paschim Vihar28. In and around area of 11/3, 2nd floor Ashok Nagar29. Area of street/gali No. 18 to 22 of Zakir Nagar and nearby area of Abu Bakar Masjid of Zakir Nagar (core) rest of Zakir Nagar as buffer zone.30. E-Pocket GTB Enclave Delhi||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/complete-list-of-30-delhi-hotspots-sealed-as-of-friday-evening-due-to-coronavirus/story-CxSmsDr6Shb1HDkphiPRkM.html
11-04-2020||Lucknow||UP chief minister transfers Rs 1,000 each to over 4 lakh daily wagers||The Uttar Pradesh government on Friday transferred an amount of Rs 48.17 crore as the maintenance allowance for 4,81,755 street vendors, rickshaw pullers, auto drivers, e-rickshaw drivers, porters and other daily wage labourers.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath made a token transfer of Rs 1000 through direct benefit transfer (DBT) to bank account of each of the worker.He said the government was providing food and maintenance allowance to the poor and a sustenance allowance of Rs 1000 was also being given to 35 lakh labourers and more than 11 lakh construction workers.He said about 16.50 million construction workers, daily wage labourers registered with the labour department, Antyodaya Yojana, MNREGA workers were also being provided with one-month free food grains (wheat and rice) since April 1, 2020.He said the government has made arrangements to give 20.34 million farmers of the state an amount of Rs 2000 per month for the next three months.He said an amount of Rs 500 per month was being given in the Jan Dhan account holders for three months and the LPG was being provided free for three months under the Ujjwala Scheme.Yogi said union and state governments were firmly supporting the poor and those who do not have ration cards were also being covered under different schemes.He said food was being provided to people through community kitchens in every district.The chief minister used the occasion to urge people to strictly follow the instructions given by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to win this battle against coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-cm-transfers-rs-1000-each-to-over-4-lakh-daily-wagers/story-cLQlhtplAmT7ssQyMAObhO.html
11-04-2020||City||34 new cases in Pune, 3 more deaths||The death toll Pune related to Covid-19 positive cases, went up to 28 on Friday, after three fresh mortalities were reported. All the three patients, who expired at Sassoon General hospital, had co-morbid medical conditions. A total of 34 fresh Covid-19 positive cases were reported on Friday.The total number of progressive positive cases in Pune district is at 247 as of Friday, with 207 cases in Pune city (PMC and rural).Fifty are admitted to Sassoon hospital, with 20 in Naidu hospital. Pimpri-Chinchwad has 26 in hospital, with the rest in private hospitalsOf the three deaths, according to the civic health department, one is a 69-year-old female Bhavani peth resident who succumbed late night on Thursday. She had a medical history of stroke and was admitted to the hospital on April 7. The second death is of a 30-year-old male resident of Shrirampur, Ahmednagar, who was admitted to Sassoon hospital on April 5. He was suffering from Down’s syndrome. The third death reported from Sassoon is of a 55-year-old female who had diabetes and hypertension. She was admitted to the hospital on April 1. PMC to open dedicated medical centres to track symptomatic patientsTo increase testing and isolation for those with flu-like symptoms, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will start six Covid care centres, or flu clinics, with 380 beds. “Persons with mild symptoms can get tested here,” PMC health chief Dr Ramchandra Hankare, said on Friday.The PMC will also start five dedicated Covid health centres with 750 beds for serious flu symptoms, and two dedicated Covid-19 hospitals with 38 beds each, for very serious cases. “Patients will be referred to these centres by civic doctors,” Dr Hankare said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/34-new-cases-in-pune-3-more-deaths/story-SxIh9qkzjmA4nd0rwExfLL.html
11-04-2020||Chandigarh||Over 15K poor families adopted in Karnal, initiative wins Centre praise||‘Adopt a Family’, an initiative launched to facilitate the needy amid the lockdown, has garnered an overwhelming response in the district.A brainchild of Karnal deputy commissioner (DC) Nishant Yadav, the scheme has led to the adoption of 15,000 poor families so far. After funds worth ₹69lakh were collected as part of the programme, Union health ministry joint secretary Lav Agarwal too praised the unique initiative.As per information, around 400 people in the district have adopted poor and needy families so far. Every week, they are being provided with food essentials and ration, including rice, flour, lentils, potatoes, cooking oil, sugar, dry milk etc.To ensure that no beneficiary is left out, teams have been formed in all 20 wards of Karnal. Each team comprises five distinguished members of the city.“We launched this scheme on March 27 to support the families that were struggling to manage a square meal as they were out work due to the Covid-19 lockdown,” Yadav told HT.When asked about the genesis of the idea, the DC said, “It came up during an official meeting where I was discussing the ways we could help daily wagers, rickshaw pullers etc.”He thanked the citizens for coming forward and helping those in need.Under the scheme, a relief fund has been created at the district level and anyone can donate money to support the poor during the lockdown.Yadav said those adopting 10 or more families would get appreciation letters from the district administration, while the ones who take up 20 or more families would be honoured by the DC office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/over-15k-poor-families-adopted-in-karnal-initiative-wins-centre-praise/story-OnMhDondtQoMOWhVelWtBN.html
11-04-2020||Patna||Vigil increased along Indo-Nepal border in Bihar||An alert has been sounded in Bihar following a letter from the office of the Commandant of the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) that some Indians who may be infected with coronavirus might try to enter the country through the porous border with Nepal. Hindustan Times has seen the letter written by the commandant of 47th battalion of the SSB, Ramgarhwa, and addressed to the district magistrate of West Champaran and the Superintendent of police, Bettiah district.Dated April 3, the letter said that a Nepal-based smuggler Jalim Mukhiya planned to “spread Corona pandemic in India”.It said that the Indians attempting to cross the border might consume “paracetamol tablets to lower their temperature on the way and they may be corona positive”.In a letter dated April 7, West Champaran district magistrate Kundan Kumar ordered officials to increase vigilance along the border, and informed the Bettiah and Bagha superintendents of police (SPs) and officials at the sub-divisional and block levels.West Champaran SP Nitasha Giriya said that the administration has kept a tab on the activities on border through CCTVs. “The border along Nepal is completely sealed and under the strict vigilance of district administration and SSB. There is no movement through Indo-Nepal border,” Bettiah SP Nitasha Gudiya said.Priyavart Sharma, commandant of the 47th battalion, SSB said, “There were some inputs received sometime back and shared it with the authorities concerned.” He refused to divulge any further information.Recently, Sitamarhi SP on April 6 also instructed the SHOs of Indo-Nepal border to identify areas where people easily cross the border after lockdown. The SP also directed them to set up barriers or fencing through wire on illegal crossing. In the wake of Covid-19 pandemic, authorities had earlier sealed the Indo-Nepal border to ban entry of foreign nationals into Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/infiltration-by-corona-suspects-vigil-increased-along-indo-nepal-border-in-bihar/story-Ycst707ibm87KgGhAjKHCO.html
11-04-2020||Pune||Light rain and thunder forecast for Pune: IMD||With the maximum temperature in Pune at 38.1 degree Celsius on Friday April 10, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast very light to light rain in isolated parts of city on April 11.According to Anupam Kashyapi, head, weather department, IMD, “It is these high temperatures along with moisture that are causing local instability resulting in convective activity as a result of which in the afternoon /evening, there are formation of initially cumulous clouds followed by cumulous nimbus formation; this results in thunder with lightning.”He said, “The light to very light rain will be in isolated places only and perhaps, people will get temporary relief from the heat for a brief time.”He further added that this is because of the western disturbance line of wind discontinuity from east central Arabian Sea to west Vidharbha that is taking the moisture from the Arabian Sea. While the highest maximum temperature in Maharashtra on April 10 was recorded at Akola, 41.3 degree Celsius, Pune is forcecast to have a maximum temperature of 38.0 degrees Celsius on April 11, with the minimum at 20.0 degrees Celsius and a generally cloudy sky. On April 12, 13, 14 and 15, the maximum temperature will remain at 39 degrees Celsius and the minimum temperature will be at 20 degrees Celsius, with partly cloudy skies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/light-rain-and-thunder-forecast-for-pune-imd/story-mAEVet391TwIvzYZZR6ysI.html
11-04-2020||Pune||Pune Inc fears serious disruption in cash flows, fresh orders: MCCIA||A serious disruption in cash flows and fear of future business are the top two concerns for more than 95 per cent of the 398 companies surveyed by the Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA), director-general Prashant Girbane said on Friday.Addressing a press conference over the internet, Girbane said: “Out of the 398 companies that we surveyed ( 231 manufacturing companies and 166 services companies), we understand that cash flow and fear of future business are the top two concerns for over 95 per cent of the companies. The other major concerns were lack of transport and inventory management,” he said.While the 45 percent of the respondents were confident about not cutting the salaries of their employees, another 40 per cent were uncertain about it, he said.The press conference was called to share the details of a survey conducted in about 400 companies during the lockdown.Based on the results, the MCCIA said, most Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) have accounted for salaries and wages to be paid until the lockdown ending on April 14. They were uncertain about the same thereafter.The survey revealed that while 64 per cent of respondents were worried about the impending reduction in orders from their costumers and another 23 per cent were already feeling the pricing pressure from their costumers; 77 per cent of respondents believed that their trade receivables were under high risk.Girbane said MCCIA plans to write to the government for waiver of electricity duty and fixed charges by MSEDCL for MSMEs, with the industries stopping work with effect from March 21.“It is also recommended that the same should be waived off for next three months and that MSEDCL should also extend the payment date of the electricity bills by 15 days during next three months. Similarly, MIDC’s fixed water charges should be waived off or the demand charges collected through monthly water bills. Further, all other service charges for the next 3 months should be waived off and bills should be raised for actual consumption of the water by the MSMEs,” the MCCIA said in a statement.While making a note of the waiver of property tax for MSMEs by the local body for the next three months, the MCCIA has written to the government seeking an increase in cash credit limit with the banks by 20% and release of MSME dues from PSUs.“It is understood the PSUs owe about Rs One Lakh Crores to the MSMEs towards purchase of goods and services from them. This amount needs to be release on priority,” said Girbane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-inc-fears-serious-disruption-in-cash-flows-fresh-orders-mccia/story-E9mHLUibMbClVJiwLFyWuI.html
11-04-2020||Pune||Pune APMC sub-markets shut down due to overcrowding||The Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) in Pune has decided to close all its sub-markets located at Moshi, Pimpri, Khadki and Uttamnagar, from Saturday (April 11).Divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar instructed the APMC administrator to close the sub markets, according to APMC administrator B J Deshmukh, who said, “APMC closed the main market located at Gultekadi market Yard from Friday, as PMC had already sealed the surrounding area. Retail traders rushed to the sub-markets. Given the crowds there now, the divisional commissioner instructed us to close all the sub- markets.”The administration claims there is sufficient supply of onions, potatoes, garlic and fruits. “It is better to manage instead of rushing to the market. Direct supply from farmers will continue,” Deshmukh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-apmc-sub-markets-shut-down-due-to-over-crowding/story-wpaFlNo2e4QCbtRH1s4Z5M.html
11-04-2020||Pune||591 PMC teams surveyed 2.57 lakh ‘hot-spot’ residents in Pune||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has 591 medical teams out in the field assigned with the task of door-to-door screening of residents in areas of the city currently sealed due to the outbreak of the Covid-19 infection, casued by the Sars-Cov-2 virus.As many as 74,661 homes have been visited and a population of 2.57 lakh has been surveyed as of April 9.The teams have access to of 22,500 PPE kits and 9,500 gloves.The teams, including doctors, social workers and paramedics, have so far covered the peth areas of the city, Market Yard and Kondhwa. According to Dr Ramchandra Hankare, chief medical officer of the PMC, “Each person on the force has used masks, hand sanitisers and gloves during their screening operations.” Basit Shaikh, a resident of Ashoka Mews society, Kondhwa, said, “The PMC medical team arrived inside the building and surveyed the society. They gave residents tablets for common cold and cough. The residents also extended their co-operation.” Prominent social worker Saleem Mulla of Hadiya Social Foundation said, “The PMC doctor teams were professional and wore masks, used sanitisers and gloves. They told citizens to take care and compulsorily wear of masks.”Dr Hankare said that the screening was taking place at the direction of the administration and citizens were cooperating with the PMC in the drive against the Covid-19 pandemic. “We are trying to increase and expand the screening across all the containment areas. We have all the necessary masks and gloves at our disposal.” Covid-screening - house-to-house in sealed areas As of April 9...Total teams out on survey - 591Homes visited – 74,661Total population covered - 2.57 lakhNumber of masks available – 22,500 Number of gloves available – 9,500 Teams include doctors, PMC health staff, clerical staff, social workers and school teachers||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/591-pmc-teams-on-house-to-house-surveys-of-sealed-areas-fully-protected/story-4VKT3yunMQLZAE1kHOV5bM.html
11-04-2020||Mumbai||Fundamental duties as important as rights during the Covid-19 pandemic : Bombay HC||Holding that it is the constitutional right of migrants, labourers and citizens to get their basic needs fulfilled, the Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court (HC) stated that it was also their duty to maintain peace, harmony and the spirit of brotherhood, especially during the Covid-19 pandemic. The bench made the observations while hearing reports of various authorities on facilities being provided to the needy during the lockdown period. The court had initiated suo-moto public interest litigation (PIL) after taking cognizance of news reports about the plight of some labourers, who were on their way to their hometowns in Madhya Pradesh but were stopped and kept in a zilla parishad school, where they were not being provided proper facilities. The bench of justice Prasanna Varale on April 3 had directed the district authorities, including the collector and Aurangabad municipal corporation, to respond to news reports highlighting the plight of around 50-60 migrant workers and labourers who were kept in a zilla parishad school. The court had also dealt with instances of health workers being obstructed from checking residents of temporary camps for the coronavirus infection and a social media message which stated that some coronavirus-infected foreign nationals were being treated in a private hospital and exposing the entire city of Aurangabad to the infection.On Thursday, the collector and municipal authorities informed the court that the total 43 labourers, who had been initially kept at the school, were later shifted to a polytechnic institution where they were being provided with proper food, milk for small children, sanitization, entertainment facilities, spiritual and motivational discourses etc. The authorities also submitted that they had roped in Members of Parliament and Members of the Legislative Assembly to address the labourers and ensure that they cooperate with the health workers.Advocate Amol Joshi who was appointed as amicus curiae and represented the labourers confirmed the same.After hearing the submissions, the court appreciated the efforts of the Aurangabad administration as well as the work being done by NGO’s, voluntary organisations and radio jockeys to create awareness about the Covid 19 pandemic. “In my opinion, this is right time to remind ourselves the fundamental duties of the citizen. Often, citizens show serious concern about fundamental rights but they forget about the duties,” stated the bench.The court further observed, “While this court expects effective measures from the respondent state authorities and corporation, it also expects that citizens would remind themselves fundamental duties and would discharge them to deal with the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic.” The PIL has been posted for further consideration on April 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/fundamental-duties-as-important-as-rights-during-the-covid-19-pandemic-hc/story-ojv4FD2a0OFdrRr7hC1MCL.html
11-04-2020||Pune||Lockdown gameplan: Extra hour of sleep, healthy cooking, circuit training - all at home for footballer Ishan Dey||Dey started playing football at the age of 7 with the Naaz Academy, Kalyaninagar. Aged 11, he joined the Pune FC academy in 2011 and became the youngest player to get selected for the under-15 Pune FC team via an open trial. During his stint at Pune FC, the striker got scouted for the AIFF Indian National Under-14 team and attended a six-month camp in 2014. After returning from the camp, Dey returned to the Pune FC U-15 and finished as the joint top-scorer in the second division of the I-League that season.After Pune FC, Dey joined the Indian Super League club FC Pune City’s under-16 academy in 2016. Playing for the under-16 and under-18 teams of the ISL club, he old played all the major youth level tournaments which included the I-League second division. At the end of the 2017/18 season, Dey won FC Pune City’s Best Emerging Talent of the Year award. After FC Pune City’s closure, the teenager has moved to Hyderabad FC reserves this season and currently plays for the second division I-League side.Pre-Covid...I play football professionally for Hyderbad FC (reserves). I am a striker, but can also play on the wings. My daily regime starts at 6:30 am and six hours are dedicated to team training and gym sessions. I cannot disclose the details of the training because we are supposed to keep that knowledge to ourselves. However, I can tell you that it consists of plenty of tactical sessions. Everything is obviously game related so there are a lot of transition sessions with the usual passing, tackling, crossing and finishing. In the gym, we mainly focus on injury resistance and mobility training. We do not train in the evening as that time is exclusively reserved for recovering and replenishing our energy, game analysis and preparing for our next match.I am pursuing my education through Global University which is affiliated with Delhi University.Lockdown routine – morning, afternoon, and evening With the lockdown imposed, I get 90 minutes of extra sleep, as I get up at 8am. The day starts with yoga and various stretching exercises before joining my family at the dining table for breakfast. Since I have a lot of time to spare, I have taken this opportunity to learn some healthy recipes from my mother and I am always up for cleaning the house. I train my younger brother with strength and technical aspects of the game.After I finish lunch, I either watch a movie with my family or rest for a while. In the evenings, I either get in touch with my friends on a Zoom call or chat with them. If I am doing neither, I usually work on some basic ball work or indulge in strength training at home. As the gyms are shut…I am focusing more on yoga and mobility exercises and divide my session into two parts - one in the morning, which includes strengthening the circuit; and the other in the evening to maintain my muscle endurance (burpees, jumping jacks, clap push-ups, jumping squats and lunges, on-spot high knees for 1 min, pull-ups and core twisters; repeating this circuit four-five times). Even if you are unable to hit the gym, believe me, these exercises will get your muscles burning. It’s the best way to be agile and flexible and at the same time target those muscles to grow.The hobbyYes, I love cooking, so I am learning new recipes and try to make healthy preparations more delicious. I always like to educate myself about dieting, fitness, and nutrition. I like to study about supplements and how important they are in an athlete’s life. That aside, I can play some very amateur chords on my guitar and I also love watching some inspirational content based on true events.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lockdown-gameplan-extra-hour-of-sleep-healthy-cooking-circuit-training-all-at-home-for-footballer-ishan-dey/story-QbZOSJmwoGW5RWw8AZJVXO.html
11-04-2020||City||78-year-old woman is second Covid-19 fatality in Mohali||A 78-year-old woman from the Mundi Kharar area of Mohali district, who died at the civil hospital in Kharar on April 7, has tested positive for Covid-19. Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said the test report of the patient, Raj Kumari, was received on Friday, taking the count of coronavirus cases in the district to 48. This is the second death due to Covid-19 in Mohali. Earlier, a 65-year-old man from Nayagaon had died due to Covid-19 at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, on March 31.The elderly woman collapsed and died on reaching the Kharar civil hospital on April 7. She was brought to the hospital due to acute hypertension and diabetes, but as a precautionary measure, her samples were taken and the reports received on Friday confirmed that she had Covid-19, the civil surgeon said. Her husband alleged that she had been feeling sick for 10 days before her death, and during their visits to the hospital, they requested the doctors to take her sample for Covid-19 testing, but they turned down their appeals as she did not have any travel history. “We again requested them on April 7, but they only got her blood tests done, and she died 15 minutes later,” he alleged.On the allegations, Dr Singh said the patient visited the hospital with no symptoms of coronavirus. “She was suffering from acute hypertension and diabetes. We took her sample of Covid-19 just as a precautionary measure,” he added.FAMILY IN ISOLATION, WOMAN CREMATEDDr Singh said the woman was cremated following the protocol under the observation of health officials. Her family was provided with protection kits and are in isolation. A health department team collected their samples and the area around their house was sealed. The area is being sanitised. Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said samples of some doctors at the Kharar civil hospital were also taken.DEAD BIHAR MAN’S SAMPLE COLLECTEDA 27-year-old Bihar man was found dead in Bhaggomajra village in Kharar on Friday. Suspecting him of being infected with coronavirus, the health department collected his sample after his death. The report is awaited. According to the deceased’s neighbours, the youth had been complaining of breathlessness for several days and had also made multiple visits to the Kharar civil hospital, but was given treatment for common flu. On Thursday night, his condition deteriorated and he died on Friday morning, following which the police were informed. The youth was living in the village on rent for the past three months. He was cremated by the district administration in line with the protocol for suspected patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/74-year-old-woman-is-second-casualty-due-to-covid-19-in-mohali/story-qZ8mARpqW5JGuTpJD8nghL.html
