12-04-2020||Chandigarh||Curfew a trial by fire for critical patients, their families||Navneet Kaur, a Sector-50 resident, said, “My father is bed-ridden with blood disorders and kidney and brain degeneration. When the curfew was announced, my world turned upside down as his medical attendant couldn’t come home anymore. Trivial matters trigger him into a frenzy. He screams when he is hungry or cold.”Harmohinder Kaur, 82, has polio since birth. Her son, Navdeep Singh, a Sector-15 resident said, “We help feed her, bathe her, change her diapers. It’s very challenging in the absence of a nurse. ”These are just a few cases, wherein untrained family members have been left to cope with the special needs of critical or bed-ridden patients, after the lockdown deprived them of the appropriate care given by medical attendants. Unable to avail prescriptions or specialised medication after the curfew was imposed, patients and their families are at their wits end. A Sector-47 resident, whose 17-year-old son is suffering from cerebral palsy, said, “His medicines are not available with the pharmacy in the vicinity. I have begged the police to allow me to get his medicines in the last few days. Now, we also have no access to physiotherapy for him.”For others less fortunate, the curfew sounded a death knell. A Sector-38 resident lost his 98-year-old father a few days ago. “After his male nurse could not come home, my father’s condition worsened within days and he passed away,” he said. Another sales representative is worried about his bed-ridden 83-year-old father and is struggling to get passes for his attendants. Those who rely on regular prescriptions are in a fix, too. GS Uberoi, 82, was diagnosed with prostate cancer in 2016 and is on medication since. Amid the lockdown, he says getting medical aid is a struggle after his appointments with doctors got cancelled. The issue does not stop at availing movement passes, as a lack of co-ordination between states offers another hurdle. “After much pleading we got a curfew pass from Chandigarh, only to find out that we need permission from Punjab as well, as the caretaker lives in Kharar. And now, we will have to get it renewed after April 14,” said Navneet Kaur.Arun Kumar Gupta, UT health secretary, said, “We cannot grant curfew passes to caretakers for everyday travel because that defeats the purpose of the curfew. If some body is in dire need of an attendant, they can always have them stay at their home with the patient. We can issue passes for one-time travel.”-----------The 65-year-old wife of 73-year-old MK Jain, Madhu suffers severe pain in her hand. After being diagnosed with a skeletal deformity, her surgery was scheduled in the Government Multi-Specialty Hospital- Sector 16 on March 23. However, due to the lockdown, doctors refused to take up her case.After the first case of coronavirus was confirmed in Chandigarh, OPDs in five government hospitals including the PGIMER were closed and the scheduled surgeries were cancelled. Only emergency wards have been kept open at PGIMER, GMSH-16, Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) Sector 32, Manimajra Civil Hospital, Civil Hospital in Sector 45 and the Civil Hospital in Sector 22, while certain departments are available for tele-consultation. A PGIMER doctor said they have been given instructions to conduct surgeries and treatment only in case of life saving situations. “We request everyone to not visit the emergency ward unless it’s crucial because patients suffering critical illness will be far more susceptible to the virus and it will be far more difficult to save the patient,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/curfew-a-trial-by-fire-for-critical-patients-their-families/story-6qCiNxW9GsA8y68Kb3vlPJ.html
12-04-2020||City||PAU issues guidelines for operation, disinfection of harvesting, threshing machines||As movement of combine harvesters and other machines used for harvesting and threshing wheat has been allowed during lockdown, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) has issued guidelines to ensure the safety of farmers, manpower and machines during the Covid-19 pandemic.Guidelines for cleaning and disinfection:Stage 1 Clean machinery with detergent water and sodium hypochlorite (1%)1. Cover electric parts of the tractor, combine with polythene.2. Prepare a solution using detergent and water and apply on required surfaces using any available sprayer like portable knapsack sprayer, preferably battery operated, or whichever is available. For large areas such as machinery sheds, high-capacity aero blasts or orchard sprayers may be more appropriate.3. Apply clean water on the surfaces. Wait for 10 minutes to dry.4. Again clean the area by using sodium hypochlorite (1%) solution or bleach solution in recommended dose.Stage 2 Disinfect frequently used surfacesThe most frequently touched surfaces such as steering wheels, throttle-lever, gear-shifting levers mirrors, feeding hoppers of threshers etc. should be wiped with an alcohol based rub or sprit rub. General Guidelines:Farmers should follow the dos and don’ts recommended by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Government of IndiaProtective gear such as gloves and masks should be mandatorily worn throughout the operation.Water bottles kept for use during field operations should be kept in a bag and should not be shared with anyone.The minimum number of healthy people should be seated on the tractor or combine and at maximum distance.Farmers or workers should regularly wash their hands with soap or detergent/disinfectant and avoid touching their eyes, nose and mouth during work.Farmers or workers should not spit in public.Guidelines for safe operation of machinery:The tractor, combine harvester, straw reaper, thresher etc. should be well maintained. A piece of broken metallic blade or loose nut or bolt in the machine may cause fire. Ensure oil is not leaking.The battery, starter and all electrical connections should be in proper working condition and clean. Wire connections, especially at battery terminals, should be tight.Heat or sparks emitted by the silencer of an engine may cause fire. The silencer should be pointed away from the crop. The silencer should be fitted with a spark arrester.Crop surrounding transformers or electric poles should be harvested manually and moved away immediately. The area around transformers should be wet.Combine or straw reapers should be operated during day-time only to avoid chances of accident.Only fully mature crop should be harvested using a combine harvester. If the crop gets moist after rain, it should be dried before harvesting and threshing.If the crop is moist, its straw becomes soft and may wrap around rotating shaft of threshing cylinder and catch fire due to friction.Dry crops require less energy for harvesting and threshing. Also, grain breakage is minimum when the crop is dry.If a straw-reaper is operated near ground level, it may pick up pebbles, piece of bricks, nut-bolts or unwanted solid material lying in the field. The resulting friction in the machine may cause fire.The tractor, combine or machine should be parked away from the crop while making repairs.Water supply from nearby tubewells should be immediately available. A tanker or sprayer tank filled with water should be available near the field or in the village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pau-issues-guidelines-for-operation-disinfection-of-harvesting-threshing-machines/story-MmqQFV8MBe7tPVooRjkRnJ.html
12-04-2020||Delhi||200 homeless shifted to Haj Manzil after porta cabins at Kashmere Gate were set afire||As many as 150-200 homeless people, who lost their makeshift homes after two porta cabin shelters at Kashmere Gate were destroyed in a fire on Saturday, were on Sunday evening shifted to Haj Manzil, a two-storey building near Ramlila Maidan.The two shelter homes were set afire on Saturday allegedly by an agitated group of homeless people, a day after they clashed with civil defence volunteers and pelted them with stones. As a result of the clash, the police on Friday evening had resorted to lathi-charge to disperse the crowd, during which three men jumped into the Yamuna to evade the police. While two of them were rescued, the body of the third man was recovered from the river on Saturday.While no casualty was reported due to the fire, a case of rioting and arson was registered and seven men arrested on Saturday.Bipin Rai, member, Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB), said that 150-200 people who were living in these shelter homes were shifted to Haj Manzil. “The building has a capacity to house at least 1,000 people and therefore, we are planning to shift in the homeless from some other areas also. Their food and other requirements will be taken care of by the state administration and police,” Rai said.The deputy commissioner of police (North), Monika Bhardwaj, said her teams assisted DUSIB to relocate them. “We are providing them with any assistance required. Seven men were arrested on Saturday and our investigation is ongoing,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/200-homeless-shifted-to-haj-manzil-after-porta-cabins-at-kashmere-gate-were-set-afire/story-0UTSpUb5JmtI7eQcBNnhvJ.html
12-04-2020||Delhi||Eight detained for praying at gurdwara, FIR registered||Eight people were detained and a first information report (FIR) registered after a group of men were found to be praying at Gurdwara Sisganj in north Delhi in the early hours of Sunday, the police said. All of them were later released.The eight men have been served notices under the CrPc and the FIR has been registered under Indian Penal Code sections pertaining to disobedience to order promulgated by a public servant and negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life. The police said the congregation came to light around 2.15am on Sunday, when a team of Kotwali police station staff checked the gurdwara to find several people performing path (recitation of the religious text) . “There were over a dozen people assembled there. When they saw the police, they began running. We apprehended eight of them,” said Monika Bhardwaj, deputy commissioner of police (north district). None of them was wearing protective face masks and had violated the order that prohibits any gathering at religious places during the lockdown, said the officer.  Manjinder Singh Sirsa, the president of the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee, said what the gatherers had done was wrong and pleaded with the Sikh community to offer prayers from their homes. “I have been appealing from the Gurdwaras to the Sikh community to stay indoors. The law is for all religions and we must rise above religion to ensure everyone is safe. I appeal to them again,” said Sirsa. Earlier, the police had registered a case against the management of the gurdwara in Majnu Ka Tila for violating prohibitory orders and the 21-day lockdown norms put in place to prevent the spread of the Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes Covid-19, after 227 persons from Punjab were evacuated from there. They were later shifted to two quarantine centres in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/eight-detained-for-praying-at-gurdwara-fir-registered/story-ajNqG0FnbASTBijG1Zy6yH.html
12-04-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Happiness Classes, now a phone call away||At around 2pm Sunday, Rajni Kumar — mother to a class 7 student of a Delhi government school in Nand Nagri — received a text message from the state education department asking her to dial a number to learn about the “mindfulness” activity done during the Happiness Class at her son’s school.The moment she called the number, an automated message played at the other end: “Sit in a comfortable position and close your eyes. Take a deep breath and focus on your breathing. Pay attention to the inhaling and exhaling process. Open your eyes after three minutes of doing so. Ask your children about the changes they feel in their body during breathing,” the instructions played out in the 55-second recorded message.“This is the first time my son and I meditated together,” said Kumar, whose son, 11-year-old Aditya Kumar, studies in the Rajkiya Pratibha Vikas Vidyalaya (RPVV) in Nand Nagri. “With the possibility of the lockdown being extended, sending our children daily activities will ensure they have something to do with us and help them follow a daily routine.”The move comes a day after the Delhi government announced that beginning Sunday (April 12), it would send pre-recorded messages to parents of students in Delhi government schools up to class 8, to ensure they keep learning even during the lockdown.Through text messages and interactive voice response (IVR) calls, the education department said it will guide parents on how to “become teachers” and carry out step-by-step activities to conduct Happiness Classes and Mission Buniyaad at home.While Happiness Classes focus on helping build a student’s emotional quotient and honing their ability to deal with stress, the Mission Buniyaad initiative aims to improve learning levels of students studying in Classes 3 to 9 in government schools . The government said they planned to target over 800,000 children through the initiative. “When we do mindfulness in school, our classmates know about it, mostly. At home, I had to explain it to my family a little. All of us participated in the activity this morning and it made us feel peaceful,” said Aditi Negi, a class 7 student in RPVV Shalimar Bagh.Aditi’s mother Urmila Negi, who joined the mindfulness session on Sunday, said she believed the initiative would help many. “If families engage in an activity together, it is bound to reduce any prevailing tensions. While Covid-19 has become a source of stress in the country and we all remain home, our daughter is teaching us something new. She talks about doing mindfulness regularly and we too feel good about it.”The children were also asked to share their experiences of the event on class WhatsApp groups. “While we all talk about our thoughts and feelings during mindfulness sessions in class, not all students shared their experiences on the WhatsApp group today,” said Isha Poddar, a class 8 student at Sarvodaya Vidyalaya in Sector 8 Rohini. “During the exercise, I was thinking about online classes and the tasty food my mother made,” she said, stifling a laugh.Pankaj Kumar, the Happiness Coordinator at RPVV Shalimar Bagh, said teachers had received guidelines on Saturday night to prepare various activities that could be recorded and distributed among children. “We have also thought of describing various activities on paper, so that parents don’t have to forward or rewind the audio while carrying the task out,” he said.A senior Delhi government official said teachers and principals were being roped in to ensure the activities reach as many children as possible. “The activities have been designed in such a way that they can be carried out using minimum resources and skills for all classes. Activities range from writing stories to number games for children.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-happiness-classes-now-a-phone-call-away/story-UMTKicsf5lZM154hyd2DTL.html
12-04-2020||Delhi||DU teachers complain of harassment, abusive posts during online classes||As online classes in colleges across the Delhi University (DU) begin amid the lockdown, many teachers have complained that some “mischievous elements”, who are not on the rolls, were “misusing” the medium and harassing teachers with obscene messages and posts. Several teachers in DU colleges said they were abused and harassed by some attendees during the online classes. The teachers said they have informed the university administration about the misbehaviour.An assistant professor at a South Campus college, requesting anonymity, said he was taking an online class on the Zoom app last week when a person logged in and started writing obscene messages on the chat. “It was so sudden that it took us a few minutes to realise what was happening. It was embarrassing for us all. We had to abruptly suspend the class. We later went through the recorded video of the lecture to identify the person. We found that there is no student by the name in our class,” he said. Another faculty member, who teachers at an all-women college in west Delhi, said a person logged in to his class with the username of an adult movie actor, and started posting abusive messages against women. “It’s come to our notice that some outsiders are logging in to our classes using the links we send to our students every day on our college WhatsApp groups. We share our screen during the online classes with our students and everyone can use that and post their views and questions. We are trying to find out a way to address this issue,” the teacher said.DU executive council (EC) member Rajesh Jha said such incidents are being reported by many teachers over the last few days. “Several women teachers have also informed us that they were abused and harassed during these live classes. The teachers send the invites for live sessions on Zoom or Google Meet to their students every day. The students can log in simply by entering their names and email IDs. These incidents clearly indicate that students are sharing these invites with outsiders as well. Many countries are facing similar issues in conducting online classes,” he said.According to foreign media reports, Singapore banned some video conferencing applications for teaching purpose after hackers posted obscene images during the classes. DU Teacher Association (DUTA) secretary Rajinder Singh said they have also received some complaints from teachers. “Teachers have now started taking precautions. Some of them have told us that they immediately remove the person from class who writes or shares any unnecessary messages,” he said. A senior university official said they are looking into the matter. “We are aware of these incidents. We are looking into the matter and trying to fix it. We may file a police complaint in the matter soon,” a DU official said.Experts said educational institutions need to wisely choose the software tools they use for online classes.Apar Gupta, executive director at Internet Freedom Foundation, said, “There is always a chance of cybercrime or hacking while using software tools for any purpose. But the educational institutions can minimise that risk by choosing software tools that are more personal rather than using the popular ones. Also, there is a need to give proper training to teachers and instructors on how to handle such situations during a sessions.”The Internet Freedom Foundation, according to its website, is a digital liberties organisation that seeks to ensure that technology respects fundamental rights and that Indian citizens can use the Internet with liberties guaranteed by the Constitution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/du-teachers-complain-of-harassment-abusive-posts-during-online-classes/story-cLVokQNgV0yNG2M67bC4EL.html
12-04-2020||Mumbai||Above-normal rainfall to reduce impact of Covid-19?||As the city settles into the summer, independent meteorologists have forecast above-normal rainfall this monsoon for Mumbai and its suburbs. The quantum of rain could reach 2,500mm during the four-month period (June to September), much above the seasonal average (2,317.2mm), and at par with the annual average (2,515mm for the entire year). The forecasts suggested that above-normal rain could help minimise the negative economic impact of the Covid-19 outbreak.The unofficial forecasts come ahead of the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) official one expected between April 15 and 20. Sridhar Balasubramanian, associate professor, IDP Climate Studies, Indian Institute of Technology Bombay (IIT-B), predicted that the southwest monsoon could make early landfall over Kerala around May 28-30, while the onset over Mumbai is expected between June 11 and 13, much earlier than last year’s June 25.The normal onset date for Kerala has been June 1, and June 10 for Mumbai till last year. IMD will be announcing this year’s onset dates later this month.“A countrywide above-normal monsoon is expected at 100-105% of the long period average (LPA). While south India can expect excess rain, north India may end in deficit,” Balasubramanian said. India defines average or near-normal rainfall as rainfall between 96% and 104% of a 50-year average of 89cm for four months.“This means good water supply for most parts of India, which could minimise the negative impacts of the Covid-19 pandemic on the country’s economy as it is largely dependent on agricultural production,” said Balasubramanian.Independent meteorologist and PhD researcher at the University of Reading, UK, Akshay Deoras said that rainfall during the first half of 2019 and the entire 2018 monsoon season was strongly influenced by the presence of El Niño which will be absent this season. “This should help the economy provided the supply chain of seeds and pre-sowing activities are not affected by the lockdown beyond mid-May,” he said. Deoras said that the effect of the lockdown had nothing to do with below-normal maximum temperatures over Mumbai and surrounding areas over the last fortnight as opposed to hotter conditions during this period in previous years. “Typical maximum temperatures have not been observed in Mumbai and Maharashtra since the lockdown commenced,” said Deoras. “This is unlikely due to the lockdown since weather models, which had no idea of the sudden lockdown, were continuously projecting reduced temperatures in the past fortnight.”Monthly forecast for Mumbai, MaharashtraMonsoon onset over Mumbai could commence on a strong note in June and then get a little sluggishOverall, June will have normal rain followed by a better performance in July and August but may be marginally below normal during SeptemberThe outlook for Maharashtra is good as coastal districts and central Maharashtra are expected to receive normal rain while Marathwada and Vidarbha may witness near-normal rain.“This is likely to give a boost to the economic situation with above-average water levels in dams. However, we should be prepared for flood-like situations with the probability of heavy rains, especially during July and August,” said Balasubramanian.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/above-normal-rainfall-to-reduce-impact-of-covid-19/story-25x2IaZjXIJNmcEXUEPiTL.html
12-04-2020||City||Daily wage earners from 350 families in Thane face hardships||Around 350 families living in Thane’s Vangani area, around 60km from Mumbai, are struggling to make ends meet amid the lockdown. Most of these families are of daily wage labourers and those working at small-scale industries who had been employed under the skill development scheme. Some used to sell ornaments and other items on trains. Almost all the families have at least one visually-impaired member. With residents forced to remain at homes, these families have no means to earn money to buy the essential commodities. One of the residents, Sunil Havle, 42, works in Bandra as a masseur. He was paid only for 10 days in March. “We ate less as the provisions have started to get over,” said Havle.Another resident, Padma Amolik, 35, earns a living by making paper plates at a small-scale firm. With her factory shut, she unable to make ends meet. “Our groceries got exhausted a couple of weeks ago. My husband is ill. With no money and food at home, it has been difficult to survive. Hopefully, after the lockdown ends, I can get back to work and earn.”Amolik said a non-governmental organisation (NGO), Habitat for Humanity India, is helping around 100 families with basic grocery and have also accommodated around 15 families in a nearby building.“The groceries provided by them will suffice for a few days,” Amolik said. The NGO has been supplying residents with a kit, comprising wheat flour, rice, edible oil, sugar, varieties of dal, spices, toothpaste, soap, washing powder, dish washing liquid and other essentials, Rajan Samuel, managing director of Habitat for Humanity India, said. “We want to ensure that their lives are not disrupted and they continue to have access to food and other necessary items. If a disaster hits, it is always the poor conditions who struggle the most, said Samuel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/daily-wage-earners-from-350-families-in-thane-face-hardships/story-A6rkwS3WRMS2c6CXu9N6GO.html
12-04-2020||City||Maharashtra can test 6,000 samples a day; capacity to go up by 2,000||As the number of cases continues to rise, the Medical Education and Drugs Department (MEDD) has increased the daily testing capacity of the state to 6,000, the highest in the country. The state plans to increase its capacity by 2,520 more, once eight medical colleges and 13 universities get a nod from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).The first case of Covid-19 was reported in Maharashtra on March 9. Then, the state had only one testing facility – National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune, which was conducting 25 tests a day. Anticipating a further rise in the number of cases, the state health department soon started testing facilities in seven government- and civic-run medical institutes. By the end of March, the number of asymptomatic patients saw a jump of 65%, after which the health experts raised the need to run more tests to break the chain of infection. The state had tied up with four private labs –Thyrocare, Suburban Diagnostics, Metropolis Healthcare Limited and Sir HN Reliance Foundation Hospital and Research Centre. But recently, with the approval of ICMR, 11 more private labs were added to the list. “Currently, all government labs [there are more than four labs in the state now] together have a testing capacity of 2,500 daily. With the addition of 3,500 tests at 15 [earlier 4+newly added 11] private laboratories, the number has increased to 6,000,” said Sanjay Mukherjee, secretary of MEDD. “This is the highest testing capacity that any state in India has,” he said.Till Saturday, 35,668 tests were conducted across the state, of which, 21,115 were carried out in government laboratories and 14,553 in private laboratories. The data released by ICMR shows that Maharashtra’s testing capacity is followed by Telangana where 10 private labs have got approval, followed by Tamil Nadu with 9. “Eight medical colleges and 13 universities have applied to ICMR to allow them to run tests for Covid-19. Each of these centres can run 120 tests a day in three shifts,” he said.The waiting period for permission, too, may become shorter as the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Nagpur has become an approving agency. So all scrutiny for validation will be either done by NIV or AIIMS, Nagpur. Medical experts have often criticised the approval process of ICMR as slow. Mukherjee said, “Sars-Cov-2 is extremely infectious and is a BSL-2 (biosafety level-2) agent, which needs to be handled in a biosafety cabinet using standard precautions. The apex body needs to be stringent about the requirements for safety of others.” With growing cases of asymptomatic patients, the state health department has also changed the standard operating procedure (SOP) to test people. Earlier, people either with travel history or those who have come in a close contact with any infected person were tested. “Now, in addition to people with risk factors, patients with influenza-like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infections (SARI) are also being tested,” he added.Meanwhile, taking note of the outbreak of viruses, ICMR along with Indian Medical Council (IMC) has instructed all medical colleges, both private and government-run, to run viral-diagnosis labs for training. “It is a good move which will keep the logistics ready in time for a crisis like this and also give experience to students,” said Dr Ramesh Bharmal, director of major hospitals||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-can-test-6-000-samples-a-day-capacity-to-go-up-by-2-000/story-wj8oy7XTJgZI18962SxqlJ.html
12-04-2020||Chandigarh||‘Govt unsympathetic to small-scale industrialists’||City-based industrialist Gagandeep Singh, believes the government had been unmindful to the plight of small-scale industries when it imposed the lockdown. Gagandeep, 38, runs a casting unit on Dabba Road with his father Tarlochan Singh. They have 12 employees most of whom hail from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. “The government has asked us to pay workers’ salaries and provide them with groceries but they have hardly taken into account our financial condition. We have our own expenses to meet and with operations shut we are struggling,” he says. Ask him what should be done to alleviate industrialists’ concerns, Gagandeep says, “The government should exempt electricity bills, waive interest on cash credit (CC) limits, overdraft (OD) limits and clear pending GST refunds so that we are able to survive these difficult times and also help our workers.” Gagandeep, a father of two, says he has been in constant contact with all his workers and had already provided them with grocery supply for a month.“I have been trying to help them as much as I can but I do not know how long I will be able continue. Small-scale industrialists like me are in the dire need of some relaxation as we also have our family to look after,” he said.Gagandeep, a Model Town Extension resident, says he spends the lockdown helping his wife and mother with household chores and making sure his kids catch up with school work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/govt-unsympathetic-to-small-scale-industrialists/story-w8EIxc2L7VYpA1p7vLLgTO.html
12-04-2020||Chandigarh||Lucrative jobs in hand, but Chandigarh graduates stare at hazy future amid Covid-19 lockdown||Even after landing lucrative offers during campus placements, students of tricity’s educational institutes are uncertain about their future amid the Covid-19 lockdown.Most of the students, who got placed before the lockdown began, are apprehensive about their joining. Also, the looming crisis has increased the fear of offers getting revoked.At University Business School (UBS), Panjab University, a total 103 students have been placed in companies such as American Express, Tolaram Group, HSBC and Infosys, during the campus placement drive this year. A 23-year-old UBS student, Parth, bagged the highest package of ₹55 lakh. He said, “I have to join in Nigeria after my examinations, but we do not know when examinations will be conducted. A lot depends on the operation of international flights.”Chairperson of UBS, Deepak Kapur, said, “So far no offer has been revoked by any company. The university is yet to decide on how and when to conduct the examinations.”Over 5 lakh students are enrolled in Panjab University (PU), Chandigarh University (CU), Punjab Engineering College (PEC), Chitkara University, over 10 PU affiliated colleges and other technical institutes in the city.Students, who are already placed, have not received the final offer letters. At PU’s University Institute of Engineering and Technology (UIET), around 300 students were placed this year. “Due to the lockdown, many students have not received final offer letters from the companies,” said Shagun Priya, placement coordinator at UIET.Dheeraj Sanghi, director of Punjab Engineering College (PEC), said, “We are in touch with the companies and no withdrawal of job offers has happened so far.”Himani Sood, director of placements at Chandigarh University, Mohali, said, “We have not stopped our placement drive. There could be deferred joining and I think few offers may even get cancelled.”An official from the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER), Mohali, said, “A large number of our students have received offers for research from institutions around the world. Because of the Covid-19 outbreak and the consequent measures implemented by various countries, there has been an effect on the operationalisation of many of these offers. The PhD and master’s thesis research offers received by students still stand. However, students have been informed that the start of their respective programmes may be delayed.”Around 150 students were placed this year at Goswami Ganesh Dutta Sanatan Dharma College in Sector 32. “There would be a delayed joining of those students who have been placed. And chances are that those companies may cancel the placements, which were underway before the lockdown began,” said Kapil Dev, training and placement officer of the college.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/lucrative-jobs-in-hand-but-chandigarh-graduates-stare-at-hazy-future-amid-covid-19-lockdown/story-Sz3Kw3cGzixvUKztYsVSBI.html
12-04-2020||Chandigarh||PCR lines ringing most about curfew, quarantine violators in Chandigarh||Calls informing police about violators of curfew orders and home quarantine top the charts at the UT police control room (PCR).Figures from the department reveal that in the 21 days between March 23 and April 12, the control room (112) received 9,718 calls, of which 1,750 were tips about either curfew violators or quarantined people, who were stepping out either with their family members or to walk their dogs.“There have been multiple instances where residents have called about their quarantined neighbours venturing out of the house. Often, by the time police teams reach, the violator has already gone back inside,” said a police official, familiar with many such situations.The official added most residents called only to alert the control room, but didn’t give a formal complaint to avoid conflicts with neighbours. It’s difficult to take action in the absence of a complaint or photographic proof, he said.Helpline number 112 provides collective services of police, ambulance and fire department.Residents also took it upon themselves to notify police about their neighbours who had returned from abroad before the international flights were suspended on March 23. “Although an official list of foreign travellers was maintained by us, we still got many calls about such people. On a few occasions, the information proved vital for us,” said Nilambari Jagadale, senior superintendent of police (SSP).PEOPLE CALLING FOR ESSENTIAL COMMODITIES AS WELLWith UT police supplying daily ration and cooked food to people in the city regularly, the control room received 1,456 calls for essential commodities.“Desperate people in dire need of essential commodities call the control room. We respond swiftly and make sure that anybody, who genuinely doesn’t have food or essentials, is taken care of,” Jagadale added.There were 426 calls for queries on Covid-19, 326 by senior citizens seeking help and 200 by residents curious about the lockdown.Several residents also called for details of testing laboratories, quarantine centres and treatment facilities in their vicinity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pcr-lines-ringing-most-about-curfew-quarantine-violators-in-chandigarh/story-eilaNF1xxDbKCuDYIf5WoL.html
12-04-2020||City||Mansa: Cotton purchase starts, mandi board to test staggered procurement model||To test the working of the staggered wheat procurement plan, the Punjab State Agricultural Marketing Board authorities have decided to resume cotton purchase in Mansa district from Monday on a similar pattern.Under the plan, farmers will be issued coupons to enter the mandi premises to sell their pending stock of raw cotton.State cotton coordinator Rajnish Goel told HT that arhtiyas have been roped in to invite 20 farmers in a day to ensure adherence of the pandemic safety protocol.He said the stock will be purchased by the Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) at the minimum support price (MSP).“Coupons issued to farmers by the local mandi officials will serve as curfew passes. Farmers will be allowed to sell their pending stock at designated spots in the mandi. Limited arrival of farmers will be ensured to maintain social distancing during the process,” said Goel.As per the state mandi board officials, 9.40 lakh quintal of cotton has already been purchased in Mansa and an estimated 50,000 quintal is still lying with the farmers in the district. In Punjab, an estimated 5 lakh quintal of cotton is yet to arrive in the mandis.Cotton purchase was suspended after curfew was imposed in Punjab on March 23.Goel said the cotton purchase will help in identifying gaps for staggered wheat procurement plan.“After experimenting with 20 farmers in Mansa, we will gradually increase the allowed number to 40. In the second phase, a similar plan will be introduced to benefit cotton farmers in Bathinda, Faridkot, Fazilka and Muktsar districts,” he added.State agriculture department director Sutantar Kumar Airi, wheat harvesting in Punjab will begin from April 15 but a sizeable area in south Malwa belt will witness it after April 20.Meanwhile, sources in the CCI said the agency is ready to restart the purchase of cotton. “After CCI raised the issue of overstocking in various warehouses, the state authorities began granting permits to transport ginned cotton in Mansa and other districts. We are working to move cotton seed to buyers in Punjab and other places,” a CCI official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mansa-cotton-purchase-starts-mandi-board-to-test-staggered-procurement-model/story-aRUyKgasVotMtbJNeb5HUN.html
12-04-2020||City||Doctors, nurses of Chandigarh’s PGIMER pool in money to buy safety gear||They want to take no chances, so doctors and nurses are pooling in their money to buy Covid-19 safety gear even as the country faces a shortage and supplies ordered from abroad get delayed.Even as city hospitals have stocks of 2,903 personal protection equipment (PPE) and 39,481 N95 masks according to the health department, the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) has a strict protocol to distribute protective equipment according to risk exposure in all departments.A high-risk zone includes the severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) section; Covid-19 sample and testing centres; the ICU/ critical care ward where aerosol generating procedures are done; clinical management in isolation); dead body packing (Covid or suspected Covid), and mortuary- performing autopsy. Safety gear provided in these areas includes N-95 masks, gloves, gown or coverall, goggles, head and shoe cover.Moderate risk areas where only N95 masks are provided include the triage area in OPD, other patients in emergency and doctors’ chambers in the few functional OPDs. Triple layer mask and gloves are being provided in low-risk areas.Money is being pooled by faculty members, senior residents, nurses and technical staff for N95 masks and gloves in departments for cardiology, radiology and others that don’t have any safety barriers.Dr Yashpaul Sharma, head, cardiology department, said, “Mortality among heart surgeons has been reported. Since we are working with patients who are reporting to hospital with cardiac issues we do not know if the person has Covid-19. So safety is important. The PGIMER protocol does not provide the requisite protective gear in wards and CCU.” Dr Uttam Thakur of the Association of Resident Doctors, PGIMER, said they were also helping the hospital’s management stock PPEs.“The supply is short. But dedicated Covid-19 hospitals are getting it. We along with administration are trying to procure good quality PPEs and masks which are in short supply. People are contacting us with donations which we are facilitating. The administration cannot be held responsible for shortage as they are also trying hard to overcome this,” Dr Thakur said. Satyaveer Dagur, general secretary, Nurses Welfare Association at the institute, said they had procured around 60 PPEs and a few hundred masks.“Since full PPEs are not provided in the emergency ward, we have given nurses PPEs to use when they have doubts regarding the status of patient. At least some protection is better than nothing,” he said.HOW MUCH CAN THEY DONATEA faculty member from the cardiology department can donate Rs 5,000, and a senior resident Rs 2,000, with Rs 1,000 fixed for nurses and technicians. Though PGIMER is accepting donations through its bank account as well as other material, there is no bar on the procurement of safety equipment by any healthcare worker.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/doctors-nurses-of-chandigarh-s-pgimer-pool-in-money-to-buy-safety-gear/story-SjTomH4mcNhGOyiKJIyyzI.html
12-04-2020||City||Amid corona curfew, plumbing, electricity repairs may soon be essential services in Chandigarh||With curfew in the city all set for extension, the UT administration may soon include “emergency at home” under essential services.Confirming the development, UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida said: “The essential service definition may be expanded to include ‘emergency at home’. We are awaiting the Government of India’s instructions to finalise it.”Giving more clarity on what this means, a senior UT official, requesting anonymity, said: “People are facing problems at home relating to electricity, plumbing and other things that require urgent repairs.As the period of curfew extends beyond three weeks, more and more such issues would crop up, creating lots of problems for the people. A plan is being worked out so that such problems can be attended to.”As per the curfew order of March 24, only those shops providing essential commodities, such as ration, food, groceries, fruits and vegetables, dairy and milk, meat and fish, and animal fodder, are allowed to be opened for a limited period of time during the day.Meanwhile, the administration will continue with strict restrictions on the staff allowed to attend its offices. Only a skeleton staff will be allowed in UT offices, as being currently done. The administration is also against opening up public dealing offices, such as the Registration and Licensing Authority and Sampark centres.“The administration is waiting for detailed orders from the central government regarding functioning of offices. We will follow the Centre’s pattern for operating important offices only with skeleton staff,” said Parida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amid-corona-curfew-plumbing-electricity-repairs-may-soon-be-essential-services-in-chandigarh/story-SFq7oEcewr2vA3J39Iqn7H.html
12-04-2020||City||Baroda MLA Sri Krishan Hooda dies at 74||Congress MLA Sri Krishan Hooda died at 74 on Sunday after a prolonged illness. The legislator from Baroda constituency in Sonepat district of Haryana was hospitalised in Delhi for the past few weeks.Former chief minister and Congress leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Haryana Congress chief Kumari Selja, INLD Ellenabad MLA Abhay Singh Chautala and former MLA Ran Singh Maan condoled the death.In 2019 Haryana assembly polls, Sri Krishan had defeated famous wrestler and Olympic medallist Yogeshwar Dutt of the BJP by a margin of 4,840 votes from Baroda constituency. He won thrice each from Kiloi (now Garhi-Sampla-Kiloi) and Baroda constituencies.Hooda started his political carrier as a panchayat member and twice became the sarpanch of Kidwali in Rohtak district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/baroda-mla-sri-krishan-hooda-dies-at-74/story-sJAOpzLjosaGRB7SPI7sQK.html
12-04-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana industry unable to pay labourers’ salaries, seeks govt help||The owners of local industries and business establishments have expressed their inability to pay salaries of labourers due to closure of factories in the wake of coronvirus outbreak. A day after the administration issued warning to the industry, the owners of these units rued that the government cannot legally force the employers to pay salaries and stop them from layoffs as there is no such provision in either the Disaster Management Act or Epidemic Control Act. Further, the separate provisions for Industrial Dispute Act also overrule this order.The industry was of the view that the government should use the unutilised funds lying under different government departments/schemes, including ESIC, MGNREGA, Pradhan Mantri Gareeb Kalyan Yojana etc, for payment of wages and salaries to the staff. National president of All Industries and Trade Forum, Badish Jindal, said that around 1.70 lakh crore is lying unutilised with the government under different schemes and it should be used to pay the labourers. Rather than putting an extra burden on the industry, the government should step forward to help it come out of this crisis. President of Janta Nagar Small Scale Manufacturers Association, Jaswinder Singh Thukral, president of Dhandari Industrial Welfare Association, Satnam Singh Makkar and president of Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisation (FICO), Gurmeet Singh Kular, also opposed the administration’s decision saying that the industry is already burdened with bank installments, property tax, water-sewer charges and fixed charges on electricity bills.If the sector does not receives any payment then how it is supposed to pay workers, said Thukral, adding that they are already giving ration and subsistence allowance to the labour.President of Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal, Arvinder Pal Singh Makkar, said that small businessmen are already facing losses as the establishment are closed due to the lockdown and there is no clarity when the restriction will be lifted. The government and the administration should not cause panic among the industrialists, who already suffering losses.The industrialists rued that even the government departments, including Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL), have capped the salary of its employees and have fixed a certain amount, which would be paid to then rather than full salary for the lockdown period. President of United Cycle and Parts Manufacturer Association, DS Chawla, asked how the government can force the industry even when its own departments are not making full payments to their employees. They understand that everyone, including the government, is facing crisis, then why would they expect the industry to pay salaries, said Chawla.Deputy commissioner Pradeep Agrawal said the decision has been taken by the central government and if the industrialists are unable to make full payments to the labour, they can give subsistence allowance to the labour for now, so that they can cater to their daily needs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-industry-unable-to-pay-labourers-salaries-seeks-govt-help/story-2jCgSkPaGqm52NrUI9hLRL.html
12-04-2020||Mumbai||15 new cases in Dharavi; 3 in Worli||Fifteen new cases of Covid-19 were reported in Dharavi on Sunday, taking the total count in the area to 43. The most-affected ward, G south (covering areas like Worli and Lower Parel), saw a marginal rise of three Covid-19 positive patients on Sunday. Civic officials said the rise in the number of cases in Dharavi is becoming a cause for concern. Of the 15 new cases in the country’s largest slum, nine were already quarantined at a facility set up by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) as they were high-risk contacts of Covid-19 patients from Madina Nagar, Muslim Nagar, and Social Nagar.Apart from these, six cases were found from a fresh slum pocket, Shastri Nagar, where no previous case of Covid-19 was reported. The remaining two cases have been reported from Janata housing society. All 15 new patients (13 men, 2 women) are aged between 18 and 66. In all, there are 13 areas of Dharavi where 43 positive cases have been found. Kiran Dighavkar, assistant municipal commissioner of G North ward, said, “Our health staff is visiting slums in Dharavi and conducting door-to-door surveys of residents.”Since Saturday, the BMC has screened 7,135 residents of Dharavi, of which 82 were referred for testing and swab samples of 40 people have been collected. Meanwhile, in G South ward, only three new cases were reported, taking the count to 246. On April 7, the total number of cases in G South ward was 133, which rose to 184 the next day (increase of 51 cases), followed by 199 cases on April 9 (increase of 15 cases) and 243 cases on April 10 (increase of 44 cases). As per BMC data, seven wards, including G south, have recorded more than 50 cases of Covid-19 patients each. Wards like L (Kurla, Sakinaka) and M East (Govandi, Mankhurd) have reported 26 and 22 Covid-19 cases respectively in less than 24 hours.Two more cases of Covid-19 were reported in Dadar on Sunday. A 52-year-old woman from Ambedkar Nagar and a 48-year-old man from Kasarwadi tested positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/15-new-cases-in-dharavi-3-in-worli/story-8uWij0rCFT5il60YXERV3J.html
12-04-2020||City||Mohali count 54 as 3 more Jawaharpur women test positive||Mohali district’s Covid-19 count went up to 54 on Sunday, with three women, aged 80, 58, and 17, from Jawaharpur village testing positive, taking the number of cases from the Dera Bassi hotspot to 37. The three cases are from the houses belonging to the extended family of the 42-year-old panch, who was the first to test positive on April 4.An 81-year-old man from Mundi Kharar also tested positive on Saturday after his 78-year-old wife’s reports came out positive following her death on April 7. Other family members, however, have been given the all-clear.The first case in the district was reported on March 20. The district has witnessed two deaths while five people have been cured so far. The active cases as of now are 47.Amid the developments, the Punjab government declared six areas in the district as Covid-19 hotspots, including Jawaharpur, Phases 3A, 5 and 9 besides Sectors 69 and 91. Monitoring, screening and sampling of patients will be intensified here.Dr Manjit Singh, civil surgeon, Mohali, said the patients had been moved to Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur. Around 23 reports, some of them from Jawaharpur, were awaited. On a positive note, Dr Singh added that all the patients in various Mohali hospitals were responding well to treatment. One was likely to be discharged soon as her first report had been negative.Commenting on a mix-up of samples on Saturday of two women with identical names, one a policewoman on duty at Jawaharpur and another a resident of the village, deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said they would be retested. Both had tested positive. He said the count would be included in the total tally only after the confusion gets cleared by Monday.Jawaharpur village has emerged as the biggest Covid-19 cluster in Punjab, with most patients from the extended family of the sarpanch and two panches. The district administration has already declared the village, having a population of 3,000, a containment zone, completely banning the movement of people. Three neighbouring villages of Devi Naga, Mehmudpur and Haripur Kurha have also been sealed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-count-54-as-3-more-jawaharpur-women-test-positive/story-O4Jl0aXYdOI4ZVeuWSud5N.html
12-04-2020||City||Humanity thrives in the face of Covid crisis||Thousand kilometers away from his home in Nepal, Mohammad Bhoj Ray spent 11 days at the Ambala civil hospital before he tested negative for Covid-19 in subsequent reports and got discharged on Saturday.The 65-year-old man had attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi last month, and was admitted to the isolation ward after he was found to be infected. Though meals to several patients and their attendants were being provided through a food bank set up by an NGO, its services were suspended during the initial days of the local outbreak. At that time, doctors and nurses rose to the occasion and brought homemade food for Ray, said civil hospital senior medical officer Dr Sheelkant Pajni. “As he didn’t have an operational mobile phone, the medics on duty would even lend him their phones to contact his family in Nepal or friends in Ambala,” he added. In March, Ray, along with his friends, had travelled from Beergunj in Nepal to Nizamuddin Markaz for the first time. After spending a week in Delhi, he proceeded to Ambala. On March 31, the local administration traced at least three dozen jamaat attendees and asked them to isolate themselves inside mosques where they had been putting up.Dr Tulit Chhabra, a general surgeon at the civil hospital, who was the first to examine Ray, said, “About 15 people were lodged in a masjid in cantonment, three of whom showed flu-like symptoms, including Ray.”They were brought to the hospital, where two of them were found infected, he added. “Ray, whose age made him more vulnerable to complications, was already missing his family. From taking care of his diet to helping him in speaking with his family and friends, the hospital staff did everything possible for his quick recovery,” SMO Pajni said. Being a senior citizen, he panicked often, but our doctors counselled him regularly, he added. Ray is, however, one of the nine foreigners booked under the Foreigners Act besides sections of the IPC. Ambala SP Abhishek Jorwal said, “He has now been quarantined at a school in cantonment. The decision on his deportation will be taken after his 14-day quarantine period ends.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/humanity-thrives-in-the-face-of-covid-crisis/story-KMgXemU33iDomlZcZuFRWL.html
12-04-2020||Mumbai||Red, orange, green: Zones based on coronavirus cases likely in Maharashtra||State health minister Rajesh Tope on Saturday hinted that districts in Maharashtra could be divided into three zones –red, orange and green – depending on the number of cases to decide on the rules to be imposed during the lockdown which has now been extended further.Districts where there are no Covid-19 cases will fall under green zone, while those with up to 15 cases will fall under the orange zone, and districts, where there are over 15 cases, will fall under the red zone. According to Tope, Mumbai city, Mumbai suburban, Thane, Palghar, Raigad, Aurangabad, Pune, Sangli, Nashik, Ahmednagar and Raigad districts would be in the red zone, as they have a high number of cases. As per April 11 data, Mumbai, MMR, Pune have 91% of the Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra. Bhandara, Gadhchiroli, Chandrapur, Wardha, Parbhani, Nanded, Nandurbar, and Solapur districts have recorded no cases and could fall in the green zone. Amravati, Sindhudurg, Ratnagiri, Kolhapur, Satara, Osmanabad, Hingoli, Jalna, Washim, Beed, Dhule, Gondhiya, Yavatmal districts can come under the orange zone, where certain activities, including opening up of minimum public transport, etc, could be allowed.The state government intends to start some industrial activities, basic movement within districts that are so far unaffected by the coronavirus. A senior Mantralaya official said that no decision has been taken on the zones yet as they are awaiting an advisory from the Centre on what exactly can be allowed in the green and orange zones. “Besides, the political class and even bureaucrats are divided over it. Some have a cautious and conservative approach, while others are asking how long can we remain under lockdown and let the economy suffer,” he said requesting anonymity.The relief and rehabilitation department and the industries department are chalking out a proposal to allow micro, small and medium enterprises to start operations in green and orange zones. Besides, the large industries can start their production provided they keep their employees in a “lock-in”, follow social distancing, and carry out basic medical check-ups on employees on the premises.A senior bureaucrat said the state government could reach a decision by Monday evening on what can be allowed. The boundaries of the orange and green zones will, however, be sealed and inter-district travel will not be allowed. “It is a complex decision. Most senior decision-makers have made up their mind [to allow relaxation], but how much can be accommodated is being discussed. The chief minister is weighing the pros and cons,” he said.A third bureaucrat said the state should start industries and businesses in Maharashtra as a prolonged shutdown would impact the economy for the third time in the past four years after demonetisation, roll out of goods and services and now coronavirus outbreak. “We cannot keep businesses shut and choke the economy. Look at what Germany has done. We are looking at preventive measures to be taken where production can start. From lockdown, we can go to lock-in by having fewer people. They can house people on-site, have doctors, monitor health, avoid crowding and decentralise systems. It is not always a conveyor belt system in production; component processing can geographically be segregated, while integration can happen in one place. All options are being studied,” the officer said on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/red-orange-green-zones-based-on-coronavirus-cases-likely-in-maharashtra/story-U3pKo9jKMghUdPNI3EIY1I.html
12-04-2020||Chandigarh||Virus spreads its tentacles in 19 Haryana districts, infects 181||Barring central Haryana’s Mahendergarh, Rewari and Jhajjar, the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has spread across as many as 19 districts of the state. As many as 16 fresh cases have been reported from six districts in past 24 hours, taking the state’s tally to 181 cases from Saturday’s 165, the health department said. On Sunday, two positive cases were detected in Kurukshetra and three in Yamunanagar, the districts which were otherwise untouched by the disease till Saturday. Seven new cases were reported from Nuh on Sunday, the district that has emerged as the hotbed of the disease with total 45 patients.While one case each was reported from Jind and Karnal districts, two were registered in Faridabad.Of the total 181 coronavirus positive cases, 30 patients have been discharged so far.Also, as per the official data, of the 181 patients, 10 are foreign nationals and 64 are from 15 other states, including Himachal Pradesh and Punjab.There are 32 active cases in Gurugram, followed by 31 in Faridabad and 29 in Palwal.In Yamunanagar, one affected person was identified as a Tablighi Jamaat follower, who had reportedly attended a religious congregation in Maharashtra.Civil surgeon Dr Vijay Dahiya said, “The patient had travelled from Maharashtra to his village on March 19.” The administration has declared the area where he resided as a containment zone and sealed many places around it. Samples of his family members will be taken and his contacts would be traced, he added. The patient from Jind’s Nidani village, a 19-year-old youth, reportedly contracted the virus from his uncle, a Markaz attendee, who had tested positive earlier this week. Another Karnal nurse tests positiveAnother nurse of Karnal’s Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College and Hospital has tested positive for coronavirus, taking the number of the infected health officials to three in the hospital and six in the district. Karnal DC Nishant Yadav confirmed that the 36-year-old nurse was found infected, whose samples were tested at the newly set up lab at the hospital. Earlier, a female doctor and a nurse of the hospital were found positive for Covid-19 as they were in contact with a 58-year-old patient of the district, who died on April 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/virus-spreads-its-tentacles-in-19-haryana-districts-infects-181/story-sgVBUz8MrNFydJcKGIOvUP.html
12-04-2020||City||Jamaat link: 62-yr-old in Bhiwandi tests positive||A 62-year-old man tested positive for Covid-19 in Bhiwandi on Saturday. This is the first case in the area. The man contacted the disease at a mosque in Mumbra. The area in Bhiwandi, where the man lived, has been sealed by the Bhiwandi Nizampur City Municipal Corporation (BNCMC). He was taken to the Thane civil hospital for treatment.As per the civic body, the man went to a mosque in Mumbra for jamaat on March 15. He stayed there for two weeks and returned to Bhiwandi on April 9. “Residents of his area informed us that a person has returned after attending jamaat in Mumbra. We then asked him to quarantine himself,” said Jaywant Dhule, medical officer, BNCMC.He was quarantined at the Tata Housing Amantra at Kalyan naka. Meanwhile, his swab sample was sent for testing to Kasturba hospital in Mumbai. On Saturday his test reports showed Covid-19 positive.“Six of his family members have also been home quarantined and their samples will be sent for testing too,” added Dhule. Five new cases of coronavirus were reported in Kalyan-Dombivli on Sunday, taking the total cases under the Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) to 55, out of which 12 have been discharged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jamaat-link-62-yr-old-in-bhiwandi-tests-positive/story-irRH6vBvCMu5HvzWzDUpqK.html
12-04-2020||City||Nabha cops say booze being home-delivered, seize 564 bottles||After complaints from villagers, the police recovered 180 bottles of liquor from a cremation ground and nearby fields in Lubana village here on Sunday.Police said they had received about a tip-off about liquor boxes being hidden at some spots in the village. Based on the information, they inspected the premises of the cremation ground and dug up 5 boxes containing 180 bottles of liquor from the ground there and in the fields nearby. The police have registered a case against unidentified persons and seized the liquor.In another case, the police arrested Sukhwinder Singh of Gobind Nagar colony in Nabha while he was delivering liquor bottles on a scooter on Saturday. “The accused was going to deliver liquor at a customer’s house on a scooter having no registration plate. After he was stopped at a check post, he revealed that he had stored more liquor at home,” said DSP Varinderjit Singh Thind, adding that later 32 boxes containing 384 liquor bottles were seized from his house.VILLAGERS WORRIED OVER BOOZE SUPPLYMeanwhile, the villagers have expressed concern over the “unmonitored movement of liquor suppliers”. They claimed that at a time when the district administration is “struggling to streamline” the delivery of essentials, they feared that seeking out liquor would result in the spread of coronavirus.Irked by the booze supply, Lubana villagers had been complaining about the issue for the past many days. “Amid no employment, my husband has brought suffering to the children and embarrassment by selling wheat donated by an NGO to buy liquor,” said a distressed woman from Sangatpura village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nabha-cops-say-booze-being-home-delivered-seize-564-bottles/story-qvlxkSKGTYULMkXP2gpllJ.html
12-04-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana divided over delivery of cooked food by restaurants via mobile apps||The administration’s decision to allow the delivery of cooked food from restaurants through mobile app orders has divided the city with a majority of residents, including a few councillors, opposing the move.Even restaurant owners stand divided over the issue with the president of the Hotel and Restaurant Association, Amarvir Singh, opposing the decision, citing that the home delivery of food might also increase chances of infection.However, the restaurant owners, who have started supplying food, said all precautions were being taken while preparing and delivering food.Restaurants and eateries, which have commenced the delivery of cooked food through apps, are situated in Sarabha Nagar, the Ferozepur Road, College Road, Feroze Gandhi Market, Dugri areas, etc. Their opponents, however, have taken to the social media stating that cooked food of restaurants was not an essential commodity.Congress councillor Parvinder Lapran has also opposed the move in one of the videos shared on social networks. Lapran said, “A complete lockdown has been announced and the administration is issuing strict guidelines every day. But, on the other hand, restaurants have been allowed to deliver food through mobile apps. Even ice-cream parlours are being allowed to operate.”Lapran questioned who was there to keep a check on the delivery boys and the health of cooks in restaurants. He said the virus might find an entry to houses through this system and the government should roll back the decision as lives of people were at stake.A resident of Model Town Extension, Gurkaran Singh, said, “On one hand, the administration is stopping residents from coming out and, on the other, the food packed in plastic bags, which can carry the virus, are getting entry into houses of residents.”Owners of restaurants, however, claimed that all precautions were being taken and the delivery was being made through Zomato and Swiggy only, as these companies have been allowed to operate by the administration.Bhupinder Basant, owner of Basant Restaurant, delivering food from three outlets, situated at the Foundation Chowk, Dugri and Feroze Gandhi Market, said all precautions were being taken while preparing and delivering food.The health of the staff working in restaurants was also being continuously monitored, he added.He said they had received a good response from residents as there are many people, including students in hostels, who needed cooked food.Basant said, “The Ice Cream Studio on the Malhar Road has been operating with all precautions. Zomato and Swiggy are also keeping a check on the health of delivery boys.”A resident of Kitchlu Nagar, Gurbir Singh, said, “There is no harm in allowing the restaurants to operate and deliver food. But, owners and the staff should take all the precautions. Even the ration and vegetables are being supplied in plastic packs.”Deputy commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal said, “Permission has been given to those restaurant owners, who had applied online in the past and the service has been initiated on a trial basis. Regular inspections are being carried out at these establishments to keep a check on hygiene and health of the staff. If we find any anomalies in the system, then the system will be scrapped.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-divided-over-delivery-of-cooked-food-by-restaurants-via-mobile-apps/story-ax4YWT82gmzoR9t5KP8uPO.html
12-04-2020||Mumbai||266 FIRs in a day; more in containment zone regions||The Mumbai Police since Saturday, started registering more FIRs in regions with maximum containment zones and in a first, residents in western suburbs are volunteering to help police in maintaining the lockdown. Police is also trying to facilitate supply of essentials in containment zones. A total of 266 FIRs were registered on Saturday across Mumbai for lockdown violation. Around 423 people were booked and 285 were arrested. Maximum FIRs were registered in central region (80), followed by west (69), east (50), north (43) and south (24). In the initial days of lockdown, as reported by HT, more FIRs were being filed in east and north regions, unlike on Saturday. The central region comprises of BMC’s G south ward (Worli, Worli Koliwada) with total 246 cases and E ward (Mumbai Central-Byculla) with 111 cases. This is followed by west region comprising of H East ward (Khar East, Santacruz East and Bandra East) with 67 cases and K west ward ( Vile Parle West to Andheri West to Jogeshwari West) with 61 cases.  Pranaya Ashok, DCP (operations) and spokesperson for Mumbai Police said, “We are ensuring smooth supply of essentials, especially in containment zones and hot spots.”Locals in Santacruz have also teamed up with Vakola police to help them keep a tab on containment zones. Kailash Avhad, senior inspector, Vakola police station, said, “There are 16 containment zones in my jurisdiction with 27 Covid-19 positive patients staying in them. We have deployed our staff at each spot who patrol the zones round the clock. We also took help of locals who have volunteered from each containment zone. They are like our eyes and ears.” 170 cyber-crime FIRs related to Covid-19 in state, 32 arrested“Since the lockdown till date, a total of 177 cases (170 FIR and 7 NC) were registered regarding fake news, rumors and hate speech over social media in Maharashtra. In these cases 32 people were arrested and 108 have been identified. Out of the total registered cases, 88 are of hate speech. Notices have been issued to all concerned social media platforms and so far 32 posts havee been removed,” said Balsing Rajput, SP, Maharashtra Cyber department. 38,647 FIRs for lockdown violation A total of 38,647 FIRs have been registered for lockdown violation, 23, 554 vehicles have been seized for using them without a valid reason and a fine of Rs 1.34 crore has been collected. About 497 people who violated home quarantine orders have been booked. Till Sunday morning, a total of 63,829 calls related to Covid-19 were received on number 100 across the state and 17,396 of them were from Mumbai. (with inputs from Pratik Salunke)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/266-firs-in-a-day-more-in-containment-zone-regions/story-wMubmaocs71fMY16iBLOvL.html
12-04-2020||Mumbai||With 16 deaths due to Covid-19, Mumbai sees highest single-day toll on Sunday: BMC data||The city recorded 16 deaths due to Covid-19 (coronavirus disease) on Sunday, the highest in a single day so far, taking the total deaths recorded in the city to 92. The city also recorded 152 new positive cases for coronavirus, taking the total positive cases to 1,298.With this, the city is witnessing a high mortality rate, at 7.08%, up from 6.6% recorded on Saturday.With this, Mumbai now has more than 60% of the total 149 deaths recorded in Maharashtra and over 65% of the total 1,982 Covid-19 positive cases in the state.In Dharavi alone, 15 new cases of Covid-19 positive persons were reported on Sunday, taking the total positive cases in the Dharavi area to 43. Since Saturday, BMC has screened 7,135 residents in Dharavi of which 82 were referred for testing for Covid-19 and swab samples of 40 people have been collected till now. Of the 16 persons who died on Sunday, 10 were male and six were female. Nine of these 16 patients were more than 60-year-old, and the youngest patient was a 39-year-old female suffering from comorbidities of hypertension and diabetes. However, two out of these 16 patients — a 41-year-old male who died at Kasturba hospital and a 65-year-old male who died at St. George hospital — reported no comorbidities.In Mumbai, 26 positive patients were discharged on Sunday, after testing negative for Covid-19 two consecutive times, taking the total number of patients discharged after testing negative to 97 so far. Also, 146 new suspected cases of Covid-19 were reported in Mumbai on Sunday.Unlike its steady rise in last few days, the most-affected ward, G south — covering areas of Worli, Prabhadevi, Elphinstone Road, and Lower Parel — saw a marginal rise of three positive Covid-19 patients on Sunday with total number of cases reaching 246, the highest in any ward in Mumbai.Two more cases of Covid-19 were reported in Dadar on Sunday. A 52-year-old female from Ambedkar Nagar and a 48-year-old male from Kasarwadi in Dadar were tested positive. The total cases in Dadar area have gone up to 13 as on Sunday.As per BMC data, seven wards, including G south, have recorded more than 50 cases of Covid-19. Wards like L (Kurla, Sakinaka) and M east (Govandi, Mankhurd) have reported 26 and 22 Covid-19 cases in less than 24 hours.BMC has now begun to fine residents venturing out of their homes without a mask, and a first such fine of ₹1,000 was imposed on a male resident of Goregaon on Sunday morning.Meanwhile, municipal commissioner Praveen Pardeshi conducted a webinar with healthcare professionals from the private sector, which was attended by 2,450 doctors.BMC started a quarantine facility of 200 beds for low-risk contacts of Covid-19 positive persons at Richardson & Cruddas premises at Byculla. This facility will have 700 beds in two days, said additional municipal commissioner of the E ward, Prashant Gaikwad.A seven-year-old boy who had contracted Covid-19 from his 40-year-old old father was discharged on Sunday after testing negative in two tests. His grandfather,67 and 64-year-old grandmother also tested positive. The child’s father and grandfather were discharged from the hospital on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/with-16-deaths-due-to-covid-19-mumbai-sees-highest-single-day-toll-on-sunday-bmc-data/story-EnnvWhkFjC8Kvk7U7JkJxJ.html
12-04-2020||City||Patiala’s first Covid patient recovers; reports of gardener’s contacts negative||The district’s first Covid-19 patient, a 31-year-old man, was declared as having recovered from the disease after 13 days of treatment at Government Medical College, Patiala, on Sunday.The man, who was tested positive on March 30, will not be discharged as per the medical protocol and the health department will conduct another test on him.Also, the reports of six of the primary contacts of a 35-year-old gardener, who works and stays at the official residence of a Punjab Civil Services (PCS) officer and was tested positive for the coronavirus on Saturday, were found negative.The health department has traced at least 13 of his close contacts and collected samples of six of his high-risk contacts, including in his wife, child and brother who is also living with him.Civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said though their reports were negative but they will continue to remain in isolation for 14 days as a precautionary measure.Dr Malhotra added that the district’s first Covid-19 patient, a resident of Dhesi Mehmandari locality in Patiala city, had returned from Dubai March 21.He was also kept under observation in New Delhi, but his test was then found negative. He was home quarantined since March 24 before he showed symptoms on March 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patiala-s-first-covid-patient-recovers-reports-of-gardener-s-contacts-negative/story-C09C7Ni0k55WNEOSiYlVYJ.html
12-04-2020||City||Risky to treat patients sans gear, say dentists||Tarn Taran: God forbid, if you needed dental treatment, other than those ailments that antibiotics can cure. Dentists say they cannot do any physical treatment of teeth, until the threat of the virus subsides. Some doctors are even going on to say that they can work only after a vaccine is invented. Dr Sanjeev Sharma, general secretary of Indian Dental Association, Amritsar, said, “We have asked all dentists not to open clinics, but continue giving free consultation to patients on phone. There is no way we can offer treatment physically until a vaccine for the virus is invented. When physical therapy, like teeth cutting, extraction and RCT, is done, droplets from the patient’s mouth and nose fly in the air. Such particles can be dangerous for the health of all concerned, if there is infection.” “We are not supposed to treat patients physically, though, I am receiving calls from patients in excruciating pain. This is only for the health and safety of patients. Suppose a coronavirus patient comes to us for treatment, he or she can infect the whole clinic,” says a dentist Sher Singh, an endodontist (dentist specialising in treatments like root canal etc). He added, “We can’t even treat emergency patients as the danger is so real. Even if we attempted, the logistical challenges and demand for PPEs and sanitisation just makes it near impossible for us to work.” Dr Sharma added that if a dentist was still giving physical treatment to dental patients, he or she was playing with lives. Dr Pankaj, medical officer (dental) at Patti Civil hospital in Tarn Taran, said, “The situation is very serious. Even machines used in dental care can be a source of infection that even PPE kits might not be a good defence against. Except severe emergency, we are not giving any dental treatment requiring physical contact.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/risky-to-treat-patients-sans-gear-say-dentists/story-8rYnmROFVMGniHvsuZRsUI.html
12-04-2020||City||Start, stay on fitness habit||Amid the nationwide lockdown in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak, people have become prone to developing a sedentary lifestyle. Most residents sit at one place as they watch television or use their mobile phones or read books. Experts say that staying in such conditions for long periods may even lead to an increase in appetite. What steps are you taking to stay fit during the lockdown period? EXPERT TAKEKeep yourself occupied The best way to remain fit while staying at home is to keep yourself occupied with some activity. When a person is sitting idle or feels bored, the stress level increases which further increases hunger. To avoid consuming more food, one should indulge in different activities such as kitchen gardening, cooking, etc. Also, consume vitamin C enriched food. Considering the upcoming economic recession, one should start utilising this time to prepare for the future. Make plans how one can work and earn using technology. It will keep you occupied. Further, do exercise, perform yoga, meditation and develop new hobbies. One should avoid thinking negative as it affects the health. Spend quality time with your family, call your relatives and friends, and recite prayers to stay positive and spread positivity among others as well. Dr SS Sibia, doctor of medicineREADER OF THE WEEKFollow health videos on YouTube Quarantine has made everyone realise the importance of time, health, family and work. This is a time to explore your own creative self. Staying healthy and fit is of utmost importance as staying home can make anyone lazy. I follow my normal routine for diet and workout. In the morning, I take a glass of hot water and lemon and walk in my garden for fifteen minutes to freshen up. For breakfast, I take oats and some fruits. Fruits are a must to stay healthy, especially during this time. In the evening, I play badminton and do some workout like aerobics and exercises which I watch on YouTube. Also remember to drink plenty of water during this time. Build a routine which is beneficial not only during the lockdown but also after that. Shivani Aggarwal, via emailMental, physical health go hand in handI am a 62-year-old retired banker. After the lockdown began, I made slight changes in my daily routine to keep myself fit. I aim to reduce the extra fat and lose around 10kg. Every day, I wake up at 4am and the first thing I do is drink hot water. Then I go to my roof top for the morning walk and exercise for 90 minutes. Around 8am, I drink tea and read the newspaper for around half-an-hour. I solve sudoko in the newspaper, which is a good brain exercise. I have been involved with different social circles since my retirement. As a curfew has been imposed, we have formed groups and pray at our houses. I make sure to watch one Punjabi movie every day and read books. Virender Jit Singh, DugriDon’t waste your time on the phoneDuring this lockdown, many children and older people are spending more time on the mobile phones, which is not a good habit. In our free time, we can read books to remain emotionally stable amid the crisis. A variety of combat strategies can be adopted by the government to keep the people occupied. For instance, bringing back the shows of Ramayana and Mahabharta was a good move. The children and the elderly can watch it together and learn more about these epics. Srishty, via emailDrink lemon waterAmid this lockdown, there is fair chance that we all can turn into a sluggard. To avoid this and stay healthy, I started doing yoga in the garden as the air is very clean now. This is followed by a glass of lemon water for detox. I make it a point to have at least four to five glasses of hot water and serve it to the rest of my family members too. Next, whenever I get a phone call, I adopt Idea’s mantra of “Walk n Talk”, and unconsciously cover a lot of steps. Ishita Mittal, via emailTime to adopt a healthy lifestyleThis home quarantine is a blessing in disguise as it can be utilised to adopt a healthy lifestyle. In the morning, I enjoy fresh air on the terrace and do yoga. I regularly practice Pranayaam and Surya Namaskaar and eat almonds soaked in water daily. Due to the lockdown, there is no intake of fried or junk food, which is good for the health. For me, playing card games with my family is a stress buster. After my dinner, I also prefer a light walk of 20 minutes on my terrace.Mandeep Rawat, Joshi NagarDo household work to remain busyMost of the time during the lockdown is spent eating, sleeping, watching TV and on the phone during the lockdown. As there are less physical activities, every evening, I walk or do jogging for at least 45 minutes on the terrace to maintain the balance. Sometimes I wake up early and do some household work to remain active.Nalini Nayyar, via emailTry doing squats in your houseThe problem isn’t in adopting a new routine, the problem is in maintaining it. To remain active in this lockdown, one can dance with his or her children, take out that old skipping rope and use it, do squats and push ups against the kitchen counter or walk briskly up and down the stairs. As the pollution level has decreased, one can go to the balcony. Also, don’t keep yourself too much updated with the news as it can depress you.Vincy Trehan, via emailAll work and no play makes Jack a dull boyAmid this lockdown, people are leading a sedentary lifestyle. Instead of being lazy, people should work upon themselves and stay fit and fine. A time management chart can help them achieve their procrastinated goals. Also, many gym enthusiasts have started their online workout programmes that can be easily followed at home. Some leading personalities are not using the lockdown as an excuse to slack off, instead, they’re inspiring their followers to get up and keep moving.Yuvika Sood, via emailTry new healthy recipesThis pandemic is affecting our physical and mental well being. As this lockdown has disturbed our regular schedule, I am trying to stay fit in this lockdown by exercising regularly at home, doing yoga and skipping rope. I wash my hands, sanitise the switches, mobile phones and other things more frequently than I used to. Good nutrition is an important part of leading a healthy lifestyle. I’m drinking plenty of water and trying new sugar-free and less-fat recipes to stay fit. Rajni Matta, Atam ParkBoost your immunityTo remain healthy, go for a walk, run or exercise at home. Boost your immunity by eating a vitamin-enriched diet and practice yoga everyday.Shivani Kumari, via emailEnsure your family is exercisingI exercise in my back garden and climb the stairs in my building to stay fit. Calling up family and friends has become a priority nowadays. I ensure that my father, who is 94-year-old, walks with his walker daily. After I finish all the household chores, I take a short break and tend to my flowers and vegetable plants. Gardening has become my source of immense pleasure and contact with nature. I’ve realised that it is extremely important to maintain your inner strength and sanity in a difficult time.Preeti Kaur, via emailDance to stay fitWith most of us stuck inside, understanding the different ways to keep active is vital for our wellbeing, especially for someone like me, who usually spends most of the time outside the house. Since two years, my life has been so hectic that I stopped paying attention to my fitness. This lockdown period has given me an opportunity to get back to it. I walk around briskly in my house. It is good to walk on the terrace when one is on the phone, rather than sitting down. These days, the weather in the evening is so pleasant that I spend around an hour on the terrace. Dancing is also a great way to stay fit and I have made an alternate-day plan for yoga and dance sessions.Mehak Arora, via emailHealth is wealthFor some people, this lockdown is boring and many feel like they are trapped in their houses. But this is not the case with children as they play all day. I also play badminton in the evening as it keeps me fit and is a good way to pass the time. I exercise for at least an hour and dance too. It’s the most entertaining time of the day for me. Everyone should be cautious regarding their health. This lockdown is to save us from a disease and not meant to get prone to any other disease. Dance is the best form of physical activity because it is entertaining and energetic. Simranjeet Kaur, Dugri Meditate for mental well-beingIn this crucial time of lockdown, it becomes mandatory for everyone to be mentally and physically fit. I do stretching exercises daily for my physical fitness and meditation for mental fitness. As people are becoming more prone to depression these days, it is important to take care of mental health also. Otherwise, routine work after this lockdown will become difficult. It is said that a sound mind lives in a sound body. Ishmanpreet Kaur, via emailMake most of this timeMost people are enjoying a sedentary lifestyle but it is giving rise to other diseases such as obesity. We can utilise our free time in doing those things which we were not able to do during our routine life. It’s the best time to make our body active and increase our stamina. I exercise lightly in the morning but heavily in the evening. I also make my family exercise along with me as it’s also a source of entertainment. I am following a strict diet and eat light. It’s also a great method to save money. Mansimran Singh, DugriDo yoga dailyIn this lockdown, I have got a lot of time to prepare for my higher studies. I try to eat less and work more. I am maintaining my fitness by skipping rope and doing yoga on a daily basis. For mental fitness, I and my family recite the Gurbani every evening. Mishpreet Kaur, via emailInvolve the whole family in exerciseThe best way to stay active in these times is to keep moving in the house. One can indulge themselves in household chores, walk when they are on the phone and involve the whole family in some physical exercise. I have made a fifteen-minute workout plan which I practice daily. With many workout videos surfacing online, you can access different types of plans and exercises that can be done in a limited space. One should also take care of the diet these days and not binge eat.Sanskriti Verma, via emailJoin an online gymCovid-19 has put a pause on everyone’s life. This lockdown makes everyone lazy and the sleeping schedule of many has been ruined due to Netflix and Amazon. This needs to be cured as when the lockdown is lifted, one may not be able to function properly. This lockdown can be a cause of obesity and diseases such as heart attack, sleeping issues, liver and gastrointestinal problems. Instead, people should make the most of this time and exercise daily. One can practice yoga, join an online gym wherein a trainer is on standby. Laveena Sharma, Haibowal KalanLimit food intakeExercise is very important in our life. If we keep sitting in one place, we tend to develop a bad posture and our blood circulation decreases. This can further lead up to depressive thoughts. One can opt for yoga, meditation, a walk on the terrace, indoor sports and exercises such as badminton and chess to be physically and mentally fit. Or one can just put on some music and dance. It releases endorphins and elevates the mood. As we are not that physically active the way we used to be, we should consider limiting our food intake. Also, eating food while watching the television is detrimental to our health and we end up having no control over the intake. Hence, it should be avoided. Mankamal Malhi, via emailOpportunity for personal growthNot only is the lockdown impacting people’s physical health but is also taking a toll on their mental health. We have the choice to either succumb to psychological pressure of the pandemic or use the opportunity for personal growth. One must ensure that he/she is in living in a well-ventilated room and is eating healthy, getting enough sleep, staying hydrated, and maintaining a routine. Writing down thoughts and feelings can help offload any worries and fears that one may have. It’s also important to stay busy, whether that means going for a walk or learning a new skill. Exercising, practising yoga and meditating help one stay fit mentally as well as physically.Khushboo Singla, via emailDanger of developing sedentary lifestyleThis forced vacation period should be utilised for constructive purposes. At this crucial time, there is a danger of developing a sedentary life style. Most people are always glued to the television or their mobile phones. According to health experts, such a lifestyle results into unhealthy dietary patterns. People do not do any physical exercise to burn calories. To stay fit, people should go for a morning walk daily and perform yoga under the guidance of an expert. Reading good literature at this time is a good option to stay mentally healthy.JBS Nanda, Model Town ExtensionStart your day with a walkTo keep one’s body fit during the lockdown period, he/she must start the day with a 20-minute walk and 10 minutes of breathing exercises. He/she must consume some warm turmeric-induced water which helps boost the immune system, before having a healthy breakfast. One must also have a wholesome lunch comprising vegetables and curd and have a glass of warm water after dinner to aid digestion.Tajinder Kaur, via emailMental fitness equally importantThis lockdown offers an opportunity for us to set a personalised physical fitness routine which may be continued even afterwards. Skipping rope, stretching, performing yoga and body weight exercises can do the trick. The mental fitness of an individual is equally important which may be strengthened by reading holy scriptures and books of one’s taste. Too much screen time would prove to be detrimental.Gurkirat Singh, Model Town ExtensionGymming at homeThe lockdown is crucial but it can have an impact on our well-being and health. Being inactive is bad for your health, both physically and mentally. Firstly, one should accept that the body is a gift given by god and respect it by taking care of it. One can engage in their favourite hobbies and utilise this time. For me, the best way to stay fit is by gymming at home, which includes weight training. To make it more interesting, I follow body workouts, functional workout and dumble dancing with good music. Physical activity boosts the immune system and flushes bacteria from lungs, airways and increases white blood cells count.Kyna Jagota, via emailYoga is the solutionDue to prolonged sitting, people these days are becoming more prone to a sedentary lifestyle. There are numerous ways by which we can all stay fit. Performing various indoor exercises will prove to be a boon in the long run. Also, Pranayam and yoga are the best solution to the problem. Staying updated is important, but an overdose of information can be harmful for your mental health.Ishita Katyal, via emailConsistency is keyBefore the lockdown, everyone was eating fast food. But now, as no food outlets are available, people have started enjoying the food cooked at their homes, which is good for health. I workout everyday to stay fit and also try to meditate as it is important to keep the mind positive. Swarika Garg, via emailLook at the silver liningThe lockdown has led to anxieties, but we must look at the silver lining and exploit the time in the best way we can. We can overcome mental and physical stress through meditation and spiritual inclinations. Exercising, yoga and acrobatics are effective aids to combat the physical strain. One must indulge in productive activities such as learning a new language, photography or working on one’s hobbies. Adopting a healthy lifestyle, eating healthy, making a daily routine will help in preventing us to become couch potatoes.Maan Kaur, via emailGardening for mental well-being Depression and anxiety are scourges of the modern world. Lockdown due to corona has badly affected our physical and mental health. Every gardener knows that puttering around with your plants can have an uplifting effect. Anyone of any age and skill can enjoy the benefits of gardening by surrounding himself or herself with nature. Gardening improves your physical health and releases mood-enhancing endorphins. Watering plants, growing plant buds, seeing flowers bloom and listening to the birds uplifts your mood.Nikhil Mahendru, via emailDance to stay fitTo stay healthy, one can walk around the house while using the phone. Another option is to dance with your favourite music playing in the background. You can do this with your whole family.Ramandeep Kaur, DugriBoost your immunityEveryone is scared of the coronavirus, but it is important to stay calm and take care of your health. Increase your immunity and eat vegetables, fruits and most importantly, exercise everyday. We can also stay fit without going to the gym by walking, doing yoga and meditation.Simarjot Singh, via emailEat nutritious food, exerciseIt is best to read books, eat nutritious food and exercise to keep your mind and body healthy during the lockdown. Moreover, this is a great chance to introspect, spend quality time with your family and learn cooking. You could even take up gardening as a hobby. In this way, you will be able to stay healthy and happy.Deepnayan Bahl, via emailHave a vitamin c-based dietYour health needs to be a priority, not just during the lockdown but at all times. To stay fit, make sure that you follow the rest of the usual daily routine, with the only change being that you are working from home instead of going to an office. Eat food that is light on the stomach and try to have a Vitamin C-based diet. This will also increase your immunity against Covid-19.PK Chhabra, via emailDo yoga, think positiveExercise or do yoga every morning in fresh air. In this way, you will also get your daily quota of adequate sunlight essential for staying fit. Take a nutritious diet. Use these immunity boosting ingredients in your diet-Tulsi, turmeric, black pepper, and ginger. Have Vitamin-C based fruits including oranges and lemons. Most importantly, think positive.Charvi Mahajan, Chandigarh Road, LudhianaHelp each other in doing choresThose who are not being able to go to the gym due to the lockdown can stay fit by walking briskly for about 40 minutes. Help each other in doing household chores. This will not only reduce your loved ones’ workload but also keep you busy and fit.Neeraj Dhir, Rishi Nagar, LudhianaDon’t become lethargic, meditateThe lockdown is an opportunity to give rest to our mind and body. So make sure that you don’t become lethargic, given the ample time at your disposal. Don’t waste time on social media. Instead, meditate for at least 15 minutes a day to keep your mind calm. Read books to keep your mind active. Indulge in those things which you were not able to do during your busy schedule-learn to cook new cuisines or just simply clean your closet.Harshpreet Kaur, New Tagore NagarThe idea is to keep movingIn days like these, it’s important that we move out of our virtual realm and connect to our true self. The pandemic is a reality check for all, proving the Darwinian Evolution Theory “Survival of the Fittest”. Although the future is unknown, but we all should make an effort and boost our immunity. Make workout a part of your routine. Tire yourself not just mentally but physically also for a sound sleep. You may find it difficult in the initial few days, but it will gradually become a part of your routine. Try different workouts and see which sport channelises your energy. Dance it out, lift some weights, kick it hard, go for walk, do yoga or play badminton- the idea is to keep moving and not to let yourself rust. Garima Jain, via emailHousehold chores to stay fitThere are numerous ways to stay fit during the quarantine if you have the will power. Sweeping and mopping are effective physical exercises, which I do regularly because the house help is on leave. I love being on the terrace in fresh air and prefer listening to audio books during my evening walks. Also, I attend free live sessions of various dance styles. Some indoor games such as ludo, carrom, tambola, dumb charades help me spend quality time with my family. Arushi Puri, via emailUse home equipment to exerciseStarting the day with exercises is always a good idea for me. I spend around 30 to 40 minutes in workout during the morning. It helps me relax and clear my mind of stressful thoughts. One can perform open air workout at terrace to stay fit during the lockdown. People can also use home equipment such as skipping ropes to make the exercise session bit interesting. At evening, one can play badminton as the sport involves distance and no large numberof players are needed. Neha Chaurasia, via emailPass time by cleaning your houseIt’s best to stay indoors amid coronavirus outbreak. As there is a lot of free time at hand for everyone these days, people can think about cleaning their houses to pass time. It will not only engage them but also clean their surroundings. I spend most of my time practicing self cleanliness by washing hands and using sanitisers. Meanwhile, I also ensure that my home is not dirty to house any infections. People must take precautions and isolate themselves to prevent the virus from spreading.Prabhdeep Kaur, via emailDitch sedentary lifestyleStaying healthy and in shape during lockdown can be challenging. However, it is not unattainable. All you have to do is to ditch your sedentary lifestyle and keep the body active. They are so many activities, including yoga, skipping, running on the treadmill and cycling, that can be performed and can be a part of your everyday workout. Above all, keep your mind calm by meditating and body healthy by eating clean and green food in these times when you are homebound.Loveleen Kaur Sarao, via emailHealth should always be a priorityPeople usually tend to ignore their health and fitness due to work commitments. However, this lockdown has given us a chance to improve lifestyle and strengthen our body. These days, I spend my time doing exercises and performing meditation in the morning while in the evening, I take a walk on the terrace. Good health and a fit body not only keeps you in shape but also you build a strong immune system. Regular exercises will also solve the problem of weight gain in the lockdown. There are a number of workout sessions available on YouTube that can be adopted at home. People should always make their health a priority as it is the biggest asset they can possess. Vivek Marwaha, via emailIt’s a blessing in disguiseThis lockdown is a blessing in disguise for many of us who were caught up in our hectic lives. Today, we have enough time to think about our physical, mental and emotional well being. It’s the time when we can transform ourselves, undertake new activities and approach our problems a little differently. We have got a collective opportunity to build our love for nature and to correct our wrong doings in the past. I am thoroughly using this time developing new habits such as taking a morning walk and practicing yoga besides renergising myself with positive vibes.Mona, GiaspuraRead good books for positive mindsetIt is important to avoid over thinking and to keep your mind positive in these difficult times. To make yourself happy, you must spend quality time with your loves ones. Meditation will help you control your racing and negative thoughts. Talk about your good experiences with others experiences and build a positive network around. As they say that books are the best companion, you should get yourself hooked onto books that give your positive encouragement and boost your energy. Also, reading will give you knowledge about so many new things and will add to your skills.Khushleen Arneja, via emailRelax, but stay healthyDuring this time of lockdown, people are finding it difficult to pass their time, and even after so many ideas floating around the social media, all they end up doing is scrolling the internet, in turn compromising their personal health. People have enough time these days and hence should use it productively and do things they did not get to do during their normal days. They are getting time to spend with their families, which is a benefit. This lockdown can be utilised to let our bodies relax and detoxify. Physical fitness too should not be neglected as there are many ways online to keep one fit. I urge all to stay positive and optimistic.Prabhleen, via emailExploring my own house during the lockdownWhen the going gets tough, the tough gets going. With unlimited time and limited space at my disposal, I have tried to be innovative in my approach to keep my body and mind relaxed to avoid anxiety during the lockdown. I am following a strict diet regimen for my physical wellbeing. Regular workout and yoga are keeping me occupied for a few hours each week. This lockdown has made me realise the importance of space in my own house like a vast area to walk in the evenings (without the need to step out of my home). Helping in the household chores such as mopping floors, dusting and occasional car washing also diverts attention and reduces work stress of other members of the family. Another place I have started using more often is the terrace on my first floor. It offers a relaxing corner fit for reading the newspaper or a book while sipping tea or coffee. This terrace also acts as my part-time yoga studio due to the peaceful ambience here. Sachin Jain, via emailGood times with the familyThis lockdown has given me the opportunity to do things which hitherto, I was not able to do. I get a lot of time with my family, honing my cooking skills by trying various recipes, etc. Further, this time has allowed me to relax both mentally and physically.Bhavya, via emailLockdown no bar for educationIn this testing time, physical and mental health play a crucial role in combating the life threatening disease. I begin my day with meditation. Yoga and aerobic exercises keep my body fit and full of energy for the whole day. Other activities such as reading books, playing indoor games and gossips with my family further strengthen my mental status. Routine school work assigned by the school teachers online aids me to cope up with my academics.Parneet Singh Grewal, DugriTime to pick up skillsStaying healthy, both physically and mentally, is an important part of growing up. Ever since the lockdown has been imposed, I have been exercising daily. I play outdoor games with my family. I have now got enough time to pick up skills that I couldn’t earlier such as cooking. I know that most people spend their time watching television and using their mobile phones, which is not bad, but we all must limit the use of electronic gadgets.Tanya Bajaj, New Janta NagarBegin the day with yogaI begin my day with yoga after which my sister and I learn to dance. I have incorporated green, leafy vegetables in my diet. Healthy cooking competitions are organised in my family. The whole family cooks healthy dishes and then shares pictures and recipes via the internet. In the evenings, we all indulge in laughter therapy.Vishali Kalra, via emailPractice meditationAmid the curfew, we all can stay fit by indulging in some physical activity. I introspect daily by practicing meditation. I spend quality time with family members, detoxify my thoughts and encourage myself to evolve and overcome challenges. Following the same routine that I used to in the gym, I workout in the midst of nature and take a healthy diet.Harpreet Sandhu, via emailTaking proper diet to stay fitDuring the lockdown, I have been exercising, dancing and practicing yoga. In order to stay fit and healthy, I have also been taking a proper diet. I have also been listening to motivational speeches which help me stay positive and mentally fit. Lavisha, via emailImportant to take regular breaks My routine starts with some basic exercises. I prefer eating light healthy meals as despite all the exercises and activities we perform, we spend most of our day relaxing. During the afternoon, I play badminton with my family members. Since due to the lockdown, a lot of professionals are working from home, which involves sitting in the same position for long hours, it is important to take regular breaks. Raghu Mahendru, via emailOpportunity to invest in selfWe spend most of our lives living for others; this is an opportunity for us to invest in ourselves. We must workout on a daily basis. Besides physical well-being, one must focus on emotional wellness which is also important. We must embrace each and every breath that we take.Kartika Singh, via emailCreate your own mini gardenStaying inside for the whole day is tough and can lead to health issues. It can be made fun by doing some simple and easy tasks such as jumping, climbing, running and sit-ups. Eating seasonal fruits and vegetables by washing them properly is essential to stay healthy. One can also help in household chores and cook food. For mental health, create your own mini-garden of flowers and vegetables. Jyoti Gupta, via emailIt’s our duty to take good care of our body as it stays with us forever. These days, people who are fond of fitness can be seen walking in their gardens, rooftops or lobbies. Some have their own private gym in their house and those who used to go to the gym are now working out at their homes with the help of online classes. Sweeping the floor is a very good exercise and so is washing clothes and utensils. The family members can divide the household work load among themselves. The most important tip during the lockdown is that we should eat healthy food and excess use of sugar and consumption of fried food must be avoided. Vikas Sharma, Kitchlu Nagar||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/start-stay-on-fitness-habit/story-gVI7BYCYVNsFeg5v5b1KMK.html
12-04-2020||City||COVID-19 outbreak: 15,568 screened in Amritsar on Day 1, one isolated at GNDH||The health department and district administration on Sunday checked 15,568 residents in Amritsar on the first day of the door-to-door screening to contain the Covid-19 outbreak.A 40-year old man of Amarkot area was admitted in the isolation ward of Guru Nanak Dev Hospital (GNDH) after he was found symptomatic of the coronavirus.The administration sent 42 medical teams, comprising accredited social health activist (ASHA) workers and auxiliary nurse midwifery (ANM) staff, to screen residents of Krishna Colony, Amarkot, Udham Singh Nagar, Tej Nagar, Mustafabad and Chanan Singh Nagar. The administration’s target is to screen 11,000 houses of the area in the next three days.“The medical teams covered 3,438 houses on the first day. In the Amarkot area, a man was found suffering from fever and cough. He did not want to reveal his illness but his wife admitted that he had fever and cough for the last few days. His samples were taken for testing. Amarkot locality is near to Krishna Nagar, where a 67-year-old man was tested positive on April 3,” said Amritsar civil surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore.“Also, a woman from same area was found suffering from mild fever. Since she was not found suffering from any other Covid-19 symptom, medication was provided to her and was told to home quarantine. Our medical teams will keep a close watch on her and if found symptomatic, she will also be admitted to GNDH,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-outbreak-15-568-screened-in-amritsar-on-day-1-one-isolated-at-gndh/story-g7LjpunmCsAq91nPLjbQmL.html
12-04-2020||City||20% corona patients above 60 in Punjab||CHANDIGARH: One in five persons infected with novel coronavirus (Covid-19) in Punjab is above 60 years of age, but they are the most high-risk group, accounting for a majority of infection-related deaths in the state.Of the 151 Covid-19 patients as on April 10, 35% are between the age of 41 and 60 years, according to information shared by the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Saturday. The next most-hit age bunch is between ages 21 and 40 comprising 32% of the coronavirus-infected persons in the state, followed by senior citizens who are above 60 and constitute 20% of the coronavirus patient group. Twenty-three patients, or 15%, of the infected persons are below 20 in the state with eight of them being below 10 years. A total of 23 corona patients have recovered so far in the state. An analysis of age-wise fatality or death rate (deaths as a percentage of who tested positive) shows that senior citizens fall in the maximum risk category due to their underlying medical ailments. This elderly lot accounts for 8, or 67%, of the 12 coronavirus-related deaths in Punjab. Of them, two are above the age of 70, with Raj Kumari of Mundi Kharar area of Mohali being the oldest victim of the infection.The 78-year-old woman had died at the civil hospital in Kharar on April 7, but samples taken after her death confirmed the infection on Friday. The average age of the patients who have died from Covid-19 so far is 64. Of the coronavirus patients, 56% are men while 44% are women whose proportion is quite high as compared to the all-India figure.Punjab health department’s Covid-19 official spokesperson Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said the main reason for high death rate among the elderly patients was the co-morbidities (pre-existing disease conditions) which along with coronavirus proved fatal.The most common co-ailments reported among those who died of novel coronavirus so far were hypertension, heart diseases and diabetes.CASES DOUBLED TO 150 IN 5 DAYSThe state’s coronavirus cases doubled in five days last week. The count of positive cases took 20 days to reach 75, but then doubled very quickly following a sudden surge in number of cases in Mohali’s Jawaharpur village with a population of 3,000, which is the latest hotspot in Punjab with 37 cases so far. There was a strong suspicion of Tablighi Jamaat connection, but nothing is confirmed so far. There are about 20 positive cases with jamaat link in the state, though.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/20-corona-patients-above-60-in-punjab/story-0uwoiHCv4jujduSqbYuIuM.html
12-04-2020||City||Loneliness deepens at old age homes, anxiety constant companion||Ludhiana: Lonely dinners with only two (from the earlier three) on a large table, a cut in the number of attendants, emotional turmoil, anxiety and desperately trying to find some solace in epics being re-telecast, these have come to define the lives of around 600 senior citizens putting up across 10 old age homes of the city. The managements of some of these homes also claim to be short of funds, as they had stocked up only till April 14, the original last day of the curfew in the state. “We try to maintain our spirit by singing songs and reciting poems, but boredom creeps in. We have been unable to take a walk and talk to people, our favourite pastime,” says a 72-year-old at one such facility, not wanting to be named. He adds that watching news channels scared him. A 77-year-old says, “The re-telecast of serials like Ramayana and Mahabharata is a solace.”Shruti Bansal, an office-bearer at Nishkam Sewa Ashram, Daad village, on Pakhowal Road, says, “We house 35 elderly. With visits to and fro the facility closed, we may fall short of funds, as we had made arrangements only till April 14.” Major general Hemant Joneja (retd), 60, general manager at Dreams and Beauty Charitable Trust, keeping the elderly engaged is a challenge. Joneja is looking after 300 elderly and 50 orphans at the facility named, Heavenly Palace in Doraha. “We used to celebrate collective birthdays, that practice has been curtailed. At meals, we have reduced the number of people to two from three. The number of attendants has also been cut. Inmates are very cooperative.” He added all persons and vehicles moving out for essential services were being disinfected upon re-entry. At the Swami Vivekananda Old Age Home in Model Town there are 60 inmates that Vivekananad Swarg Ashram Trust manages. Trust vice-president Sanjiv Bharti says apart from following all social distancing norms, two nurses were always available. ‘No one will come to hospital to care for me’Tarn Taran/Amritsar The fear of having no blood relative to take care of her of is what gnaws constantly at 71-year-old Kailash Kaur, one of the 65 inmates at Chief Khalsa Diwan-run Bhai Vir Singh Vridh Ghar (old-age home) in Tarn Taran for 15 years. “I am not afraid of dying. I don’t want to go to hospital because no one will come after me for my care,” says Kaur, adding that her husband had abandoned her as she could not bear a child. “Before the curfew was enforced in Punjab, seven inmates had gone to meet their relatives. They are not being allowed to return, till they get tested for covid-19 and are found negative,” said Gurbax Singh, 65, the superintendent of the home. “We have also instructed inmates not to come out of rooms, unless there is an emergency. Meals are delivered to their rooms. We have provided masks and sanitisers. Only three to four elderly persons are allowed at a time to go to the community hall for reading newspaper and books,” he adds. In Amritsar, none of the old age homes allowed access to HT. Col Darshan Singh Bawa (retd), administrator of one such institute running under the Pingalwara Charitable Society, told HT over phone, “No one is allowed inside and the inmates cannot go out. We allow the elderly to walk only within the Manawala campus.” He added, “Chairs in the common room have been rearranged and we take special concern for their diet. Dr Inderjit Kaur, chairperson of the society helps if they need routine medical help for minor ailments.”—Anil Sharma and Surjit Singh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/loneliness-deepens-at-old-age-homes-anxiety-constant-companion/story-Qx8QNLrdVwdWbz1f1P7QVI.html
12-04-2020||City||10 new cases in Punjab, 7 in Jalandhar||Ten more cases of coronavirus were reported in Punjab on Sunday, taking the total number of those infected by the disease in the state to 170.In Jalandhar district, seven persons tested positive. At 22 cases, the district tops the tally in the Doaba region, surpassing SBS Nagar which has 19 positive cases. Jalandhar now is second in the state followed by Mohali. The district also reported second death due to coronavirus after a 50-year-old man, Kuljit Kaur, who died on April 9, tested positive on Sunday. Her family members were kept under isolation and their samples were collected for testing. Kaur, a resident of Kotla Heeran village in Shahkot sub-division, was declared brought at ESI hospital but her samples were collected as she was symptomatic of Covid-19, health officials said. The victim’s husband had visited Dubai. The district administration sealed Kotla Heeran village and declared it a containment zone. The six other patients who tested positive are five family members of a 42-year-old woman patient who tested positive on Thursday. The five are her 51-year-old husband, 21-year-old son, niece (also 21), 60-year-old brother-in-law and 55-year-old sister-in-law.The sixth patient is a 19-year-old youth who is believed to have attended the Tabligi Jamaat congregation at Nizamuddin in Delhi. He is a resident of Talwandi Bhilla village in the Kartarpur area. The district administration has kept the teenager’s 42 close contacts under observation and their samples were being collected.Talwandi Bhilla was also sealed, said police. Jalandhar health department nodal officer Dr TPS Sandhu said a total of 400 samples were collected in the district so far. “Our teams have started tracing the contact history of the new positive cases. The health department is still clueless about the sources of infection of five positive cases and feared they were cases of community transmission. 3 test positive in Mohali hotspotIn Mohali, two women aged 58 and 80, and a 17-year-old girl were found positive in the state’s new coronavirus hotspot Jawaharpur village on Sunday, taking the total cases in the district to 54. The village now has 37 cases.The three cases from the village are from the houses belonging to the extended family of the sarpanch and panch of the village.Civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said the patients were moved to Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur. Around 23 reports, some of them from Jawaharpur, were awaited.3 more recover in SBS Nagar3 more patients of Covid-19, who were being treated in the isolation ward of the SBS Nagar district hospital, tested negative for second time and were declared as cured. With this, 13 of a total of 19 patients have recovered. Eight persons who recovered were discharged from the hospital.The officials said there are only 5 patients in the isolation centre in SBS Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/10-new-cases-in-punjab-7-in-jalandhar/story-YvJqwgNTdE7ewPik4NthhO.html
12-04-2020||City||Attack on cops: Nihang group head has a criminal past||PATIALAThe leader of the self-styled Nihangs group involved in the murderous attack on cops at the Sanaur vegetable market in Patiala early Sunday morning, in which an ASI’s hand was cut off, had unleashed a reign of terror at Balbera village. Baba Balwinder Singh had illegally occupied the village land for the past 20 years and had built a gurdwara, named Khichdi Sahib on it, say area residents. “It was a village pond and about 20 years back, Baba Balwinder, donning robes of a Nihang, emerged and propagated that a Sikh guru partook of khichdi at this place while he was on his way to Delhi. He took over village pond and set up the gurdwara,” said Thakur Singh Mann, a native of village Balbera. He said that the villagers opposed the move, but he managed to browbeat his opponents. Balwinder has a criminal background. He also grabbed land of a commission agent by terrorising and assaulting his family members, and later even struck compromise after an FIR was registered against him.Patiala senior superintendent of police Mandeep Singh Sidhu said three FIRs are already registered against Balwinder and his associates. “Balwinder and his aides were booked for attempt to murder in 2013 and a theft case was registered against him in 2010, in which untraceable report was filed. Similarly, in 2000, an FIR was registered against him for land grabbing and murder bid, in which he managed to strike a compromise with the opposite party. Police is ascertaining facts why the cases against him did not reach logical conclusion,” he said, adding that he might have threatened the witnesses and opposite parties to strike a compromise.“He also threatened me today when I asked him to surrender,” said the SSP. The police will also ask the revenue department to do demarcation of land of the gurdwara to ascertain the ownership.Area residents say Balwinder and his associates use to set their cattle free for grazing in agricultural fields of the people. They used to threaten and beat up people to crush opposing voices. “It is strange from where Balwinder and his aides were getting funds as Rs 37 lakh was recovered from the gurdwara. Police must probe this angle,” said an area resident. Meanwhile, Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Gobind Singh Longowal, former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal and finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal among others have condemned the attack on cops. Nihang organisation Budha Dal chief Baba Balbir Singh said the attackers were not Nihangs, but anti- social elements .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/attack-on-cops-nihang-group-head-has-a-criminal-past/story-kMbCxTAixu1Spy1BLdX9MJ.html
12-04-2020||City||17 ‘hotspots’ identified in 9 districts||CHANDIGARH The Punjab government on Sunday declared 17 areas in nine districts as “hotspots” for carrying out extensive screening and testing to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease that has infected 170 persons in the state.These hotspots, where two or more Covid-19 positive cases have been found since the Covid-19 outbreak, include six areas in SAS Nagar, two each in Amritsar, Jalandhar and Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, and one each in Hoshiarpur, Ludhiana, Mansa, Pathankot and Rupnagar.Among these areas, Jawaharpur village of Dera Bassi has the highest number of 37 cases followed by 15 in Sujanpur area of Pathankot, Pathlawa village of SBS Nagar district and six in Budhlada, Mansa district. The health department will carry out extensive testing with RT-PCR and rapid testing kits in these areas to break the chain of transmission, if any.Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, official spokesperson of health department for Covid-19, said screening of the entire population would be carried out in these hotspots for symptoms. “Testing with RT-PCR will be done for those who are symptomatic for less than seven days whereas rapid testing kits will be used to test those who are symptomatic for more than seven days,” he said.The state has been using the RT-PCR, or reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction, test on nasal or throat swab samples of suspected patients. Dr Bhaskar said the list of hotspots would keep changing depending on new positive cases and completion of screening in certain areas. These hotspots will be in addition to the containment zones identified by the district authorities.The rapid testing kits are, however, still not available. The state had requested the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for 10 lakh rapid testing kits and floated an inquiry in the open market for another 10,000 for extensive screening of people for coronavirus but these have not arrived so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/17-hotspots-identified-in-9-districts/story-ypklVS8PEghvjeblu4FK9L.html
12-04-2020||City||Covid-19: Day after, infected student’s close contacts screened at private varsity||The health department on Sunday started screening at a Phagwara-based private university of the close contacts of a 21-year-old girl student who was found positive for the coronavirus a day before. The blood samples of the student, who is pursuing bachelor of physiotherapy and hails from Maharashtra, were taken by the department on Friday after the varsity authorities found her symptomatic of Covid-19 during a routine check-up. The 21-year-old’s nearly 150 close contacts, including some students from Bhutan, were screened on Sunday. She has been kept in the isolation ward of the Kapurthala civil hospital and is stated to be stable.Health officials said the patient has no travel history as she has been living in the hostel for last two months along with her two roommates. “Her two roommates left for home on March 25 and March 27. We have informed the officials concerned in their area to take their blood samples,” civil surgeon Dr Jasmit Kaur Bawa said. The department has prepared a list of their close contacts, including 60 students in her hostel block and 15 staff members and mess workers whose blood samples will be taken.She said the suspected patients will be kept in quarantine in the university. Kapurthala deputy commissioner Dipti Uppal said all those present on the varsity campus, including around 2,000 students and 500 staff members, will be examined and no one will be allowed to move out till then. On Sunday, there was panic among students on the varsity campus and the health department teams and police had a tough time convincing them to cooperate for a screening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-day-after-infected-student-s-close-contacts-screened-at-private-varsity/story-0PuuTeasevNXDJVoqXfo1H.html
12-04-2020||Lucknow||UP to explore partial resumption of activities, Yogi sets up panels||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday evening announced that the state was looking for a partial resumption of construction, agriculture, drinking water consolidation, revenue, MSME, industrial and education activities from April 15 onwards following Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s stress on ‘jaan bhi, jahan bhi’ (both life and livelihood). The chief minister, however, made it quite clear that educational institutions will not reopen anytime soon. The prime minister had announced a 21-day nationwide lockdown, which began on March 25 and would end on April 14, unless it is extended.The chief minister also announced several committees under ministers that will think and draw a roadmap for resumption of activities.“The ministers will start sitting in their respective offices and all officers from the level of special secretary will resume going to their offices from April 15,” Adityanath said. They will also decide categories of other staff who need to begin attending office.“From April 14, we will start sending home people who are in shelter homes completing the 14-day isolation. They will be medically checked for symptoms once again and if cleared medically, we will send them home with an advisory of another 14-day isolation at their homes. Considering that these people should not face any problem for food for their 14-day home quarantine, we will give them food packets of grains,” the chief minister said.“After the lockdown, this was the first time that the cabinet ministers, in such large number, had a meeting where they were physically present. Nineteen cabinet-level ministers met. Others could not come because of the lockdown as they are in their home districts,” he said.“At this evening’s meeting, we discussed the lockdown and what all could be after the lockdown,” the chief minister said.“We will have to continue working with the same alertness as we did till now. And we had a consensus on following PM Modi’s idea of ‘Jaan bhi, Jahan bhi (Life and livelihood--both). We not only have to contain coronavirus and save lives, but also have to return to normalcy. We have to take steps to return to normal activities so that we don’t face problems. We have constituted a committee each under over different ministers. The committees will find ways for resumption of activities,” he said.The committee chaired by deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maruya will explore to what extent resumption of activities can be allowed in construction, especially roads, expressways, and big ticket project by maintaining social distancing and safety.The committee under deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma will decide on online syllabus of various courses form school to higher education level so that education does not suffer.“For maintaining social distancing, it is important not to reopen schools and colleges,” he said. The committee headed by finance minister Suresh Khanna will think about ways to start revenue generation, MSME sector, and industrial activities.Agriculture minister Surya Pratap Shahi’s committee will work on the problems and issues related to farmers.“We would like to explore maximise procurement from farms or through farmers and, at the same time, ensure minimum support price for farmers,” Yogi said.The committee headed by health minister Jai Pratap Singh would decide how to resume critical care and emergency services like dialysis, radiotherapy, chemotherapy, cardiac-care, neuro-related ailments. It will also work on the safety of doctors, health workers engaged in Covid-19 treatment.Jal shakti minister Mahendra Singh’s committee will work on how water supply is to be maintained to people--all the more when the temperature has begun rising, especially in the water-scarce areas like Vindhyachal or Bundelkhand.The committee chaired by labour minister Swami Prasad Maurya will look into labour welfare issues and the one under social welfare minister Ramapati Shastri will work on scholarships and pensions under his department.Similarly, the committee under the rural development minister Moti Singh will work on rural sanitation, while urban development minister Ashutosh Tandon’s committee will oversea urban sanitation. NO PUBLIC EVENTSLUCKNOW Chief minister Yogi Adityanath said though there were many festivities lined up this month, it was important not to have public functions.Some of the events and observances scheduled this month are Khalsa Panth foundation related to the Sikh community on April 13-14, or Baisakhi, Ambedkar Jayanti (April 14) and the beginning of Ramzan (April 23).Any public event might spread infection, he cautioned. The district administration would seek help of religious leaders, he said.On Ambedkar Jayanti, people will pay tribute to the late leader by garlanding his portrait in offices or homes, the chief minister advised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-to-explore-partial-resumption-of-activities-yogi-sets-up-panels/story-GwlQ2Kof26eEMVj2I6Y72N.html
12-04-2020||Lucknow||34 non-Covid districts in UP may get some relaxations||Thirty-four UP districts, where no coronavirus cases have been found so far, are likely to get relaxations, but their borders with other districts or states may still remain sealed as an extra precaution.“Thirty-four of the total 75 districts have not reported any corona positive cases and we may allow relaxations to people in such districts though inter-district and inter-state borders may still remain sealed,” chief secretary Rajendra Kumar Tiwari said.Tiwari also said UP would take a call on extension of the lockdown only after the Centre made an official announcement on the nationwide curbs.“The prime minister had a video conference with states on Saturday to take their suggestions. While some states have on their own announced extension of the lockdown, we would like to wait for the Central government’s instructions in this regard before we take a call,” he said.While 41 districts of Uttar Pradesh are in the grip of the deadly Covid-19 that has already infected 483 persons there, 34 of the 75 districts have managed to keep the Sars-Cov-2 virus at bay.According to the chief secretary, the coronavirus could not spread its tentacles to 34 districts largely because none in these districts was found to have come in contact with anyone returning from abroad, unlike in other 41 districts where the disease spread after one person or the other came in close physical contact with someone with a foreign travel history.“Moreover, the lockdown and sealing of inter-state and inter-district borders helped,” he said.Additional director (communicable diseases) Dr RK Gupta made a similar observation.“Thirty-four districts have remained safe so far because no one with a foreign travel history was found to have returned to these districts,” he said.“Neither have any Tablighi Jamaatis, who attended the Nizamuddin Markaz, been found in these districts so far,” he added.Foreign travellers and the Jamaatis, Gupta pointed out, had been found to the major source of Covid-19 transmission to others.Tiwari also said the government was considering giving some relaxations to various sectors to unleash economic activities in the state.“Industries and some other commercial establishments may get an exit from the lockdown with certain conditions, including mandatory compliance of rules related to social distancing and wearing masks,” he said.“The idea is to restore economic activities in the state while at the same time containing the disease,” he said.He said the staff of some government and semi-government departments may be asked to resume duty, with certain restrictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/34-non-covid-districts-may-get-some-relaxations/story-oVhnfpcCwVG27gEtQrlwnK.html
12-04-2020||Mumbai||Lockdown: Special slots for elderly to buy groceries at Thane society||At Edenwoods Co-operative Housing Society Limited at Thane, biometric access at the entry of around five buildings, have been disabled for more than three weeks now. The management has also provided special slots for the elderly to buy groceries. Currently, vegetables are being ordered twice a week for all the residents. They are asked to come in slots to a particular spot near the clubhouse to purchase their essentials. However, a separate slot is allotted for senior citizens, so that they don’t have to stand in a queue.“Very few of them step out of the complex to buy groceries. We have also tied up with a supermarket to deliver products. We have kept special slots for senior citizens as we did not want to cause inconvenience to them, we have kept special slots for them,” said TN Raghunathan, secretary of the housing federation.The management has also disabled the biometric access as a precautionary measure to rule out the possibility of contracting the virus by touching the surface.“Some of the most common surfaces where people are expected to touch frequently, such as lift buttons, are being sanitised over three to four times a day. Earlier, the biometric was suspended only during the morning hours, but then we decided that it should be completely suspended,” said Raghunathan. The federation consists of 18 housing societies and one commercial building, comprising 800 flats, and more than 3,500 residents. Office bearers of the federation said that they needed to shut all the common areas such as football court, swimming pool and gymnasium, among others, as soon as the state government had asked such facilities to be shut. Currently, the residents have been requested to not even step down for walks, even though social distancing norms are being followed. “A case of a family being tested positive was reported from a nearby building, which is when we had to put in place stringent measures. Even those who had come from abroad, were asked to stay quarantined for 14 days,” said an office-bearer of the federation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/lockdown-special-slots-for-elderly-to-buy-groceries-at-thane-society/story-WsmTzXyn0NxuVZXnN5RupM.html
12-04-2020||Mumbai||Lockdown: Andheri society provides essentials to house help||Two societies in Andheri have implemented ways to not just ensure the safety and well-being of their housekeeping staff, but have also raised money to contribute towards the safety of the society at large.At Prathamesh Residency in Andheri (West), the society members have jointly decided to not only pay salary to their maids and housekeeping staff but also to provide them with ration for a month. “We all need to extend help to people around us. After holding a discussion with the society members, everyone readily agreed to contribute for their respective maids,” said Ruiee Kapoor, a resident of the society. She added that other than paying their house helps, society members, have also contributed money to collect safety gear for the health workers. “One of our society members has already donated 700 Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits to the BMC. The rest of us have collected over ₹45,000 to donate for the cause,” she added.The Metropolis society in Four Bungalows, Andheri (W), has struck a deal with the farmers of a small village in Satara district to ensure that their yield doesn’t go waste, and at the same time, society members get all the vegetables they need without having to step out of the premises.“We first contacted the local joint registrar’s office, to find out if any farmers in the state were willing to sell vegetables directly to the society members. Later, we sent a list of requirements to the point of contact in that village. We had the vegetables reach our doorstep the next day,” said Sudha Shenoy, a resident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/lockdown-andheri-society-provides-essentials-to-house-help/story-ATtAmBa8oz2DmVsWlBRtxN.html
12-04-2020||Mumbai||Govt, industry to support 13 innovations that may help battle Covid-19||Amid Covid-19 spreading in areas across the country and the likelihood of community transmission, remote vital parameter monitoring systems and cold chain transport of viral swab samples in far-flung locations are among the 13 near deployment-ready products are set to get speedy support from the government and industry for speedy integration of the products into existing healthcare system.These innovations including ventilators, air-and-surface sanitisers and gadget sanitisation methods have been chosen by an initiative led by Bengaluru-based Centre for Cellular and Molecular Platforms (C-CAMP) called Covid-19 Innovations Deployment Accelerator (C-CIDA).“These indigenous innovations that have been gestating over the past eight or nine years are now emerging as solutions that are timely, affordable and effective. C-CIDA will facilitate immediate uptake of these innovations by the government and private sectors after customary certifications, and scale up support wherever necessary,” said Dr Taslimarif Saiyed, director and chief executive officer of C-CAMP, an initiative of Department of Biotechnology, Ministry of Science and Technology.HT gives a glimpse of the start-ups and products:Portable VentilatorsRespirAid by Biodesign Innovation Labs, Bengaluru is a low-cost portable, emergency and transport ventilation system. It is an automated respiratory assist device for critical patients. Jeevan Lite by Aerobiosys Innovations, Hyderabad, another portable ventilator, is Internet of Things (IoT)-enabled which allows real-time transfer of data and remote operation. It can also work on battery and can be deployed in areas with erratic power supply.Remote monitoringMedIoTek Health Systems Pvt Ltd, Chennai; Cardiac Design Labs, Bengaluru; Nemocare, Hyderabad; and Dozee, Bengaluru are four start-ups that offer remote monitoring with a unified central platform especially in isolation wards and quarantine facilities. Air purifier and sanitisation gadgetsLeafBox Technologies, Bengaluru has developed UVC (ultraviolet C) based air purifier and steriliser box. While the purifier covers 900sqft area, the steriliser box sanitizes gadgets and medical instruments.Bengaluru-based Biomoneta has developed Zebox, which is a standalone plug-and-play decontamination technology for hospitals designed to trap and kill microbes in up to 150 sqft area within 10 minutes.Clensta Technologies, Delhi offers a waterless, antiseptic and antimicrobial rub that can kill viruses within minutes.Preventative interventions by Omicsgen Life Sciences Pvt Ltd, Kerala; and OMG Innovations LLP, Delhi have created gadget smart wipe and herbal, antimicrobial and antiviral sanitising air spray respectively. Cold chainBlackfrog Technologies Pvt Ltd, Manipal; and Tessol-Thermal Energy Service Solutions, Navi Mumbai offer temperature-controlled medical grade cold chain system that can ensure viral swab samples remain viable for longer, thus ensuring swab tests can be done from remote areas too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/govt-industry-to-support-13-innovations-that-may-help-battle-covid-19/story-WlpzQ4OfpYJ1XCIzMv95gI.html
12-04-2020||City||6-month-old returns home after battling disease||A six-month-old boy, who was the youngest from Kalyan to be contract Covid-19, returned home on Saturday evening after he was discharged from hospital. Neighbours welcomed him with claps and blowing whistles, a video of which went viral on social media. A local said, “We were worried for the baby. When he returned after battling the disease, it was a relief.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/6-month-old-returns-home-after-battling-disease/story-25HDps2d9t5CY2sDYyFukO.html
12-04-2020||City||2K in quarantine, Badholi keeping its fingers crossed||Most Uttar Pradesh villages cannot claim to have a population equal to the number of migrants who have returned to Badholi — a village in Bahriach district — before the states sealed their borders after the lockdown was imposed due to coronavirus scare.“Over 2,000 migrants have returned to their homes in Badholi and all are under home quarantine as advised by government doctors,” said Mohammed Hasib, representative of the village head.Hasib’s daughter-in-law Salma is the village head.“With such a large number of migrants under quarantine, our village is likely to remain on tenterhooks till April 15 when the isolation period for the most would end,” said Hasib, himself a migrant with a fruit and vegetable juice shop in New Delhi.He is not under quarantine as he came back to village two months back.“We are not taking any chance at all,” said Hasib, who just entered the village on his motorcycle after checking on the health status of migrants in Tipra hamlet of Badhouli village.The village has four more hamlets--Jahanpurwa, Paranpur, Kaharanpur, and Mandhatapur.“We, in coordination with the health department of the district, have twice sanitized the village by disinfectant sprays. We do not let villagers sit together in groups,” said Hasib.Soap cakes are now present at all the village handpumps, taps, and toilets.“Today, when we opened the ration distribution at this Public Distribution System (PDS) shop, of which we are the contractors, a ration card holder refused to stand in the social distance circle that we have drawn for queues. He refused to stand in the circle and dismissed the idea of washing hands before standing in the queue. He tried to play smart, calling it ‘tamasha’. We refused to give him a ration and asked him to come back on the last day of the distribution. He grumbled and went back,” said Jaseen Ahmed, 30.“Allah na karey, yeh bimari phailey (We pray to almighty to prevent the spread of the disease). I am adhering to the quarantine. But, most of the home isolation people do sit outside our houses in the sun. We understand that soaking up the sun, eating a healthy diet, and rest is healthy in these times of coronavirus,” said Tauheed Ahmed, 45, a migrant with a juice shop in Delhi.Under home quarantine, he claimed he had walked the first 250 km from Delhi and was lucky to get a lift on a goods carrier for the rest of the distance. The distance between Delhi and Bahraich is 680 km.The village is Muslim dominated.According to 2011 census, it had a total population at 5,500. “But now, we are estimated 7,000 and 5,500 of this are Muslims,” said Hasib.Because of the high number of migrants in the village, the district administration has set up a quarantine facility at the newly-built Government Girls School in nearby village Bashiya Patey in Jarwal tehsil. “The facility has been set up to lodge anyone who shows coronavirus symptoms. We have ten beds and a kitchen and have a capacity to expand it to 200 beds,” said Om Chand Verma, the Bashiya Patey village head on a visit to inspect the facility.The facility is unbelievably clean with beds complete with neat new mattresses, pillows, and quilts. The kitchen has a cooking stove, large cauldrons, ration, cooking oil, vegetables, and a lot of ‘Dettol’ soaps.Dr Nikhil Singh, superintendent doctor for Jarwal, said: “We are closely monitoring village Badholi. We send a doctor every two days, and our village level health volunteers are monitoring the migrants.”So far, the district has not reported any positive case.Laman Ahmed, 36, who has a juice shop in Alwar district of Rajasthan, is also under quarantine. He said: “When we were stranded, on March 24, requested the Alwar district administration to give us a travel permit. They permitted and then we hired a goods carrier vehicle from Alwar to Bahraich for Rs 20,300. As many as 24 people came on it.”Most of the migrants in this village have fruit-vegetable juice shops in Delhi, Rajasthan, and Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2k-in-quarantine-badholi-keeping-its-fingers-crossed/story-gRmP74qD2tfhOt979gyZuM.html
12-04-2020||Pune||Two Pune rural police officials suspended for smuggling gutkha||Two officials of Pune rural police were dismissed from duty after they were found smuggling gutkha in a car in a village in Pune district.The two have been identified as Hanif Ibrahimbhai Tamboli, 57, and Kishor Dnyandev Dhavde, 19, both attached to the Shirur police station in Pune rural police jurisdiction.They were suspended based on orders passed by Sandeep Paptil, superintendent of Pune rural police under Article 311(2)(b) of the Constitution of India.The two were caught driving a red Swift Dzire at 12:30am on Saturday in Manjarwadi village in Junnar. Gutkha worth Rs 30,000 was found in the car by patrol officials.They had procured the gutkha from Irfan Jamid Momin, 41, a resident of Ale phata in Junnar, according to the police.A case under Sections 272, 273, 168, 188, 269, 270 of Indian Penal Code along with Section 11 of Covid19 Regulations, 2020, Section 2, 3, and 4 of Epidemic Act and Section 51(2) of Disaster Management Act along with Section 26(2), 26(4), 30(2), 30(a) of Food Safety and Standards Act, 2006 was registered at Junnar police station in the matter on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/two-pune-rural-police-officials-suspended-for-smuggling-gutkha/story-Usp1aSQGXsrFIpvWv4QUTN.html
12-04-2020||Pune||Two die in PMC, first death reported in PCMC on Sunday||Two deaths due to Covid-19 (coronavirus) were reported in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Sunday, while the first casualty was reported in Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC). The first casualty in Pimpri-Chinchwad is a 45-year-old male from Hinjewadi who tested positive for Covid-19 on April 9. He was admitted to the YCM Hospital and was critical, according to officials.Two other female patients died in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) jurisdiction on Sunday at the Sassoon General Hospital. The first case was a 58-year old woman from Sangamwadi area who tested positive for Covid-19 and was admitted at Sassoon on April 9, while the second case was of a 56-year-old woman from Somwar peth who was admitted on April 5 to Sassoon hospital. Both the patients had comorbid conditions and had high blood pressure, according to officials.The death toll in Pune district now stands at 32. On Sunday, 19 new cases were reported in Pune city, taking the total number of positive cases to 255 till Sunday 9pm. Out of the total 255 positive patients, 241 are in PMC area, 12 patients from Pune rural and 2 patients from Pune cantonment area.“On April 12, PMC has appointed Bharati Medical College and Hospital as a delegated Covid centre with 110 isolation beds, 25 step down and 15 ICU isolation beds. Admission, testing and critical management of patients will be functioning from tomorrow April 13 at this hospital,” said Dr Ramchandra Hankare, PMC medical health officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/two-die-in-pmc-first-death-reported-in-pcmc-on-sunday/story-O8CKeTbvmTDZzPC11sQpfM.html
12-04-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai Fire Dept uses mist blowing machine to disinfect Dharavi amid rising Covid-19 cases||Fire Department officials used Protector 600, an advanced level ariel mist blowing machine in Mumbai’s Dharavi slum area on Sunday to disinfect the locality, in a bid to curb the rising Covid-19 cases.Dharavi area Sunday reported 15 more Covid-19 cases, taking the total number of coronavirus cases in the locality to 43, the state health department said. There has been four deaths in the area.On Sunday, as many as 134 more coronavirus cases have been reported in Maharashtra, taking the total count of Covid-19 cases in the state to 1895.Out of the total cases, 113 have been found in Mumbai, 4 in Pune, seven in Mira Bhayandar, two each in Navi Mumbai, Thane and Vasai Virar and one each in Raigad, Amravati, Bhiwandi and Pimpri-Chinchwad.According to the Union Health Ministry, with an increase of 918 cases in the last 24 hours, the tally of the country’s novel coronavirus cases increased to 8447 on Sunday. Of these, 764 have been cured and discharged, and 273 have succumbed to the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-fire-dept-uses-mist-blowing-machine-to-disinfect-dharavi-amid-rising-covid-19-cases/story-oHexb31PZD0rRPK9X1ZNDN.html
12-04-2020||Mumbai||156 foreigners booked for violating visa rules||The Maharashtra government has booked 156 foreigners for violating visa rules and initiated investigation against them. All of them have been kept in government quarantine facility as they had attended the Tablighi Jamaat event at Nizamuddin in Delhi in March. The state has also cancelled their visas, the state home minster Anil Deshmukh said on Sunday. Of them, maximum 37 are from Indonesia, Kyrgyzstan 19, Myanmar 18, Bangladesh 13, Tanzania 11 etc.He said that they have been booked under section 14 B of The Foreigners’ Act 1946 and section 188, 269, 270 of the Indian Penal Code. Total of 15 cases have been registered comprising Mumbai, Thane, Navi Mumbai, Amravati, Nanded, Nagpur, Pune, Ahmednagar, Chandrapur and Gadchiroli.“They have come to India on tourist visa and attended religious congregation which is against visa rules. We have also cancelled their visas,” the home minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/156-foreigners-booked-for-violating-visa-rules/story-QF2YRPykY6Jc4C3N9qSY8N.html
12-04-2020||Mumbai||Samaritans booked for distributing food while violating distance norms||The Oshiwara police have booked seven people for violating social distancing norms while distributing food on Saturday. According to the police while patrolling they spotted huge public gathering at Pathan wadi. They learnt that a group was distributing food to the needy, but they were not maintaining the stipulated distance required.The officer said, “We had asked the group to go to the doorsteps of the needy and hand over the food to them. Despite warning, they gathered around 150-200 people without maintaining distance among themselves.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/samaritans-booked-for-distributing-food-while-violating-distance-norms/story-wfZVkfr1dUV5GeI7c8eOTJ.html
12-04-2020||Mumbai||No fixed rate in power bills for commercial/industrial users for three months||State energy minister Nitin Raut in a press note on Sunday said industrial and commercial consumers will not be charged the fixed rate component for three months in view of the lockdown. The amount for the same will be adjusted in the next bill released without any penalties levied on customers, Raut said. Considering the lockdown, the Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC) has asked all utilities departments to not charge fixed rates for industrial and commercial consumers for three months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/no-fixed-rate-in-power-bills-for-commercial-industrial-users-for-three-months/story-ax0olQpYpsbvFqEWQ5dOXJ.html
12-04-2020||City||Important to make informed choices when buying hand sanitizers||If there is one product that Covid -19 has really popularized, that is the now ubiquitous hand sanitiser. Be it elevators or grocery shops, entrances of housing colonies or police stations, sanitisers have now earned the pride of place. Yes, Covid 19 has done what no amount of advertisements could have achieved- it has made the sanitiser a product known across all sections, including the poorest of poor. The virus has also brought about considerable competition in the retail sanitiser market, where earlier just three or four FMCG brands ruled the roost. Today, many pharmaceutical companies that supplied to the health sector, have stared catering to the retail consumer too, thereby ensuring regular supply at government mandated prices.In the coming days, consumers can expect an even wider choice, with a number of manufacturers entering the expanding sanitiser market. Increased choice also makes it imperative that consumers know more about this product, so as to make an informed purchase.If you look at the label information on sanitisers in the market, you will notice that they basically fall into two categories — those with alcohol as the active ingredient and those which are non-alcohol based. Since experts advocate the use of only alcohol-based sanitisers for protection against Covid-19, let’s look at only those. Here again, you will notice that the main ingredient could be ethyl alcohol ( ethanol) or isopropyl alcohol ( isopropanol.)Both are equally effective, say pharmacologists and virologists. Some studies have indicated that ethanol has a stronger and broader virucidal activity compared to isoproponal in respect of some non-enveloped viruses. However, a more recent study comparing the virucidal activity of two World Health Organization recommended formulations — one based on ethanol and the other based on isopropanol — found the latter to have a higher virucidal activity against enveloped viruses. Covid-19 is an ‘enveloped virus’. The two formulations were tested against Zika virus , Ebola virus , severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS-CoV), and Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV)The study, titled “Virucidal Activity of World Health Organization–Recommended Formulations Against Enveloped Viruses, Including Zika, Ebola, and Emerging Coronaviruses” and published in the Journal of Infectious Diseases in 2017, analyzed the virucidal efficacies of both alcohols, particularly against emerging and re-emerging viruses that caused severe epidemics. It concluded that both the WHO formulations were effective against enveloped viruses, demonstrating that both can be used in outbreaks associated with viral infections.Viruses, which come in many shapes and sizes, are enclosed in a protein coat called Capsid. In some viruses the Capsid is surrounded by an envelope composed of a lipid bylayer- the latter are called enveloped viruses. Alcohol destroys them by denaturing their proteins and dissolving the lipids . According to the Centres for Disease Control and Prevention, USA, alcohol concentration of 60-95 per cent are more effective than those with lower alcohol concentration or non-alcohol based hand sanitizers. It therefore recommends a minimum of 60 per cent alcohol The WHO formulation for use in health care suggests 80 per cent ethyl alcohol or 75 per cent iosopropyl alcohol . There are studies showing that enveloped viruses are extremely vulnerable to 70 per cent alcohol. So look for those with 70 per cent alcohol.Sanitisers come in liquid, gel and foam formats and you could choose any of them , based on your personal preference because a study published in the Journal of Hospital Infection in September 2017 says that there was no difference in the anti-bacterial efficacy of sanitisers in all the three formats. Alcohols are bactericidal, fungicidal and virucidal. However, they are not effective against bacterial spores and protozoan oocystsLastly, it is also important to check whether the bottle of sanitizer has a proper closure to prevent leakage and also evaporation, so that the initial concentration is preserved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/important-to-make-informed-choices-when-buying-hand-sanitizers/story-EYxCn76S36s3S1ccdK77XI.html
12-04-2020||Pune||Two fire incidents in Balewadi within 24 hours||Three people were booked and two arrested for distributing gas illegally and causing a fire incident that damaged five shops in its vicinity in Balewadi on Friday night.In a tin shed, the owner and employee of Namrata Gas Agency were filling up small gas cylinders from a bigger cylinder to gain a profit margin, according to the police.At 11:10pm on Friday, when the two were filling gas into the small cylinders, one caught fire and the entire operation went up in flames. While no casualties were reported, the blaze caused damage to five neighbouring shops and the electricity pole near it.A case under Sections 285, 286, 435 and 34 of Indian Penal Code along with Section 3 and 7 of Essential Commodity Act was registered at Chatuhshrungi police station.The gas agency blaze was the second incident in Balewadi area within 24 hours. On Saturday night, five workers of a restaurant were injured in a gas leak that led to a blaze opposite Balewadi High Street.“They were in the restaurant, where they work, to cook and eat as they did not have anything to cook at their house. They detected the gas leak and switched off the main line. However, they did not realise that the gas had already filled up the place. As one of them switched on a lighter, the room went up in flames and the one standing near the shutter was thrown out on impact,” said Hawaldar Deepak Dhabekar who was among the first people to respond to the incident.The security team of Panchshil Group who was near the Cummins building located nearby helped the police douse the fire before the fire brigade reached.“They were quick to provide us the support as we all thought there were others stuck inside. Fortunately, the four others found their way out from the back exit,” said Dhabekar.While four of the injured were from West Bengal, one was a native of Maharashtra. While one of them was rushed to Jupiter hospital, the others were taken to Mediplex Polyclinic. However, they were all later moved to Surya Sahyadri Hospital where they are undergoing treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/two-fire-incidents-in-balewadi-within-24-hours/story-abJW82cA2pNHwGjSMJtlrI.html
12-04-2020||Chandigarh||Flower industry in Himachal hit hard as lockdown dries up business||The lockdown imposed to contain the spread of coronavirus has adversely impacted the flower industry in the state. Facing issues with transportation and labour, floriculturists have no other alternative left but to give flowers as fodder to animals. “Last year, our co-operative society sold flowers worth ₹2 crore and this year, the lockdown has taken a heavy toll on our business. Flowers are just drying up in the fields and are being used as fodder for domestic animals,” said Ramgopal Thakur, a farmer in Sairi village. The villagers in and around Shimla grow flowers and off-season vegetables for their livelihood.Nearly 10,000 farmers grow flowers to earn a livelihood. Delhi’s Ghazipur is the main flower market for floriculturists in the state. The flowers are also supplied to vendors in Jawalamukhi, Brijeshwari, Chamunda in Kangra district and Chintpurni in Una district. Naina Devi shrine in Bilaspur also witnesses a heavy rush of devotees. The demand for flowers is more during Navratras. “Many members of Mahakali flowers and agricultural marketing co-operative society in Jubberhatti who are dependent on floriculture have suffered huge losses,” said Nitin Thakur, secretary of the cooperative society. Soon, stone fruits will be ready and due to unavailability of packaging materials farmers are concerned that their produce might get wasted,” said CPI( M) leader and Kisan Sabha member Sanjay Chauhan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/flower-industry-in-himachal-hit-hard-as-lockdown-dries-up-business/story-CMVQnD56IMvP3TU66tyYpK.html
12-04-2020||City||PMC starts control room to monitor, handle Covid-19 deaths||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has formed a dedicated cell to monitor and handle Covid-19 (coronavirus) deaths. According to officials, a control room has been started with members of PMC, Pune Regional Transport Office (RTO) and Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML).Shantanu Goyal, PMC additional commissioner (special), in an order issued on April 11 has, said, “A procedure has been fixed for the last rites of the patients who die due to Covid-19 and its responsibilities have also been fixed. In PMC jurisdiction, the demand for dead body ambulance service is high and so, a control room has been formed for the same.”“Officials will work round the clock in the control room and eight dead body ambulances are in service. Once instructions are given by the PMC or state health officials about a deceased Covid-19 patient, officers from the control room will coordinate with the ambulance driver to take the body to the crematorium,” he said.Contact detailsIf a Covid-19 deceased patient has to be taken to the crematorium, contact the control room– 020 24503211 / 12||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pmc-starts-control-room-to-monitor-handle-covid-19-deaths/story-Uje7gJqfLio3PACh5ZROkI.html
12-04-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Delhi awaits antibody kits to launch aggressive testing||The Delhi government has decided to scale up rapid tests for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), senior government officials familiar with the matter said, and is waiting for the antibody test kits that were due to arrive on Friday to start more aggressive and random testing in all containment zones across the city. Delhi has 33 containment zones, which includes lanes and localities across the city. Two of these -- Nizamuddin Basti and Dilshad Garden -- are designated virus hot spots. Officials said that the government has roped in eight medical institutes to oversee the testing process in different parts of the Capital, which is divided into 11 revenue districts.The random tests will be done using rapid antibody kits – these are capable of showing results within 20-30 minutes – and the sample size will depend on the size of each containment zones, said a senior officer in the health department who asked not to be named.While some containment zones in Delhi consist of a single building, plot or lane, few others include mazes of lanes and even arterial roads. The area of each containment zone was demarcated on the basis of cases recorded, a threat assessment, and an expected rate of transmission given the geography of the locality.By random sampling, the government intends to take the testing exercise beyond individuals who have a travel history to Covid-19 affected countries, or the direct contacts of individuals who have tested positive so far.According to Jugal Kishore, head of the community medicines department in Safdarjung Hospital, who is leading one team concerning the monitoring of the rapid test exercise about to start in containment zones, said that the primary objective of the scheme is “an accurate assessment of the burden of the disease” and “containment of community transmission”.“In each containment zone, patients with severe acute respiratory illnesses (SARI) will be prioritised for the test. The rest of the sample size would be random in nature,” Kishore added.In an interview to HT last week, health minister Satyendar Jain had said that 100,000 rapid testing kits were ordered, and that these would be used to conduct tests starting with the two hots pots and then among health care workers, which include doctors, nurses, orderlies and sanitation employees.The government has now decided to expand this to all containment zones. Till Sunday afternoon, Delhi recorded 1,069 Covid-19 cases, including 19 deaths.In the same interview, Jain had said that the government was also looking at “pool testing”, in which the samples of several people could be mixed before testing so that the process of eliminating those who don’t have Covid-19 could be speeded up.On April 7, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said that the Union government had allotted 27,000 rapid testing kits for Delhi and the batch would arrive by April 10.“It has not happened yet. We checked with the ICMR (Indian Council for Medical Research) because the kits have to come through them. They said that even they have not received the allotted batch. We are expecting the kits this week,” said second officer in the health department who spoke on condition of anonymity.Unlike the RT-PCR test currently in use that detects the virus’s genetic material (RNA) in throat swabs to diagnose a current Covid-19 infection, rapid antibody tests indicate if a person has been infected in the past and has developed and immunity to the virus. Experts say they can also be used as a screening test for the infection -- antibodies typically show up a week after the infection.The simple blood test (samples can be collected by just a finger prick) which takes 15-20 minutes to give results, identifies people who were infected at least a week before the test, and also those who were infected but never diagnosed, helping map undetected infections and giving the correct extent of the spread of the disease.Charoo Hans, former head of the microbiology department at the Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, said: “It is essential to prioritise testing of households with SARI cases and other possible contacts, such as people providing essential services in those containment areas. However, as asymptomatic individuals can also test positive for Covid-19 it is also essential to test these individuals on random basis. Data generated by such studies will help in understanding the burden of disease and the possibility of community transmission.”Community transmission is the third of the four stages of the spread of an infectious disease. The first is travel history, the second is local transmission, the third is community transmission, and the fourth is epidemic. India has so far maintained that the disease is in the second stage, or between stage two and stage three with “limited community transmission” in some clusters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-delhi-awaits-antibody-kits-to-launch-aggressive-testing/story-iKmVbzLVGOTSQdw8hwT9iI.html
12-04-2020||Chandigarh||HP to be divided into six zones for lockdown exit plan: Jai Ram||Himachal Pradesh will be divided into six zones as a part of the strategy to end COVID-19 lockdown, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said on Sunday.A staggered exit plan is required to restore normalcy and economic activities simultaneously while taking care of monetary and food requirements of vulnerable sections of the society, the CM said while presiding over a meeting with senior officials here. “As per the threat perception and cases found in Himachal Pradesh, the state will be divided into six zones including a red zone, four orange zones and a green zone for drafting exit plan from COVID-19 lockdown. The exit plan will be prepared keeping in view the health and economic variables,” he said.The CM said the exit plan will be initiated only when there is initial flattening of coronavirus curve followed by tapering of the curve with the tendency to reach a ‘stage zero’ infection.He said the identified hot spots will be entirely isolated from other parts. Supply of food and other essential commodities will be entrusted to the police and local administration, he added.Thakur said the capacity of the state’s health care system, number of personnel discharging essential services and medical professionals against the epidemic during the days to come and capacity to build resilience against the diseases will be taken into consideration. Similarly, on the economic front, effectiveness in preventing spread and impact of the current lockdown on the state’s economy and its likely extension, impact on poor and other vulnerable sections and fiscal capacity to compensate the vulnerable sections will also be taken into consideration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hp-to-be-divided-into-six-zones-for-lockdown-exit-plan-jai-ram/story-o1iFHgVozNKFCHzw7lEKXJ.html
12-04-2020||Chandigarh||Illegal sand mining poses threat to Uri’s oldest power project||Rampant illegal sand mining being taken up in large scale, on Jhelum River poses a grave threat to 105MW Lower Jhelum Hydroelectric Project (LJHP), officials of the electricity department said on Sunday.“The mafia is extracting the sand near the project which is posing a serious threat to the power project and the dam as well. It can lead to catastrophic damage to the project anytime,” said Abdul Rashid Bhat, executive engineer of the project.He said though they have blocked the passage leading to the project, the mining still continues on the riverbed. “We have taken up the issue with the district administration in Baramulla,” he said.In October last year, the department took up the matter with Baramulla deputy commissioner following which the DC issued the orders of banning the illegal extraction of sand and directed the police and flood control department to keep a close vigil on the illegal activities there.In December last year, sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Uri constituted a three-member committee to investigate illegal sand mining and extraction of riverbed material from three villages of Uri falling close to the project after he received the complaints from the locals.In February, the SDM again issued a letter to Tehsildar Boniyar saying they have seized the extracted sand from the miners. “Taking the advantage of the dark, the sand mafia is illegally lifting the seized material from the site,” reads the letter, a copy of which is with the Hindustan Times.“Taking the advantage of Covid-19, the mafia took away the seized sand worth ₹15 lakh from the spot,” said an official of local administration, requesting anonymity.The geology and mining department in Baramulla estimated the cost of the seized 8,000 metric tonne sand to be ₹22 lakh.Boniyar Tehsildar Imran Ahmad Bhat who was to probe the matter said that the miners moved court. “The case was then handed over to the floods control department,” he said.The assistant executive officer of the department of floods control in Uri Bashir Ahmad Shah said, “Two FIRs have been registered against the sand mafia.”However, Uri SDM Reyaz Ahmad Malik denied commenting on the issue.LJHP was commissioned in 1979 and is one of the oldest power projects of Uri that supplies the electricity to the entire valley and states like Punjab and Himachal Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/illegal-sand-mining-poses-threat-to-uri-s-oldest-power-project/story-uUID4m1yqv5bM0YrG2FqgM.html
12-04-2020||Delhi||Coronavirus update: One more Covid-19 hotspot in Delhi, total 34; all residents to be screened||One more area in Delhi was declared Covid-19 hotspot on Sunday.With this, there are 34 such hotspots in the national capital as of now.The newly added area in the list of the hotspot is - Lane 5 and 5A, H-2 block at Bengali Colony, Mahavir Enclave.The hotspots have been declared as ‘containment zones’ by the Delhi government after Covid-19 cases emerged from these areas.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Earlier today, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain said that people residing in all the 33 hotspots areas of the national capital will be screened for coronavirus symptoms.The number of coronavirus hotspots in Delhi increased to 33 on Saturday when three more areas were added to the list.The total number of Covid-19 positive cases in Delhi reached 1,069 on Saturday with 166 new cases reported in the metropolis.According to the Union Health Ministry, the tally of the country’s novel coronavirus cases increased to 8356 on Sunday. Of these, 716 have been cured and discharged, and 273 have succumbed to the virus. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/coronavirus-update-one-more-covid-19-hotspot-in-delhi-total-34-all-residents-to-be-screened/story-shu1cVwKvisxxAHivX1hjM.html
12-04-2020||Chandigarh||‘We are intensifying Covid-19 testing, rapid kits are on the way’||The spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Haryana, particularly the four national capital region districts, has thrown an unprecedented challenge before the health authorities in the state. Additional chief secretary, health, Rajeev Arora speaks to HT’s Hitender Rao about the state government’s strategy, growth trajectory and prospects of flattening the coronavirus curve. Excerpts:How do you see the current situation in Haryana including the growth trajectory of the virus?If you look at the number of coronavirus positive cases till March 31, we only had 29. As of today, if we discount the 107 coronavirus positive Tablighi Jamaat missionaries, we stand at 32 positive cases. To that extent, the new cases added to our inventory were the Jamaatis.But Jamaatis are now also a part of Haryana’s population. Is that not a sign of concern?Certainly. There was a surge in the number of cases after we started testing the Tablighis. We did intensive sampling of the Jamaati groups and their contacts. In fact, we had conducted less than 800 tests till March 31. Mainly, people who had travelled overseas or those who came in their contact were tested. But in the last 10 days we have tested 3,600 people and those tested are mainly Jamaati.How do you see the curve from here? What are the prospects of its bending?In the last two days, the number of positive cases have dipped again. Our civil surgeons are of the view that the cases may peak again as 10-12 individuals are suspected of having Covid-19. However, it is encouraging that 116 samples collected from Jamaatis were found negative. That indicates that stringent containment where habitations have been isolated in hotspots has worked. So, I am optimistic that we are on the right track.What’s the strategy of the state government to bend the curve?Intensive testing and isolation of habitations will be the key to contain the spread. We have intensified PCR testing (real time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction test (rRT-PCR) in hotspots of Nuh, Palwal, Gurugram and Faridabad districts. The frequency of rRT-PCR in hotspots is 450-500 tests per day and 100-125 in low Covid incidence districts.How well is the testing going to get intensified? What about the rapid antibody tests recommended by ICMR?We will use rRT-PCR testing on 6,500 samples before April 14. The purchase committee has placed orders to buy around 1.10 lakh rapid test kits for blood-based testing to screen large numbers in hotspots. We are expecting the delivery of rapid test kits within a week.How far will the rapid antibody tests help in containing the spread?The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines on rapid tests say that it should not be done indiscriminately. So we will use rapid tests in the hotspots and containment zones, where a high number of positive cases are detected, and in large migration gatherings, and evacuee centres. All symptomatic influenza-like illness (ILI) persons having fever, cough, sore throat and runny nose will be tested in the hotspots. The blood-based rapid antibody test gives an indication whether the person needs further testing.There are allegations of absenteeism in the health department and hospitals?This is not correct. Much of our healthcare staff is deputed in mobile teams. We have cut down non-essential surgeries and procedures in hospitals to reduce the chances of infections and are concentrating on Covid-19. That health staff is also being used at a number of other places to combat Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/we-are-intensifying-covid-19-testing-rapid-kits-are-on-the-way/story-gd1gKItnGD1XuBICUA9PQP.html
12-04-2020||Chandigarh||PU teacher’s daughter, mother-in-law test positive; Chandigarh Covid-19 count 21||The eight-year-old daughter and mother-in-law of a 40-year-old Panjab University teacher suffering from Covid-19 and being treated at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), have also tested positive.With this, the total confirmed cases in the city have increased to 21, of which seven have been tested negative and discharged from hospitals.The teacher, a resident of Sector 37, tested positive on Friday even as his contact history did not establish any link with a known positive case. The fresh positive cases were sampled at Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16. As per protocol, the patients will be moved to PGIMER’s Nehru Extension Block.Samples of the teacher’s wife, who delivered a baby three weeks ago, were sent for retesting even as the infant tested negative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pu-teacher-s-daughter-mother-in-law-test-positive-chandigarh-covid-19-count-21/story-W8g6q3qjNedJeYNsM9AQjM.html
12-04-2020||Lucknow||Doctors in Aligarh buy PPE after raising funds||Junior doctors at the Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College Hospital in Aligarh city of Uttar Pradesh has purchased protective gear worth Rs 1 lakh after an acute shortage of vital protective gear for healthcare workers. “The Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College Hospital is one of the frontline medical centres for testing and treating COVID-19 patients in Uttar Pradesh,” Shah Nawaz Iqbali, vice president of the resident doctors’ association, told reporters on Sunday. “The concern of the medical fraternity here should not be ignored.” “Keeping in view this looming threat, the resident doctors’ association has raised its own fund through donations for purchasing critical protective gear like surgical masks and sanitisers,” Iqbali said.Click here for the latest updates from the coronavirus outbreak He added that the RDA had immediately purchased protective gear worth Rs 1 lakh in the past four days. According to RDA president Hamza Malik, the availability of protective gear for doctors at the hospital had reached a critical point when they had threatened to boycott work if necessary gear was not made available immediately. The crisis was however defused on the intervention of the AMU Vice Chancellor Tariq Mansoor, who assured them that their concerns were being immediately addressed. There are nearly 450 resident doctors at the 1,269-bedded hospital -- a tertiary-level facility of the Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College, which is affiliated to the Aligarh Muslim University. A spokesperson of the medical college hospital, however, told PTI that the concerns of the junior doctors were “misplaced” as adequate supply of protective equipment was in the pipeline. He stressed that purchase procedures as stipulated by the central government regulations had to be strictly adhered to for ensuring transparency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/doctors-in-aligarh-buy-ppe-after-raising-funds/story-Yt5X1LJAgFkSAHO68HWjfI.html
12-04-2020||Mumbai||With 134 new Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra nears 2000-mark||The number of Covid-19 patients in Maharashtra, the worst-hit state in the country, went up to 1895 after 134 new cases were reported since Saturday night, officials said on Sunday. The western state had 1761 coronavirus disease patients till Saturday after 185 new cases were reported.Mumbai had 113 Covid-19 cases, Mira Bhayandar seven, Pune four, Navi Mumbai, Thane and Vasai Virar had two each and Raigad, Amravati, Bhiwandi and Pimpri-Chinchwad one each.Maharashtra had recorded 17 deaths due to Covid-19 on Saturday, 12 of which were recorded in Mumbai, the largest single-day toll recorded in the city so far. Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe number of Covid-19 related deaths recorded in the state was 127, with 76 fatalities in Mumbai, till Saturday.On Saturday, Maharashtra had recorded a mortality rate of 7% and Mumbai 6.6%.Also read: Mumbai’s first private Covid-19 testing centre in parking lot now operationalRajesh Tope, the state’s health minister, had announced on Saturday that Mumbai and Pune have reported 91% of the Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra of which 61% of them are from Mumbai and 20% from Pune. Click here for the latest updates from the coronavirus outbreakTope also said that the mortality rate in Maharashtra is high, hence only critical patients will be treated in Covid-19 dedicated hospitals. Patients with mild symptoms will be treated in dedicated health centres or peripheral hospitals. Also read: What are red, orange and green zones and how will they impact lifeChief minister Uddhav Thackeray had announced on Saturday that the lockdown in Maharashtra will continue till April 30, and can be extended if citizens do not follow strict rules and do not remain indoors. Maharashtra may ease the strict restrictions in some districts which have not seen a Covid-19 case, where industries may be allowed to work. There are eight such districts in Maharashtra—Nandurbar, Solapur, Parbhani, Nanded, Wardha, Bhandara, Chandrapur, Gadchiroli.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/with-134-new-covid-19-cases-maharashtra-nears-2000-mark/story-o5FAflydzDAHc2zRMfn11J.html
12-04-2020||Kolkata||Coronavirus update: Bengal govt to sanitise secretariat as Covid-19 cases continue to rise||The West Bengal government has decided to shut and sanitise its secretariat Nabanna on Sunday and Monday in the backdrop of the raging novel coronavirus infection, according to chief minister Mamata Banerjee.The secretariat is located on the bank of river Hooghly in Howrah district where a number of corona positive cases have been reported.“We will sanitise Nabanna. It has not been sanitised for some time. So, it will remain closed on Sunday and Monday,” Banerjee told mediapersons here on Saturday.However, officials said the Nabanna building had been sanitised last month after the son of a state home ministry official tested positive for coronavirus infection -- the first case in the state.Nabanna has been functioning as the main nodal centre of the state in fighting the Covid-19 pandemic. However, bulk of the departments have remained closed, with the government asking employees to work from home.But the chief minister and some top officials as also members of an expert group playing a key role in combating the Covid-19 menace have been going to the secretariat regularly.Banerjee said all the civic wards in Kolkata will also be sanitised jointly by the Kolkata Municipal Corporation, fire brigade and Kolkata police.Drone cameras will be used for aerial surveillance, while rapid antibody testing is set to begin in the next four-five days in the state. The state has asked for 50,000 such kits from the Centre.The state government has also come up with a mobile App “Annadatri” to facilitate paddy growers, who can avail of it to sell their produce through the government.“If any paddy grower evinces interest to sell his produce through the App, the government will procure it and then sell it off. There is no need for the grower to come to the market and sell it to rice mills,” she said.The state government would step up vigil to prevent gathering of any kind while congested markets in the city and the districts are set to be scattered to ensure social distancing.Banerjee, who extended the ongoing lockdown in the state to April 30, also announced a series of relaxations.The groceries will henceforth remain open from 10 am to 6 pm, she said.The chief minister also announced that instructions have been given to open the rice and oil mills, but the protocol of hygiene and social distancing should be maintained.The MSME sector has also been permitted to restart operations, but the number of staff deployed should be minimal and the general lockdown rules should not be violated. “If there is violation, I will take action,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/coronavirus-update-bengal-govt-to-sanitise-secretariat-as-covid-19-cases-continue-to-rise/story-WstZfWMvkfZHoBnkCY6LdL.html
12-04-2020||NA||KCCI wants Dakshina Kannada out of Covid-19 red zone list||The Kanara Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI) has urged the state government to exclude Dakshina Kannada district from the Covid-19 red zone list.In a letter to Jawaid Akhtar, additional chief secretary to the government in charge of health and family welfare, KCCI president Isaac Vaz said the district is tackling the pandemic well and no fresh case has been reported in the last few days.Six of the 12 infected persons have been cured and discharged from hospital.The condition of the remaining patients in hospital are stable and they are showing signs of recovery, he said.The district administration has taken the correct steps and the people have maintained social distance and other measures as directed by the authorities.In view of this, the government should take steps to exclude DK district out of the hot spot list as the people in the region are currently facing hardship with loss of work to earn money, the letter said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/karnataka/kcci-wants-dakshina-kannada-out-of-covid-19-red-zone-list/story-8blEgL47qIO1gcmbc6jXFM.html
12-04-2020||Viral||Karnataka minister and his wife sweep street outside their home, Twitter applauds||Image of a Karnataka minister and his wife is now the present topic of Twitter chatter and for all the right reasons. There’s a chance that the tale will fill you up with immense respect for the duo.The pictures of deeds of the Minister for Primary and Secondary Education, S Suresh Kumar and his wife were shared on Twitter by Bengaluru Mahanagar Palike (BBMP) Commissioner B.H.Anil Kumar. It shows the minister and his wife sweeping the street adjacent to their house.“Thank you hon’ble minister @nimmasuresh and your wife for this gesture of keeping your surrounding clean and sending a strong message of upholding the dignity of labour,” wrote the Commissioner.Thank you hon’ble minister @nimmasuresh & your wife for this gesture of keeping your surrounding clean and sending a strong message of upholding the Dignity of Labour.#StayHome #HealthHeroes #BreakTheChain #IndiaFightsCorona #COVID2019india #BBMP #Bengaluru pic.twitter.com/F5LHs5S8wKSince being shared two days ago, the tweet has tugged at people’s heartstrings and it’s clear from the appreciative comments they showered on the post.“Leading by example,” wrote a Twitter user. “Common man showing citizen how to live!” expressed another. “Hats off to you sir...you are an inspiration!!” praised a third. Great sir, hats off to you sir. You are really inspiration to others and very rare politician like you. Your simplicity speaks,” commented a fourth. “Very nice ma’am,” wrote a fifth.Suresh Kumar and his wife are truly setting an example for people. What do you think?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/it-s-viral/karnataka-minister-and-his-wife-sweeps-street-outside-their-home-twitter-applauds/story-UnvXX54FmVqYeVxA7n45cI.html
12-04-2020||Patna||Coronavirus update: Bihar IAS officers, wives contribute Rs 21 lakh to Chief Ministers Relief Fund||In a gesture of solidarity towards the fight against Covid-19, a total contribution of Rs 21 lakh was on Saturday made to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund (CMRF) in Bihar by the state chapter of IAS Officers Association and the IAS Wives’ Association.A cheque of Rs 11 lakh was handed over on behalf of the IAS Wives’ Association by its president Rashmi Kumar and Ratna Amrit while IAS Officers’ Association, represented by state chapter secretary Dipak Kumar Singh and treasurer Mithilesh Mishra, contributed Rs 10 lakh.“The total contribution by the IAS Officers’ Association Bihar chapter to the CMRF for the fight against Covid-19 pandemic stands at Rs 15 lakh. A sum of Rs five lakh had been given earlier,” Singh, who is also the state’s principal secretary for environment and forestry, said.The CMRF is bearing the expenses incurred towards providing food, shelter and medical help to people of Bihar stranded away from their homes within the state or other parts of the country.Upon the initiative of Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, in addition to other types of assistance, a sum of Rs 1,000 is being transferred into the accounts of each such needy person.“Besides, many of us in our personal capacity are in touch with civil society groups which are known to be working for people of Bihar, be they migrants eking out a living outside or those living in the state, whose livelihoods might have been affected on account of the lockdown,” Singh added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/coronavirus-update-bihar-ias-officers-wives-contribute-rs-21-lakh-to-chief-ministers-relief-fund/story-W26nM22iferQWkRVj7xrGJ.html
12-04-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra dairy farmers facing severe hardship as milk supply falls amid Covid-19 lockdown||The dairy farmers in Maharashtra’s Nashik are facing severe hardship due to Covid-19 lockdown as milk supply to individuals’ households and the purchase has witnessed a sharp decline since March 24. Speaking to ANI, the diary farmers said that the milk sale has gone down as hotels and bakeries are closed and a section of retail buyers have gone back to their hometowns.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicBefore the lockdown, the dairy farmers used to sell milk at Rs 50-55 per litre and at present, they are selling it at Rs 30-35 per litre as the demand is less. “We used to sell milk at Rs 50-55 per litre, now we have to sell it at Rs 30-35 per litre. Demand is low as hotels and tea stalls are closed. It is becoming difficult to manage expenses,” a dairy farmer said.“People are not coming to buy milk and at times, we are feeding it to the poor. We are facing a huge loss. We are unable to figure out how would we pay to our labourers and arrange fodder for cattle. Also, transportation has become costly. It has become very difficult for us to survive. The government should extend help to us. No doctors are available to look after cattle. We are following lockdown restrictions and taking all precautionary measures but we need permission to have access to market to sell milk,” he said. Click here for the latest updates from the coronavirus outbreakThey appealed the state and Central government to provide them with means to sell out milk in order to run their dairy farms amid the lockdown. “We are not getting appropriate prices for the milk. The government is providing us fodder for cattle. But we are facing problem in feeding them. The state and Central governments must pay heed to our problems. As many as 30 people are hired here and we have to give them their salaries,” another dairy farmer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-dairy-farmers-facing-severe-hardship-as-milk-supply-falls-amid-covid-19-lockdown/story-UbdhXB4KZz0UAjd0ekCLLI.html
12-04-2020||Education||Virtual classes on private TV channel to continue in Bengal till June 10: Edu minister||The West Bengal government has decided to extend virtual classes originally scheduled for seven days by more than two months, having received an “overwhelming response” from the state board students. State Education Minister Partha Chatterjee said the decision was taken by the government to make up for the lessons lost by the students of Classes 9 to 12 in state-aided and state-run schools, owing to the lockdown.Chatterjee, during a video conference with reporters on Saturday, had stated that the feedback received from a large section of students since April 7, when the classes commenced on a private TV channel, has prompted the government to extend classes till June 10. “Virtual classes on ‘ABP Ananda’ will be held six days a week till June 10. We have received an overwhelming response from the students over the past five days. And since schools will be closed till June 10, virtual classes can be of help to them,” he said. The minister also said that the government was planning to start a similar initiative for students of Classes 5 to 8 on another TV channel. Talking about the colleges, he expressed concern over reports that guest lecturers have not received their dues. “The state government is collating information about guest lecturers of different colleges to ensure that they get a fair deal. Colleges cannot stop their wages at this hour,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/virtual-classes-on-private-tv-channel-to-continue-in-bengal-till-june-10-edu-minister/story-WqJLk8lCM27ZSvNioWZsJN.html
12-04-2020||Chandigarh||Policeman’s hand chopped off in Punjab by group of ‘Nihangs’||A policeman’s hand was chopped off and two other police officials were injured when a group of people allegedly attacked them in Punjab’s Patiala district on Sunday, police said. A group of four-five ‘Nihangs’ (Sikhs armed with traditional weapons and dressed in loose blue top) were travelling in a vehicle and they were asked to stop at a vegetable market at around 6.15 am by the Mandi board officials, they said. “They were asked to show (curfew) passes. But they crashed the vehicle against the the gate and barricades put up there,” Senior Superintendent of Police, Patiala, Mandeep Singh Sidhu said. The group then attacked the police personnel on duty, he said. “An ASI’s (Assistant Sub Inspector) hand was chopped off by a sword. A Station House Officer of Sadar Patiala sustained an injury on his elbow and anther official suffered an injury on his arm in the attack,” Sidhu said. The ASI was rushed to the Rajindra hospital where from he was referred to PGIMER in Chandigarh. The Nihangs fled the scene after the attack, the SSP said, adding efforts are on to arrest them. The incident took place when restrictions are in place in the state because of the coronavirus outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/policeman-s-hand-chopped-off-in-punjab-by-group-of-nihangs/story-a4kmfPJUg5yxYaIhfm485H.html
12-04-2020||Education||CBSE to hold BRICS math online competition from April 22 to May 22||With an aim to develop students’ logical reasoning skills and cultivate their interest in math, the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has asked the affiliated schools to make students of classes 1 to 12 to participate in the BRICS Math Online Competition to be held from April 22 to May 22. It will be held for free on the website www.bricsmath.com. Students from seven countries–Brazil, Russia, India, China, South Africa, Indonesia and Vietnam–can take part . The project will bring together the students from various backgrounds having a passion for math on one platform. The competition will consist of 10 interactive math tasks, designed in a child-friendly game form. The tasks on logical and spatial thinking do not require any prior knowledge of math and will enable the students to think outside the box.Over 11,431 students from Punjab participated in the competition last year. Of them, 3,365 got winner certificates, 4,329 bagged certificates of appreciation and 3,737 received participation certificates. Paramjit Kaur, principal of BCM Arya Model Senior Secondary School, Shastri Nagar, said, “Our students had participated in the competition last year and even reached the next level. We will send the details of the competition on students’ profile on Monday so that those who are interested can participate.”A Class 8 student, Gurjit Singh, said, “I had participated in the competition last year. The level was tough but I was able to reach the second round. This time, I will practice more to enter the third round.”REGISTRATION PROCESSAll students must be registered by their parents or teachers, who will need to select the country, language and class to register themselves on the website and then add the students to the class list. Individual login and password credentials will then be generated for every participant to log into their profiles and solve the tasks. The competition will be held in two rounds. In the first month, the trial round will be held, and the main round will be held in the next month. As students can take unlimited attempts in the trial round to solve the tasks, it will enable them to practice well for the main round. The results of the trial round will not affect the student’s entry into the main round.However, students will have only one attempt to complete all tasks within 60 minutes in the main round.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/cbse-to-hold-brics-math-online-competition-from-april-22-to-may-22/story-SstK9fs464w2wsztdMWX9K.html
12-04-2020||Education||Lucknow University to provide counselling to stressed police personnel during lockdown||In a major reprieve to the over-stressed police personnel of the state police, Lucknow University (LU) will provide them assistance in relieving stress, caused by their increased workload due to ongoing lockdown.An agreement between the university administration and police department was signed on Friday in this regard.According to the university officials, professors of the university`s psychology department will be in touch with the police personnel, deployed at the emergency response service 112 of the state police.“The workload of police personnel, deployed at 112, has increased manifold due the ongoing Covid-19 lockdown. They are now handling calls from people, stuck in the lockdown with no food or medicine as they have also to deal with usual crime incidents. This excess work pressure may put undue stress on the police personnel,” said a senior UP police official.Considering this, Lucknow University had approached police to assist them to let go of their stress.LU spokesperson Duregesh Srivastav said,” As per the agreement, our teachers will help police personnel, who are overstressed, due to long hours of work and are dealing with personal risk and emotional trauma every day. Coordinator of this programme will be Dr Archana Shukla from the department of psychology.”Earlier the university had started its online/ telephonic counselling for students, suffering from anxiety and other mental disorders to help them during the lockdown.According to experts, people with underlying mental health issues face several difficulties in the lockdown. Considering this, LU is offering its services through counselling of students of the entire university to empower them with right information and much needed emotional support.Teachers of the psychology department are providing counselling services to those suffering in any manner due to the isolation, experienced during the crucial period of self-quarantine in fight against Covid-19 outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/lucknow-university-to-provide-counselling-to-stressed-police-personnel-during-lockdown/story-6FcVIb78X1qzHbJ9GPL7iO.html
12-04-2020||Education||Patna DM instructs private schools not to pressurise parents for school fees||Patna district magistrate Kumar Ravi has instructed private schools not to pressurise parents for depositing school three months’ fees at a time in the wake of coronavirus lockdown. As per the order issued on Friday evening, private schools cannot force the parents to deposit fee for more than a month during lockdown. If one expresses his inability to deposit one-month fee, schools must not burden them nor can they cancel admission of his ward. “Schools may request parents to deposit one-month tuition fee. They can make some arrangement for collecting other charges later in instalments. Besides, parents should not be forced to come to school for buying uniform and books. However, the schools can provide home delivery of study materials to the students. The administration will help to provide vehicle pass for this purpose,” the DM said in his order.The order has brought major relief to the parents who were harried by lockdown. Many parents said that lockdown crippled all business and trade activities and thereby hit their sources of income very hard.Devendra Sharma, whose daughter studies in class 9, said that depositing one-month tuition fee is not troublesome for many but the school has asked to pay hefty amount including development charge, miscellaneous fees and three-month tuition fee. Sharma, a small business man, said, “My current financial position is not good as business has suffered huge loss in the past one month. I hope the school will cooperate with parents after the government’s order.”Pankaj Singh, father of two, said, “I have received reminder from school twice for depositing fees. In April, school charges hefty fees in name of development or other activities. The relaxation will be a major relief for me. Let’s see whether private schools abide by the administration’ order or not.”On the other hand, schools have different arguments regarding fees collection on time.Principal of a private school, who wished not to be identified, said, “The operational cost of the school is met through school fee. Even when school is closed, the teachers are engaged with preparing online study material and record lecture. The management has to pay its teaching and non-teaching staffs. It would be difficult to manage if we get very low fee collection.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/patna-dm-instructs-private-schools-not-to-pressurise-parents-for-school-fees/story-K4qtOrYG1meeM3g0af7e2O.html
12-04-2020||Delhi||Jamia Coordination Committee member arrested in connection with anti-CAA protests in Delhi’s Jaffrabad||Police have arrested the media coordinator of Jamia Coordination Committee, who is accused of organising anti-Citizenship Amendment Act protest in Delhi’s north-east district.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicAccording to Alok Kumar, Joint Commissioner of Police, the arrested person, Safoora Zargar, is accused of organising anti-CAA protests in Jaffrabad area where the agitators, majority of whom were women, had begun protests against the amended Act last year.Violence had later broken out between the protestors and CAA supporters this year in which at least 53 people including IB official Ankit Sharma and Head Constable Rattan Lal were killed.Click here for the latest updates from the coronavirus outbreakEarlier on April 6, a Delhi court had extended the police custody of a student of Jamia Millia Islamia, who was arrested in a case related to alleged planning of a conspiracy to incite communal riots in northeast Delhi, by nine more days. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/jamia-coordination-committee-member-arrested-in-connection-with-anti-caa-protests-in-delhi-s-jaffrabad/story-wJFbMoaFEkr2a3Wb9JmXcM.html
12-04-2020||Bhopal||Two dead as ash dam collapses in Madhya Pradesh||Two persons died and four others were missing and feared dead after a fly ash dyke gave way at a coal-fired power plant in the Singrauli district of Madhya Pradesh on Friday evening, the third such incident in the district in a year, a local official said on Saturday.Five villagers and a worker at the site owned by Reliance Power were swept up in a flow of fly ash - a powdery by-product of burning pulverised coal - which travelled at least six kilometres, said district collector KVS Chaudhary. The flow of fly ash swallowed up whole fields in its path in Sasan, district officials said.It was not clear how the dyke broke. Reliance Power said it was investigating the causes of the incident, adding the 4,000 megawatt (MW) power plant would continue to operate normally independent of relief operations.Its unit Sasan Power Limited said, “We are deeply anguished by the incident involving the break in the ash dump yard wall at our Sasan Power Plant. The break in ash dump yard wall pushed the water leading to break in the boundary wall affecting some thatched houses and minor land parcel. We are investigating the reasons underlying the incident,” it said.Bhaiya Ram, a resident of village Siddhikala, whose wife and two children were swept away, said: “It was all because of the power plant management that the incident took place. The administration should lodge an FIR.” The breach is the third ash pond disaster in a year in Singrauli which is “severely polluted”, according to the Central Pollution Control Board’ (CPCB).“We have asked the Madhya Pradesh Pollution Control Board to investigate the case. What we know till now is that there was an ash dyke leakage and low-lying areas were flooded with slurry. Whether any negligence was involved we will know after the investigation,” said Prashant Gargava, member secretary, Central Pollution Control Board.In August last year, a fly ash pond breach took place at Essar’s Mahan Power Plant, leading to damage to crops of about 500 farmers in three villages.In October, a fly ash pond of National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) was breached, leading to damage in 30 acres of land and leaving several cattle missing.“This time the damage is extensive. The ash pond broke around 5.30 PM and the slurry entered 30 to 40 houses. Those missing may have died. The mud wall around the pond was weak and gave way. It is negligence,” asked Jagat Narayan Vishwakarma, an environmental activist.“Singrauli as a region has nearly 23 GW installed coal-based capacity which more than 11% of the total installed capacity in India... The air they breathe is polluted, water they drink is contaminated and their traditional livelihood has been destroyed by coal mining,” said Sunil Dahiya, an analyst at Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air.(Reuters contributed to the story)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/two-dead-as-ash-dam-collapses-in-madhya-pradesh/story-GQRUb7c9EEjbUiKrczVuzI.html
12-04-2020||Ranchi||50 health workers of Bokaro General Hospital quarantined after coming in contact with COVID-19 patient||A total of 50 health workers including doctors from Bokaro General Hospital are in quarantine after they came in contact with a COVID-19 patient, according to officials.The ICU at the hospital will be disinfected and fumigated, said Bokaro Deputy DC Ravi Ranjan Mishra.Till now there are 17 COVID-19 cases in Jharkhand.The total number of coronavirus cases in the country crossed 7,500 including 6634 active cases, said Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on Saturday. So far 652 people have been cured/discharged while 242 deaths have been reported across the country and one person has migrated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/50-health-workers-of-bokaro-general-hospital-quarantined-after-coming-in-contact-with-covid-19-patient/story-AXeuiLi3jmrr4rhxBQHLlK.html
12-04-2020||Delhi||Two shelter homes gutted in Kashmere Gate clashes||A day after a group of homeless people pelted stones at civil defence volunteers during food distribution and three of them allegedly jumping into the Yamuna to escape the resultant police action, at least 200 residents of the same shelter clashed with the police and set two porta cabin shelters on fire after a body was recovered from the river on Saturday, police officers said. A senior police officer, privy to the case details, said three shelter residents had jumped into the river after police had to resort to mild lathicharge to disperse the agitated shelter inmates on Friday. After a body was recovered on Saturday, the residents claimed that it is one of the same persons who had jumped into the river on Friday. Two others had been rescued on Friday itself. Delhi Fire Service chief Atul Garg said five fire tenders were used to douse the blaze that gutted two shelters that accommodated 130 and 40 people respectively. “No casualty was reported in the fire that broke out around 6pm and was brought into control within half an hour,” Garg said. A case of rioting, obstructing public servant from doing duty, and arson was registered and six homeless persons were detained till late evening, said joint commissioner of police (central) Suvashis Choudhary. The joint CP said that a decomposed body was recovered from the Yamuna on Saturday evening. While the body was being taken out, the shelter residents claimed that the body was of the same man whose body could not be fished out from the river on Friday. The other two men were rescued by the local divers on Friday itself, the officer said.Around 5 pm, Choudhary said, the police control room received information about the body. Police were also told that around 150-200 homeless people had gathered outside the Tibetan market near the Kashmere Gate Interstate Bus Terminal. The crowd was agitated and soon began pelting stones on some civil defence volunteers and the police personnel present there.The incident was flashed on the wireless sets and soon the north district DCP, Monika Bhardwaj, along with other officers reached there with additional force. As the crowd had turned violent, the police personnel used mild force to chase them away. The agitators fled towards Yamuna Khadar.“Some of them went towards the shelter homes and set two of the shelters on fire. Luckily, nobody was inside the shelters when they were set ablaze. Nobody was hurt in the fire incident. We have registered a case and are trying to identify the persons who were involved in arson,” added the joint CP.A police officer who did not want to be named said that on Friday some civil defence volunteers and police personnel were deployed near the shelter homes to ensure that the residents maintained social distancing and discipline during food distribution. An altercation broke out between the homeless people and the volunteers when the residents were asked to main distance. Following the altercation, the homeless people started pelting stones on the volunteers. “The volunteers and police personnel used mild force to disperse the crowd and control the situation. During the lathicharge, three homeless men plunged into the river. Two of them were rescued while the third man could not be found,” the officer said, adding that the issue was resolved after senior police officers intervened.On Saturday, the agitation resumed after a body was found in the river and people claimed that it was of the same man who went missing on Friday. “We will write to the Delhi administration to relocate the homeless people living in Kashmere Gate area. Around 3,000 homeless are staying beyond capacity in such shelters. It becomes difficult to discipline them or make them maintain the social distancing to avoid the spread of Covid-19,” said Choudhary.Maximum number of Delhi’s homeless live in the shelters near Kashmere Gate. Several migrants who were left jobless after their factories shut because of the nation-wide lockdown have also shifted to the shelters in Kashmere Gate. Bipin Rai, member, Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB), also confirmed that two shelters have been destroyed. At least 6,000 people from 12 shelter homes and those from surrounding slum clusters and adjoining areas were fed in the area by DUSIB daily.“We will order an internal inquiry. So far we have got to know that there was some conflict among vagabonds over a rumour of a body being found in the Yamuna, who they believed was one of them. They got agitated and set the shelters on fire. There were no inmates inside and there are no casualties reported,” said Rai.District magistrate (Central) Nidhi Srivastava, said, “As per a preliminary report there was a conflict among some vagabonds in the area, which led to the incident.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/two-shelter-homes-gutted-in-kashmere-gate-clashes/story-oZduQFD6jS3eIsiZq7QwJM.html
12-04-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Senior Women’s Cricket Team coach is happy the team is recovering, focussed||The Chandigarh Senior Women’s Cricket Team had been on a roll, winning nine out of nine matches in the Plate Group stage of the Senior Women’s One-Day League at Puducherry, to qualify for the quarter-finals last month.The team led by Amanjot Kaur and coached by Khyati Gulani had reached Baroda with an aim to put up a great show against the mighty Mithali Raj-led Railways team. However, due to the Covid-19 outbreak, the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) postponed the tournament and the teams had to head home.Since then, Delhi-based coach Gulani, along with the team in Chandigarh, have been under lockdown. The 36-year-old thinks the momentum has definitely been broken, but at the same time it has given time to the exhausted cricketers to take care of their bodies.“Almost the same cricketers played in the U-23 Trophy and the One-Day League. Playing 18 matches of two tournaments in the heat takes a toll on players’ bodies. With this break they can rest and recover. For example Shivangi Yadav, who kept wickets for Chandigarh in both tournaments, was worn out,” said Gulani, who is keeping a strict watch on the Chandigarh team telephonically from Delhi. Gulani is a Level-2 coach and a former first-class cricketer. She had been coaching Delhi women’s teams in the last decade before taking charge of Nagaland senior women’s team last season. This season, however, the Union Territory Cricket Association roped her in for the Chandigarh team.“It is difficult to limit and confine the movement of young sportspersons. This lockdown is definitely challenging, but I am trying to make them feel motivated. I am taking this time to watch their practice and game videos to identify their weaknesses. Accordingly, I assign separate drills to batters and bowlers.“Bowlers have been asked to break the process into run-up, loading, delivery and follow-through. Now, they can do shadow practice in front of the mirror,” she said, adding that it is the coach’s job not only to improve players’ game, but also keep them motivated.Lockdown scheduleAs far as Gulani’s lockdown goes, she is keeping herself busy with exercise, meditation, cooking and cleaning of the house. “My day begins with a prayer, followed by exercise and watering the plants. I do one-hour floor exercises, which include yoga asanas, planks and surya namaskar. Also, I am deliberately trying to eat healthy meals at home now that I am not travelling. It is the best time to drink plenty of water and detox the body,” shared Gulani, who does one hour of meditation in the evening daily to maintain mental strength.“I don’t really enjoy cooking, but somehow I have tried my hand at some recipes in the last few days and to my surprise, they have come out well,” she added.Even though the BCCI hasn’t decided on a fixed date for conducting the Senior Women’s One Day League quarter final matches, the Chandigarh Senior Women’s team is in good hands and will emerge prepared whenever the call for the game comes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-senior-women-s-cricket-team-coach-is-happy-the-team-is-recovering-focussed/story-2klz9ve4ynYhPJkZuGTmkN.html
12-04-2020||City||CISCE’s introductory session on TV proves a hit among students||Students of the schools, affiliated with the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examination (CISCE), were elated after the council aired a one-hour introductory session on television (TV) on Saturday.During the 60-minute session from noon to 1 pm, students were informed about the syllabuses of Classes 11 and 12 and, from Sunday, the council will resolve the problems faced by the students. All the school authorities have informed students of Classes 9 to 12 to watch the session on ABP Ananda Bengali channel on Saturday and Sunday.Appreciating the council’s move, students stated the session was informative and teachers of different subjects have asked the students to remain focused and attend the session regularly to keep themselves updated. Amandeep Singh Kharbanda, a Class 9 student of Sacred Heart Higher Secondary Convent School, Jamalpur, said, “The session proved a great help. Panelists emphasised the importance of time management, regular revision and unintentional mistakes made by students during examinations. The programme, though telecast in Bengali and English, was very useful.”Kriti Garg, a Class 10 student of Sat Paul Mittal School, Dugri, said, “I found the session quite informative. The session also laid emphasis on a look at the analysis of previous year examinations and go through the website regularly to keep oneself updated. Teachers also discussed the key points of scoring well.” Another student, Nikhil Kapoor, of Sacred Heart Convent School, Machhiwara, said, “I remained glued to television for one hour and found the session very beneficial. It guided the students with innovative study methods.”Principal of Sacred Heart Higher Secondary Convent School, Jamalpur, Sr Sherin Thomas, said, “It is indeed a progressive step as very student will get the entire material related to his/her curriculum at one place. Students of our school have shown keen interest in this initiative.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cisce-s-introductory-session-on-tv-proves-a-hit-among-students/story-G2nh2EUjiUGFL64IbidHVI.html
12-04-2020||City||Man who fired in air at Doraha held, pistol, 2 cartridges seized||Twenty-four days after an unidentified man fired shots in the air outside a jewellery shop in Doraha, police have arrested the accused and recovered a country-made .315 bore pistol and two live cartridges from his possession.The accused was identified as Satbir Singh alias Satbira of Rasoolpur in Ropar. According to the police, he is a notorious criminal as several cases are registered against him in different districts as well as in other states.Inspector Davinderpal Singh, SHO, Doraha police station, said the accused was arrested at the check point near the Canal Bridge at Rampur village.The inspector added, “On March 18, Satbir had opened fire in the Doraha market outside Paramjit Jewellery Shop. The accused was threatening the shop owner and demanding Rs 5 lakh from the owner’s nephew.”During questioning, the accused revealed that, on March 16, he hired a taxi from Ludhiana to the Delhi airport but, on the way, he snatched the car from the taxi driver. A case regarding this incident had been registered at Ambala.“Later, the accused changed the number plate of the car and executed the crime on March 18. A case under sections 386 (extortion by putting a person in fear of death or grievous hurt) and 511 (punishment for attempting to commit offences) of the IPC was registered at the Doraha police station,” said the inspector.He added, “On March 20, the accused was going towards Sidhwan Bet in the same car, but he found a police check post on the way. To escape arrest, he left the car on the roadside and fled. Then, he snatched a motorcycle at gunpoint.”The culprit is being questioned and there is a possibility of major disclosures, said the inspector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-who-fired-in-air-at-doraha-held-pistol-2-cartridges-seized/story-8pbJKdR5IHnshpQMwP1LuK.html
12-04-2020||City||Residents restrict entry to Gill village||Ludhiana With safety from the novel coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on their mind, the panchayat of Gill village, around 7 km from here, has cordoned off the village and imposed restrictions on the entry of outsiders in the area that has a population of around 18,000.The panchayat has permanently blocked five of the total seven entry points to the village and has stationed residents at the remaining two to keep a check on entry and exit of people. The villagers guard the entry points in 24x7 shifts, besides maintaining a register to record the identification and contact details of any outsider who is allowed entry in emergency cases.Safety kits have also been provided to the residents who guard the entry points while maintaining social distancing.Village sarpanch Harpreet Singh Mika Gill said, “The system has been in place for around a week now. Outsiders are allowed entry only for visiting the banks, or purchasing medicines from a medical store that caters to around 30 villages close-by. If any resident of the village needs to move outside in emergency case or for visiting the farms, I issue them the passes.”TAKING NO CHANCESThe sarpanch said for essentials like milk, the villagers call up the supplier and collect the supply from them at the entry point. “There are five dairy units in the village that have been facilitated to sell the milk. The dairy owners supply the milk to outsiders at the entry point by maintaining social distancing,” he said.He said the police also patrol the area daily to stop the residents from venturing out with focus on maintaining social distancing. “The panchayat and gurdwara in the village are distributing ration and flour to the needy,” he said.Notably a few other villages including Shahpur village in Payal sub-division have also blocked the entry of outsiders. SANITISATION FOR THE SECOND TIMEThe sarpanch said they have handed over the list of around 25 NRIs who had come to the village before the lockdown. “The NRIs have been screened as per the directions of the administration. So far there is no suspected or confirmed case in the village,” he said, adding that they have received 70 litres of disinfectant from the administration, following which the village is being sanitised for the second time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/residents-restrict-entry-to-gill-village/story-QlXlEbVYvKE7W77esDONRK.html
12-04-2020||City||‘In these time of crisis, people are realising importance of PF savings’||Working as senior social security assistant with the Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO), Ludhiana, 35-year-old Hardeep Singh believes that despite monthly provident fund (PF) deposit being crucial in emergency and old age, many still don’t get themselves covered under the scheme and put themselves at risk. However, the lockdown due to the coronavirus outbreak has made many realise the importance of PF savings, said Singh, who travels from Mandi Mullanpur to EPFO office in Shyam Nagar here for his shift, albeit bearing with a challenging commute amid the curfew. “As the government is now accepting advance claims in the wake of financial difficulties faced by people due to the lockdown, people are now digging into their PF savings,” said Singh, who stays occupied with disbursing the rising number of advance PF claims under Covid-19 category. “The EPFO department is working tirelessly to ensure claims and pensions are reaching the applicants in distress without any delay,” he added. Singh said he takes every precaution to keep himself and his family safe amid the outbreak. “It’s my responsibility to ensure that my parents, wife and two kids are safe and healthy, so I take all preventive measures while going out and on duty. I carry a hand sanitiser, wear gloves and mask when I am out and clean myself and change into clean clothes before meeting my family,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/in-these-time-of-crisis-people-are-realising-importance-of-pf-savings/story-8dQVSZsNXp5CKdGPbu1B2O.html
12-04-2020||Chandigarh||Unsung Heroes: Braving virus, Surjit & co maintain the greens at Chandigarh Golf Club on daily basis||In the mid eighties, Surjit Singh, then 15, visited Chandigarh Golf Course in search of work and the only job he could fit into to earn money was to be a daily wager. Over the years, without any formal education and just on the basis of sheer experience and hard work, he rose to a rank of assistant course manager. His area of work is to oversee the maintenance of the greens and fairways of the country’s busiest golf course spread at 132 acres. With the countrywide lockdown because of the fear of COVID-19 spread, all the sporting activities were stopped and all the sports facilities have been closed, but even at this time of crisis the unsung heroes of golf, Surjit & co, are on the job, so that as and when things get normalize, course will be ready to felicitate the regions’ top golfers, including some of the country’s top names Jeev Milkha Singh, Shubhankar Sharma and Ajeetesh Sandhu.Five of the course maintenance staff is staying inside the premises of the golf course, and as usual their day starts at 5am.“We cannot leave the course, especially the greens, unattended even for a day and that too at the time of the March-April, when the pace of the growth is at the peak. All the 18 greens need to be dressed properly on the daily basis, otherwise if left unattended even for couple of days, the runners (stem) of the grass will start coming and this will create a hindrance on the movement of the ball. We have to maintain the greens in such a way that every day, every time, there should be prefect rolling of the ball. Chandigarh Golf Course has a name in the country and to live up the reputation, we have to maintain the course at its best,” says Surjit, 50, whose family stays in nearby Bhagwanpur area. “Because of the fear of virus (referring to Coronavirus) spread, it’s not advisable to daily commute from our houses to the golf course. Otherwise, we will be unnecessary exposing ourselves and subsequently our family to the outer world. So, we decided to stay within the premises of the club. The club management has provided us ration and we have a kitchen. We are taking care of all the precautions, including using sanitizers and mask,” adds Surjit.The Chandigarh Golf Club has a team of over 70 staff to look after the course, but currently only the minimum required work has been carried out on daily basis.The watering of the entire course is computerized. Surjit and his team are focusing mainly on greens and fairways.“Ours is one of the busiest courses of the world. We were having a record breaking footfall of the golfers on the daily basis. Now, as the club is closed, it’s a breather for the greens and we can focus on maintaining and repairing the greens, wherever it’s required,” says Sandeep Singh Sandhu (Bobby), president of the Chandigarh Golf Club. “The time frame for which the course remains unattended, it would require double of the time to get back into the shape. The course maintenance is quite a technical work and Surjit and his team are doing a commendable job in maintaining the course,” adds Sandhu.Apart from giving salaries to their entire work force during the time of the lockdown, the club is also taking care of all the caddies registered with them. Apart from ration, the management is giving Rs 200 daily to the caddies and the first installment of payment for 10 days has already been made. “They all are part of the golf fraternity and it’s the responsibility of the club to take care of them. Very shortly we will be releasing the second installment of the caddies’ payment,” said Sandhu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/unsung-heroes-braving-virus-surjit-co-maintain-the-greens-at-chandigarh-golf-club-on-daily-basis/story-ad0v2spf3Ga449eXbxxktO.html
12-04-2020||City||Four booked in Ludhiana for holding house party||Police booked four residents, including a patwari, on Saturday for holding a house party on Friday night.The accused were identified as Amarjit Singh of Guru Angad Dev Nagar, Amit Kumar, AK Rana of Basant Avenue and patwari Daljit Singh, who is posted at Lalton. All of them managed to flee before the police arrived.Amarjit had organised a get together at his residence, where Kumar, Rana and Daljit had gathered.Inspector Jagdev Singh, Sadar police station house officer, said that a neighbour had tipped-off the control room following which a raid was conducted at Amarjit’s residence. “But before we reached the spot, the accused fled in two cars,” he said.The SHO added that Amit Kumar was earlier issued a curfew pass for medical emergency and he had misused it. He, along with AK Rana, travelled in a car to Amarjit’s place, while the patwari came in his own car.Singh added that their team is trying to trace the accused and they will be arrested soon.A case was registered under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Sadar police station.In Facebook post, police have also warned residents against misusing the curfew passes issued to them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-booked-in-ludhiana-for-holding-house-party/story-YFbyXgb2vHiMfBwIX3ahRN.html
12-04-2020||Chandigarh||Quarantine unit set up at police lines in Rupnagar||Going the extra mile in the fight against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) , police have converted a wing in the local police lines into a hospital with requisite quarantine facilities.Rupnagar senior superintendent of police(SSP), Swapan Sharma, said there are nine beds available which can be increased to 18 if needed. He said the hospital is well equipped to cater to Covid-19 patients who have to be kept in complete isolation. Children of police officers who are in MBBS and nursing courses have volunteered to work in the hospital, Sharma said. He said that the doctors and paramedics at the police lines were working round the clock to take care of the police personnel on field duty. Sharma said a team of doctors regularly examines the 700 police officers posted at nakas and patrolling. He added that there was a fully equipped ambulance accompanying the medical team.Also, sanitisation rooms have been set up at the offices of senior superintendent of police(SSP), deputy superintendents of police(DSPs) and all police stations. Due to the large footfall, special measures are being taken to ensure that everyone coming into these offices has to go through the sanitisation rooms,Sharma said .He added that a balanced and nutritious diet is being prepared for police personnel at the mess.Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta lauded Ropar police for setting up the facility to curb the spread of the virus.Gupta also lauded the work done by the Rupnagar police in terms of creating awareness, checking law breakers and reaching out to the needy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/quarantine-unit-set-up-at-police-lines-in-rupnagar/story-uxRVlFTmOUvE8l6Nze5smK.html
12-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab govt asks varsities to suggest plans for conducting exams||Due to colleges being shut amid the lockdown imposed to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the Punjab government has decided to chalk out a tentative schedule for conducting examinations across the state.As scheduling examinations an uphill task due to the prevailing, the Punjab government has asked universities to chalk out a plan which will be discussed in a video conference scheduled for next week.The department of higher education and languages of the Punjab Government has written to Panjab University, Punjabi University, Patiala, and Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar, and asked them for a plan of action.“A video conference will be held next week to discuss and formulate a policy regarding conducting exams, and admissions for the next session in universities and colleges of the state, under prevailing situation,” the letter states.Minister of higher education, Punjab, Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa said, “Due to the Covid-19 outbreak, it is not going to be easy to conduct examinations. We have told these universities to discuss the issue and chalk out what can be done. ”Moreover, universities have been asked to discuss the setting up of new degree colleges across the state. As per the higher education department, it is necessary to introduce a set of professional courses uniformly throughout Punjab. On April 6, UGC constituted a seven-member expert panel to discuss issues related to examination and academic calendar. RC Kuhad, vice-chancellor, central university of Haryana, is the chairman of the committee of which PU vice-chancellor Raj Kumar is also a member.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-govt-asks-varsities-to-suggest-plans-for-conducting-exams/story-EGA6BdCzW2ZmTy6ZGl7TNM.html
12-04-2020||City||Market committee issues rate list for Ludhiana vendors||Amid complaints of fleecing by fruit and vegetable vendors, the market committee has issued a rate list for supply of vegetables in the city. While the vendors at the ward-level can keep a margin of 10% on the wholesale price, street vendors can keep 25% margin on the wholesale price (15 per cent profit). The vendors have also been asked to display the rate list of vegetables and fruits on their trucks and carts. Earlier, the department had failed to announce the rate list for ward-wise suppliers, leading to confusion which in turn led to residents being fleeced.In the first week of April, the administration had introduced ward-wise supply of vegetables and fruits to avoid crowding at the main vegetable market. Following this, it was announced that the market committee would finalise a certain margin for the ward and street vendors.However, the committee failed to finalise their rates and only the wholesale rates for ahrtiyas and retail rates for street vendors were announced. This allowed the ward-wise vendors to supply vegetables at exorbitant prices. Rehri Fadi association president Tiger Singh said the market committee has finally released the list for all three sectors which is good for street vendors as they were being accused of selling the vegetables at higher rates. There are still some issues related to the rate list and these will be taken up with the market committee, he said.Ward suppliers say ahrtiyas overchargingMeanwhile, ward-level vendors say that ahrtiyas are still overcharging them in the absence of any check by the market committee. One of the vendors said that the committee hands them over the rate list while they move out of the market after purchasing vegetables from the ahrtiyas. If we are given the rate list at the entry, we can raise the issue of rates with ahrtiyas.Market committee chairman Darshan Lal (Laddoo) Baweja said the rate list as per the margin would be released by the mandi. The councillors and the administration officials have the duty of checking whether vendors are putting up the rate list on their carts or not. On Saturday, the market committee caught a shopkeeper in Amarpura area for fleecing residents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/market-committee-issues-rate-list-for-ludhiana-vendors/story-ofqDYjEog6L4meD8pcpUlO.html
12-04-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn’s lockdown orders no dampener for morning walkers||Two days after the UT administration asked the police to take to task people coming out of their houses for morning and evening walks, residents on Saturday were seen blatantly ignoring the administration’s orders to get their bi-daily dose of exercise.Vice-president of the Sector-49 residents’ welfare association (RWA) Jatinder Mehta said, “When the curfew was imposed on March 24, hardly anyone could be seen outside, but after no positive cases were reported in the city in the last week, walkers became more frequent and started accumulating in neighbourhood parks. They rarely wear masks. The government needs to remind the residents that the threat is still present and still real.”President of the Sector-38 (West) RWA Pankaj Gupta said their association has been working with the police to discourage people from coming out, but many still persist. “People make excuses like they will wear masks or maintain social distancing. We have a strict policy of no tolerance and any information about such walkers is passed on to the police.”As many as 11,789 people have been detained for violating curfew orders in the city while action under Section 188 (disobedience of order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code has been initiated in 170 cases till now. Deputy superintendent of police (DSP, PRO) Charanjit Singh Virk said, “We had only been warning walkers, and issuing first information reports (FIRs) only in extreme cases, but now, a drive is being launched to register cases against people going out for walks.”Many dog owners are still taking their pets for a walk even as senior police officers confirmed that it amounts to breaking curfew. President of the Sector-8C residents’ welfare association, RS Gill said, “People take their dogs out for walks in the morning and evening. Keeping a dog in a small house can be problematic, but the police should take note as they are breaking curfew orders.” He added that the police need to deploy police officers in civil clothes to establish where the violations are taking place before taking action.Reshamjit Kaur Dhaliwal, who runs a tricity based animal welfare NGO said that going out for walks is essential for dogs to stay healthy and the administration must find alternatives to facilitate this.Police rounded up 375 people on Saturday for curfew violations. Of this, 180 were detained and then let go while four were booked under Section 188 of the IPC. Police also impounded 236 vehicles, including 182 two-wheelers, four three-wheelers and 50 four-wheelers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-admn-s-lockdown-orders-no-dampener-for-morning-walkers/story-Agsb4gmTb6kDzqATI2zXtJ.html
12-04-2020||City||Book those making false claims of lack of food, essential services: Mohali DC||In view of many false claims of ration or food not being available and a select few indulging in petty-politics claiming discrimination, where none is found to exist upon verification, it is decided that anyone who makes a false claim of the above said, later found to be baseless, shall be booked under the Disaster Management Act, said Mohali deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan.“There is also no time for fake alarms and petty politics in a crisis”, he said, adding that formal orders have been issued in this context.It is pertinent to mention that the Disaster Management Act entails that anyone who knowingly makes a false claim for obtaining relief, assistance, repair, reconstruction or other benefits consequent to disaster from any officer of the central government, state government, the national authority, the state authority or the district authority, shall, on conviction be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to two years, and will also be slapped with a fine.Besides, whoever makes or circulates a false alarm or warning as to a disaster or its severity or magnitude, leading to panic, shall on conviction, be punishable with imprisonment which may extend to one year or with fine.The deputy commissioner said all complaints regarding non-supply of food material shall be verified by the Sector Food Team, which in turn shall check and make a video for proof. The team is expected to armed with masks and gloves.Thereafter, the Sector Food Team shall report the matter in writing to the SHO concerned to register a case under the Disaster Management Act.However, he reiterated that “each call for help needs to be verified and where there is no ration or ration has dried up, immediate assistance must be given without delay or discrimination.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/book-those-making-false-claims-of-lack-of-food-essential-services-mohali-dc/story-E2gcKWoLAObmdHttZHY6CK.html
12-04-2020||City||Ludhiana police chief goes live on Facebook, gets bombarded with questions||Are we allowed to go out for a walk during early morning hours? Is it safe to consume food being served by NGOs and some restaurants? Can I go to a bank or an ATM to withdraw cash? Can I repair laptops or mobiles from home? These and a number of other questions and suggestions were placed by residents before police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal when he went live on Facebook to interact with people on Saturday afternoon.It was an hour-long interaction and as soon as Agrawal started it at 4pm, thousands of residents bombarded him with questions related to curfew. Over 32,000 viewers participated in the session. However, residents circulated the video on social media after the session was over and residents continued to add questions and suggestions in the comments section.250 FIRS LODGED, 410 ARRESTED IN 18 DAYSDuring the session, a number of residents brought up some common issues. The residents informed the police chief that many people come out of their homes during early morning and evening hours for a walk. “Is it allowed during the curfew?,” they asked.Replying to the questions, Agrawal, who started with the issue of people going for a walk, said, “We are now tired of making people understand that they have to stay home. Several awareness drives have been conducted, warnings have been given, but still people are not listening. Residents do not understand that this curfew is not imposed due to a law and order situation, but due to a medical emergency.”He added, “There is no relaxation to residents for morning walks. In the last 18 days, as many as 250 cases have been registered in which 410 people have been arrested for violating curfew. Besides, over 9,000 people have been detained and kept in open jails. “People should understand that police are working for people’s safety and not just to put them in jails. How, will we justify our work? So, please co-operate with us and don’t make us to take legal action against you,” Agrawal appealed.NGOs SHOULD REPLACE COOKED FOOD WITH RATIONWhile asking members of the NGOs to ensure proper safety while distributing cooked food among people, the police chief suggested that the NGOs should replace the cooked food with dry ration as it will avoid wastage of food as well as time.Agrawal said any person engaged in the repair work of mobile, laptops or other electronic products, can apply for a pass at https://epasscovid19.pais.net.in/ and go to the residents’ homes to collect product to be repaired. He added medical store owners, who need the pass, can either apply to the zonal licensing authority or can apply for an e-pass on the link.“Residents, who want to go to bank or ATM to withdraw cash, can also apply for e-pass on this link,” he said.During the session, the police chief also highlighted the helpline numbers where residents can lodge complain or can flag their concerns.CP’S TAKE ON IMPORTANT ISSUES:1. Volunteers deployed as curfew enforcement officers (CEOs) misbehave with residents.Answer: No volunteer is allowed to misbehave with residents. I am sorry on behalf of the volunteers. But, I will like to say that we have enrolled 2,000 volunteers as CEOs. These volunteers are not getting any renumeration from the department. They are just helping us. However, they are being counselled daily. If anyone is interested in volunteering his/her services as an CEO, he/she can apply for the same with the ACP (traffic), nodal officer.2. Many residents are posting fake news on social media.Answer: Police have already registered cases against five persons for posting fake news on social media. Residents should confirm the news before sharing it with others. One can contact the helpline numbers to confirm whether a particular news is true or not.3. Social distancing not being followed in labour quartersAnswer: As there are a number of labourers residing in one quarter, it has become a tough task to ensure social distancing within the quarters. However, we are planning to shift some labourers to shelter homes to reduce the number of people in quarters. There are 57 shelter homes with a capacity of 35,000 people and free food and medical services are being provided there by residents.4. People have barricaded roads on their own, causing difficulty in movement in case of some emergencyAnswer: There are multiple entry and exit points to a colony, therefore, some of the points have been closed to prevent the regular movement of traffic. A person, who wants to travel due to some emergency, will have to take a detour to reach his destination.5. Some restaurants are providing cooked food from door to door. Should it be allowed?Answer: We started this service on a trial basis. However, restaurants are being given instructions to take all precautions while preparing food. However, we will review this issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-police-chief-goes-live-on-facebook-gets-bombarded-with-questions/story-SyqPxLgyl2xze7JiufXAHN.html
12-04-2020||Chandigarh||1,000 released from quarantine in Chandigarh, advised self-isolation for 15 more days||Nearly 1,000 city residents have completed their mandatory quarantine period that was imposed in the light of the looming Covid-19 outbreak. But, special municipal corporation (MC) teams will continue to supply them essentials and pick up their household waste since they have been told remain in isolation for another 15 days.MC additional commissioner Anil Garg, who is heading the teams quarantining people, said the total number of those in quarantine had reduced to approximately 500 now. However, those who had completed the quarantine period had yet not been allowed to step out of their houses.“We have asked them to stay in self-isolation for another two weeks as per government directions to completely rule out the threat perception. I appreciate residents for complying with the instructions,” Garg said, adding that posters were being removed from houses of people released from quarantine.GARBAGE, ESSENTIALS TO CONTINUEMC executive engineer Rajinder Singh said their special garbage teams will remain operational for all quarantined houses till they get the instructions to stop. MC junior engineer Angrez Singh, who is looking after essential supplies, said they had stopped the supply, but will consult seniors for further course of action. MORE TO BE QUARANTINEDMeanwhile, people under quarantine are likely to increase after the fresh case in Sector 37 on Friday.“Multiple teams have been deployed to trace the source of infection. A total of 50 contacts of the latest patient have been quarantined in the last 24 hours. Further contact tracing is underway,” said Garg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/1-000-released-from-quarantine-in-chandigarh-advised-self-isolation-for-15-more-days/story-KQmNKlPtT8y0mQelnL3UYL.html
12-04-2020||City||Nurse returning from work assaulted in Panchkula, 5 booked||A 33-year-old Panchkula Civil Hospital female staff nurse returning home from duty was assaulted by five men in Chandimandir’s Billa village on Saturday. All the offenders were booked later.In her complaint, the woman alleged she was returning home with her husband when Brij Krishan, Amit Kumar, Manjeet Singh, Sandeep and Golu, sitting at a check post at the entry point of the village asked where they were going. However, she alleged that even as she presented her identity cards and permissions for work they assaulted her.The nurse’s apron duty coat was torn off, police said.She also alleged that as she belonged to a minority community the men asked her to go to Pakistan to “do your duty there.”Chandimandir SHO inspector Deepak Kumar said her brother-in-law, who rushed to the spot, was assaulted as her husband finally saved them.A case has been registered under Sections 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nurse-returning-from-work-assaulted-in-panchkula-5-booked/story-uAPsHdmYrc60gizfRRWKWO.html
12-04-2020||Chandigarh||Masks vanish from shelves after Chandigarh admn makes them mandatory||As soon as the UT administration made it mandatory for everyone to wear masks in public, most pharmacies have sold out their stock in Chandigarh. A check by this Hindustan Times correspondent found that masks are out of stock with most pharmacies, while others are selling them at twice or thrice the rates mandated by the government. In March, after a notification of Government of India, prices of masks and sanitisers were capped in the UT. The move aimed at making products of personal care and sanitation more affordable as they are crucial to combat the rapidly spreading coronavirus. The consumer affairs ministry had notified the MRP for 2-ply and 3-ply surgical face masks at ₹8 and ₹10 per piece, respectively.However, when this correspondent tried to buy masks and sanitiser from Sector 36, 37 and 38 pharmacists, none of them were ready to sell at the price decided by UT. Kushaldeep Kaur, a resident of Sector 19, said, “I went to many shops, but they are out of stock. I will have to make my own mask at home now.”Vivek Mehra, who distributes masks in Chandigarh slums, said, “Barring a handful of places, the 3-ply and 2-ply masks are available at ₹20 to ₹25 and the black cloth mask is priced between ₹30 and ₹80.”VENDORS USING SAME MASKS, GLOVES FOR DAYS Hitesh Puri, chairman of CRAWFED, said, “Just yesterday, I asked a vegetable vendor about how many days he had been using the same mask and gloves, and he replied that it was more than four days.” With limited money, of course, a vendor will not think of changing his mask and gloves every day, he added. Baljinder Bittu, chairman of FOSWAC, said, “The repeated use of same masks and gloves by vendors is frightful. They meet several people everyday, go to crowded mandis and exchange currency notes,too. To help them, we have also decided to donate 25,000 masks.”“Frontline workers should be given masks by the government. Even if the lockdown is extended for the next 15 days, the government can afford them ₹8 per mask,” said Puri.He added, “Moreover, pharmacists should display the rate list of mask and sanitisers outside the shop and there should be an inspection to check implementation. Administration can also take the help of NGOs for this.”Vinay Jain, secretary of Chandigarh chemist association, while rejecting the charges said, “Masks are plentiful in supply. Some pharmacists are selling them at higher rates but they do not belong to our association.”UT health secretary, Arun Kumar Gupta, “There is no need to buy masks, people can make them at home. They are reusable and adequate against infection. But except for home made masks, its dangerous to wear same masks again and again. We are trying to make people aware of it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/masks-vanish-from-shelves-after-chandigarh-admn-makes-them-mandatory/story-I7n8yJsAeCntDrNN97oYSO.html
12-04-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn launches app to alert public about Covid zones||In another move aimed at containing the epidemic, the Chandigarh administration has launched a mobile application on Saturday to alert the public about quarantined spaces or areas with suspected Covid-19 patients.The app called ‘CVD Tracker’ has been developed to identify and geo-fence specific areas around people who have been placed under quarantine.Explaining its function, Anil Garg, additional commissioner of UT’s municipal corporation, said it was mandatory for people placed under quarantine to download the app on their cellphones. “But the general public can also download it and see all the red zones— the quarantined or suspected areas. If any person reaches near it, an alert in shape of beep or siren will appear in their mobile,” said Garg, who is also incharge of contact tracing and quarantine teams.He said this would greatly help the public as a preventive measure.QUARANTINED TO UPLOAD SELFIE EVERY HOUR As per government directions, it has been made mandatory for quarantined persons to upload their selfies every hour on this app, to enable regular tracking their location and their health condition.Every quarantined person will be fenced within 50 metre radius of his place of quarantine. If the user breaches the geo-fence, he will get a warning message and the UT will be alerted in the control room that the user has jumped the fence. An FIR under relevant sections will be registered against violators of quarantine, Garg said.The control room will be alerted even if the phone of the quarantined person is switched off, which is not recommended, he said.A 24X7 control room has been set up to monitor quarantined persons. While all freshly quarantined persons will be made to add download the app on the spot, the previous 500 active cases will also be made to download it.Since the number of quarantined persons may increase, the app will make it easier for health and police department to track them. The general public will also benefit by this move.Box:How to download it--Go to Playstore and search for CVD tracker App. Download it. --Or use the link http://uen.io/6v4y||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-admn-launches-app-to-alert-public-about-covid-zones/story-UpS26Xwet3BKs0U2Qfs8yK.html
12-04-2020||City||9 held in two days for not wearing masks in Chandigarh||Chandigarh Nine people have been arrested over two days for not wearing face masks when stepping out of their homes, police said on Saturday.Even as the administration made face masks mandatory from April 9, eight violators are found and arrested on Saturday. Three cases were reported in east and five in south subdivision. Of these, three cases were registered at the Sector 31 police station, two at the Sector 34 police station and one each in Mauli Jagran, Industrial Area and Sector 26.On Friday, Manimajra police officials registered a case against 33-year-old Dera Bassi resident Baljeet Singh for not wearing a mask. He was in Chandigarh to buy essential items when patrolling officers caught him.Police later released all the nine men on bail after booking them under Section 188 (disobedience of order promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). It carried up to six-month jail or/and ₹1,000 fine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/9-held-in-two-days-for-not-wearing-masks-in-chandigarh/story-U9eb2oya435Tkg8dYUgOFO.html
12-04-2020||City||Chandigarh to go with Centre’s decision on lockdown to extend Covid-19 curfew||In the wake of extension of Covid-19 lockdown in Punjab and several other states, UT administrator VP Singh Badnore on Saturday decided that the curfew in Chandigarh will continue as long as the nationwide lockdown is in place.According to media reports, the central government is considering to extend the lockdown by two more weeks, till April 30. Although there is no official announcement yet, UT adviser Manoj Parida after the daily review meeting, chaired by Badnore, shared on Twitter that Chandigarh will follow the Union government in extending the curfew.Badnore, who attended a video conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi earlier in the day, said Chandigarh so far has fared well in the first phase of curfew. For the second phase, he has already directed Parida to formulate a scheme for utilising the services of idle workers. According to the latest health bulletin, the city so far has recorded 19 positive cases, out of which seven patients have been discharged after recovery. The UT has also started door-to-door screening of its entire population to further curb the outbreak.Need stricter implementation: DCDuring the meeting, deputy commissioner Mandip Brar told Badnore that curfew implementation needs to be strengthened in the city and violators punished strictly. Brar raised concern over people walking in parks during morning and evening hours, even as curfew relaxation is between 11am and 3pm, and that too limited to buying of essentials from neighbourhood markets.The administrator directed the director general of police, Sanjay Baniwal, to work on it. Baniwal informed Badnore that a mechanism is being developed to streamline impounding and releasing of vehicles.Municipal commissioner KK Yadav said a new pass system has been introduced in the wholesale market of Sector 26 to reduce the entry of unauthorised people.Contingency plan in placeThe UT has also prepared a contingency plan to deal with any surge in cases. Several government and private institutions, such as Sood Dharamshala in Sector 22, Panchayat Bhawan in Sector 18, Panjab University hostels, and Hotel Parkview, Sector 24, have been turned into Covid care centres with provision of 2,700 beds for people with mild symptoms. Severe positive cases will be admitted to the PGIMER’s Nehru Hospital Extension Block and the civil hospital in Sector 48.Meanwhile, Badnore directed the adviser to ensure that all students from the Northeast, Ladakh and Jammu and Kashmir in the city are taken care of. A designated officer should look into their needs, he said.He also directed Parida that farmers going for harvesting and marketing of their produce should be facilitated during the curfew. He also directed the education department to devise a mechanism, through which 40 book stores of Chandigarh could arrange home delivery of books to students so that their studies are not affected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-to-go-with-centre-s-decision-on-lockdown-to-extend-covid-19-curfew/story-WUBRbgV84Hs7qbHc1QEVrK.html
12-04-2020||Chandigarh||No travel or contact history, Chandigarh health dept clueless how PU teacher got infected||Tracking the source of infection of the city’s 19th positive case – a Panjab University teacher - has become a challenge for the UT health department, as the patient has no travel or contact history.So far, seven contacts have been tested, of which two – a friend and a milkman — have come out clean.Results of his wife, 32, mother-in-law, 64, two daughters (an eight-year-old and a 22-day-old infant) and a man, who works at a booth in Sector 37, are awaited.The 40-year-old man, a resident of Sector 37, was tested positive on Friday and is admitted at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER).“We have not traced the source yet. It’s difficult in this case because the patient says he did not come in contact with any person with travel history or any other positive patient. So, how do we establish where he got the infection from?” said UT health secretary Arun Gupta, while refusing to comment on whether this was a case of community transmission.An MC official said they had traced 113 primary and secondary contacts, including residents of two neighbouring houses, and placed them under home quarantine.“We are trying our best to find more contacts to trace the source of infection. It will be quite worrisome if the source is not ascertained,” said Dr Jagat Ram, director, PGIMER.The patient’s wife had delivered a daughter at a private hospital in Sector 38 on March 20. On this, Gupta said, “The patient last visited the hospital on March 23 and it has been 18 days since. Had he contracted the infection from there, he should have shown symptoms within 14 days, which did not happen. But, we have still advised the hospital to quarantine the staff who came in contact with him on March 23.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-travel-or-contact-history-chandigarh-health-dept-clueless-how-pu-teacher-got-infected/story-uIJxMJgkP57JoozhQsuU9K.html
12-04-2020||City||Panchkula’s first two Covid patients recover, no fresh case for two days||The first two positive patients in Panchkula, a woman salon worker and a staff nurse, have recovered from the disease. The women, 38 and 36, respectively, were discharged from the civil hospital in Sector 6, bringing down the active coronavirus cases from five to three.Also, the district reported no new Covid-19 case for the second day in a row after three men, who attended a Tablighi Jamaat event in Rajasthan, tested positive on Thursday. District Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Rajiv Narwal said, “We are glad both the women have recovered and been discharged from the hospital. They were given a farewell by the health team at the hospital’s isolation ward after their second samples returned negative results on Saturday evening.”“It is their sheer determination that helped them recover speedily. The health staff also worked round-the-clock for their treatment. We hope the remaining three patients also recover soon,” he added. The salon worker’s family members, who were under quarantine at Nada Sahib gurdwara since she tested positive on March 21, were also allowed to go back home on Saturday.The first patient, a 38-year-old salon worker, who lives in Kharak Mangoli village, had tested positive after she came in contact with Chandigarh’s first coronavirus patient. The 23-year-old woman from Chandigarh’s Sector 21 had visited her at a salon on returning from London. The 36-year-old staff nurse at the civil hospital was tested on March 31 after she reportedly attended to the salon worker.‘THINK OF OTHERS’ WELLBEING’Speaking after her discharge, the nurse said, “Emotional strength helped me fight this disease. Don’t let negativity overpower you. As they say, wishing for something changes nothing, one has to be determined.”“Along with your safety, think of the wellbeing of others as well. This will help Haryana residents fight the pandemic,” she added.For the salon worker, it was a difficult time as she missed her children and couldn’t stop worrying about them. “I felt low many times, but did not lose hope. It was my resolve for a speedy recovery to return to my family and the health staff’s devotion that helped me get better,” she said.8 CONTACTS OF POSITIVE JAMAAT MEN TEST NEGATIVETwo days after three Panchkula men, who attended a Tablighi Jamaat event in Sikar, Rajasthan, last month, tested positive for Covid-19, eight of their family members tested negative.Reports of eight others are awaited. Samples of five family members of the 18-year-old man and 11 contacts of the 37-year-old man were taken for testing. The third patient is aged 80. The health department has also cordoned off their village, Banoi Khuda Baksh in Pinjore, and is undertaking screening of locals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panchkula-s-first-two-covid-patients-recover-no-fresh-case-for-two-days/story-ueSIYlKfW9GcsSo92yHOeJ.html
12-04-2020||Delhi||Coronavirus: Lockdown may continue, Delhi seeks share in relief fund||The Delhi government has suggested the nationwide lockdown in force since March 25 may continue in the national capital till the end of April, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Saturday hours after chief minister Arvind Kejriwal met Prime Minister Narendra Modi on a video conference along with chief ministers of all other states. Kejriwal conveyed this opinion to the PM, who is scheduled to make an announcement over the issue within a few days. In a tweet later, Kejriwal said the PM was open to extending the shutdown for the 15-day period after April 14, when the curb is scheduled to end.Delhi’s tally of coronavirus cases crossed the 1,000 mark on Saturday. The national Capital had registered a total of 1,069 positive cases, including 19 deaths and 26 recoveries.During the meeting, Kejriwal also urged the PM to allocate funds for Delhi to fight Covid-19. “The chief minister requested that Delhi be given funds like other states are being given by the Centre. He reasoned that Delhi is under ‘dual pressure’ as it not only has to take care of its own 2 crore people, but also lakhs of other people who do not reside in the Capital but are (taking shelter) in the city due to the lockdown,” said a senior official in the chief minister’s office. On April 4, Sisodia had written to finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman expressing disappointment for not giving “a single penny” to the national Capital from the ₹17,000 crore-worth emergency assistance given to different state governments. NO INDIVIDUAL CALL YETMinutes after the PM’s meeting got over Kejriwal took to Twitter where he said the Central government has decided to extend national lockdown by two more weeks. “PM has taken the correct decision to extend lockdown. Today, India’s position is better than many developed countries because we started lockdown early. If it is stopped now, all gains would be lost. To consolidate, it is imp to extend it,” Kejriwal tweeted in support of the lockdown.This came at a time when high-Covid spread states of Odisha, Maharasthra and Punjab, among others, have already extended the lockdown in their respective states.Delhi’s deputy chief minister later told HT that seeing the increasing number of coronavirus cases in the national Capital, lifting the lockdown now would be like setting off a ticking time bomb. When asked if the Delhi government will issue an order on its own on extending the lockdown, like some states did, Sisodia said such a need would not arise. “We have requested the PM that the extension has to be a ‘nation-wide’ lockdown. We do not see any possibility of the lockdown being lifted. The PM also agreed on continuing with the lockdown,” said Sisodia. While the PM announced the nation-wide shut down on March 24, Delhi chief minister Kejriwal had imposed the pan-city lockdown a day in advance. MANDIS TO ENSURE SOCIAL DISTANCING To ensure strict implementation of social distancing and mask-wearing in places which have a tendency to be crowded, Delhi chief secretary Vijay Dev on Saturday directed district magistrates and deputy commissioners of police to launch a crackdown at all the mandis (big markets) of the Capital. “The chief secretary warned that responsibility will be fixed in case of non-compliance of the order. He also directed officials that the upcoming festivals, celebrations are closely regulated. Social distancing and protocols of coronavirus prevention must be strictly observed,” a senior government official said.Soon after Dev’s directive, Najafgarh sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Saumya Sharma ordered shifting the Najafgarh wholesale vegetable market to Haibatpura village to prevent crowding. Meanwhile, two station house officers of Amar Colony and Bara Hindi Rao police stations were transferred to the district lines for failing to ensure social distancing. COMPENSATION FOR PSV DRIVERSThe Delhi Cabinet on Saturday approved the transport department’s proposal to give one time financial help of ₹5,000 to drivers of autos, taxis, e-rickshaws and other para- transit vehicles.The application process for this will start Monday and public service vehicle (PSV) providers will need to fill a simple online form on the transport department’s website. The drivers will have to type their vehicle number and the PSV badge number in the form to apply.Delhi transport minister Kailash Gahlot said the financial help will be given through direct benefit transfer in the Aadhaar-linked bank accounts of the eligible drivers. “The benefit will be given to all such PSV badge holders who have been issued such badges till March 23 this year. Further, in case of persons whose driving licences have expired on or after February 1, 2020, their cases will also be considered for grant of benefit,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/lockdown-may-continue-delhi-seeks-share-in-relief-fund/story-mqGCeVZ1SbQE4CXHRWl2mL.html
12-04-2020||Delhi||Coronavirus: In Nabi Karim, Chandni Mahal sealed zones, keeping people indoors a challenge||From flying drones for surveillance, to making announcements from mosques and police pickets asking people to remain indoors -- the Delhi government has worked out different ways to ensure residents remain indoors and follow social distancing norms in the Walled City’s Chandni Mahal and Nabi Karim containment zones. The two places in Old and Central Delhi are among the most densely packed areas of the national Capital. They were declared containment zones, along with five others, by the Delhi government on Friday, taking the number of zones under hard lockdown to 30 in the city.Delhi has so far has recorded 1,068 Covid-19 positive cases with 19 deaths.On Saturday, three new containment zones were identified by the Dehi government, taking the total number of zones under lockdown in the national Capital to 33. The three new areas of containment zones were Deoli Extension, A-Block Mansarovar Garden (one house) and Gali Number 1-10 (house numbers 1-1,000) in C-Block Jahangirpuri.District Magistrate (south) BM Mishra said the containment plan in Deoli Extension was initiated after 8 members of a family tested positive for Covid-19. As per the order, house no-A 176, Deoli Extension and the area around it have been identified as the containment area.After an area is declared as a containment zone, police seal the area and do not allow anyone to step out, even to buy essential goods such as milk, vegetables, fruits, etc. All entry and exit points and even internal lanes are barricaded . The authorities allow only a number of selected vendors to supply groceries and other essentials to the neighbourhood with the help of RWA and civil defence volunteers. The essential items are then delivered at the doorstep of homes inside the zones. Every person who steps out of the zone in case of an emergency or whose work comes under list of essential services is scanned at the gates. Residents, however, complained that till Saturday evening, they were not provided any help by authorities in procuring essential items, such as milk and vegetables. According to the district administration officials, keeping people indoors and ensuring that everyone gets delivery of essential items has been challenging for them, especially in densely populated areas such as Chandni Mahal and Nabi Karim.The officials explained that Nabi Karim and Chandni Mahal areas are congested and are full of narrow alleys. All major stretches leading to these areas, along with all the internal roads, have been barricaded. “We have barricaded the hot spots and also used drones to check if people are roaming around in narrow alleys of Chandni Mahal and Nabi Karim. Announcements are being made to make people aware of the help available and that they must not panic and just stay put in their houses,” said Sanjay Bhatia, deputy commissioner of police (Central).Mohammad Shehzad, 32, a resident of Nabi Karim, however, said so far nobody from the local administration or other agencies had reached out to them for help. “Families are helping each other out here. Nobody has come from outside for help,” he said.Till Saturday evening, residents in Chandni Mahal claimed they did not even have the contact number or details of any agency that they could reach out for help in procuring essentials.“The area was sealed in the night. In the morning people who had stepped out to buy milk and vegetables were asked to go back home. There were no vendors, while the milk booth too didn’t have any stock. We waited the whole day for some announcement regarding door-to-door supply, but nothing happened,” said Mujeeb-ur-Rehman, a local resident, who is also a doctor.Anwar Ullah, general secretary of the Chandni Mahal RWA , agreed that there were concerns. “We have been waiting for the door-to-door delivery of essentials. While some people have some stock, many others remained without essentials such as milk and bread. We appeal to local authorities to arrange a mechanism for supply,” he said.Meanwhile, Prahlad Singh Sawhney, MLA Chandni Chowk said, he had received a complaint regarding milk booths running out of supply. “I have got a few complaints regarding milk and other supplies not reaching the sealed areas. I have asked the area SDM to address the situation on an urgent basis,” he said.District magistrate (central) Nidhi Srivastava said they had deployed civil defence volunteers to rush to people in need of essentials and home deliver goods.“Surveillance teams are still on the ground. We have circulated pamphlets with the contact numbers of grocers and other service providers. The volunteers will receive items on order and deliver it to doorsteps,” she said. She said that the efforts to screen households have been stepped up in these areas.Nabi Karim and Chandni Mahal were declared containment zones after three new Covid-19 cases were reported from Nabi Karim, and seven cases were recorded from Chandni Mahal in the last three days. Three deaths were also reported from Chandni Mahal in the last couple of weeks.DM (central), Srivastava, in her order, said there were 102 people staying in 13 locations in Chandni Mahal area, out of which 52 have tested positive. “Those who had tested positive have been sent to quarantine centres. However, they might have come in contact with residents of the area. Screening of the houses in the area is being done,” Srivastava said.The North Delhi Municipal Corporation has sanitised the entire area by using knapsack and rickshaw-mounted sprayer machines. “Six teams, each with three workers and one motorised knapsack pump, were pressed into service for the sanitisation exercise. Around 250 litres of diluted Sodium Hypochlorite disinfectant was used,” an official of the north civic body said.Apart from Nabi Karim and Chandni Mahal, the other five areas that were declared containment zones include Zakir Nagar in south-east Delhi, upscale residential area DLF Capital Greens in west Delhi’s Moti Nagar, Block B in Paschim Vihar, areas around a property in Ashok Nagar and pocket E of GTB Enclave. In Zakir Nagar, residents complained about the scarcity of drinking water supply in the locality.At west Delhi’s new Moti Nagar’s upscale Capital Greens residential complex, where a single tower has been sealed, the housing colony’s management has been helping in delivery of essentials to those under containment. According to officials, three cases were reported from the society’s G-tower, which has been cordoned off. “We have tied up with the management of the society to deploy two persons in shifts to deliver essentials. Also, the security staff of the complex has been put on vigil to ensure that nobody steps out of their homes,” said a senior Delhi government official, who did not wish to be named.In Pashchim Vihar, where only one case was found positive, an area covering at least 15-20 houses has been sealed. Similarly, at Ashok Nagar, area covering 40-50 houses has been turned into a containment zone. “Taking abundant precaution, we have sealed the houses in the vicinity for future containment. We have roped in RWAs to supply essentials to the sealed zones,” said an officer of the district magistrate (West)’s office.The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) on Saturday conducted disinfectant spray drive to prevent spread of Covid in all the containment zones. SDMC has deployed over 200 sanitation employees, 20 tankers, 8 fire tenders and 16 jetting machines for sanitisation and disinfection in the containment zones.SDM Vivek Vihar on Saturday issued a list of vegetables, grocery and milk suppliers. For two hours between 7 and 9 in the morning, people would be allowed to buy their essentials, as per the order. Sadar Bazar witnessed a rush of people at a local vegetable market on Saturday.In Ashok Nagar around 400 houses were sanitised around the area by using motorized pumps. In Zakir Nagar, 35 sanitation employees were deployed for spraying disinfectant in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/in-nabi-karim-chandni-mahal-sealed-zones-keeping-people-indoors-a-challenge/story-8bx6AXK8DBD1cGuUGg6nOL.html
12-04-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s first private Covid-19 testing centre in parking lot now operational||The first of the private testing centres operating out of a parking lot in Mumbai started testing for Covid-19 in Oshiwara on Saturday. This is one of 17 public parking lots identified by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to set up clinics so that more people may be tested for Sars-Cov-2, which causes Covid-19. The remaining clinics will be operational by next week. The BMC also plans to increase the capacity of fever clinics where treatment will be for free. Currently, there are 10 fever clinics in the city, which have so far diagnosed five cases of Covid-19.According to the Maharashtra health department, Mumbai reported 138 new cases and 12 deaths on Saturday, taking the total number of cases to 1,146 in the city.Five private labs —SRL Limited, Thyrocare Technologies, Metropolis Laboratory, Infexn Laboratories and Suburban Diagnostic Centre — will set up testing centres which will carry out 3,000 tests daily, in 17 parking lots across the city. The locations include Indiabulls Finance Centre at Prabhadevi; Kohinoor Mill in Dadar; Club Aquaria parking in Borivli (West); Birla Krida Kendra at Chowpatty; service road outside NESCO exhibition centre in Goregaon (East); a parking lot near Hub Mall in Goregaon (West); and parking lots in Byculla, Kalachowki, Sewri, Mulund and Kanjurmarg. Additional municipal commissioner P Velrasu said, “We are identifying wide service roads on the highway. Seventeen parking lots have been identified. The testing at one parking lot has started. At others, it will start from the coming week. We plan to augment the capacity of our fever clinics too by engaging private labs. They will test more people in containment zones. And if swab tests are required, we will reimburse the labs.” Testing centres on western and eastern express highways will be ‘drive-through’, meaning those giving samples for testing need not leave their vehicles.BMC is also training 1,709 resident doctors, 417 interns, 662 students and 468 nursing students in order to add to the manpower of the medical teams.According to data released by the BMC for 993 positive cases in Mumbai, the maximum number are from G/South Ward, comprising Worli and Prabhadevi. Nearly 50% of the total cases reported are from four wards in the city: G/South Ward (243 cases); E Ward, which includes Byculla, Mumbai Central and Mazagaon (104 cases); D ward, which includes Malabar Hill, Chowpatty, Grant Road (66 cases); and H/East ward, which includes Bandra (East) (59 cases).Of the 44 new positive cases reported on Saturday from the G/North ward, 28 were from Dharavi where one death was also reported. BMC said it will screen around 7 lakh residents of Dharavi over the next two weeks. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/first-lab-in-parking-lot-now-open/story-UK2aZ2ZBsIzBYkOM5Gu3gP.html
12-04-2020||Gurugram||7 booked for beating up SPO, suspecting him of ‘spreading Covid-19’||Seven people were booked after they allegedly assaulted a special police officer (SPO) and tried to strangulate him with a rope during an altercation, the police said on Saturday. In the complaint, the SPO’s wife alleged that the people suspected him of “spreading the coronavirus disease (Covid-19)” and attacked him. However, the police refused to confirm the claim and said they are investigating the matter. According to the police, the victim was identified by his first name, Saimuddin. He is a resident of Nuh and recently retired from the army and became an SPO. The incident took place on Monday when he was going towards Danibas village on his motorcycle for some personal work. In the police complaint, the victim’s wife alleged that as he neared Sangel village, he saw that the road was blocked by the residents with barbed wire. He then saw a narrow path through which pedestrians and motorcyclists could pass. The complainant further alleged that her husband was spotted by the sarpanch of Sangel village who was standing near the barbed wire. “The sarpanch called out to other residents to catch him (the victim) and not let him go. He then used casteist slurs against him and said that my husband was spreading Covid-19,” she added. Subsequently, the men allegedly began assaulting the victim and one of them tried to strangulate him with a rope. “They tried to kill my husband. He later fainted and was thrown inside a four-walled water chamber,” the complainant alleged. She added that her father-in-law received a call from someone who alerted him regarding the incident. The victim was then taken to a government hospital in Nuh and later referred to Artemis Hospital in Gurugram. The police said that he was discharged from the hospital on Friday.Vishal Kumar, station house officer (SHO), Nuh police station, said that they are yet to find the motive behind the incident. “We have registered the case and the men are yet to be arrested,” he added.A case was registered against the men under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (wrongful restraint), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering human life), and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Nuh police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/seven-people-booked-for-beating-up-spo-suspecting-him-of-spreading-covid-19/story-q6XF1dbHWbCRt7JbcxPk4K.html
12-04-2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh records its fifth Covid-19 death||Uttar Pradesh recorded its fifth coronavirus death even as 19 fresh cases took the statewide tally of infected patients to 452 since the pandemic began, according to data released by the health department here on Saturday.The patient who died was a Bulandshahr-based Ayurveda practitioner who succumbed to the Covid-19 disease in a Delhi hospital, an official said.All the positive cases reported so far were from 41 of the state’s 75 districts so far.Out of the 19 fresh cases, eight are Tablighi Jamaat members. During the day, 13 patients were discharged from various hospitals following recovery, the health department said. This is the maximum number of coronavirus patients discharged in a day in the state, taking their total number to 45.Dr KN Tiwari, chief medical officer of Bulandshahr, said the 58-year-old Bulandshahr man who died was a private Ayurveda practitioner and he was admitted to Safdarjung hospital in New Delhi. Samples of his family members have also been sent for tests.The Ayurveda practitoner was initially admitted to a private hospital on April 7 and then shifted to Delhi. The hospital, where he was admitted, as well his clinic, has been sealed.Earlier, deaths were reported from Basti, Meerut, Agra and Varanasi.The number of Tablighi Jamaat members who tested positive for the coronavirus increased to 254, said additional chief secretary, Home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi.The 19 fresh cases were reported from Agra (4), Lucknow (3), Ghaziabad (2), Meerut (4), Bulandshahar (3), Saharanpur (1) Badaun (1) and Bhadohi (1). Among them, the Tablighi Jamaat members tested positive in Agra (3), Meerut (3), Ghaziabad (1) and Bulandshahr (1).Awasthi said till Friday the health department sent 10,595 samples for tests and 10,012 samples were found negative.The health department identified 5,477 symptomatic travelers in the state and 576 were hospitalised, another 8,084 people have been admitted in the quarantine facilities.He said 66,260 people were under observation.The health department has reserved 9,442 beds in the hospitals for isolation wards and 12,119 beds reserved for quarantine wards. The number of beds with ventilator facilities in various hospitals increased to 931, he said.The districts that reported cases till now are Agra (92), Lucknow (32), Ghaziabad (27), Noida (64), Lakhimpur Kheri (4), Kanpur (9), Pilibhit (2), Moradabad (1), Shamli (17), Jaunpur (4), Baghpat (5), Meerut (48), Bareilly (6), Bulandshahr (11), Basti (9), Hapur (6), Ghazipur (5), Azamgarh (4), Firozabad (11), Hardoi (2), Pratapgarh (6), Saharanpur (21), Shahjahanpur (1), Banda (2), Maharajganj (6), Hathras (4), Mirzapur (2), Rae Bareli (2), Auraiyya (3), Barabanki (1), Kaushambi (2), Bijnor, (1), Sitapur (10), Prayagraj (1), Mathura (2), Badaun (2), Rampur (6), Muzaffarnagar (4), Amroha (7), Bhadohi (1) and Varanasi (9).THREE MORE TEST POSITIVE IN LUCKNOW Among the 19 fresh coronavirus cases reported across the state on Saturday, three are from Lucknow.These three — two women and a man —are contacts of other patients who had tested positive earlier, said Lucknow chief medical officer Dr Narendra Agrawal.They were resident of the Sadar area and had been shifted to the COVID hospital in Sadamau, said Dr Agrawal. During the day, health teams in Lucknow took 64 more samples.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-records-its-fifth-covid-19-death/story-u55DrH0l2z1BYKdZkBASXI.html
12-04-2020||Gurugram||Covid-19: Gurugram containment zones wear deserted look as cops restrict movement||Residential areas covered under the city’s nine containment zones wore a deserted look on Saturday, with police barricading almost all entry and exits in these localities. Heavy police presence was seen across all sealed areas as they spearheaded containment measures, while officials from the administration went around making important announcements regarding the Do’s and Dont’s of the containment exercise on loudspeakers. The administration, on Friday, had shared a revised list of containment zones — which included Palam Vihar, Laburnum Society in Sushant Lok Phase 1, Emaar Palm Gardens, sector 83, Sector 54 and Nirvana Country, Sector 9, Sector 39, Village Fazilpur Jharsa, village Raipur, Sohna, and Ward no.11, Pataudi. While the order mentioned Sector 54 and Palam Vihar, barricading was only done in limited areas in both zones. While Suncity Township was sealed in Sector 54, Bestech Park View condominium and C block were sealed in Palam Vihar. The district administration has sealed the epicentres from where the Covid-19 cases have been reported, while the remaining area within the 3kilometre radius of the epicentre is allowed restricted movement.By Saturday, police had completed the barricading of all the nine zones with the help of MCG and the PWD. Sixty-four police pickets have been set up outside the containment zones where a total of 1,342 personnel have been deployed in three shifts. “We have closed all entry points, except one in each area and teams have been deployed at all locations. No vehicular movement is allowed except for doctors, nurses, essential good vehicles or for any medical emergency. All essential goods are being supplied in the residential areas so there is no reason for people to move outside ,” said police commissioner Muhammad Akil.He added that all the deputy commissioners of police (DCPs) and assistant commissioners of police (ACPs) had been asked to patrol the area thrice a day and ensure that all personnel deployed in the ground were taken care of.Nirvana CountryWhile essential supplies were available in most of the areas, residents raised concerns about minor inconveniences. Residents said that they were being compelled to cover long distances till the entry gate of the Nirvana Country Township for collecting supplies. Some residents of Nirvana Country-located condominiums, Close South and Fresco Apartments, said that they were unhappy with the new plan as they were now required to walk for at least a kilometre just to collect deliveries, which are only taking place at the main gate.Nidhi Kapoor, a resident of Fresco Apartment, said that the administration had not shared clear instructions. “The administration should send a clear message so that residents know what all can be ordered. Walking for more than a kilometre is not possible for everyone and it takes more than half an hour to complete the task,” said Kapoor. People who ordered from app-based food services were also seen arguing with police personnel seeking entry of delivery persons in Nirvana Country.Shiv Kumar, another Nirvana Country resident, said that there was confusion regarding the entry of vendors in the locality. “Every hour, rules for vendors are changing. Until today afternoon, vendors were allowed. But post that they suddenly stopped the entry of all vendors, except MCG bus, gas connection vendors and milk vans. Even chemist delivery boys are not being given entry and we are being asked to come to the gate, which is at a distance of over 1 km since Nirvana is spread over 300 acres,” said Kumar.Nilesh Tandon, RWA president of Fresco Apartments, said that the condominium had received supplies from MCG and no major disruption took place in the area. “We are receiving essentials such as fruits and vegetables through MCG. Further, we have three grocery shops within the complex to meet the demands. Residents who ordered food from outside did face issues since the area was locked down, said Tandon.Palam ViharPalam Vihar containment zone witnessed a partial lockdown with only specific areas—Bestech Park View condominium and C block —being sealed. Markets were open and vendors moved about in the colony but in block C, the movement was restricted. In Park View condominium, the authorities sealed only one tower. But in the entire complex residents have been asked to stay inside their flats and no movement is allowed in common areas. People moved around in masks and teams of MCG were also seen sanitizing the area.SC Kumar, president, Park View RWA, said that officials from the health department had started screening and checking the condominium complex and a team of four to five officials had visited the complex. “We are trying to ensure that all rules for the lockdown are followed and the spread of the virus is contained,” said Kumar. Shops in Palam Vihar market complex selling essential commodities remained open and most roads were operational.Laburnum Society, Sushant Lok-IAt Laburnum Society, residents said that some inconveniences had been caused due to the new restrictions. Vijay Sood, member of the committee formed to deal with Covid-19 related issue, said that restrictions on the movement of pets had caused inconvenience. “We are not allowed to step out and we don’t have a separate area for the pets in our complex . We had private space outside the gates where we used to take the pets for walk, but even that is not being permitted now,” said Sood. The supply of essential also took place without any major disruptions and needs were met through the shops located within the complex. “We have a provisions store, vegetable and chemist shop on-premises. We don’t need to depend on the administration for essentials here,” said Sood.Residents at Laburnum, however, said that the shops within the complex were selling all items above the MRP. “I bought a packet of rice which sold at double the price,” said Manu Sharma, a resident.Six police posts have been set up in Sushank Lok, including two in front of Laburnum Society. Police is allowing delivery boys till the gate of the condominium since the complex is hardly half a kilometre away from the main Sushant Lok road.Sector 9At Sector 9, two security guards along and two policemen were deployed at the common entry/exit point for keeping a check on vehicles entering the sector. People were only being allowed to pass after showing their IDs or passes. Vegetable vendors, who had passes, were also being allowed to move through . As gates within the area were closed, the elderly were seen buying it from behind the iron grilles of the gates. “We have been purchasing vegetables from behind closed gates since the lockdown has been imposed,” said Naresh Kumar, an elderly. The road connecting sector 9 with Devi Lal Colony, where a 38-year-old man was confirmed Covid-19 positive, was also sealed.Emaar Palm Gardens, sector 83All the gates of Palm Gardens condominium in sector 83 were closed by the police on Saturday morning and entry and exit inside the complex stopped. The residents said that they were dependent on maintenance staff for the supply of essentials for delivery till the doors of their flats. “The movement of people inside the complex has been completely banned and we are ordering food and other requirements over the phone and getting it through the maintenance of staff. The staff delivers it to the apartment. Health authorities have also started screening of the residents today, said Pankaj Gupta, a resident||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/all-containment-zones-wear-deserted-look-as-police-keep-hawk-s-eye-on-residents/story-u6aDJKAzWGsPpyLLS6WSpO.html
12-04-2020||Lucknow||UP govt’s revenue collection dips after lockdown, new cash management order issued||Admitting a decline in revenue collection following the Covid-19 lockdown, the state government on Saturday ordered its departments not to issue any financial sanctions for large ‘construction works’ and ‘buying land’ without prior approval of the finance department till June 30.Citing ‘special circumstances’ after the lockdown as the reason, the government has issued the new ‘cash management’ order to ensure unhindered flow of funds for the fight against the coronavirus.“Under prevailing circumstances, the financial sanctions for grants concerning all departments under ’24-vrahat nirman karya (large construction works)’ and ‘grant number 60-Bhumi Kraya (buying land)’ heads will be released only with the consent of the finance department,” said additional chief secretary (ACS), Finance, Sanjiv Mittal in the order number 5/202/B-1-196/Das-2020-231/2020 dated April 11, 2020.The order was sent to all the additional chief secretaries, principal secretaries and secretaries here on Saturday.“The state government’s revenue has come down following the lockdown ordered in the state in view of the World Health Organisation’s (WHO) move declaring Covid-19 a pandemic. In order to keep the resources available to carry out necessary works to check the spread of the coronavirus, the state government has taken (these) important decisions,” reads the new cash management order that comes into effect immediately.Administrative departments usually have the authority to issue financial sanctions for funds allocated to them in the state’s annual budget for development projects etc. The state government, in an office memorandum issued on March 24, 2020, and a government order issued on April 7, 2020, had also reiterated that administrative departments were vested with powers to issue financial sanctions under these major heads.The state government, however, has made it clear that payment for works of medical and health services, medical education, Ayush department, police and revenue departments, along with payment of salaries to government employees, teachers and non-teaching staff, will be made regularly.“All committed expenditure - allowances, honorarium and pension etc. of government employees, teachers and non-teaching employees of the Basic Education Board and aided education institutions whose salaries are paid by government grants, will be made regularly. Payment of honorarium/wages of Home Guards, Pradeshik Raksha Dal and aanganwadi workers and Asha Bahu will also be made regularly,” says the new order.It further reads the ‘payment of arrears of any kind’ will be made after June 30.It has asked the departments to regularly clear dues like electricity bills, house tax and water tax to urban local bodies and said the financial sanctions for centrally sponsored schemes should, however, be made after prior approval of the state finance department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-govt-s-revenue-collection-dips-after-lockdown-new-cash-management-order-issued/story-M6exxYsCZHTOUPDrr1ygnM.html
12-04-2020||Gurugram||Covid-19: Gurugram district administration defines boundary of containment zones||The Gurugram administration officials on Saturday clarified that the perimeter of the containment zone in nine areas of the city is restricted to three kilometre radius from the point where Covid-19 cases has been reported. Officials said it will be difficult to turn entire sector or area into containment zone as providing access to essential services might get tough. The district administration on Friday had issued an order declaring nine containment zones and authorising the sub-divisional magistrates (SDMs) and police to define the perimeter of the containment zones.The decision of declaring the containment zone was taken to prevent the clustering of Covid-19 cases in areas from where the cases have been reported. Since March 16, 32 cases have been reported from Gurugram, including 15 Jamaat attendees from Pataudi and Sohna. A 65-year- old man from Fazilpur Jharsa, who was Covid-19 positive died on April 7. Officials, however, said the main cause of death was heart attack and septicemia.Amit Khatri, the Gurugram deputy commissioner, said, “As per the guideline, the perimeter of a containment zone covers 3-kilometre radius from the point where a case has been reported. We are demarcating the perimeter by barricading and sealing the entry and exit points falling under the 3km radius. We are trying to create awareness about the perimeter control through announcements. Also, teams will be posting signs to inform about the specific areas under the nine containment zones.”The nine containment zones are sector 9, 83, 39, 54 and Nirvana Country, Laburnum Sushant Lok Phase 1, Fazilpur Jharsa, Pataudi and village Raipur, Sohna. Though the order identified Palam Vihar as a containment zone, only Bestech Apartment and C block has been sealed, where four of a family were confirmed Covid-19 positive. They have recovered since and were discharged from hospital in the last week of March. Likewise, Sushant Lok phase 1 Laburnum, where a 50-year-old woman was detected Covid-19 positive, has been sealed . The residents of the adjoining condos are allowed restricted movement. As per the health department guidelines, the containment zone covers a radius of 3-kilometre and the adjoining buffer zone covers a seven-kilometre radius. The police is using the road distance from the epicentre to map the radius and placing the barricades. Hitender Kumar, SDM, Badhshahpur, who is handling containment zones in sector 54, Laburnum society, sector 39, Nirvana South Close and Fazilpur Jharsa, said, “In certain sectors, largely populated by condominiums, it is difficult to seal the entire area. If we do so, the number of households increase which will create trouble in providing essential services. Therefore, the epicentre from where the case has been reported is getting sealed with no public or vehicular movement, while the remaining 3 kilometre area having restricted movement. We are creating awareness about the perimeter by making announcements, asking people not to move out.” According to him, it will take some time for residents to realise which residential houses are covered in the perimeter. “Barricades have been put up. Specific entry and exit points have been closed so that households who are not falling under the perimeter should not enter these areas,” said Hatinder. Rajesh Kumar, SDM, Pataudi said that the administration’s attempt was to control the perimeter around which the cases have been reported. We have covered only wards 11 and 13 in Pataudi, where coronavirus cases have been reported. Within the 3kilomtre radius, we have put eight nakas — five in Pataudi and three in Hailey Mandi. The perimeter covers almost 3000 houses.” Following the guidelines, all roads connecting the containment zones are been guarded by the police. In certain areas, details of all the persons moving out of the perimeter for essential or emergency service is being recorded, especially in condominiums. “The perimeter of the containment depends on the risk assessment of the area. It can be revised based on the epidemiological investigation. In the containment zones, it must be ensured there is no unchecked outward movement of population, except for essential services and medical emergencies,” said Dr Jaswant Singh Punia, chief medical officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-district-administration-defines-boundary-of-containment-zones/story-6U646KbGLX4DSVqyjDbHeK.html
12-04-2020||Noida||3 more areas declared Covid-19 hotspots in Gautam Budh Nagar, sealed||The number of Covid-19 hot spots in Gautam Budh Nagar touched 25 with three more additions on Saturday evening. The three newly added areas are Sector 50, Sector 93 A and some parts of Sector Pi 2 in Greater Noida. These areas were declared hot spots after more cases of Covid-19 came to fore on Thursday and Friday.According to officials, areas around these three locations will remain sealed from Saturday 10am till the midnight of April 14. In Pi 2, only some parts which is near the residential society of a positive patient will remain sealed.The Uttar Pradesh government Wednesday had announced that it will completely seal Covid-19 hot spots across 15 districts in the state in an attempt to stop the spread of the coronavirus infection. The authorities have restricted people in these areas from stepping out of homes even to buy essential items. All houses will be surveilled and the areas deeply sanitised. Officials are trying to provide doorstep delivery of essential services.The district health department, meanwhile, has been facing trouble has test reports have been delayed. Officials have tied up with the National Institute of Biologicals in Sector 62, Noida, for conducting Covid-19 tests. The district magistrate has allotted ₹46.22 lakh to the Government Institute of Medical Sciences in Greater Noida and ₹65 lakh to the Super Speciality Children Hospital in Sector 39 for developing Covid-19 laboratories so that these delays can be avoided.“It is important to get faster results to ensure quick containment and surveillance drives in affected areas. On Friday, a woman who was operated on at private hospital tested positive for Covid-19 following which medical and paramedical staff of the hospital were put in quarantine. Currently, the medical staff are playing the most important role so we have to ensure their safety. We are also trying to come up with a way to ensure that the emergency patients who come for surgeries are tested in advance in their respective districts before they reach here,” Suhas LY, district magistrate, said.Till now, the staff of two hospitals in the district have been put in quarantine following the Covid-19 outbreak.By Saturday night, the health department had notified 1,895 travellers and put 1,423 people under surveillance. A total of 1,224 samples have been collected. A total of 64 cases have come out positive and 13 of them have been discharged. There are 51 active cases in the district at present.Another problem faced by the district administration is of industries firing their junior employees. There are instances wherein despite the order of the district magistrate, a few organisations haven’t paid the labourers their salaries this month even after April 7, the deadline by which they were meant to be paid.“We are continuously holding meetings with industries in the district to convince them to not fire any employee. We are also trying to look for firms which haven’t paid their employees yet,” Suhas said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/three-more-areas-declared-hot-spots-and-sealed-in-gb-nagar-after-more-cases-emerge/story-s9rwbEHQlZYCLHre9mROrM.html
12-04-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: IIT-Delhi may restart session in July, fast-track a finish by month-end||The Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi, (IIT-D) said it is considering restarting the current academic session from the first week of July, and concluding by the end of the month. The institute is also mooting reopening hostel facilities around the same time, officials privy to the matter said. The 2019-20 academic session was suspended on March 12 due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The suggestions were made by IIT-D officials during an online interactive session with students on Saturday, chaired by the institute’s director V Ramgopal Rao. The considerations will be sent to the senate — the highest decision making body of the institute — for approval. “We have discussed the possible steps that can be taken to complete the session with our students. We will send these considerations to the senate for the final decision. We intend to complete the session by July 31,” Rao said.Meanwhile, the institute will continue holding online classes and uploading course material online. “Online content will be shared for all the courses. We are considering holding classes for two weeks in July to catch up the uploaded material before taking exams,” officials said during the interaction. The institute has also asked all course coordinators for a plan on conducting examinations. “We are examining the possibility of conducting exams by the end of July. The course coordinators have been asked to decide on their major and minor exams. If the need arises, they can either take the minor exams on an internal level, or merge it with the major exams,” they said.IIT-D is planning to reopen the hostel facility from July 6 only. “As a precautionary measure, we are thinking of reopening hostel facilities only a month after the lockdown is withdrawn. We are also planning to screen all students before they rejoin the hostel,” the official said. The nationwide lockdown is so far scheduled to end from April 15 onwards. However, some states like Punjab, Maharashtra and Karnataka have extended the curbs till April 30. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday also held a video meeting with all chief ministers, most of whom were in favour of extending the lockdown beyond Tuesday.The institute had vacated all hostels last month, due to the rapid spread of the coronavirus disease.During the interaction, officials also said the institution is planning to hold a special placement drive for those the final-year students who lost their jobs as a result of the pandemic either in June or July. The institute, meanwhile, said that it might allow PhD and MTech students to return to the campus immediately after the lockdown. “If the senate approves, they might be allowed to attend the labs and complete their projects immediately after the lockdown,” officials said.IIT-D has also promised MTech and PhD students it will continue issuing their research stipends during the lockdown. Besides, the students who have job commitments in May have been asked to contact their departmental heads and deans. Officials said they will be issued provisional certificates to facilitate their joining the respective firms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/iit-d-may-restart-session-in-july-fast-track-a-finish-by-month-end/story-E96pFv4p8n2tZjHwmtkssM.html
12-04-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Happiness classes, Mission Buniyad to reach students’ homes via recorded voice messages||Addressing the second session of ‘Parenting In The Time Of Corona’ on Saturday, Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia said government schools will take ‘happiness classes’ and ‘Mission Buniyad’ activities to students’ homes so they can continue learning even while the lockdown remains in force. He launched the ‘Every Home A School, Every Parent A Teacher’ initiative, under which the government has requested parents to tutor their children at home. The first session was addressed by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on April 4.“Starting Sunday, parents of students in government schools up to class 8 will receive audio calls (IVR) from the education department to guide them on how to take on the role of teachers at home. Step-by-step activities will be shared through pre-recorded audio messages on how to conduct Happiness Classes and Mission Buniyaad at home,” the deputy CM said.Sisodia said the purpose of guiding parents on ‘happiness classes’ was to create a positive environment for students at home. “We are all gripped with anxiety. We do not know what to do as a fun activity. We cannot go out or sit in the parks; we are confined to our homes. In such situations, it is possible to get irritated with one another.”“The activities (in happiness classes) would be conducted at home every day by parents. We will support around 8 lakh students and their families to practice mindful meditation from Sunday with the help of our teachers,” he said.Happiness Class is unique curriculum to help students develop self-awareness and mindfulness. Director of the Directorate of Education (DoE) Binay Bhushan, who accompanied the education minister, requested parents to use the lockdown as an opportunity to tutor kids at homes. “We had planned to start Mission Buniyaad in April. So, we request parents to start coaching their kids to make them start reading and writing few lines every day and solve basic math problems. It is also a good way to help tackle boredom,” Bhushan said. Under the Mission Buniyad initiative, the government schools work towards ensuring that every student of classes 3 to 9 is able to read, write and do basic mathematics. During the interaction, Bhavna Sawnani, a member of the Delhi government’s team Mission Buniyaad, also gave tips on how to practice the initiative creatively at home. “Parents can try teaching their kids by making games out of the process and engage them creatively. They can play ‘shabdo ki antakshari’ with their kids, which will improve their vocabulary or talk about their thoughts and ask their kids how they feel and ask them to write it down,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/happiness-classes-mission-buniyad-to-reach-students-homes-through-recorded-voice-messages/story-89CQJiEN6Qu4N0qckIpyQL.html
12-04-2020||Delhi||Coronavirus: Nurses ask for rotation of duty after 14-day shift in Covid wards||Nurses who have completed one rotation of the 14-day duty in the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) wards and 14 days’ quarantine should be moved to other duties so that they can go home, said a letter written to Delhi’s health secretary by the All India Government Nurses Federation.The letter was written after 22 nurses who had completed one rotation were asked to report for the second round of duty Tuesday onwards at Rajiv Gandhi Superspeciality hospital, the second-largest Covid-19 hospital in the city.These nurses had been drawn from various hospitals in the city to staff the 200-bed hospital.“If the same batch of nursing officers are posted to the Covid-19 wards for many months continuously then their children and family will suffer. The families (of the nurses being posted again) have to wait for another month or maybe more if a proper policy is not framed. This will lead to stress and mental agony among the nursing personnel,” says the letter, a copy of which is with the HT.Around 47 doctors, nurses and technicians posted for the first 28-day cycle in the Covid-19 ward at Rajiv Gandhi Superspeciality hospital in mid-March were from other Delhi government hospitals.“The government should create several such teams of nurses. Once they work in the Covid-19 ward they should go back to their original postings so that they can be with their families while the next team takes over,” said nurse GK Khurana, Secretary-General of All India Government Nurses Federation.The hospital administrator, BL Sherwal, said “The postings are done by the government. They are not our staff and we are just utilising their services. If the government sends us another batch of nurses, technicians and doctors then we will be happy to arrange such rotations. Our own staff have also been given a similar shift.”The organisation, in another letter to the union health secretary, has asked the government to reserve beds in Covid-19 hospitals for healthcare workers.“We have been receiving reports from across the country of healthcare workers testing positive for the infection. The government must ensure that they receive proper care and we have suggested reserving around six or eight beds in Covid-19 hospitals for healthcare workers,” said nurse Khurana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/nurses-ask-for-rotation-of-duty-after-14-day-shift-in-covid-wards/story-8NWsAOnigNelmVRvimhyKJ.html
12-04-2020||Pune||Stolen valuables worth Rs 9 lakh recovered; one held in Pune||The Pune police on Saturday recovered stolen gold jewellery worth Rs 9 lakh from a man whose brother worked as a driver at a household in the city. The theft took place on December 20, 2019.The police are on the lookout for the driver in the case.The arrested man has been identified as Kashinath Chandrakant Gaikwad, 28, a resident of Balurgi taluka of Afzalpur district of Gulbarga, Karnataka. The police are on the lookout for his brother Pravin Chandrakant Gaikwad, a resident of Kirkitwadi.On December 20, 2019, 32 tolas (over 370 grammes) gold jewellery and Rs 48,000 cash was stolen from the house, according to the complaint in the matter. The total worth of the stolen jewellery has been estimated to be Rs 9,76,000.The man had stolen from his employer and hid it in Dudhni taluka of Akkalkot region in Solapur, according to the police.After his arrest, the 28-year-old brother led the police to the stolen valuables. His brother’s involvement was established through the CCTV footage. He was seen breaking through the main door of the house while the family was away and stealing the valuables before fleeing, said police.The arrest was made by a team led by police sub-inspector Santosh Shinde of Kondhwa police station.A case was registered under Section 454 (lurking house-trespass or house-breaking in order to commit offence punishable with imprisonment), 380 (theft in dwelling house, among others) of Indian Penal Code was registered in the matter was Kondhwa police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/stolen-valuables-worth-rs-9-lakh-recovered-one-held/story-CaaZkbjjMIJSIBDe7NwOyN.html
12-04-2020||Pune||Swach warriors in Pune equipped with masks and gloves, but need more in fight against Covid-19||The Covid-19 (coronavirus) pandemic has upended daily life throughout the city. The waste and recycling industry’s essential services continue, but for frontline workers it is no longer business as usual. For Pune-based Swach (Solid waste collection and handling- a cooperative of self-employed waste collectors) which has a team of 3,500 sanitation workers on ground, less number of safety kits containing masks,gloves and other essential items, is a major worry.According to Harshad Barde, director, Swach, the organisation has 95 per cent of its staff on ground. Though the access to sealed areas is limited, garbage collection from other areas is fully functioning.“The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has provided us with 6,500 gloves, masks and soaps and are also making arrangements for additional 35,000 soaps (10 per member). We also have 7,000 gloves and scarves (2 per member) which we received from another organisation.However, these resources are not sufficient,” said Barde.In the coming months, Swach members will need six gloves per member, that is 21,000 gloves, 70,000 soaps (2 per member) and 7,000 scarves (2 per member) in order to remain safe, according to Barde.Though the PMC is trying to procure more safety kits, Swach has appealed for assistance from individuals and groups too for gloves and masks.The masks that the Swach workers wear are washable. For Mangal Gaikwad who works in Kotbagi lane in Aundh, mask is a new thing,however, she wears it duly without fail. “Earlier, we used to wear gloves, but now ever since Covid-19, we have been told to wear the mask as well. We have received two of these. Initially it was uncomfortable, but since we have no choice and I don’t want to fall sick, I have to wear it,’ she said.Kalyani Patil, who oversees the operations across PMC, said, “It is difficult for us to train the waste pickers about Covid-19 in such a short time. We trained the Prabhag (ward) coordinators with help of pamphlets and distributed the same to everyone explaining them the proper ways of sanitising and the importance of wearing masks and gloves. Initially, a lot of them were averse to the idea of masks, but with neighbours and the areas they visited all following protocol, they all began wearing a mask or even a scarf or handkerchief without any complaints.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/swach-warriors-in-pune-equipped-with-masks-and-gloves-but-need-more-in-fight-against-covid-19/story-qSKwu0mO3NnNoMqaLvtl0J.html
12-04-2020||Pune||Covid-19: 13 people booked for violating prohibition of common worship order in Pune||The Pune police booked 13 people for violating the order prohibiting common worship and gathering at a mosque for prayers on Friday. The joint commissioner of Pune police had issued an order prohibiting common worship at all religious places in the city at the beginning of the lockdown. However, the azaan was heard on Friday from the mosque located in Ganesh peth area of Pune, according to senior police inspector Jagannath Kalaskar of Faraskhana police station.“These are natives of Ranchi, Jharkhand. They were in Pune for the work of Tablighi Jamaat. They were staying in the mosque and were sent back to the mosque. Naidu Hospital staff did not conduct test on them as they were not symptomatic. They say they do not have travel history to Delhi, but we are checking their records to confirm,” said senior PI Kalaskar.The maulana of the mosque, who called the azaan, is also an accused in the case.A group of policemen equipped with gloves and masks, responded to the information received by the officials of the Faraskhana police station. A case under Section 188 of Indian Penal Code was registered against them at Faraskhana police station and a notice was issued to them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/13-people-booked-for-violating-prohibition-of-common-worship-order-in-pune/story-W1fmWq7s9Jl4kGZAGnCbkO.html
12-04-2020||Pune||25 from Islampur test negative; 22 discharged, to remain in institutional quarantine||Of the 26 people who had tested positive for the SARS-Cov-2 virus in Islampur area of Sangli district, 22 were discharged from the hospital on Friday as the doctors at Miraj government hospital declared them completely recovered from Covid-19.Of the 22 people, 20 were members of the family including four persons who had travelled to Saudi Arabia and were carriers of the virus. The two others discharged were two housemaids working for the family. The family has been kept in institutional quarantine in Miraj itself. Of the four remaining people, one is a relative of one of the housemaids while three others include a two-year-old child and his parents. “The two-year-old child and the housemaid’s sister were found later and are still under treatment. The parents of the child have both tested negative but not discharged,” said Dr Saket Patil, taluka health officer of Uram Islampur.While the child was tested positive on March 29, the relative of the housemaid was tested positive on April 6.“It has been days since we saw our family members. They have been discharged, but kept in institutional quarantine in Miraj. Rest of us are in an institutional quarantine facility in Islampur,” said the son of the 60-year-old who was among the ones who returned from Saudi Arabia.Two tests are performed within 24 hours on each recovered patient before they are released.“Islampur had 26 cases of Covid-19. Of them, 24 people have tested negative for both the swabs. 22 have already been discharged. The two-year-old baby has also tested negative on Friday and a second swab has been sent for testing. Therefore, of the 26 positive cases, at least 25 have tested negative and discharged from the hospital. But as a precaution, we are going to keep them in institutional quarantine,” said Abhijeet Chaudhari, collector of Sangli district in a press briefing on Saturday evening.The area in Uram Islampur where the family resides, has been turned into a three-tier containment area. The family has three houses in the same area which forms the core zone of containment followed by the buffer zone where the family members were present. The two houses of the housemaids of the family were also included in the core containment zone. The houses of the infected people remain shut and under seal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/25-from-islampur-test-negative-22-of-kin-discharged-to-remain-in-institutional-quarantine/story-cHuJJcJVJCYBpBzx5kLx7N.html
12-04-2020||Pune||Covid-19: I2IT alumni develop low-cost face shields for police, health workers||A group of alumni from the Hinjewadi-based International Institute of Information Technology (I2IT), whose startups were incubated at the institute campus, have developed a low-cost ‘face shield’ mask for Covid-19 fighters.The two startups, FountLab and Zerowav in collaboration with others, have formed a Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) action plan group to support frontline heroes in the war against the coronavirus disease.The group comprises Neeraj N Magnani, Manohar Reddy, Sanjay Baban, and Farid Laeeq Khan.“We at Zerowav and FountLab are always pondering with ideas that can solve big challenges that the communities around the world are facing,” said Magnani. He said with exposure to industry and academic research, the group made their first face shield prototype with readily available material at their disposal.One drawback they found in most face shields in the market was that they all were based on A4 size lamination sheets of about 100 microns to 150 microns in thickness which didn’t cover the full face and was also easily damaged.The group addressed these issues in their design and manufacture and has received good reviews from users.Made of high quality material with 0.8mm thickness, the shields are being offered in two designs- with and without foam support. Targeting a price of Rs 100, plans are afoot to raise increase the current production capacity of 2,000 units per day to 5,000 units per day, said Magnani.Aruna M Katara, managing committee president of I2IT and Hope Foundation and research centre appreciated the efforts of the alumni. She said her late father Pralhad P Chhabria, founder chairman of Finolex Group and founder president of Hope Foundation, firmly believed that the Indian youth have the potential and capability to transform the country into a superpower. All that they needed was a platform and an opportunity.“I am extremely proud of our team on campus who have come up with this indigenous solution to help the backbone of our country – our police force, our medical teams and our community workers,” she said. Hope Foundation plans to donate the shields to the Pune Police Force even as many city hospitals have shown interest in stocking them, she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/covid-19-i2it-alumni-develop-low-cost-face-shields-for-police-health-workers/story-arpuMN7pF92g3gKMpuby2K.html
12-04-2020||Pune||Yourspace: Punekars look at the brighter side of the Covid-19 lockdown||The lockdown due to the Covid-19 (coronavirus) pandemic has kept everyone indoors. HT finds out how residents of Pune are managing to stay safe and positive during these times. More time to read, watch TVWhen the lockdown was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 24 I was feeling tensed as the construction material was lying on the spots and the labourers were returning to their hometowns. I prepared myself to accept the present situation and understood that the steps have been taken for the benefit of the society and our own family members and near and dear ones. As the domestic worker stopped coming to work, I started helping in household work. Most of the time during the day, I read a book and thanks to Doordarshan, I am able to recollect old memories by watching Ramayana and Mahabharat. Sandeep Shah Keeping in touch with friends and family through technologyI am missing my morning routine of going out for walks and socialising with my friends. I keep myself busy by completing the household chores and reading old magazines. I keep in touch with my friends and relatives by calling them up regularly. I also do yoga every day at home to stay fit. Vijay VaidyaBonding with familyThe maximum amount of time is spent trying out new recipes as everyone is at home. We bond with each other by cooking different meals and even children help in the process. I discourage children from spending a lot of time in front of the TV and instead involve them in some hobby. To stay fit, I exercise on the terrace of my building twice a day.Vaishali KhairnarVirtual classroomsAs the classes are closed due to the lockdown, I keep in touch with the students via technology. I am also posting notes about the classes on WhatsApp and help students solve problems or their queries about various subjects through virtual classrooms by using applications like Zoom. I am also spending time with my family and reading books.Sachin HishwankarGetting tech-savvyI am posting videos of arts and crafts on different social media platforms which can be helpful for parents to keep their children busy as they are not going to school. This helps me know more about technology and how to get in touch with today’s youth. I am also trying out new recipes as all the family members are at home. Neelima JoshiWork from home experimentI am currently working from home after the lockdown was announced. When I am not working, I spend time with my family by playing carrom, cards or chess. Now, I even spend more time helping my wife in household chores and make tea for her daily.Sachin PathakUtilising this time to pursue a hobbyI am utilising this time to pursue a new hobby. I am baking various items and spending quality time with my family. I am even learning new games from my children. I also read books and watch movies. Smita Pawar||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/yourspace-punekars-look-at-the-brighter-side-of-the-lockdown/story-mmDfMhcUhUSPF3IE4PFHtO.html
12-04-2020||Pune||On the Frontline: I have been told to keep a distance from my family at home, Prashant Ranpise, chief fire officer, PMC||Prashant Ranpise, chief fire officer, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), a recipient of the President’s Fire Safety Medal in 2010, spoke of the role of the Pune fire brigade in battling the coronavirus pandemic. Firemen in the city are helping with spraying the disinfectant sodium hypochlorite solution in contaminated areas and transportation and cremation of Covid-19 (coronavirus) patients. More than 25 people have died of this deadly disease so far.What is your role in this pandemic?Ever since this coronavirus crisis began, the fire brigade has been working in close coordination with the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) staff. We have two roles- we help with the spraying of the disinfectant sodium hypochlorite solution using the quick relief vehicle with a capacity of 500 litres. We take up various areas which are contaminated.Our second role is to provide assistance after the death of a Covid-19 patient is announced. When no one is willing to carry the dead and relatives refuse to take the bodies, then it is for us to do the needful.We were all scared when such a call came for the first time. The doctors advised us to wear PPE (personal protective equipment) and now we have three shifts with a van on standby at Sassoon Hospital every day. There are 55 to 60 people working in one shift.How does your day begin and roll out?We are working continuously, where my job is to coordinate with Sassoon Hospital as well the cremation places in the city. The hospital provides 4 people to go along with us, to help load the body. Besides this, we have regular fire fighting calls as well as rescue and other calls which include tree collapse, animal rescue, and other such. We get around 13 to 14 calls per day.In spite of the Lockdown, the emergency calls range from garbage burning gone out of control to rescuing animals from tree or from terraces, and even birds trapped in life-threatening situation. We work round-the-clock, although on a typical day, our work begins at 7 am and goes on till midnight.What precautions are you taking?We have been given sanitizers, masks, hand gloves, gumboots, among others. The first thing I do is get into the bath the moment I reach home. There is a lot of tension in my family because of this work,I am often scolded by my wife, especially if I am coming from a duty in Sassoon Hospital. I try to explain that we are well protected, but there is fear in their mind.I have three college-going children but even they are afraid as they watch news daily showing the unfolding crisis, I have been told to keep distance at home from them too. What is your view of the Covid-19 crisis in Pune? How do you see it unfolding?I feel, as compared to the other states and cities, Pune has done a remarkable job, and it is for the first time that we are facing such a big crisis. It is taking people time to become used to the idea of staying at home. What gaps do you see in health and relief work?PMC has shown remarkable readiness from the first day of this crisis. The way they cordoned off Naidu Hospital and the smooth coordination between so many departments, I don’t see any gaps in the health work or relief work; it is going very smoothly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/on-the-frontline-i-have-been-told-to-keep-a-distance-from-my-family-at-home-prashant-ranpise-chief-fire-officer-pmc/story-8vgiONhPccCbqjm7nE4L6N.html
12-04-2020||Pune||Pune civic body addresses delays in cremating Covid-19 patients||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) authorities have taken steps to prevent inordinate delays in cremating the bodies of patients who have died of the Coid-19 (coronavirus) in the city. While 26 patients have so far died of Covid-19 in Pune, the civic body has designated six gas-fired furnaces in different parts of the city for the cremation.Delays of about four hours occurred at the Yerawada and Vaikunth Road crematoria due to manpower shortage and unavailability of personal protective equipment (PPEs) for the staff.“Even I received the complaint about shortage of safety equipment,” said Shrinivas Kandul, head of PMC’s electrical department and incharge of the city’s 31 crematoria.Vaikunth crematorium’s health inspector Kishor Thorat said, on Friday, a body had arrived from Sassoon Hospital and the cremation was delayed by about four hours due to manpower shortage. “It is true that we are facing manpower shortage at our gas-fired furnace. At the Vaikunth crematorium, we have three electric furnaces for non-coronavirus dead bodies and one gas-fired furnace exclusively for coronavirus patients. On Friday, the staff working on the electric furnaces was busy and there was no one to attend to the dead body at the gas furnace,” he said.Thorat pointed out that previously the relatives of the dead would help with lifting the body and taking it to the furnace. That however, is not allowed in the case of patients who have died of the coronavirus disease. There was thus a delay in cremating the body that had arrived at Sassoon Hospital, he said.A similar delay in cremating the body of another Covid-19 patient occurred at the crematorium in Yerawada.Electric department head Shrinivas Kandul who is head for all the 31 crematoriums in the city acknowledged that there was some mismanagement in ensuring stocks of personal protective equipment (PPEs) for the crematorium staff, which was another reason for the delay in cremating the bodies. He said a special supply of PPEs and additional staff has been organised at the six, designated crematoriums for coronavirus patients. “The PPEs for crematorium staff will be delivered by Saturday or Sunday evening,” he said.Thorat said the Vaikunth crematorium had adequate stock of PPEs which included 15 full-length aprons, 100 pairs of gloves and 100 disposable masks.The civic body has designated six gas-fired crematoriums for the cremation of the bodies of coronavirus patients as there is comparatively less handling of the body at the gas fired crematoriums. However, with just one or two operators at the gas furnaces, the crematoriums started encountering shortage of personnel to handle the bodies.“We are recruiting more manpower for this and additional staff will be available by Saturday evening or Sunday,’ Kandul said.Designated crematoriums6 gas-fired crematoriums designated for Covid-19 patients in Pune .These are located at Aundh, Bopodi, Katraj, Mundhwa and VaikunthPPEs for staff at crematorium:* Full-length aprons, hand gloves, mask, shoes, cap* Disinfectant Sodium Chlorite solution* Hand pump for sanitising the area||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-civic-body-addresses-delays-in-cremating-covid-19-patients/story-QD9K2Sc1tyUVekaBQPvc4K.html
12-04-2020||Pune||Railways keeps essential commodity supply to Pune division on track||The Indian Railways has been ensuring uninterrupted supply of essential commodities across the country in view of the heavy restrictions on road transport due to the lockdown to control the spread of Covid-19. According to data issued by the Pune railway division, from March 22 to April 7, a total of 26 rakes of various goods (unloading) was brought to Pune railway division from different parts of the country. One rake of sugar (loading) was sent out from Baramati railway station, under Pune railway division.One rake (goods train) consists of 40 wagons and each wagon is filled up with different types of goods according to its capacity, said officials. Manoj Jhawar, spokesperson, Pune railway division, said, “During the Covid-19 outbreak essential commodities like wheat, rice, sugar, salt, fertilisers and cement are being transported through these goods trains. All our staff, employees and workers from various departments like operations, track security, control room, railway police force (RPF) are working round the clock to run these goods trains and provide essential goods during these crises.” The Pune railway division is the second-largest division after Mumbai in the Central Railways (CR). For the last couple of days, Central Railways has also started parcel train service going through several stations in the division including Howrah and Nizamuddin stations carrying, various types of essential commodities like medical equipment, medicines, raw food materials among others. Rake-ing it inOne rake (goods train) consists of 40 wagons Loading of rakes (goods train) at stations in Pune railway divisionBaramati – 1 rake of sugarUnloading of rakes (goods train) at stations in Pune railway divisionSaswad road – 1 rake of salt, 1 rake of wheat and 1 rake of riceLoni – 5 rakes of steel and 1 rake of cementSatara – 2 rakes of fertilisers, 1 rake of rice and 1 rake of cementKarad – 1 rake of fertiliserSangli – 1 rake of salt and 1 rake of fertilizerMiraj – 2 rakes of cement and 1 rake of wheatGur Market near Kolhapur – 2 rakes of rice, 2 rakes of cement and 3 rakes of fertilisers||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/railways-keeps-essential-commodity-supply-to-pune-division-on-track/story-OaitM7imu3ka3Wu3UALFsM.html
12-04-2020||City||Two more men test positive in Punjab’s Covid-19 cluster, taking Mohali district count up to 50||MOHALIWith two more persons testing positive for Covid-19 at Jawaharpur village in Dera Bassi town on Saturday, the total count of coronavirus cases in Mohali district touched 50.The first case in the district was reported on March 20. The district has witnessed two deaths while five people have been cured in these 22 days. The active cases as of now are 43.A 38-year-old man and a 58-year-old man, who works as barber, have tested positive. “They are neighbours of the first positive case of the village and had been in touch with him. They were tested after contact tracing,” said Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh. The two have been shifted to Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur. Samples of their family members and other contacts are being collected for testing, said the civil surgeon. In all, 244 samples have been collected from the village, of which reports in 41, including 38 new ones collected on Saturday, are awaited. “The district administration is undertaking extensive contact tracing and sampling, which is leading to the identification of more cases. This would lead to their isolation in time and help in combating the coronavirus,” said Girish Dayalan, deputy commissioner, Mohali.With this, the total number of positive cases at Jawaharpur village, which has emerged as the biggest Covid-19 cluster in Punjab, has gone up to 34, with most patients from the extended family of a 42-year-old panch, who was the first to test positive on April 4. The district administration has already declared the village, having a population of 3,000, a containment zone, completely banning the movement of people. Three neighbouring villages of Devi Naga, Mehmudpur and Haripur Kurha have also been sealed. As a precautionary measure, the health authorities have also isolated a shopkeeper of Trivedi Camp in Dera Bassi, who was in touch with the positive cases in Jawaharpur. His report is awaited. A densely populated area, Trivedi Camp was set up initially for refugees at the time of Partition and houses about 5,000 people, mostly families of wholesale traders.Eyes on PGI corona ward workerThe district administration has collected blood and throat swab samples of a man employed as a contractual labourer at the dedicate Covid-19 ward of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), suspecting him to be the coronavirus carrier, who led to the outbreak in Jawaharpur village.Contact tracing of the first positive case in the village Jawaharpur – the 42-year-old panch — led them to this man, who is his cousin and stays in the same village. “The person so far is asymptomatic and we are getting his tests conducted on urgent basis. The reports are awaited,” said Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan. The panch had no travel history and all employees of his factory who had been in touch with the Tablighi Jamaat Markaz attendees had tested negative.Visiting the ground zeroIt’s silent, no one’s around as drones fly over Jawaharpur village in Dera Bassi, now a Covid-19 positive cluster with 34 persons infected. The villagers are huddled inside their homes. Some say they have thrown excess milk into drains with no one to buy it.The district authorities come for patrolling thrice a day and apart from the drones to check movement, a station house officer has been stationed at the entry point to ensure no one comes into or leaves the village. “There is no fodder for the cattle, they are dying of hunger. Each animal costs about Rs 1 lakh,” laments said Joga Singh, a former sarpanch of the village.Though fodder is being sold in the village, people don’t have money. No one’s allowed to even go to an ATM, he adds.Curiously however, even though there are claims of milk being “thrown away”, a helpline set up by the administration for the villagers to ask for essential items being sent to their doorsteps received requests for a packet of Verka milk and cold drinks.The village, with a population of about 3,000 has 10 dairy farming families supplying milk to different houses in the Mohali and neighbouring areas.“We have to destroy the milk as we cannot supply it to our customers,” says Manish, a local.Avtaar Singh, also a resident, says no medicines are available and rations are running out. “We are not allowed to go into the fields.”There are about 150 cattle in the village for which the administration claims to have provided fodder.“No movement will be allowed at any cost in the village to contain the spread of the disease,” says Kuldeep Bawa, sub divisional magistrate (SDM) Dera Bassi. People can call the helpline if they want anything, he adds.As for milk, he says people are throwing it away instead of drinking it. A volunteer was also making the rounds of the village to check if people required essential items.The administration had distributed 90 packets of dry ration in the last 15 days to underprivileged families before sealing the village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-more-men-test-positive-in-punjab-s-covid-19-cluster-taking-mohali-district-count-up-to-50/story-iSaFbVZuDzAHrVF2140BIP.html
12-04-2020||Education||Bihar Teachers’ Association releases list of 42 striking teachers who died unpaid||Chandrakala Mishra, 40, is now a single parent who is responsible for her three children after the death of her husband Arvind Kumar, who was a contractual teacher at Girls’ Upgraded Middle School in Vaishali. The eldest among them, a son, took the matriculation exam this year. Kumar passed away on March 20.“My husband died unpaid and now, we have to fend for ourselves. We have been facing several difficulties since last month after the government suspended him, as he had joined the indefinite strike for justice. He suffered brain haemorrhage a couple of days after the suspension and could not recover,” said Chandrakala.Mala Devi, mother of a teenage daughter, is also suffering from the same agony after her husband, Ram Sanyog Sada, died untimely on April 1 in Sitamarhi. “My husband was the lone bread earner in the family. As he was on strike with his colleagues, he didn’t receive the salary of previous months. I am clueless as how to sustain the family,” she said.The cases of Chandrakala Mishra and Mala Devi are among the 42 other teacher families, who have met untimely deaths and died without being paid.“The state government has turned apathetic towards the families. It is not only about the payment of salary, the bereaved families are not being paid even the ex-gratia compensation of ₹4 lakh as per their service condition,” alleged the Bihar Secondary School Teachers’ Association (BSSTA).The BSSTA released the list of all 42 teachers along with their addresses and personal details, who lost their lives during the strike period. Majority of them suffered brain haemorrhage, heart attack due to the action taken against them, while several others died due to lack of proper treatment owing to poor financial condition and non-availability of general medical facility that had turned scarce due to outbreak of Coronavirus pandemic.General secretary of BSSTA Shatrughan Prasad Singh said, “The strike stretched for too long as the government did not want to interfere. How many more lives it wants to take.”The BSSTA also condemned the government decision to withhold salary of striking teachers for the period they worked and claimed that the education department was disobeying its own order passed in 2015, in which it was stipulated that the salary of teachers would not be stopped without any solid reason.“When the entire world is in distress due to Coronavirus pandemic, the rigidness of government towards the teachers is insensitive. The teachers have always come forward to extend support to the chief minister (CM). They have accepted duty at schools which are converted into quarantine centres along with contribution of a day’s salary which sums around ₹3 crore to the CM relief fund. It’s high time that the government steps forward and take steps to help the contractual teachers,” said Singh.Ashwini Pandey, spokesperson of TET-STET Qualified Teachers’ Association, said, “The state government is concerned for Coronavirus death but they show no empathy towards the teachers who died untimely. I appeal to the government to take positive steps for negotiation and restore peace among teachers who are struggling from past two months.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/bihar-teachers-association-releases-list-of-42-striking-teachers-who-died-unpaid/story-WYm26xXauOBDraJWXOZy6K.html
12-04-2020||Chandigarh||For PGI, another Herculean task: Soliciting blood donors||A 17-year-old travelled 140 km from Saharanpur to PGIMER Chandigarh to get two units of blood. Suffering from thalassaemia, he needs blood transfusion every 20 days. However, amid the Covid-19 contagion, the blood bank of Postgraduate Institute of Medical College and Research (PGIMER) is finding it a formidable task to meet the growing demand for blood amid diminished donation.NGO workers and staff of PGI’s blood transfusion department are making hundreds of calls every day to those in the list of volunteer blood donors and organisations. On regular days, PGI’s blood donation van goes to the field and collects blood units. But amid lockdown, the department has started bringing donors to PGIMER instead. The only silver lining is that while the collection of blood has decreased by a third, the demand for blood has also diminished for the time being.Dr RR Sharma, head of the blood transfusion department, PGIMER, said: “Blood supply has been hit because of the lockdown, but at the same time routine surgical interventions have been postponed, leading to some decline in demand, too.”“We are making hundreds of calls trying to get people to come here and donate blood. About 40% agree to donate, while the rest have apprehensions about coming here in person,” said Dr Sharma.Thalassaemia patients are their priority, he said, followed by women in gynaecology wards, cancer patients and those in emergency (trauma or urgent surgical intervention). Doctors are also worried about Covid patients, who may need blood in case their condition worsens.There are 350 people who are registered with the Thalassaemic Charitable Trust, PGIMER, and they are supplied with 20-25 blood units daily. After that comes the gynaecology department (15-20 units), followed by cancer patients and trauma.Rajinder Kalra, president of the trust, said: “Of the 350 thalassaemia patients here, 18 undergo blood transfusion daily here. We are managing with help from PGI’s blood bank and volunteers.” Advocate Ajay Gupta, who is running an NGO is a volunteer supporting PGIMER’s blood bank. “I have a data of 10,000 blood donors from tricity and we approach them daily via social media, encouraging them to donate blood. They are afraid but we win their confidence,” he said. Thrice every week, he manages to arrange for 12 donors to visit the PGIMER.Thankful of such volunteers, Dr Sharma said: “We are grateful to those who come forward and donate. I assure them that the blood collection area is completely safe.”Screening is done meticulously and once given the go ahead, a fully sanitised van with a seating capacity of 50 is sent to pick 15 blood donors, he said. “Around 40 people donate blood every day, 30 of who are voluntary donors, PGI staff and patient’s attendants and enable us to meet daily requirements,” said the doctor.Earlier, against the demand of 300 units (blood and blood components), 500 units were collected by PGIMER, but currently, demand has reduced to about 80 units, while the collection has come down to 100-150 units.“Many thalassaemia patients bring a donor with them, like the 17-year-old did on Thursday. On the coming Monday, one patient is coming from Poonch for two units of blood and we will ensure he gets it,” said Kalra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/for-pgi-another-herculean-task-soliciting-blood-donors/story-mgN4gAoqrNNfbyBbn8vpvL.html
12-04-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh colonies, villages don’t care two hoots about curfew||Seventeen days after the UT administration imposed a lockdown to contain the spread of novel coronavirus disease, the police have still not been able to implement the curfew in the city’s peripheral areas. Slums and villages that dot the outskirts of Chandigarh seem oblivious to the dangers posed by the disease. Even norms mandated by the administration have gone for a toss as people stroll around in groups without a care. When this correspondent visited several slums and colonies in Chandigarh on Thursday, she found people huddled in groups outside their houses and crowds gathering for the meals being distributed by Chandigarh administration.Giving two hoots about social distancing, people had opened ration shops customers were buying goods as on any other day. Several vehicles moved through the narrow streets despite the ban on vehicular movement in the UT. Children could be seen loitering the streets as the elderly lounged in the sunlight or had gathered to play cards.Not once did this correspondent find the policemen deployed on the spot, stopping commuters to check curfew passes in the villages and in sectors such as 38 and 15.A police constable who had been deployed in a peripheral area of Chandigarh said he was totally unaware of the ground plan of the locality he was assigned to. “It is a huge challenge as many of us don’t even know the streets of the colony we are to keep a check on. We are few in number while the population is huge. We need more manpower for strict implementation of the curfew.”30-year-old Ravi in Kacchi Colony, Dhanas, was sitting outside his home, soaking in the sunlight. When asked if he knew he must stay inside the house, he said, “What can we do, we are bored sitting at home all day. Our houses are already overcrowded. I just came out to soak in the sun.”Dalip Sharma, a councillor from Bapu Dham Colony, said, “Many policemen are deployed here but the population is huge. Here, each house is about 22 x 10 sq feet and has 6-8 members each. Before the lockdown, people used to go for work. But now, without work they are roaming about aimlessly.”When this correspondent spoke to a PR officer with the UT police, he refused to acknowledge there was any breach of the curfew. “The whole of Chandigarh is following lockdown norms. People are stepping out to buy only essential goods that too, during the time specified by UT administration, in colonies as well as in sectors,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-colonies-villages-don-t-care-two-hoots-about-curfew/story-cboLaKLe7f88hDYu40GXfP.html
