14-04-2020||Lucknow||102 new corona cases in UP, death toll rises to nine||The statewide tally of Covid-19 patients increased by 102 cases on Tuesday to 660 from 558 on Monday, even as the death toll in the state reached nine from five on Monday, according to the health department. The four deaths on Tuesday were reported from Agra (two), Kanpur (one) and Moradabad (one). Earlier one death each was reported from Basti, Meerut, Varanasi, Bulandshahr and AgraAddressing a press conference, principal secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said the coronavirus (Covid-19) patients who died were old and suffered from co-morbidity -- more than one disease like diabetes, cancer, kidney, liver or heart ailment.He said the health department has urged people to take adequate measures to protect ailing senior citizens.In 75% of the cases, it has been observed that people infected with coronavirus remain asymptomatic and with time the infection goes. The people need to follow the Covid protocol issued by the health department that includes social distancing, covering of the face and cleaning the hands at regular intervals. These measures will protect senior citizens from getting infected with the virus. The people should take proper food to strengthen their immunity, he said.Recently the health department had released data showing that the ratio of youths and middle aged people infected with coronavirus was higher than elderly people.According to the data, 44% of the positive patients were of the age group of 21-40 years and 27% of positive cases were of people in the age group of 41-60 years.Only 13% of the patients were above 60 years and 16% were in the age group of zero to 20 years. However, latest data shows that death ratio is higher among old people.Prasad said intensive screening in the hotspots and increase in sample testing has led to increase in the number of the positive cases in the state. On Monday, a record 2,634 samples were tested. A total of 16,000 samples have been tested since the start of cases in UP, he said.The state government is increasing testing facilities and on Tuesday, testing started in National Institute of Biologicals, Noida and NIV centre in BRD Medical College, Gorakhpur.He said due to effective implementation of the lockdown, the spread of coronavirus has been effectively checked. A 3-km area around the spot where positive cases have been reported is declared containment zone and another 2-km area is declared as buffer zone, he said.People residing in these zone are sent to quarantine facilities if any symptom is detected. At present 9,274 people having symptoms have been put in quarantine facilities and their samples will be sent for tests. The infected people will be shifted to isolation wards.The 71,917 people who arrived from foreign countries have also been put in quarantine, he said.The migrants workers, who leave for home after completing 14 days in quarantine, will be kept in home quarantine for another 14 days.The 78 Level One hospitals, 70 Level Two hospitals and six Level Three hospitals set up by the health department have become functional, Prasad said.DISTRICT-WISE CASESAgra (143), Lucknow (44), Ghaziabad (27), Noida (84), Lakhimpur Kheri (4), Kanpur (10), Pilibhit (2), Moradabad (19), Shamli (22), Jaunpur (4), Bagpat (14), Meerut (61), Bareilly (6), Bulandshahr (11), Basti (14), Hapur (9), Ghazipur (5), Azamgarh (6), Firozabad (19), Hardoi (2), Pratapgarh (6), Saharanpur (53), Shahjahanpur (1), Banda (3), Maharajganj (6), Hathras (4), Mirzapur (2), Rae Bareli (2), Aurriya (5), Barabanki (1), Kaushambi (2), Bijnor (9), Sitapur (10), Prayagraj (3), Mathura (4), Badaun (2), Rampur (6), Muzaffarnagar (5), Amroha (9), Bhadoi (1), Kasganj (3), Etawah (1), Sambhal (6) and Varanasi (9).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/102-new-corona-cases-in-up-death-toll-rises-to-nine/story-VD7JRkRlMp1xuxqD46688I.html
14-04-2020||City||70-yr-old man with no travel history tests positive in Jalandhar||JALANDHAR A 70-year-old man of Basti Danish Manda tested positive for novel coronavirus in Jalandhar on Tuesday. With this, 25 positive cases, including two deaths, have been reported so far from the district, which is second highest in the state. Jalandhar health department nodal officer Dr TPS Sandhu said the patient was admitted to the local civil hospital with severe respiratory problem. He said the patient has no travel history and his son works for a company where an employee was found positive on Monday. In Jalandhar, at least six positive patients neither have any travel history nor were they came across in close contact with a known patient. The district administration has sealed the Basti Danish Manda area family members have been put under isolation Meanwhile, two more patients — the daughter and daughter-in-law of Punjab’s first corona casualty Baldev Singh — were declared free of the virus on Tuesday, while four other family members were discharged from the civil hospital, SBS Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/70-yr-old-man-with-no-travel-history-tests-positive-in-jalandhar/story-FbRghlMNzyJAF8u6e9FCQI.html
14-04-2020||Chandigarh||Cured of infection, 2 kids leave Sirsa hospital amid cheers, applause||As the test reports of two children battling with Covid-19 came out negative, the entire health department, including the chief and deputy medical officers, bade them a cheerful farewell here on Tuesday.The doctors and medical staff of the civil hospital were seen clapping and cheering as the two kids walked out of the isolation ward with their father.The 8-year-old boy and 6-year-old girl will remain under 14-day quarantine at their home as a precautionary measure, chief medical officer (CMO) Surender Nain said.Nain told HT, “The hospital staff was working round the clock to treat the children and the hard work has finally paid. The kids have been cured of coronavirus and we are happy that they will get to go home. They will remain in home isolation for 14 days.”The children’s father, Amit Kumar, said that after the two kids tested negative for Covid-19, the health department allowed him to stay with them at the hospital. “I am quite pleased about the fact that the doctors were always there for my children and allowed me to be with them as soon as they recovered,” an elated Amit said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cured-of-infection-2-kids-leave-sirsa-hospital-amid-cheers-applause/story-SXRo1uFnoUp6zVcHHd0eOI.html
14-04-2020||Lucknow||Move to open industries, start construction work in UP deferred||After Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement for stricter implementation of the lockdown, the state government on Tuesday deferred its move to start construction work on major projects from April 15.“The construction committee’s decision to start construction work from April 15 has been deferred. Information about the next date will be given after studying the union government’s guidelines,” said deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya in a tweet. Minister for finance Suresh Khanna, who heads a committee to make recommendations on opening industrial units, including the micro small and medium enterprise (MSMEs), said he has submitted the committees’s report on industrial activity to the government. Khanna said the prime minister has asked for stricter implementation of the lockdown.” As a result, the move to open industrial units on Wednesday has been deferred,” he said.MEETING ON INVESTMENTMinister for micro small and medium enterprise (MSME) Siddharth Nath Singh said a decision on ministers attending their offices from Wednesday would be taken after viewing the central guidelines. Singh said he plans to hold a meeting with officers of the industry department over the issue of attracting to UP the industrial units that plan to shift base from China.Singh said minister for industry Satish Mahana, infrastructure and industrial development commissioner (IIDC) Alok Tandon and other officers would attend the meeting. He said necessary amendment in the state’s industrial policy may be carried out to attract investment. “We have to take measures and may have to amend the state’s industry policy to attract companies shifting their base from China,” said Singh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/move-to-open-industries-start-construction-work-in-up-deferred/story-LqnMBKeqzF9j6dvyXlyaLO.html
14-04-2020||Mumbai||BEST buses used to distribute 12,600 sanitary napkin packets||Apart from distributing food packets across the city, the Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport Undertaking’s (BEST) AC mini buses were also used to distribute sanitary napkins across the city on Monday and Tuesday. The buses were used to distribute 12,600 packs consisting eight sanitary napkins each given by Procter and Gamble in the M ward, in an initiative taken by the state and BMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/best-buses-used-to-distribute-12-600-sanitary-napkin-packets/story-bO7DP6J1oZt4bOqA9DLRzL.html
14-04-2020||Chandigarh||Two held with illicit liquor in Chandigarh||Police arrested two men for allegedly possessing illicit liquor, on Tuesday.The accused have been identified as Atul Kumar, 23, and Vijay, 35. Police said 600 bottles of illicit liquor were recovered from their Mahindra Bolero Maxi truck. “The duo was nabbed at a check post near City Emporium Mall in Industrial Area, Phase 1,” police said.The accused have been booked under Section 61-1-14 of the Excise Act at Industrial Area police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-held-with-illicit-liquor-in-chandigarh/story-yzNzVYyAJ4WQcC7XcPFx1J.html
14-04-2020||Chandigarh||In Chandigarh, action against those loitering in gated societies too||In the ongoing drive against those stepping out of their houses amid curfew to contain the spread of coronavirus, the police on Tuesday rounded up 17 people and arrested one in Manimajra. The police also arrested six persons for not wearing masks.The 17 were those chatting in groups and loitering around inside gated societies including Uppal Marble Arc Apartments, Modern Housing Complex (MHC) and Gobindpura. The one person arrested was out for a morning walk.Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Nilambari Jagadale said, “The directions to not step out of the house applies to housing societies as well. A single case can put the life of entire society at risk.”MHC residents welfare association (RWA) president Col Gursewak Singh said, “Societies and RWAs have banned the entry of domestic help, delivery boys and other vendors. We are personally contacting block presidents to make sure people don’t step out of their houses, even in societies.” Patrolling policemen also used public announcement system to inform people that no one is supposed to step out of their houses, not even for a chat with the neighbours. President of Guru Nanak Vihar in Sector 48, Rajwant Singh, said, “Today, police entered PUSHPAC Society to pick up people who are flouting norms. We have been told by the police to ensure that people do not gather in societies.”In all, the police rounded up 356 people on Tuesday for various violations. Earlier on Monday, police arrested 150 people out for their morning walk despite curfew orders in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Around 32 others were arrested for venturing out without masks and 18 FIRs registered. A number of Punjab and Haryana bureaucrats were among 466 rounded up and let off with a warning. The special drive to nab walkers was carried out in 120 parks across the city.BLURB: SSP says directions to not step out of the house applies to housing societies as well||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/18-rounded-up-for-violating-curfew-in-chandigarh/story-nEPr0cS7VCnlKFvanfOGXJ.html
14-04-2020||Mumbai||MNS worker files plaint against woman after she asked chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to speak in Hindi||Oshiwara police registered a first information report (FIR) against a 54-year-old businesswoman from Lokhandwala for allegedly promoting enmity between two groups on the basis of language. The FIR against Tejal Mahadevia was filed after a Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) worker Prashant Rane filed a complaint against her. Mahadevia had tweeted after Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s address on March 21, in which she said, “I wish you would speak in Hindi, our national language. Mumbai is a cosmopolitan state. Not everyone understands Marathi. You may be proud of your mother tongue, but when you are addressing a state as CM you have to consider and speak a common language. Especially in times of crisis.” HTC||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mns-worker-files-plaint-against-woman-after-she-asked-chief-minister-uddhav-thackeray-to-speak-in-hindi/story-jyRYiZkwPkgIu5TuezRYON.html
14-04-2020||Lucknow||Nodal officer to take care of foreigners, other state residents in each district||District magistrates (DMs) will appoint nodal officers, one each under them in all the 75 districts, to take care of other states’ residents and foreign nationals living in their districts for various purposes.Chief secretary (CS) Rajendra Kumar Tiwari on Tuesday issued a circular to the DMs asking them to see that such citizens from other states and countries did not have any problem with regard to food, medical assistance as well as safety and security.“But such people should be asked to stay put where they are during the lockdown and be assured that the government would take care of all their basic needs,” Tiwari told DMs.The CS asked DMs to appoint district-level nodal officers and provide their names and phones numbers to his office at the earliest.The CS’s fresh directions comes hours after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the extension of the national lockdown till May 3 on Tuesday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/nodal-officer-to-take-care-of-foreigners-other-state-residents-in-each-district/story-vQHFOF4zvdpO9rzw4pBjMM.html
14-04-2020||Chandigarh||Mustard procurement in Haryana begins today||Mustard procurement set to begin at 165 centres across Haryana on Wednesday will be a test for the state government. To overcome the coronavirus outbreak during the procurement season, the state government not only has increased the number of purchase centres from last year’s 64, but also capped the number of farmers visiting these centres per day at 100. The market committees have been asked to ensure that the produce arrives at the centres on the basis of e-gate pass available only to registered and verified farmers. The mustard procurement will also provide an opportunity to agencies to iron out snags pertaining to social distancing measures and hitches at newly created makeshift centres before April 20, when wheat procurement, estimated at 70-80 lakh MT as compared to 7-8 lakh MTs of mustard, would start on a much bigger scale. “The mustard procurement will help us learn and figure out whether the ‘100 farmer a day’ model is good or needs modification during wheat procurement,” an official said.Sanjeev Kaushal, additional chief secretary, agriculture, said the Haryana State Cooperative Supply and Marketing Federation (Hafed) and Haryana State Warehousing Corporation (HSWC) will retain 75% of the mustard procured this season and auction it through commodity exchanges with the government’s approval. “The mustard will be procured by the agencies at MSP of ₹4,425 per quintal and the profit or loss during the auction will be borne by the state government,” he said. The remaining 25% mustard will be procured by the agencies for National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation (Nafed). “It’s a proactive step of Haryana government to purchase the entire mustard produce at MSP. The price support scheme (PSS) under which the procurement of mustard is done has been relaxed,” Kaushal added.Notably, Union agriculture ministry had last week increased the daily procurement limit for mustard and gram from 25 quintals to 40 quintals per farmer. Arhtiyas to get higher commissionOfficials said handling charges of the arhtiyas (commission agents) have also been increased from ₹40 per quintal to ₹55 per quintal for the 75% of procurement done by the state agencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mustard-procurement-in-haryana-begins-today/story-AEuNFrX8acgZexwaOOqRHN.html
14-04-2020||City||Mandi Board sets up control room to help arhtiyas, farmers||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab Mandi Board has set up a control room to promptly address the issues of farmers and arhtiyas during procurement operations in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak.In a statement, Mandi Board chairman Lal Singh said that he had unveiled contact numbers of the control room set up for all 22 districts in the state. “All necessary health protocol as well as social distancing measures will be followed in the right earnest to keep the spread of coronavirus under check,” he said.He said elaborate arrangements were in place and necessary directions had already been issued to concerned authorities in this regard. The Mandi Board had also created an email ID wheat.proc2020.ctrl@punjab.gov.in for this purpose and complaints on this email could also be got registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mandi-board-sets-up-control-room-to-help-arhtiyas-farmers/story-Lk2RXmmBEJQaN31slC4rdM.html
14-04-2020||City||8 of my staffers are asymptomatic: Maharashtra minister Jitendra Awhad||A day after state housing minister Jitendra Awhad tested negative for Covid-19, he said that testing should increase.On Monday, the MLA home quarantined himself as soon as he got to know that one of his contacts has tested positive.He said that he got tests done for 80 people, including his employees and party workers. Eleven of them tested positive. He said that unlike some news reports, his cook has not tested positive. A statement released by Awhad said, “It is important that the testing should increase. The poor cannot afford the cost of testing in private labs so people who can afford should pay for them. I would also like to clarify that my cook has not tested positive.”Awhad said that eight of those tested are asymptomatic.“I had been meeting people of my constituency and distributing food. I will be back in my constituency in a few days. Eight of my staffers are asymptomatic. The state has to take decision if asymptomatic persons can be listed as positive cases,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/8-of-my-staffers-are-asymptomatic-maharashtra-minister-jitendra-awhad/story-5n0TGQyg25eJiQnEJkW6wJ.html
14-04-2020||Lucknow||UP: Four cops put into quarantine after man held for opposing sealing tests positive||Four cops, including two sub inspectors, were quarantined after they came in contact with a person who was arrested, along with 7 others, on Sunday for opposing the action related to sealing in Jali Kothi area in Meerut.Kept in lock-ups of Delhi gate and Sadar police stations, one of the arrested persons tested positive for Covid-19.SP (city) Akhilesh Narayan Singh said of the eight persons arrested, three persons were staying in a mosque and one among them was found infected with Covid-19 on Monday.“We have put into quarantine all four cops who came in contact with the person affected with coronavirus. Both the police stations have been sanitized,” said Singh. The district has 58 patients of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-four-cops-put-into-quarantine-after-man-held-for-opposing-sealing-tests-positive/story-rKZ93on5jKXMOIpB9n58CK.html
14-04-2020||Chandigarh||Staggered procurement: Capt writes to PM, reiterates demand for incentive to farmers||Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, reiterating his demand for incentive/bonus to farmers bringing in their produce to the mandis after April 30, to check overcrowding at the markets.The CM has been asking for a bonus of Rs 100 per quintal over and above minimum support price (MSP) to the farmers for bringing wheat for marketing after May 1 and Rs 200 per quintal after May 31 to compensate them for the additional cost for handling the produce for staggering the marketing and the reduction in yield.The state is expecting harvest of about 18.5 million metric tones (MTs) of wheat during the 2019-20 rabi season and market arrivals are likely to be about 13.5 million MTs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/staggered-procurement-capt-writes-to-pm-reiterates-demand-for-incentive-to-farmers/story-MAHeUyZRqrNsBhQCnLra2I.html
14-04-2020||Lucknow||Bareilly man offers himself for human trial of Covid-19 vaccine||At a time when people are staying home to remain out of the grip of Sars-Cov-2, a villager in Aonla town in Bareilly district has offered himself for the human trial which may help get a vaccine to fight the deadly virus that has so far killed over a lakh people across the world. In a letter addressed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi handed over to SDM, Aonla, KK Singh, 35-year-old Omendra Singh Chauhan has made the offer to do his bit to save millions affected by coronavirus. “I had given the letter to the SDM last week. I got a call from the PMO today (Tuesday) by an official who said that the letter had been received and he inquired about my family and sought other details,” said Chauhan.Agriculture is the mainstay of his family and Chauhan, a bachelor, is third among five brothers. “I completed my graduation in science from Bareilly college in 2004 and then did a brief stint with a bank. But then I quit my job in 2012 and now manage an NGO which runs an anti-reservation movement,” he said.On being asked whether he had consulted his family before making the offer, Chauhan said he told his brothers about his decision after handing over the letter to the SDM. “They were taken aback initially but now they are with me and support my decision,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/bareilly-man-offers-himself-for-human-trial-of-covid-19-vaccine/story-VHx5Uu0Fn9kVqP1B91RNAI.html
14-04-2020||Chandigarh||COVID-19: Punjab begins wheat procurement under shadows of pandemic today||With Punjab set to start wheat procurement on Wednesday under the shadows of Covid-19, the state food and civil supplies, and agriculture departments have dispatched hundreds of gallons of sanitisers and thousands of gloves and masks to all 1,864 grain markets (mandis) and purchase centres besides rice shelling mills temporarily designated as procurement stations. With a bumper crop likely this time, the total wheat arrival is n expected to surpass the targeted 135 lakh tonnes. Due to rainfall and fall in temperatures at the maturing stage of the crop, both harvesting and procurement were postponed by a fortnight. To maintain social distancing to avoid the spread of coronavirus, procurement will be made in a staggered manner as farmers will enter the mandis with passes issued to them.For day 1, the Punjab Mandi Board, a subsidiary of the agriculture department that runs procurement centres and mandis, has issued 7,000 passes to the farmers to bring their produce. Early wheat arrival is expected in the mandis of Patiala, Sangrur, Mansa, Fatehgarh Sahib, Ludhiana and Khanna districts. Passes are being issued 72 hours in advance.“The Covid-19 hotspots pose a challenge to us. Seventeen such areas have been identified in Punjab and we will have to ensure the procurement does not get impacted. We have authorised the deputy commissioners to take call in their areas accordingly keeping in view the situation,” said additional chief secretary (development) Viswajeet Khanna, who heads a state-level committee on harvest and procurement. The harvesting is going to be smooth but we are concerned about lifting and transportation of produce to the storage points, he said. As of now, three mandis at Manalgaglan, Pathlana, and Uchalad in SBS Nagar’s Banga area besides another in Mohali’s Derabassi have been closed, Khanna added. These fall in pandemic hotspots. “Based on the information collected by the agriculture department, the wheat production in the state could touch 185-190 lakh tones, of which 137-140 lakh tonne is expected to arrive for procurement. “We have sufficient funds for purchase even if the arrivals go beyond our target of 135 lakh tonne. The government has made arrangement of a cash credit limit for Rs 26,000 crore and we may get more,” he added.On the precautionary measures being taken for the safety of farmers, commission agents and the procurement staff, state food and civil supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu said at least 50,000 litres of sanitiser and over 1 lakh masks and gloves have been made available in the mandis. “The department is also arranging N-95 masks for 7,000 procurement staff members deputed on the ground. All mandis will also have indigenously developed handwash stations. About arrangements in the mandis, food and supplies director Anandita Mitra said 30X30 square grids have been marked in the mandis for receiving the produce, and each square is sufficient to unload 150 quintals of produce and parking a tractor-trailer. A truck driven by the same driver will be allowed for movement of grain between a mandi and the storage point, she added. State divides quota of procurement agenciesThe state food and civil supplies department has divided the quota among four procurement agencies and centre’s food corporation of India. Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu said keeping in view the expected arrival of 135 lakh tonnes of wheat, Pungrain has been given 26% (35.10 lakh tonnes), Markfed 23.5% (31.72 lakh tonnes), Punsup 21.5% (29 lakh tonnes), State Warehouse Hosing Corporation 14% (18.9 lakh tonnes) and the central agency Food Corporation of India (FCI) 15% (20.25 lakh tonnes) at an MSP of Rs 1,925.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-punjab-begins-wheat-procurement-under-shadows-of-pandemic-today/story-S3huiX1K6gw3iO8WHqOn6L.html
14-04-2020||Lucknow||Kanpur’s first Covid death after 50-year-old mutwalli tests positive||A 50-year-old Mutwalli (trustee or caretaker) of a prominent mosque who died at the Covid-19 ward of LLR hospital on Monday was confirmed positive for Corona virus, according to chief medical officer Ashok Shukla. This is the first Covid death reported from Kanpur.He was admitted to a private hospital after his condition deteriorated on Friday after which he was shifted to the LLR hospital on the insistence of district magistrate Brahmdev Ram Tiwari and SSP Anant Deo. The samples taken at the hospital were sent to SGPGI, which sent back the report on Tuesday, a day after his death. ​“The private hospital has been sealed and will be sanitised. The hospital staff would also be screened, the DM said.The man had a travel history to Mumbai and had hosted ‘jamaats’ at the mosque. His family was screened on Tuesday at his house in Colonelganj. His burial took place in a graveyard close to Eidgah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/kanpur-s-first-covid-death-after-50-year-old-mutwalli-tests-positive/story-dDxPO4fi2vUfg9nt7oVljM.html
14-04-2020||Mumbai||High-risk contacts with symptoms to be tested on priority, says BMC||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided to prioritise testing of symptomatic high-risk contacts of coronavirus positive patients and give second priority to asymptomatic high-risk contacts to ensure early detection of those who need critical care. The decision was taken even though BMC data for Mumbai shows that more than 70% patients do not have symptoms. Until now, the BMC was testing all high-risk contacts, irrespective of symptoms, however, municipal commissioner Praveen Pardeshi, in a meeting with ward officers recently, asked them to prioritise symptomatic high-risk patients. However, all high-risk and low-risk contacts will be quarantined institutionally or at home, irrespective of symptoms. Those having symptoms have a problem in breathing, cough and fever, while a majority of them don’t show any symptom owing to their immunity.The BMC officials said this is in line with the Central government’s guidelines for testing, considering symptomatic high-risk contacts are more prone to transmission and require more attention than asymptomatic contacts. More than 10,000 high-risk and low-risk contacts have been placed under quarantine, and 4,000 have completed their 14-day quarantine period. A BMC official said, “We are not saying we will not test asymptomatic positive patients, but we are going to prioritise those who have symptoms. This will help us get quicker test reports of those who are symptomatic and if found positive, they can get timely medical care.’’ Sandhya Nandekar, assistant municipal commissioner, R North ward, which covers Dahisar and part of Borivli, said, “We will look at it on a case-to-case basis. If required, test can always be done. Also, we are quarantining all high-risk and low-risk contacts.”Currently, the BMC has been collecting 4,000 swabs at government and private labs daily and getting results for 2,000-2,300 tests a day. It aims to increase the testing capacity to 5,000 in the coming days. A BMC official said, “At times, it takes two days for results to come, considering the backlog. By prioritising symptomatic tests for high-risk contacts, we are just streamlining the process.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/high-risk-contacts-with-symptoms-to-be-tested-on-priority-says-bmc/story-s1bjW649GVuUK43IBc51DJ.html
14-04-2020||City||CCI procures 446 quintal cotton from 20 farmers in Mansa||BATHINDA As the Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) on Tuesday resumed purchase of raw cotton in Mansa, officials claimed that the step will help boost farmers’ confidence for smooth wheat procurement starting Wednesday.According to the officials, total 446 quintals of cotton were bought by CCI on the first day of resumed procurement.Just as planned for the upcoming wheat purchase, cotton growers were issued coupons to enter the mandi to sell their produce.Mansa deputy commissioner G S Chahal said 20 farmers were invited at the mandi to sell raw cotton to CCI at the minimum support price.The state agricultural marketing board authorities had roped in arhtiyas to call farmers to the mandi to sell their pending cotton stock.“It was a small but important exercise to assess our preparedness for the staggered wheat purchase plan in view of the Covid-19 crisis. Farmers were allotted earmarked slots to unload their raw cotton. It will send a positive message to wheat growers and arhtiyas that invitation-based staggered purchase of food grain can also be a hassle-free and organised operation,” said Chahal.On Monday, HT had first reported that the mandi board officials had planned to test the working of the staggered wheat procurement plan in Mansa.Cotton state coordinator Rajnish Goel said the purchase was delayed by a day on Tuesday due to last-minute preparedness issues.“CCI offered minimum price of ₹5,241 per quintal, while the maximum rate was recorded at ₹5,405. Cotton was purchased as per the quality parameters of the central agency. Farmers have an estimated stock of 50,000 quintal and the CCI will buy the pending material in the coming weeks in a similar manner,” said Goel.Tractor trolleys were duly sanitised before entering the mandi premises and social distancing was ensured, said Goel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cci-procures-446-quintal-cotton-from-20-farmers-in-mansa/story-F1WC4DcjGrbs9Sf8H6xDbK.html
14-04-2020||Lucknow||Agra toll 3; sole reason for death in all cases not Covid-19||Two more women who had tested positive for COVID-19 died in Agra, taking the toll to three.With four new patients testing positive, the number of positive cases rose to 142. On Monday alone, 35 cases tested positive, taking the number to 138. With identification of four more positive cases, the number rose to 142.Both the women were admitted at a hospital near Bhagwan Talkies crossing, one of the hotspots with over 20 infected staff and contacts.Last week, a woman who also had asthma had died of coronavirus infection.District magistrate Prabhu N Singh, while confirming the two deaths, said all three deceased were aged women.“The first woman who died was 76-year-old and patient of asthma. She got the infection from her grandson who had returned from Netherland. She was brought here under critical condition. She was on support of steroid and oxygen. Cardiac arrest was assigned as the cause of death,” said the DM.“Another woman who died on Monday was 48-year-old. She was already admitted to the hospital near Bhagwan Talkies as a brain hemorrhage patient. She had large intra cerebral hemorrhage leading to raised intracranial tension which required ventilator support. As such COVID-19 cannot be assigned as sole cause of death because in such type of cases of primary disease, mortality is very high,” said the DM.“Mortality rate of Intra cerebral hemorrhage is as high as 44% in the first month and 75% in the first 24 hours so assigning this death because of corona virus is not justified,” said the DM.“The third patient was having carcinoma lung with kidney failure, both leading to decreased immunity and super infection with COVID 19,” said the DM.“In case of carcinoma lung too, mortality rate is very high and added renal failure further increased the chances of death. As such in this third case of death, COVID-19 does not seem to be the sole cause of death,” he said.With the hospital already a hotspot, samples of all these women, recuperating in intensive care unit, were sent to Lucknow’s King George Medical University (KGMU) soon after their death. The report, which came on Monday evening confirmed they both were coronavirus positive.“As per the cremation protocol, we took the sample and then handed over the bodies to their relatives,” added the DM.​||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/agra-toll-3-sole-reason-for-death-in-all-cases-not-covid-19/story-3u6oCJVtr8gilYjFeaWduO.html
14-04-2020||Gurugram||GMDA staffers to resume office Thursday as agency awaits Haryana govt order||The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) on Tuesday put on hold for a day an order asking its employees to join the GMDA office at Sector 44 from Wednesday. The move comes soon after the Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement to extend the ongoing nationwide lockdown to combat the spread of Covid-19 till May 3.“The undersigned is directed to refer to the office order of April 13 about the functioning of the GMDA office during lockdown from April 15 will be on hold till tomorrow (Wednesday). However, work from home will continue and essential services be run fully,” said the new notice issued by the authority to the officials who were ordered to join the office from Wednesday by a previous notice issued on Monday evening.  The officials have been working from home since the 21-day nationwide lockdown started on March 25. A senior GMDA official told HT that the PM on Tuesday morning said the lockdown will continue till April 20 in the way it is being observed since March 25.“A new notice has postponed the earlier order for a day. We will wait for further directions from the Haryana government,” said the official, adding that only one third staff were to join the office.VS Kundu, GMDA chief executive officer,” said, “We put office functioning order on hold for a day and will wait for further directions from the government.”The Monday’s notice had also mentioned that no meetings and visitors will be allowed except for addressing any emergency issues in which the measures of social distancing shall be implemented effectively.“Those employees who reside in the declared containment zones/areas where a total lockdown/curfew has been announced shall not be called to attend office in any case,” said the notice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gmda-staffers-to-resume-office-thursday-as-agency-awaits-haryana-govt-order/story-YXFlAFCrFLJe9FllFDxnoI.html
14-04-2020||Gurugram||Nuh police raid 15 distillation units brewing liquor illegally||The Nuh police on Tuesday raided 15 distillation units brewing country liquor illegally in the villages near the Rajasthan border and arrested three men. The police said that at least 10 suspects fled from the spot.Over 20,000 litres of fermented wash, 60 liquor barrels and 100 tins and jute bags were destroyed in the villages, said police adding that 25 barrels of brewed liquor were also destroyed.The raid was conducted on the directions of director general of police Manoj Yadav. Police officials said these villages are a hub for illicit liquor trade and supply spurious liquor to various parts of Nuh, and parts of Haryana and Rajasthan.Superintendent of police, Nuh, Narender Bijarniya, said three police teams were formed and the Rajasthan police were contacted after receiving information that illicit liquor distillation was being carried out in the 15 villages. “Due to the lockdown the suspects had re-established their business, as liquor vends are closed and the demand for liquor is high,” he said.More than 100 police personnel, including some from Rajasthan police, reached Nanuka river Tuesday morning.“After we started the raid, we found that these villages which are located on the riverside and hills have a history of supplying nearly 5,000 bottles of illicit liquor on a daily basis to different parts of Haryana and Rajasthan. No police officer would dare to conduct a raid in the village, as attacking police personnel was common. Many villagers were involved in the business,” said Bijarniya.The raid began at 5 a.m. and continued till 2 p.m and the police managed to arrest three men who were allegedly found storing liquor in drums. Other suspects fled from the spot, the police added.Police officers said villages along the Nanuka river shores are famous for brewing illicit country liquor. They brew nearly 20,000 litres a day and sell each litre for at least ₹350.In view of the illicit liquor trade in these villages, police officials have been asking the residents not to patronise them.Bijarniya said they have roped in women, whose husbands had died following consumption of spurious liquor, as informants.Police registered cases against the suspects under section 61 of excise act and section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) at Chopanki and Nuh police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/nuh-police-raid-15-distillation-units-brewing-liquor-illegally/story-igJE1Gq6jHG99EjF9aOeEK.html
14-04-2020||City||Thane women make and distribute 90K masks||Women from villages in Thane district have made and distributed 90,000 masks in the past few days. Their husbands, who are daily wage workers, have jobless during the lockdown period.Sarika Bhosale, district mission manager, zilla parishad, said, “We provided them the materials after getting approval. We have distributed more than 90,000 masks across the state.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-women-make-and-distribute-90k-masks/story-1HdVbLZVm019hFjWLTsQZP.html
14-04-2020||City||MCG to discontinue use of sanitisation tunnels, advises citizens not to install devices||Gurugram: The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) on Tuesday issued instructions to its health department to discontinue the use of ‘sanitisation tunnels’, set up at the Civil Hospital in Sector 10, ESI Hospital in Sector 9, and at Vikas Sadan. At least one condominium in the city, and one automobile manufacturing facility in Manesar, had also installed such devices, and will have to discontinue their use, an MCG official said. The city’s first disinfection tunnel, at the Sector 10 Civil Hospital, became operational on April 8. At the time, the MCG’s official handle had tweeted, “The tunnel sprays a diluted Sodium Hypochlorite solution on the person walking through it, thereby considerably reducing the number of germs on the individual.” However, a reading of available, scientific literature on the subject shows that there is little evidence to support this claim. Even the World Health Organization (WHO), in an advisory, stated, “Spraying alcohol or chlorine all over your body will not kill viruses that have already entered your body. Spraying such substances can be harmful to clothes or mucous membranes.” Sodium hypochlorite, a key ingredient in bleach, is only effective as a surface disinfectant, said multiple doctors who spoke to Hindustan Times. With this in mind, states including Punjab and Tamil Nadu (which was the first to resort to their use) have also issued orders calling for a withdrawal of the technology. In New Delhi, AIIMS, which had installed a disinfection tunnel developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) on a trial basis, also discontinued its use starting April 13. HT also spoke to a doctor at Civil Hospital who, requesting anonymity, said, “We were made to compulsorily walk through the tunnel while entering and exiting the premises, without any personal protective equipment (PPE), on multiple days. While I have not felt any major side-effects, I experienced lasting skin irritation. We have raised the issue with the health department. It is good news that they will not use the devices anymore.” BluRain, a Gurugram-based landscape water solution company, has been in discussions with hospitals, offices, schools and hotels to install such devices. The company’s technical head, Pawan Sharma, said, “In the first three or four days, we must have received around 20-21 enquiries from factories, especially in the automotive sector, as well as government institutions and residential societies for purchase of the tunnels.” Vinay Pratap Singh, commissioner, MCG, said on Tuesday, “We have been receiving lot of queries from RWAs regarding disinfection tunnels. MCG had also experimented with them a week back, but now the WHO has issued an advisory discouraging the installation of disinfection tunnels, as they may cause more harm than good. MCG also recommends that disinfection tunnels should NOT be installed in condominiums/sectors/colonies/offices/commercial complexes/market etc.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mcg-to-discontinue-use-of-sanitisation-tunnels-advises-citizens-not-to-install-devices/story-AxA3XvxEtld8qcSG5lUzjI.html
14-04-2020||City||Amritsar admn launches website to help docs, residents||AMRITSAR The district administration on Tuesday launched a new website which will help doctors and residents to report suspected Covid-19 patients to the administration.Using the website www.asrcovid19helpline.in, doctors at their respective clinics and hospitals can report the suspected cases to the administration whereas the city residents, who are suspicious of their medical conditions, can also submit the self-assessment forms.Giving details, Amritsar additional deputy commissioner (ADC) Himanshu Aggarwal said, “The website, which has been designed by Amritsar Smart City Limited (ASCL), will not only help the administration and the health department, but will also help the residents to combat the coronavirus outbreak.”He added, “Using this website, residents can get the contact number of vendors who are giving home delivery of grocery, fruits and vegetables, and medicines in their areas.”“Besides, people can get all the helpline numbers for different purposes designated by the district administration and can get a brief on all the latest instructions issued by the orders of deputy commissioner Shiv Dular Singh Dhillon,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amritsar-admn-launches-website-to-help-docs-residents/story-TOdHDhmfyLZM4mXiWZ8tBL.html
14-04-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram Covid lockdown: Two treat 60 birds through video call||Two bird lovers have been treating birds at the bird hospital in Sadar Bazar giving them first aid, medicine and looking after them, as the sole doctor who was in charge of them is stranded in Uttar Pradesh due to the nationwide lockdown.Ever since the lockdown started, Pramod Kumar and Shiv Kumar have treated more than 60 birds at the hospital. Neither of them has left the hospital even for a single day since the lockdown started only to look after the birds. “To be honest I don’t know how to treat the birds very well, but working in the hospital for nine years has given me enough experience to give them first aid. In the last 20 days, my colleague Pramod and I have treated birds who arrived with their throats slit and claws injured. There were two whose feathers were stuck together,” Shiv, who has been working in the bird hospital as a compounder, said.Besides treating several birds, the duo has also taken care of a peacock who was dropped at the hospital by some people last week. “The peacock arrived in paralysed on one side, so we decided to get in touch with the bird doctor who guided us on what to do. Now the peacock is better and is showing signs of improvement,” Pramod, a member of the housekeeping staff, added. The treatment for the birds is presided over through video call by the hospital’s bird doctor. Everything is discussed—what should be done to a specific bird and the medicine that is to be provided. Dr Raju Kumar, who looks after the birds in the hospital, said, “I had to leave Gurugram for some work in Bulandshahr before the lockdown started. Now, I am in regular touch with both the workers in the hospital through video calls. I tell them the medicine the birds should be given and they are doing a fine job.”The duo is not only taking care of the birds that come to the hospital but the stray dogs who have become regular visitors now. “During the lockdown, we would see a couple of dogs roaming about near the hospital so we kept a bowl of water for them. We also feed them biscuits and whatever we have in stock,” Shiv said.Birds of all kinds, including parrots, crows, pigeons and koels are harboured here. The hospital also has a large number of crows, falcons and eagles under treatment. “Our job is to treat the birds and then let them go. Some people bring in birds and these feathered patients are given medicines and a nutritious diet,” Pramod added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/60-birds-treated-through-video-call/story-Uf4WP4XNDFxyN9natUbV1H.html
14-04-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram’s Park Place has adopted a senior citizens’ first policy||Amid the ongoing national lockdown announced to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), residents at Park Place in Sector 54 are taking special measures towards the safety of elderly living in the high-rise. Residents at the condominium have created a roster of citizen volunteers to tend to the needs of senior citizens, who are at a high risk of contracting the infection.Yogesh Saini, a member of the volunteer team dealing with Coronavirus-related activities, said that a team of volunteers had been constituted to look after the needs of elderly residents and a separate WhatsApp group comprising senior citizens of Park Place had been formed to coordinate the efforts and cater to requests. “Senior citizens are at high risk of contracting Covid-19, due to which we are taking extra precautions regarding their safety. We have appointed volunteers to take care of senior citizens and ensure that they do not face difficulties of any kind,” Saini said. Siddharth Punia, another volunteer spearheading the efforts, said that specific days in the week had been reserved to supply requirements to the elderly. “On specific days, we request all senior citizens living alone without any domestic help to share their list of requirements with us. Be it groceries or medicines or any other requirement, we make a note of it and ensure that our volunteers deliver it to their doorstep while taking all precautions,” Punia said. The condominium has barred the entry of part-time domestic help such as maids, cooks, drivers, car washers, and dog walkers among others. External workers are only being allowed in special cases wherein the occupants are either physically challenged or are senior citizens living alone. External vendors such as food delivery persons and newspaper vendors, meanwhile, are halted at the main entrance. Residents are required to collect the delivered items from the gate. All persons entering the building with deliveries are thermal scanned and mandatorily required to use sanitisers. Within the condominium, common areas are regularly sanitised by the MCG and the RWA. Given the lockdown, the apartment has cut down the strength of its non-essential staff and provided all staff members with boarding and lodging facilities within the condominium to reduce the chances of exposure to the world outside the premises. Surat Singh Yadav, estate manager, Park Place, said that 70 members of the staff had been housed within the condominium complex to take care of essential services. “Around 70 members of the maintenance and security team have started living within the complex so that basic tasks can continue as usual. Moreover, the safety of both residents and the staff is taken care of with reduction in movement,” Yadav said. He added that the condominium had tied up with a food outlet, which was delivering food, and the staff was not required to cook. “Besides providing them with food, we ensure that their health check-ups are done regularly. They have been given accommodation in flats and we make sure that social distancing rules are followed within these flats. The staff has also been provided with PPE kits which they use while entering apartments for the sanitisation work,” Yadav said. Yogesh Saini, a member of the volunteer team dealing with Covid-related activities, said that all Covid-related announcements and advisories were being shared with residents through Whatsapp and Facebook groups. “There is constant dialogue with the residents and they can approach us with any requirement. The volunteers ensure that the needs are met,” Saini said. The condominium has essential shops within the complex that are catering to residents. “Everything is available within the complex and for other necessities, we are allowing delivery services till the gates,” Saini said. Besides, in the area around the general store and other common areas, the floor has been marked to facilitate social distancing. “We have drawn circles on the floor at a distance of 2 metres from each other so that people maintain distance while standing outside the shop. More than five persons are not allowed inside the shops at a time. Guards have been placed within the shopping area to ensure that the rules and social distancing protocols are followed,” Saini said.Punia, another volunteer, said that the Covid-response team had been monitoring the grounds, shopping complex, and other common areas to ensure that people abide by the lockdown conditions. “Initially, some people could be seen strolling around and were not taking the lockdown seriously. However, we started making announcements via loudspeakers and even got the police to take rounds of the complex. People are strictly abiding by the lockdown now and not coming out for any unnecessary reason,” Punia said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-s-park-place-has-adopted-a-senior-citizens-first-policy/story-OQKmrTvK4TWUK2UQXPRsXJ.html
14-04-2020||City||Lockdown extension: City stores see sharp increase in sale of essential items||Gurugram: Soon after the Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement on Tuesday morning to extend the ongoing nationwide lockdown to combat the spread of Covid-19 till May 3, grocery stores and supermarkets across the city saw a significant increase in customers as people tried to stock up on essential items. Residents and shopkeepers attributed the increase in purchasing to growing uncertainty about any changes in the enforcement of lockdown and the outcome it may have on the supply of essential items.At several stores across the city, long queues could be witnessed as people purchased items in bulk, to stock up for at least a month to ensure they do not have to venture out during the lockdown.Brishti Mohapatra, a resident of DLF 5, said that after the district administration on Friday demarcated nine containment zones, several residents in her condominium could not get their items delivered as delivery personnel were not allowed through the area by the Gurugram police. A day later, once the administration specifically stated that such online services would not be curbed, deliveries resumed in the area, she said. However, after another 19-day extension, Mohapatra said she did not want to take any chances. “Amid the growing uncertainty regarding the supply of essential items, I simply did not want to take any chance. I was not alone, there were more than 50 people at a supermarket on Golf Course Road doing the same,” said Mohapatra.Ved Pal Raghav, president of Gurgaon Wholesaler’s Association, an umbrella body that overlooks operations of over 150 wholesale stores and 1,200 retail stores in the city, said that there was a 30-40% increase in sales on Tuesday, compared to the preceding days.“I was apprised by several wholesale and retail shop owners that they witnessed nearly double the total number of customers in comparison to the last few days. Overall, the total sales across the city increased by 30-40% today. Most customers told us that, fearing further extension in the lockdown, they wanted to store items in bulk,” said Raghav. Some customers complained about the shortage of essential items of popular brands. “I went to the supermarket in my locality around 3pm. Almost all the milk, salt, and sugar packets were over. The ones that were there were from unfamiliar brands. Surprisingly, one of the store operators at the cash counter informed me that most of the stock had replenished by noon,” said Harshit Kumar, a resident of Sector 50.Nitin Yadav, a grocery shop owner in Sector 49, said that there were long queues outside his shop than usual, and his workers had to interfere to ensure social distancing is followed.“There was a significant rush today. There were queues of more than 10-12 buyers at the cash counter through most of the day. On several occasions, I had to ask my workers to create space and ensure they maintain social distancing,” said Yadav.The district administration said that it is taking all steps to ensure there is ample supply of essential goods. “We have consistently ensured from all concerned stakeholders that the city is well stocked and there is ample supply of goods during the lockdown. We will continue working towards this end to ensure residents are least inconvenienced,” said Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lockdown-extension-city-stores-see-sharp-increase-in-sale-of-essential-items/story-4dUHoPiR9nhftugpUN3EXI.html
14-04-2020||Chandigarh||Over 77% Tablighi contacts test negative in Haryana||Health authorities in Haryana heaved a sigh of relief after 77% of the samples taken from the contacts of the Tablighi Jamat missionaries turned out negative for Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. The test results of these high-risk individuals assume significance in view of the fact that the missionaries and their contacts account for 121 cases, which is over two-thirds of cases in the state. Data accessed by Hindustan Times showed that out of 662 contacts tested, only 13 turned out positive. “Though the lab reports of 135 samples of the contacts and 61 of the Jamatis are still waited, I can now say that we have been able to contain the community spread of coronavirus due to relentless screening, intensive testing and isolation of habitations,” additional chief secretary (ACS), Health, Rajeev Arora said.The ACS, Health said they we will however not let their guard down. “The habitations will continue to remain isolated for 14 days. I also expect a small increase in the number of positive cases. But the possibility of a substantial increase in the number of positive cases is very less,’’ he said.Hotbed Nuh seems contained, says officialsThe Tablighi Jamat is an over 100 year old Islamic group that meets often at Delhi’s Nizammuddin in a five-storey building called the Markaz. Last month, certain Covid-19 deaths were linked to this group . When authorities traced their members, they found that many of them were foreigners from affected countries and had come in contact with many others who later travelled to other parts of the country, As per the statistics, 1,461 Jamatis and 662 of their contacts were tested by the health authorities from across Haryana.The bulk of such individuals came from the Nuh district of Mewat region where 353 Jamatis and 12 of their contacts were tested for coronavirus. The lab findings had thrown up 38 positive Jamatis in Nuh district, the highest in the state. “We had six new disclosures on Sunday whose samples have been taken. The police however is investigating whether they would qualify as Jamatis or their contacts,’’ Nuh Civil Surgeon, Virender Yadav said.“ More than 233,000 households in 501 villages of Nuh district were screened door to door after isolating the habitations. The number of persons screened in this hotspot is over 1.4 million,’’ said a health official indicating the intensity of the containment operation. In Palwal district, 65 out of the 89 Jamatis tested and 22 out of 39 contacts tested turned out to be negative. Officials said that results of 13 samples of contacts in Palwal district are awaited. In Yamunanagar district where three Jamatis were tested positive on Sunday, 132 samples out of 160 of missionaries have tested negative. The result of 25 samples of missionaries and 37 samples of their contacts are awaited, statistics show.Number of Jamatis traced: 1648Foreign nationals: 107Number of samples of Jamatis taken: 1461Positive Jamatis: 108Number of Jamati contacts tested: 662Positive contacts: 13||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/over-77-tablighi-contacts-test-negative-in-haryana/story-o5E2QdxgiRGynmHsYErwTM.html
14-04-2020||Lucknow||1.41 lakh posts of teachers, headmasters vacant in UP govt primary schools||With over 1.41 lakh posts of teachers and headmasters lying vacant across UP, government-run primary and upper primary schools, numbering around 1.59 lakh, are reeling under acute shortage of teachers, reveals latest data available with UP basic education department.Officials share that updated details regarding vacant posts have come light through data collated as part of the inter-district transfer exercise of Basic Shiksha Parishad’s teachers recently.Although reluctant to go on record, basic education department officials say these vacant posts are besides the 69,000 posts of assistant teachers the recruitment process for which is held up as a result of an ongoing litigation in the Allahabad high court.“If these posts also included, the number of vacant posts will go up to 2.1 lakh,” said a senior official of the state basic education department.He said if one looks at just the government-run primary schools in the state, a total of 1,60,533 posts of teachers and headmasters are lying vacant. “Even if one deducts the 69,000 posts stuck in litigation, 91,533 posts are still left vacant. If one sees the upper primary schools, an additional 50,088 posts are vacant,” he added.The state government has stopped direct recruitment of assistant teachers in government-run upper primary schools numbering around 45,625 in the state. The government has decided that vacant posts here are to be filled only through promotions, share officials. Before that, direct recruitment of 29,334 assistant teachers of science and mathematics were initiated in 2013. However, that too attracted litigation and filling of vacant posts out of these is sub judice in the Supreme Court, they claim.In these upper primary schools, 1883 posts of headmasters are also lying vacant, say officials.The government-run 1,13,289 primary schools in the state also face another piquant situation. Here the number of headmasters far exceeds the numbers prescribed by norms. Norms say that only schools having 150 or more students can have a headmaster. The government has resolved to not remove any headmaster who at present is stationed in a school. As a result, against 22,444 sanctioned posts of headmaster, the state’s primary schools have 68,191 headmasters working in them— an excess of 45,747 headmasters as per the new data, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/1-41-lakh-posts-of-teachers-headmasters-vacant-in-up-govt-primary-schools/story-LWRE6fQxclV82KPCLytEgK.html
14-04-2020||Gurugram||In Gurugram slums, not keeping safe distance is a cry for help||In the urban village clusters of Sikander, Nathupur and Chakkarpur, where a mix of daily wage workers and house help live surrounded by some of city’s most affluent areas, not following social distancing norms is a cry for help. “We sit in large gatherings to gain attention of passersby or agencies so that they visit us and get to know that we have been sleeping on an empty stomach. Our children are only eating one meal a day,” Roshini Devi, a native of Bihar who has been living in Sikanderpur area for the last 16 months with her five children and husband, said standing in a queue for water outside a local resident’s house which enjoyed supply. Some 10 women had line up to fill water. Another group of women, their faces a mix of worry and fatigue, were seen talking about “the old days before the lockdown”.Daily wage earners have been the worst affected by the nationwide lockdown enforced to check the spread of Cornavirus disease (Covid-19) in India. The lockdown, which has dried up all sources of income across the country, was extended till May 3 on Tuesday when Haryana’s Covid tally touched 184, with 32 cases from Gurugram, including 1 death. The state has 141 active cases.“If we are destined to die on an empty stomach, we will. We have been eating dry roti and water for 15 days. It is very difficult to live like this; no water, food or electricity. Initially, we were happy; we had heard that the government agencies would provide cooked food or ration, but they only came here once and that too on April 9. We were able to stretch our meagre savings only on the basis of charity by locals, RWAs and NGOs,” Roshini said who has now given up on her dream to build a house back home in Bihar. Area councilors, however, denied the claim that no food had been distributed. They claimed that they were distributing cooked food but the slum residents were insisting on only accepting ration. Ward 34 councilor RS Rathi said, “I am myself visiting Sikanderpur and delivering food to more than 900 families and community lunch is provided to all the people. Even community centres are organising ‘langars’. There is no shortage of food as many residents are going and giving with bread, milk and vegetables.”Roshini’s neighbour, Bharti Anand, also a native of Bihar, however, said, “Food is supplied, but only to a few families who know the village sarpanch. We are neglected and we sit all day and night in wait of cooked food or dry ration.”Gurugram deputy commissioner Amit Khatri assured he will take up the issue of distribution of ration with agencies involved and will ensure no one sleeps hungry. “There is enough ration and many volunteers are helping in providing food and dry ration in these areas,” he said Tuesday. When Team HT visited these places on Tuesday, groups of people were seen moving around freely, sitting together talking how their savings were running out or how it would have been better to do someone’s house work—all RWAs in the city have told residents to pay their house help for the length of the lockdown. Nearly 2 lakh migrants, most of them daily wagers, reside in Sikanderpur, Chakkarpur and Nathupur. Majority come from poor villages in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. While some are here with their families with an average of two to three children, others save up to send money home. Most were unhappy with the extension of the lockdown announced on Tuesday. None of them wore a mask—compulsory in Gurugram—or were interested in social distancing as no one ever told them about it. Only a few fellow people seemed to know that it was mandatory to wear masks, but did not understand why, nor did they know that a scarf would also suffice.“Everything we know about this illness is through messages or videos on the internet,” Mahesh, a resident of Chakkarpur said, adding that no government official or policeman had ever come to tell them about what’s happening. Vikas Paswan, who lives in Sikanderpur and is a native of Bhagalpur in Bihar, said they were ready to come on the roads to protest and ask the government to provide them with buses so they can go home. Vikas lost his job as a construction site worker, which fetched him ₹600 per day. “What is the point in staying here when the authorities have no interest in our lives? They must let us go. We are being held hostage in these slums. We are not allowed to move out, we fear police action and we are not getting any food or water from agencies,” he said.While Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in his address to the nation on Tuesday morning said that addressing the woes of the daily wage earners was among his top priorities, no concrete set of instructions have been issued nor mechanism created by any key ministry or state administration to ensure this most marginalised section of the society can continue to earn its living. “There has been no work for almost two months now. Our saving will last another week and we have children to feed. We cannot borrow meals as everyone is facing the same problem and we can’t even beg; there are no people,” said Sikaderpur resident Shanti Kumari, who worked as a daily wager at the Marble Market.People in Nathupur were equally worried and scared. Sanjay Paswan, a daily wage earner, said they come out in the evening and chat, play cards and look for at the road waiting for food trucks or cars of residents who come to distribute food. STARK CONTRASTMeanwhile, things looked more cheery in Chakkarpur where a large section of the workers are engaged in people’s homes and were receiving their salary regularly. Suresh Yadav of Bihar, who has been living in Chakkarpur for three years, said, “Our area comes alive at night; we watch movies, cooking meals together and play cards all day because most of the women here work as domestic helps and are getting money so we can enough our meals,” he said.Asked why they weren’t following social distancing, residents said that since they were not in the containment zone they could go to markets and “be normal”. These select families in the slum, however, have become the envy of their less fortunate neighbours. “Why this discrimination? Even we should not get paid money by the contractor for not working as we were hired for a project and not our fault,” said Vinod Shukla, a daily wager.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/in-gurugram-slums-not-keeping-safe-distance-is-a-cry-for-help/story-oB23BLpb4NTRNvpd0HFl3I.html
14-04-2020||City||Ghaziabad police chase away Delhi buses from border area, UP to shift stranded migrant workers to home towns||The Ghaizabad police on Tuesday deployed additional personnel and maintained strict vigil in areas bordering Delhi in view of the nationwide lockdown being extended till May 3, to prevent the spread of Covid-19. They also stopped two Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) buses ferrying migrant workers and sent back the buses to Ghazipur, police said.According to officials, they were apprehensive that migrant workers from Delhi would arrive at the Ghaziabad-Delhi border in hopes of catching buses from the ISBT at Kaushambi. Thousands of migrant workers had swarmed the border area on the night of March 23, after the lockdown was first announced, in a bid to board buses to their home towns in Uttar Pradesh.“As a precautionary measure, we enhanced the deployment in border areas ad maintained strict vigil. On Tuesday evening, two DTC buses, which arrived near the Delhi-Ghaziabad border at UP Gate, were stopped by us. Each bus had about 40 to 45 migrant workers and the buses were sent to Ghazipur,” Anshu Jain, circle officer (Indirapuram), said.“When we contacted Delhi officials, they told us that migrant workers were being shifted from Kashmere Gate to the Ghazipur shelter home. Since the buses came close to our border we stopped them and sent them back. No bus or other such vehicle will be allowed to enter the state,” she added.When contacted, the deputy commissioner of Delhi police (east), Jasmeet Singh, said homeless people were being moved from Kashmere Gate to a shelter home in Ghazipur, east Delhi.“The buses were passing via the Delhi-UP border and that must have created some confusion. No bus was to enter Uttar Pradesh,” the DCP said.The officials of the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB), the nodal agency for providing shelter to the homeless in Delhi, confirmed that around 100 homeless persons were being shifted to a shelter in Ghazipur on Tuesday evening.“The group is part of the 550 who were left without a place after a fire. In the evening, they were being sent to a shelter facility in Ghazipur. One should not believe in rumours. The CM has also issued a statement,” Bipin Rai, member, DUSIB, said.On Saturday, two homeless persons had set two shelter homes on fire, after a tiff broke out between them and the civil defence volunteers over food distribution. Following the fire, the Delhi Police had written to the government informing it that the shelter homes in north Delhi’s Kashmere Gate were packed beyond capacity and that distributing food was a problem. Most of Delhi’s homeless people live in these shelters at Kashmere Gate.Late Tuesday, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had appealed to workers to travel and to wait till May 3.“We will ensure adequate food and medicines. DTC or UP government buses are not available for you to go home. These are rumours. People may try to exploit you. Be cautious and stay wherever you are,” he had said.Last month, tens of thousands of migrants had gathered in Anand Vihar and Kaushambi in the hope of catching buses to their home towns in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh and Uttarakhand. Many of them were left stranded and are lodged in shelter homes across the city.On Tuesday, UP officials said arrangements will be put in place to shift them to their home towns.“The revenue department has given clearance for migrant workers in quarantine facility to be sent home. This will be done once their health checkup is completed,” Awanish Awasthi, UP’s additional chief secretary (home), said.“We are arranging buses for them. They will also be given food grains. But, they will have to remain in home isolation for 14 days. The buses will be arranged by Wednesday,” he said.(With inputs from Delhi bureau)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-police-chase-away-delhi-buses-from-border-area-up-to-shift-stranded-migrant-workers-to-home-towns/story-kWuZ7HXoWLAWzJ72fuBKRI.html
14-04-2020||City||Mob thrashes Muslim man, calls him corona carrier; he later jumps to death at quarantine facility||Police Tuesday registered an FIR of abetment to suicide against unknown persons after a 32-year-old man jumped to his death from the seventh floor of a quarantine facility in Greater Noida on Sunday evening.The man’s family has alleged that a mob had intercepted him near Momnathal village a few days ago on mistaking him for a member of Tablighi Jamaat, the Islamic missionary group whose congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin in mid-March had led to a spurt in Coid-19 cases across the country. The family alleged that the mob believed him to be a virus carrier and thrashed him. His attackers also made videos of him on their phones and then widely shared them on the social media captioned, “coronavirus positive Muslim man”.Knowledge Park Police have registered a case and launched an investigation into the matter.Mohammad Zakir, the man’s uncle, said the 32-year-old man was on his way to meet his wife and son who were at his in-laws’ place in Rabupura, Greater Noida. “My nephew got married two years ago. He was walking to his in-laws’ place and had reached Momnathal village around 8am. A group of youngsters stopped him on noticing his long beard. They thrashed him and made two videos on mobile phone and linked him with Tablighi Jamaat. The malicious videos were later uploaded on Tiktok by a person named Shravan Chaudhury,” he said. Zakir said his nephew had no connections with the Jamaat.He said the police and health department officials later reached the spot after getting a call from area residents and took the man to the Greater Noida Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) for medical examination.Rajesh Kumar Singh, deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said the man was later shifted to a quarantine facility in Greater Noida. “On Sunday evening, we received information that the man had jumped off the seventh floor and died. His test reports for Covid-19 were negative. Police have registered an FIR against unknown persons under Section 306 of the IPC (abetment to suicide) on the complaint of the quarantine facility manager. The police are investigating the matter,” he said.The man’s family said he worked as a cab driver and was going through a financial crisis for some months. “He had five sisters and one older brother. He was facing some financial crisis and was depressed. He was also undergoing treatment at a mental hospital in Delhi. We reached the hospital when we received information that he had been quarantined. We informed the police and hospital management that he was not a coronavirus patient but they did not listen to us. They said that man will remain in quarantine till his test reports came,” Zakir said.“The mob that thrashed him is responsible for his death. The quarantine facility management was also negligent and police should probe their role too,” Zakir said. The body was later handed over to family and it was buried Monday night. The district administration has already ordered a magisterial probe into the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mob-thrashes-muslim-man-calls-him-corona-carrier-he-later-jumps-to-death-at-quarantine-facility/story-6LvrlFO1O5lURVlSG3xVlO.html
14-04-2020||City||Karnal cops on duty get mobile sanitisation van||The police on Tuesday launched a mobile sanitisation van that will go around the city to sanitise its personnel out on the roads to enforce the lockdown put in place to combat coronavirus.Inspector-general of police (IGP) Bharti Arora and Karnal superintendent of police Surender Singh Bhoria flagged off the specially designed police vehicle. Arora said that she got the idea from her IPS batchmate serving in Maharashtra. With the help of the local police, she designed the van by installing sprinklers to disinfect the cops.She said that the van has a capacity to sanitise 12 cops in three seconds. The van will keep moving in all the police stations, police posts and check posts to disinfect the cops throughout the day, she added. Soon it will be expanded in Panipat and Kaithal, of Karnal range. SP Bhoria said that the vehicle will ensure the cops could focus on their duty as the van will reach them regularly. Even, the cops could also use this vehicle to sanitise violators before detaining them to avoid the risk of getting infected..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/karnal-cops-on-duty-get-mobile-sanitisation-van/story-iRyMvnbPfEzO4CqJCCjiYL.html
14-04-2020||City||Four new hotspots identified in GB Nagar, admin intensifies surveillance in slums||Noida: The Gautam Budh Nagar district administration on Tuesday identified four new hotspots -- Rail Vihar of Sector 62 and 14th Avenue of Gaur City in Noida, and Sector Eta 1 and Kulesara village in Greater Noida. The new hotspots were identified after 16 new Covid-19 cases were found on Monday night in the district.With this, the district has now 29 hotspots. Officials said that they have intensified containment activities such as sanitisation and surveillance in the slums and villages. On Tuesday, health officials picked up some people from the slums of sectors 5 and 8, and they were brought to a government quarantine centre as five people were found positive for Covid-19 from the area last week.On Tuesday, the district reported just one Covid-19 positive case.After the Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement to extend the lockdown till May 3, the district magistrate on Tuesday held a meeting with the officials to intensify the containment work in hotspots.The officials are particularly worried about areas such as JJ Colony in sectors 8 and 5, and villages Patwari, Ghodi Bacheda, Chaura Sadatpur, Kulesra, Bishnoli and Wazidpur. The officials are surveying the areas to avoid community spread of the disease. The officials fear that if people at these places will not follow social distancing, then the spread might increase drastically. They have also increased the number of random testing from these identified villages and slum areas of Noida.“With the extension of the lockdown, we are going to intensify our containment drive at the hotspots. There will be enough police deployment in the district to ensure the lockdown. Cluster containment is our main focus. We will also start random testing of people in the affected areas to ensure that the infected patients are identified,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate.Currently, there are 230 suspected Covid-19 patients in the government quarantine centres in Greater Noida. The administration has been facing criticism for not maintaining hygiene at the quarantine centres. The chief development officer Anil Kumar Singh held a meeting with other officials to ensure that the food is of good quality at the centres. Officials were also asked to make sure that hygiene is maintained in the premises.By Tuesday night, the health department had put 1,310 people under surveillance. A total of 1,556 samples have been collected so far. A total of 80 cases have come out positive, while 25 have been discharged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-new-hotspots-identified-in-gb-nagar-admin-intensifies-surveillance-in-slums/story-ZFNCtu7FEp0ZJYia9LDiBO.html
14-04-2020||Lucknow||NCR comes to rescue rail yatri sahayaks, coolies||PRAYAGRAJ Recognizing the hardships being faced by the rail yatri sahayaks and coolies at a time when services of passenger trains have come to a standstill following nationwide lock-down, the north-central railway (NCR) has extended a much-needed helping hand to them.These less privileged partners of NCR includes contractual labours to outsourced staff, yatri sahayaks, coolies (licensed porters) etc, who in normal days earn their livelihood through the services they deliver to railways or to its customers.NCR is providing them ration kits and also documenting their papers so that they can get the monetary help of Rs 1000 announced by the UP government, officials said.“Railway officers and staff are providing ration kits to licensed porters at various stations. The coolies stationed at Aligarh railway station of Prayagraj division were provided ration kits including 5 kg wheat flour, 1 kg pulses, 1 kg salt and 1 kg potatoes. A similar exercise is being undertaken at other major stations,” said NCR and NR general manager Rajiv Chaudhry.The yatri sahayaks/coolies living in the vicinity of railway stations are being provided with the food packets prepared by RPF, IRCTC base kitchen or other collective efforts of various departments, he added.The state government has announced financial aid of Rs 1000 to all labourers in the state and to help these people, all three divisions of NCR including Agra, Jhansi and Prayagraj have prepared list of porters with required documents like aadhaar card number and bank account details, he said.Agra division has 117 porters at different stations of Agra and 107 at Mathura. “These porters of Agra division have already received the financial aid after submission of the documents,” he added.Besides, Prayagraj and Jhansi divisions have also compiled a list of porters with necessary details and submitted it to the state government and monetary help of Rs 1000 is now being transferred to the beneficiary account in these divisions too, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/ncr-comes-to-rescue-rail-yatri-sahayaks-coolies/story-4EysgXP3zXomm7ttKK2MZJ.html
14-04-2020||City||One more Covid-19 case in GB Nagar; 11 patients discharged||Noida: Amid the rising numbers of Covid-19 cases in Gautam Budh Nagar, 11 persons undergoing treatment for the deadly virus were discharged from the hospitals on Tuesday after being cured. However, a 53-year-old woman from Supertech Capetown was found positive for Sars-CoV-2 virus on Tuesday, taking the total number of positive cases to 80 in the district, officials said. The Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in Greater Noida discharged five patients on Tuesday afternoon, six patients were released by Super Speciality Paediatric Hospital in Noida Sector 30. In total, 25 patients have been discharged till now in the district. According to the officials, of 26 Covid-19 patients at GIMS, 17 have been discharged. On Saturday, two discharged patients were called back after their third sample report came positive following a technical glitch at the Aligarh Muslim University’s laboratory. However, one of the two patients was discharged again on Tuesday. Dr Saurabh Shrivastava, head of medicine department at GIMS who is also heading the team of doctors treating Covid-19 patients, suggests that giving medicines to asymptomatic patients have resulted in their early recovery. “Most of hospitals are not giving medicines to asymptomatic patients, but we have been doing that. We have given medicines to all our asymptomatic patients which resulted in early recovery. In the tests conducted after a week, we have got the viral clearance of the patients which means we stopped the infection within seven days,” he said. The authorities at GIMS are expecting to discharge remaining nine patients in the coming days. “We are expecting that in coming few days all our remaining patients will be discharged. If the viral clearance comes in one week, then still the patient is supposed to be in the hospital for two weeks as per the protocol,” added Shrivastva.Patients are being given hydroxychloroquine for one week and Tamiflu for five days in the first week. If the viral clearance report is negative, then only hydroxychloroquine and azithromycin are given in the second week, the officials said.Meanwhile, the woman who was found positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday is linked to the chain of Ceasefire company in Sector 135. Till now, 51 persons have been found positive for the infection with direct or indirect links to Ceasefire. On late Monday night, GB Nagar witnessed 16 new Covid-19 cases which included a person from Delhi who had links with Ceasefire. The Delhi resident will not be counted in GB Nagar, although he is being treated in Noida, the officials said. This was highest number of positive cases found in one day in the district since the outbreak started on March 12.Of the 16 cases, nine linked to Ceasefire are from sectors 5 and 8, two are members of Tablighi Jamaat from Kulesra village in Greater Noida, three from a private hospital in Sector 62, one health care professional, while the source of infection of a girl from Eta Sector, Greater Noida is yet to be found out.“All the persons who have been found positive were already under quarantine at our government centres which shows that our strategy is working. We have been keeping people under quarantine who are primary or secondary connections of the infected persons,” said Narendra Bhooshan, chief executive officer, Greater Noida authority.The district administration received over 250 reports on Monday. All the reports have come from the National Institute of Biologicals (NIB) in Sector 62. The Aligarh Muslim University had also sent pending reports to NIB to reduce extra load.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/one-more-covid-19-case-in-gb-nagar-11-patients-discharged/story-vo7hGvuE6t19QMVwQOPQxL.html
14-04-2020||City||Fake posts claiming death of a DU professor go viral; FIR registered||A woman assistant professor of Delhi University(DU), living in Vaishali, approached the Ghaziabad Police on Monday evening and submitted her complaint regarding an alleged case of cyber crime. In her complaint, she alleged that her social media account was hacked and that her profile photograph was photoshopped and garlanded. Several social media posts, using her photoshopped image, went viral, claiming that she died as a “corona warrior” while treating patients in Indore, Madhya Pradesh.The woman claimed that her family in Ghaziabad is in a state of mental distress as they have been receiving hundreds of calls since the posts became viral. In one of the posts, the victim, Vandana Tiwari’s picture was seen garlanded and the accompanying text mentioned that she left behind a 3-year-old child.“Initially my sister in Nepal came across one of the posts and she called me on April 10. I was shocked to see that the post has gone viral over different social media platforms. Since then, I have been receiving calls from various acquaintances,” said Tiwari, who is a consultant assistant professor of Sanskrit in DU.She also said that she is now facing a tough time in proving that she is alive and that the post is not related to her in any way. Pradeep Tiwari, her husband, who is a mediaperson, said that ever since the posts become viral the family is trying to find the real culprit behind the incident. “We came across a profile of a person who first shared the post. We contacted him through an online messenger and he apologised and removed the post. He even sent messages to his group members, saying that the post was fake. By that time, however, individuals, groups and politicians have shared the posts widely across various social media platforms,” Pradeep Tiwari, said.“The post with a garlanded picture of my wife mentioned that Dr Vandana Tiwari from Jain Colony, Indore, has left behind a three-year-old child. A friend of mine called me up from Gujarat and told us to be cautious. He said that some mischievous elements might take advantage of such posts and demand financial help from public. Finally, we approached the Indirapuram Police for help and submitted a written complaint,” he added.The officials of the Ghaziabad police said that they have registered a first information report(FIR) under the provisions of the IT Act, Section 505 (statements conducing to public mischief) of the Indian Penal Code(IPC) and relevant sections of the Disaster Management Act.“The investigation is on. We have also approached social media companies and the posts will soon be removed,” said Anshu Jain, circle officer, Indirapuram.The family of the victim added that they also came across a viral post of a pharmacist with the same name, who had died in March in Madhya Pradesh, .When contacted on the issue of pharmacist Dr Vandana Tiwari, police officials from Shivpuri, Madhya Pradesh, said that Tiwari was pharmacist, but was not involved in coronavirus treatment. “She was a pharmacist with Shivpuri Medical College and had developed some health complications after which her husband left with her for their home town in Gwalior on March 31. There, she was treated at a hospital but died on April 7 owing to brain haemorrhage,” said Rajesh Singh Chandel, superintendent of police of Shivpuri. After the death of pharmacist Vandana Tiwari, several social media posts went viral in which a woman was shown lying in an ICU ward of a hospital. The posts mentioned that the woman had gone to Uttar Pradesh for a coronavirus test but was attacked by a mob after which she died.The Uttar Pradesh Police, through its twitter handle @Uppolice, on April 9, refuted this post, stating that the death of Vandana Tiwari was related to Madhya Pradesh and had no connection with UP. The cyber cell of the Agra police was also directed to take action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fake-posts-claiming-death-of-a-du-professor-go-viral-fir-registered/story-OZfq57o7AHcXXLzVQFMSTN.html
14-04-2020||City||Ghaziabad’s 14 hot spots to continue under intensive lockdown||The 14 Covid-19 hot spot areas in Ghaziabad will continue to remain under intensive lockdown until further directions from the state government, officials of the Ghaziabad health department said on Tuesday night. The Uttar Pradesh chief minister Tuesday evening held a video conferencing meeting with district officials across the state and rolled out directions for the strict implementation of lockdown norms.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday morning extended the nationwide lockdown till May 3. Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer (CMO), Ghaziabad, who was present during the video conferencing said the CM has asked for strict implementation of lockdown norms, especially in hot spot areas.“Adityanath has given directions to keep a strict and close watch on hot spot areas using surveillance drones. The restrictions will continue until further orders. In Ghaziabad, the hot spots of Masuri and Savior Park high-rise are problematic and strict monitoring is being done,” CMO said.“In Masuri, we have six Covid-19 cases so far, including one of a government doctor. The six patients have about 200 contacts, and they, too, have been quarantined. At Savior Park, a couple had tested positive and they had 93 contacts. All their contacts are in quarantine and their samples have been collected for tests. So far, none of the contacts is positive,” Dr Gupta said.The UP government on April 9 had announced an intensive lockdown of Covid-19 hot spot areas till morning of April 15. In Ghaziabad, the officials initially sealed 13 hot spots and later added one more to the tally after a government doctor tested positive in Skardi Green high-rise near NH-9.The other hot spots are Nandgram near mosque; KDP Grand Savana, Raj Nagar Extension; Savoir Park society, Mohan Nagar; B-77/G-5, Shalimar Garden Extension 2; Pasonda; Oxy Home highrise, Bhopra; Vasundhara sector-2B; Sector-6, Vaishali; Girnar society, Kaushambi; Naipura, Loni; Masuri; Khatu Shyam Colony, Duhai and Covid-1 level hospital, Muradnagar.According to official figures, the 13 hot spots have a population of 74,208. The total number of Covid-19 cases in Uttar Pradesh stood at 657 (till Tuesday afternoon).In Ghaziabad, the total number of Covid-19 cases was 27 and seven of them have been discharged from hospitals after treatment.The health department officials in Ghaziabad said they are strengthening the three-layered Covid-19 hospital structure and have come up with an ‘L1 attached’ facility at ESI Hospital in Sahibabad.The hospital has 76 beds and will act as a dedicated Covid-19 hospital.“We are also finalising another L1 attached hospital in Mohan Nagar and will have 50 beds there. We have also finalised another 100-bed hospital, Santosh Medical College, which will now act as a L2 category hospital and will deal only with Covid-19 cases. We have also received a budget of ₹50 lakh for upgrading facilities,” Dr Gupta said.Under the UP government’s three-tiered dedicated Covid-19 facilities, different hospitals have come up across the state. All the four categories, L1, L1 attached, L2 and L3 will be dedicated to Covid-19 cases.The L1 category is the lowest in the hierarchy where normal Covid-19 positive patients will be kept. The asymptomatic Covid-19 positive cases will be referred to L1 attached hospitals. The patients having complications will be referred to L2 category Covid hospitals while the critical patients will be referred to L3 category hospitals which are six at present in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-s-14-hot-spots-to-continue-under-intensive-lockdown/story-wIYrz5dvfBNrHiLxAaZlRP.html
14-04-2020||City||Sanitisation tunnel installed at GIMS||The Greater Noida authority on Tuesday has installed a sanitisation tunnel at the Government Institute of Medical Science (GIMS) for patients, visitors, doctors including other health care staff working at the facility where coronavirus patients are being treated. “The sanitisation tunnel will help the hospital staff remain disinfected. The tunnel has been installed at the gate, where people can pass through it to disinfect themselves before entering the facility, where patients are being treated and now tests for Covid-19 tests are also being done. It takes at least 30 seconds to pass through this tunnel and get disinfected,” Narendra Bhooshan, chief executive officer, Greater Noida authority, said.Alok Tandon, principal secretary for infrastructure and industrial development department, Uttar Pradesh and chairman of Noida, Greater Noida, and Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority dedicated the tunnel to visitors and health care workers at GIMS.Inside the tunnel, a solution of sodium hypochlorite will be sprayed on the user with the help of spray machines. The tunnel, which is 8 meters long, has a capacity to store over 1000 liters sodium hypochlorite solution.“We have appealed to corporate houses use their corporate social responsibility funds to contribute in fighting the Covid-19 pandemic, and many of them have come forward in helping us,” Bhooshan said.The Greater Noida authority has set up seven community kitchens across the city to provide food and ration to those in need. The authority has received high-pressure backpack spraying machines, ration and food packets from different companies based in the city. “We are using these machines and resources to help the needy,” Bhooshan said.Surendra Nagar, member of Parliament(MP) for Rajya Sabha and former MP for Lok Sabha from Gautam Budh Nagar on Tuesday donated 11-tonne ration to the Greater Noida authority that will be distributed to migrant workers, homeless people in different areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sanitisation-tunnel-installed-at-gims/story-uNfpJx4u5DTKY7peo5KWdM.html
14-04-2020||Lucknow||Undeterred by lockdown, these women are making masks to earn a living||In a bid to support their families financially amid lockdown which has stopped sand mining and stone quarry work in trans-Yamuna area, some women of these tribal and other marginalised communities have come forward to earn a living instead of depending merely on government assistance. A large population in trans-Yamuna area depends on sand mining and stone quarries where they work as labourers. However, with all mining activities coming to a grinding halt following the lockdown, labourers are facing a threat of survival.Even before the lockdown when there were few cases of coronavirus in the country and masks were fast disappearing from the markets, some women working in self-help groups were manufacturing them to distribute them to migrant labourers and members of their marginalised communities free of cost, said social activist Subedar Singh of trans-Yamuna area.The women started manufacturing masks in bulk for commercial purposes a week ago, Singh added.Singh said at present there were over 50 women in Meja, Koraon, Lohgara and Ghoorpur areas belonging to Kol tribe, Mushars and boatmen communities who were manufacturing masks at their homes. These women worked in small groups in their respective areas and each group made some two hundred masks a day, Singh added. “The manufactured masks are collected and supplied to local markets by another group of women. The women engaged in manufacturing and supply of masks belong to extremely marginalised sections and are mostly illiterate,” Singh added.“Each mask costs Rs 10 in market which is much cheaper than other masks available,” says Shivangi who leads a group of 10 women in Lohgara area.“We arrange cloth, elastic, thread and other raw material from nearby markets and distribute work among ourselves as per our skills,” Shivangi, a member of Kol tribal community, said.“Reeta, Reema, Kanchan and other women of Mushar community in Meja area were worried after the lockdown but have now found work at their home. We take care that there is lesser assembly of women and women mostly work from home,” says their group leader Ruby.Similarly, Sneha Sagar is leading the women of boatmen community in Ghoorpur and adjoining areas after men of the community were rendered jobless following the sudden lockdown on March 25.“Women of marginalised communities are not only saving people from coronavirus infection by manufacturing masks in bulk but are also earning a living for their families,” says volunteers of a self-help group Akriti and Sudha.Social activist Subedar Singh said some NGOs and social organisations of the city had approached the women and had taken samples of the masks manufactured by them. “Once receiving the nod from them, more women would be engaged in manufacturing of masks that will be purchased by these organisations to be distributed free in the cities as well,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/undeterred-by-lockdown-these-women-are-making-masks-to-earn-a-living/story-FRsoFr9gONtHfOJXzXojmI.html
14-04-2020||Mumbai||3-yr-old in Palghar tests positive||A 3-year-old girl was tested positive of Covid-19 in Katale village, Palghar on Tuesday. She has been admitted at an isolation ward at Cottage Hospital,Dahanu. Swab samples of around 29 people, including 13 government doctors and nurses with whom she had come in contact with, have been sent for testing. Four villages--Katale,Nihe Maswan,Lohre and Vandivli--have been sealed, said Dr Abhijit Khandare, Taluka medical officer,Palghar. The girl’s parents work as labourers at a brick kiln in Ganjad Dasra village in Dahanu taluka. “The girl and her parents came to their hometown in Katale village due to the lockdown when she showed symptoms of cough, fever and cold,” said Dr Khandare. She was first admitted at the primary health centre in Maswan, Palghar. Later, her swab samples were sent for testing. She was transferred to Cottage Hospital,Dahanu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/3-yr-old-in-palghar-tests-positive/story-BH4OOuE3dSwpV1LilSEGTK.html
14-04-2020||Mumbai||Festivals celebrated with caution amid pandemic||As the nationwide lockdown continued on Tuesday, the Sikh community in the city opted for a subdued Baisakhi festivities with religious ceremonies with a limited number of people at gurudwaras.Earlier the community had planned grand Baishaki celebrations wherein three groups from Amritsar were expected to be in Mumbai for the celebrations. However, after the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic, the event was cancelled.Manmohan Singh, general secretary of Sri Guru Singh Sabha, popularly known as Dadar Gurudwara, which the apex body of gurudwaras in Mumbai, said that ever since March 20, they have reached out to around more than 1.5 lakh people, which includes patients in government hospitals and needy across the city, at places such as Antop Hill, Chembur and Mankhurd, among others.The volunteers prepare meals at Dadar Gurudwara and give it to the civic body to distribute at hospitals and to local NGOs to feed the poor.“It is Baisakhi every day because just as our Guru said that needy should be fed, true Guru ka langar is being served to those who actually need it,” said Singh.Bengali community, which celebrated Bengali new year Pohela Boishakh on Tuesday, was hoping to conduct religious prayers on Akshay Tritiya on April 26, had the lockdown been called off on Tuesday.Debashish Chatterjee, a Mulund resident, said, “Every year businessmen conduct Ganesh puja to mark the starting of new account books and calendars for Bengali businessmen. However, this year they conduced prayers at home instead of gathering together.”“A lot of people go for celebrations organised by jewellers and purchase token jewellery to mark the new year. But, this year it was difficult to even get sweets. We brought a packed tin of rasgolla as fresh ones were not available,” said Chatterjee.The other festivals that were celebrated on Tuesday include Tamil New year Puthandu, Odia new year Pana Sankranti, Assamese new year Bohag Bihu and Malayalam new year Vishu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/festivals-celebrated-with-caution-amid-pandemic/story-1RibydNeJrISm4o2fZcSNP.html
14-04-2020||City||Mercury crosses 40°C in parts of Delhi, dusty winds from Rajasthan hit air quality||New Delhi: As the maximum temperature on Tuesday crossed the 40°Celsius-mark in parts of Delhi, strong gusts carrying dust from the western parts of India pushed the national Capital’s air quality deeper into the “moderate” category on Tuesday.The overall air quality index (AQI) of Delhi stood at 130 — in the ‘moderate’ category — on Tuesday, according to Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data, an increase from Monday’s 126. Scientists at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said the spike in pollution was due to strong winds from west and north Rajasthan bringing dust into the city. A senior CPCB official said parts of Rajasthan had received rain last week, but that the temperature in the state had crossed 40°C over the last two or three days. Since the heat has led to water in the soil evaporating, the soil itself has become loose and is being easily carried by the wind, which is present blowing in Delhi’s direction.“That is why the spike is in PM10 (dust particles of diameters less than 10 micrometres) levels. PM2.5 (ultra-fine particles of diameters less than 2.5 micrometres) levels have not shown much variation,” the CPCB official said.System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (Safar), the Union ministry’s weather and air quality monitoring centre, predicted that this dust will deteriorate Delhi’s air quality further, into the lower range of ‘poor’ zone, by Wednesday.“Though chances of any heavy dust storm are remote, long-range dust transport from the dry and arid western region is expected by April 15 to further deteriorate air quality towards the lower end of the poor category, with PM10 the lead pollutant. This impact is purely attributed to external natural dust, and has nothing to do with local emissions,” said a spokesperson from the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change.The PM10 levels shot up from 99.4ug/m3 at 1 am on Monday to 138.3ug/m3 at 6pm on Tuesday, while PM2.5 levels rose from 39.3ug/m3 to 54.4ug/m3 in the same period. Meanwhile, the city’s mercury levels also shot up. According to the IMD, the maximum temperature recorded at the Safdarjung observatory, considered the official marking for the entire city, was 39.7 °C, four degrees higher than the season’s normal. The minimum temperature was 23.2° C, two degrees above normal.Meanwhile, the maximum temperatures at the Palam and Aya Nagar weather stations crossed the 40°C-mark on Monday. At Palam, the maximum temperature was recorded 41.2°C, and the minimum was 24.1°C. At Aya Nagar, the maximum settled at 40.4 degrees Celsius. The minimum temperature data at Aya Nagar station was unavailable.IMD scientists said temperatures are likely to remain in the same range on Wednesday, after which there will be a marginal drop in the maximum temperature.“From Thursday, there is a possibility of overcast skies, with chances of scanty rain in some parts. There is also a forecast of a western disturbance crossing Delhi on April 17. This, however, will not bring any rainfall to the Delhi-NCR regions,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mercury-crosses-40-c-in-parts-of-delhi-dusty-winds-from-rajasthan-hit-air-quality/story-8Te5dTESgkhBWA68DwCqYK.html
14-04-2020||City||NCP leader Anand Paranjpe tests positive for Covid-19||Six persons including Anand Paranjpe, Thane city NCP president tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday, taking the city’s total positive cases to 87. It is suspected that Paranjpe may have been infected during one of two recent visits to state housing minister Jitendra Awhad’s residence. On Tuesday, 14 staffers and party workers of Awhad tested positive.Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner of Thane Municipal Corporation, said, “Six people tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. The NCP leader has also tested positive and we are testing his close contacts.”Paranjpe confirmed the news that he has tested positive. He told HT, “I got myself tested yesterday. I do not have any symptoms but have been admitted at a private hospital in Thane.” His family members too are undergoing tests and are quarantined.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ncp-leader-anand-paranjpe-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-1JsyObdZEfaWeURrRTZHYJ.html
14-04-2020||Chandigarh||After PGIMER, Chandigarh admn to discontinue sanitisation tunnels amid health concerns||Following in the footsteps of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, the UT administration has decided to remove two disinfection tunnels already installed and stall three other proposed tunnels.The PGIMER, in a statement issued on Tuesday, had stated that disinfectant tunnels were not only harmful but also created a false sense of security.Two tunnels were set up at the Sector 26 grain market and at the municipal corporation office in Sector 17, with three more such installations in the pipeline. Around ₹8 lakh were spent on the 16-ft long one at the grain market and ₹30,000 on MC tunnel.MC commissioner KK Yadav said, “We had sought an opinion from the PGIMER regarding the use of disinfectant tunnels. After their recommendation, we will remove the tunnels already installed in the city.”Chairman of the Covid-19 Prevention and IEC (information, education communication) Committee, PGIMER, JS Thakur said, “Initially it was believed that a tunnel that sprays a diluted mist of sodium hypochlorite solution will work like a mass disinfectant, that is, we can disinfect a large number of people. But now, it has been discovered that the use of these tunnels gives a false sense of security and may have adverse health effects on the human body.”Sodium hypochlorite is a chlorine compound often used as a disinfectant or a bleaching agent.Thakur added that spraying alcohol or chlorine all over the body will not kill viruses that have already entered the body. “How will a surface disinfectant stop the virus from spreading from human to human, and how will it kill a virus already in the body? We need to think about this.”According to the World Health Organization (WHO), disinfectants will work on surfaces, but not on the human body. In a public advisory, WHO stated, “Spraying alcohol or chlorine all over your body will not kill viruses that have already entered your body. Spraying such substances can be harmful to clothes or mucous membranes in the eyes, and mouth. Beware that both alcohol and chlorine can be useful to disinfect surfaces, but they need to be used under appropriate recommendations.”HARMFUL EFFECTSAlthough a 0.5 percent solution of hypochlorite known as Dakin solution is used for disinfecting areas contaminated with bodily fluids, including large blood spills, a higher concentration of sodium hypochlorite (5%) exposure may cause nasal and ocular irritation, sore throat and coughing.A stronger concentration (10-15%) can cause serious damages including burning pain, redness, swelling and blisters, damage to the respiratory tract as well as the esophagus, serious eye damage, stomach ache, a burning sensation, diarrhea and vomiting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/after-pgimer-chandigarh-admn-to-discontinue-sanitisation-tunnels-amid-health-concerns/story-8xp3jOqGdIrl0PlbiK05XK.html
14-04-2020||Delhi||As lockdown gets longer, stricter policing in lanes, colonies||Enforcement on lockdown and social distancing norms will get stricter across Delhi from Wednesday, senior Delhi Police officers told Hindustan Times. Police officers will now make more visits into residential neighbourhoods to ensure people follow the curbs, and that apart from the main roads, the focus also be on local markets and parks within colonies. “Two station house officers (SHO) have already been suspended. The message is clear. Either ensure people maintain social distance, or be ready to face the consequences,” an officer said. Two SHOs, of Amar Colony and Bara Hindu Rao police stations, were transferred on Friday for failing to ensure social distancing norms in their respective jurisdictions. The officer said police have also been made aware of reports of crowding in neighbourhood parks and playgrounds. “Every police station area is divided into many beats, and each beat has a constable. The constables have been told that they are responsible for the crowding in their respective beat. They will visit the parks and corners to check if people are gathering in groups,” another senior police officer, who chose to stay anonymous, said. “Beginning Wednesday, they will first take a round of their beats on their motorcycles and request residents not to crowd. They will also help residents if there is an emergency. But if people still gather and do not maintain social distance, the police officers will act against them,” the officer quoted above said. Another senior police officer said while the force, till Tuesday, conducted checks and focused on main roads across the city, their focus would also be on Delhi’s several shelter homes, where thousands of migrant workers and others are lodged.The officer said police have received reports of crowding in several shelter homes. “Many such homes are sheltering people well beyond their capacity. There are several people lodged in shelter homes in Dwarka and Kashmere Gate in north Delhi. Police officers will now be posted around-the-clock at shelters to ensure that they follow social distancing norms. We will post an adequate number of officers to ensure a social distance is maintained. Our officers on the ground are also in touch with government representatives at the shelters,” said a police officer, who asked to be kept anonymous. For stricter compliance of social distancing, all police stations across the city have spoken to Market Welfare Associations, and discussed opening retail shops in colonies in a staggered manner. In local markets at East of Kailash, CR Park, Sarita Vihar and New Friends Colony for instance, retail shops will be shuttered before 6pm to avoid rush in the evenings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/as-lockdown-gets-longer-stricter-policing-in-lanes-colonies/story-6y88liMvZH4r8lWlrm0HtN.html
14-04-2020||Mumbai||Sanitiser tunnels, military drones to keep police safe||With hundreds of Covid-19 cases being reported in the city daily, Mumbai Police is taking several measures to ensure safety of their forces. From erecting sanitising tunnels at police stations looking after hotspots, to putting up tents for personnel to rest, and providing military drones to monitor containment zones, a slew of steps are being taken. According to Maharashtra Police, 23 positive cases in forces in the state were reported till Tuesday, of which 12 were reported from Mumbai Police, 10 from Thane, and one from Mumbai Railway police. Another 47 personnel from the state (five officers and 42 constables) have been home quarantined.Mumbai Police have erected sanitising tunnels at the police stations looking after Covid-19 hotspots. “The tunnel will spray sanitiser on the police personnel passing through it. Any cop who comes back after bandobast duty has to compulsorily pass through it to ensure he does not contract the disease,” said a police officer.Vinoy Kumar Choubey, joint commissioner of police (law and order) said, “Around 35-40 sanitizing tunnels have been erected at those stations where maximum cases of Covid-19 have been reported,” These tunnels are in addition to the earlier inducted five sanitising police vans.At many places in the city, tents have been erected for policemen to have brief rest periods during bandobast duty.Pranaya Ashok, deputy commissioner of police, operations, and spokesperson for Mumbai police confirmed the development and said,” We have distributed them with over 20,000 face shields, face masks, gloves, etc. We are also supplying rations to their families so they can fully concentrate on their duty.”Apart from the six audio-enabled drones being used to monitor containment zones while maintaining social distancing, as reported by HT earlier, now two more military drones are being used for patrolling. “These drones move faster and can hover for more hours,” said an officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sanitiser-tunnels-military-drones-to-keep-police-safe/story-dl6bwTAie0bKfkVYBtGN8O.html
14-04-2020||Mumbai||79% of those who died of Covid-19 had co-morbidities: State data||A total of 79% people who died of Covid-19 had co-morbidities such as hypertension, diabetes, asthma, or blood pressure, according to a report by Maharashtra’s Medical Education and Drugs department based on Tuesday morning’s data from the health department.According to the data, 120 of the 152 who died had co-morbidities, while 32 didn’t have such existing conditions. However, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) had reported on Monday that 87% of Covid-19 deaths in Mumbai were due to co-morbidity and 7-8% had age-related risk factors. According to data for Mumbai as on April 9, the maximum deaths were recorded in the 61-70 age group (22), followed by 51-60 age group (11), 71-80 age group (8), then 41-50 years (6). Experts said the main reasons for Covid-19 deaths in patients who don’t have co-morbidities are late diagnosis, low immunity and age-related issues linked to immunity. It also depends on the health of a person’s lungs, said experts.A city-based senior physician said, “In most cases of deaths without co-morbidities, we have noticed that Covid-19 was diagnosed in advanced stages. Symptoms of Covid-19 are very similar to normal flu symptoms. Patients who died were brought to the hospital just three or four days before the day they died.”Amit Deshmukh, Maharashtra minister for medical education, said, “The key to beating the infection is early detection of Covid-19. It is important not to ignore early mild symptoms or self-medicate at home with flu and body pain tablets.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/79-of-those-who-died-of-covid-19-had-co-morbidities-state-data/story-8nWQZfDIcVxZ1laBEkpH4L.html
14-04-2020||Lucknow||UP: Won’t be able to pay salaries, say owners of 400 shut units||Due to closures of 95% factories and large dip in production due to lockdown, Chamber of Industries and Development (CID), an umbrella body of industries has expressed inability to continue paying salaries to hundreds of workers employed with 400 big and small factories in Gorakhpur Development Industrial Area(GIDA).The move could severely affect over 12,000 workers in the region.GIDA, which witnessed a record investment of Rs 1300 crore in UP government’s flagship investors’ summit in Lucknow in 2017, houses 400 big and small factories manufacturing range of goods from sanitary pads, medicine, syringes, iron rods, cement, biscuits and pan masala. These factories had open avenues for locals and had checked the migration in a big way.On Tuesday, Praveen Modi, general secretary, CID, shot off a letter to commissioner, industries and establishment department, Lucknow, saying the salaries could not be paid for the month of April.“The factories are hit hard by the lockdown. The raw material in stock is rotting and finished goods are lying dumped in absence of transport. Payment from the market is completely blocked . Owners have incurred loss of hundreds of crore of rupees and they are in no situation to pay salaries until things settles down and production resumes,” he said while fearing that many factories could shut permanently.Earlier, the administration had given permission to operate units involved in producing essential goods like breads, biscuits , medicine but the restriction on movement of workers, who come from outside and non access to passes hit the manpower and the production as well at these 5% functional units.Demand of salaries without work by workers at homes is also adding to the woes of factory owners, he said.Divisional commissioner Jayant Narlikar said, “We are waiting for new guidelines after extension of lockdown and if it has scope we will ensure functioning of essential goods factories by allowing workers to stay at the factories. As far as payment of salary is concerned I have issued a press release stating that wages of months of March should not be stopped.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-won-t-be-able-to-pay-salaries-say-owners-of-400-shut-units/story-bOTDbJ8jYjUhKE4ZDZ7UMI.html
14-04-2020||Delhi||Kejriwal criticises those giving ‘communal colour’ to Tablighi incident||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday said he would visit a few containment zones on Wednesday to understand the ground situation and hit out against those who sought to communalise the Tablighi Jamaat incident.With eight new pockets and localities added to the list, Delhi now has 55 containment zones, which are areas that are under strict surveillance to ensure complete quarantine. Movement of people inside these zones is severely restricted and there will be door-to-door health checks and periodic disinfection.“Any place with three or more cases have been marked as containment zones in Delhi. Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia has been monitoring the situation. I will visit a few of them tomorrow for a review of the situation from the perspective of the residents,” said the chief minister in a video conference. He said that a team of around 14,000 people are conducting door-to-door health checks, enforcing surveillance and delivering essentials. Kejriwal said, “Delhi also has the burden of those who came from abroad. Of all the states, Delhi received the maximum people who returned from other countries. Another reason was the Tablighi Jamaat.”Tablighi jamaat Kejriwal said it was a matter of concern that certain people were communalising the pandemic.He said, “It saddens me that in the time of the pandemic, there are still people who are trying to create a divide between Hindus and Muslims. I observe on social media that even in times when the whole world is in distress, people are trying to create a rift between the two communities, by posting hate videos and content. We can only move ahead and overcome obstacles if we stand united.“All the anti-social elements who are sowing seeds of hatred in the minds and hearts of the people are not only working against nature but also against our nation. Our country can only progress if all the religions, caste, and states work together and stand united. That is the only way that we can fight against the pandemic,” he said. On Monday, the city government started a sanitisation programme in which it engaged 10 Japanese hi-tech machines and jet machines of the Delhi Jal Board to spray disinfectants in containment zones, buffer areas and high-risk areas. On Tuesday, Kejriwal said that the sanitation drive will continue for the extended period.Food centres mapped The around 1,000 night shelters and food distribution centres of the Delhi government can be located on digital maps. The Delhi government has tied up with Google and Map My India to help direct people to these centres. “As we prepare for an extended lockdown, we are proud to work together with Google Maps India in ensuring easy accessibility of all our food and night shelters. We are committed to doing everything possible to make life easy for those most affected by the lockdown,” said Kejriwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/kejriwal-criticises-those-giving-communal-colour-to-tablighi-incident/story-4PtF7LpELYUKspMrPShUeO.html
14-04-2020||Mumbai||Have developed compound that has potential to kill virus: Researchers||Researchers from a Bengaluru-based institute have developed a compound that may potentially kill the Sars-Cov-2 virus on any surface. Sars-Cov-2 is the strain of coronavirus that causes Covid-19.A team of scientists from the National Centre for Biological Sciences (NCBS), Institute for Stem Cell Science and Regenerative Medicine (InStem) and other research institutes in Bengaluru are developing new disinfection technology; efficient sampling and new pooled testing methods; and technologies to screen potential drugs to treat the virus.Among these is a compound developed at Instem’s lab, which potentially kills the virus on any surface. “The indigenously-designed compound when stitched on masks, coats and other protective gear acts as a disinfectant and neutralises the virus,” said Praveen Vemula, one of the principal investigators and a member of the faculty at InStem. “Recent studies have shown the virus can stay alive on a mask for a week to a couple of days. The compound-embedded personal protective equipment can be washed and reused at least 25 times,” he said. Efforts are currently on to identify industry partners to scale up production of the compound and InSteam is discussing whether or not to file a patent for their product.While Covid-19 pooled testing is being developed owing to an acute shortage of reagents for the manufacture and procurement of Covid-19 diagnostic test kits, developing a rapid colour-based assay for point-of-care Covid-19 detection is also underway. With research suggesting that anosmia – loss of sense-of-smell – is a symptom of Covid-19, NCBS scientists have proposed an olfactory test for anosmia to identify potential Covid-19 clusters and high-risk individuals.Satyajit Major, director of NCBS, said “Wanting to utilise our depth of expertise in the basic sciences, we decided to shift our thinking and efforts to try and mitigate the Covid-19 pandemic.” Other research projects include a rapid screening method of FDA-approved drugs that interfere with viral entry and processing; a study to ascertain if existing antivirals for other coronaviridae infections can be repurposed; and developing mathematical models on the spread of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/have-developed-compound-that-has-potential-to-kill-virus-researchers/story-fYD5hyh3D9mDSrXrpj7n7I.html
14-04-2020||City||Deep Nagar resident held for selling sweets during curfew||A Deep Nagar resident was arrested on Monday for violating the curfew norms and selling ‘jalebis’ outside his house, police said on Tuesday.When the accused, identified as Lalit Kumar Jindal, was arrested, there were around ten people present at his makeshift shop for buying the sweets, police said.A case under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal code (IPC) has been registered against him at Division number 8 police station, inspector Jarnail Singh said. He was released on bail later.On Monday, 40 curfew violators were arrested in the city in 20 separate cases. Among them 14 violators were arrested for roaming unnecessarily on streets, while other violators included vegetable vendors and shopkeepers, who were found selling things without permission||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/deep-nagar-resident-held-for-selling-sweets-during-curfew/story-LYCcIoZcJn45oKJHtUlsFP.html
14-04-2020||Delhi||Create new system to hear more cases during lockdown: lawyers tell Delhi HC||With several lawyers backing for courts to function during the lockdown, the Bar Council of Delhi (BCD) has written to the Delhi High Court Chief Justice requesting for a system where more hearings can take place in matters to obviate public suffering. KC Mittal, chairman of the BCD, says that video conferencing is not feasible for many lawyers and that such wide infrastructure did not exist. He said that several lawyers have written to him to get the courts functional due to financial constraints. “We know many (people) are languishing in jails. They are not able to approach the court for bail, and in many cases, where application were moved prior to lockdown, are pending consideration, but not being listed. There are many such applications where notices have been issued to state, but are not being taken up and consequently, the person remains incarcerated. Similarly, in other matters, where urgent hearing is required, in cases of interim relief, matters are not being taken up,” he wrote to Chief justice DN Patel.The BCD suggested that even if a regular hearing is not possible, some broad parameters and adequate protecting measures may be introduced to hold few courts, by restricting and regulating the entry of advocates through a protective mechanism in the courts so that minimum possible work can be undertaken. “Since most of the advocates are not in a position to avail videoconferencing facility fully, it may also be considered to set up App or any mechanism to give effect to hearing in more matters,” it said.In the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Delhi High Court had suspended its work along with that of the subordinate judiciary. Most urgent matters are being heard by only a couple of judges through video conferencing. Senior advocate Vikas Pahwa said that although the lockdown is understandable, it has paralysed the entire criminal justice system. “We have to enhance the use of technology in the day to day functioning of the courts. Efforts towards this are being made, but they are not enough. More judges must hear the cases by videoconferencing. We must start hearing cases which are urgent (and not only extremely urgent). We have to liberalise the process of listing so that more cases are cleared for hearing. Our endeavour must be to achieve hearing via video conferencing by all the Judges at the earliest. The state government should also allocate more funds for upgrading the eCourts in Delhi,” he said.Manish Bhadoria, a lawyer practising at the Karkardooma court, said that the opening of the courts with certain restrictions would ease the pressure of cases and would also help the advocates to be financially viable.“A large chunk of the lawyers practising at the Karkardooma court are daily earning lawyers. Due to this lockdown, their problems have increased and opening of the courts might bring some respite to them,” he said.“In the last 21 days of the lockdown, I have appeared in several bail matters of those arrested in the north-east riots. I visited the court 10-12 times for the hearing since getting a matter listed at the court is a tedious process. Even when it is done, the video conferencing happens only with the cell phones of the court staff who comes for the Duty Magistrate,” Bhadoria added.Advocate Sanjoy Ghose, the additional standing counsel of the Delhi government, said that even though the courts should start functioning it might not be practically possible with the public transport not plying.“Many lawyers, as well as the litigants, are dependent on public transport. The courts cannot function without the assistance of the court staff who would not be able to reach the courts. So it might not be viable to start the functioning of the courts even though several important matters are not being heard due to the lockdown,” he said.Advocate Mahavir Sharma, chairman of the coordination committee of the Delhi District Courts, said that they would wait for the directive of the Delhi High Court and decide on the further course of action. The Delhi High Court is likely to issue an official statement in the evening today.Meanwhile, a judge at the Rohini court complex heard matters over phone and dictated the order over the speaker of the phone since the parties did not have the video conferencing facility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/create-new-system-to-hear-more-cases-during-lockdown-lawyers-tell-delhi-hc/story-SgHLEzsJcZEF66C3si4jnJ.html
14-04-2020||Mumbai||Dharavi’s Covid-19 case count touches 55||With six new Covid-19 cases, the count of Dharavi, the largest slum in India, reached 55, making it an emerging hotspot in the city. Meanwhile, the latest data released by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) showed G-South ward, which covers Haji Ali, Mahalaxmi Racecourse, Worli, Lower Parel, Currey Road, Elphinstone Road and Saat Rasta, has recorded the highest number of cases (308).Dharavi reported the first case on April 1, a 56-year-old garment shop owner, who succumbed to the infection. The civic authorities swung into action, targeting high-risk as well as low-risk contacts. By April 9, Dharavi recorded 17 positive cases. The BMC has created a total of 29 containment zones to restrict public movement in the area. “Cases are increasing day by day, but this is the result of our proactive search operation of high-risk contacts and testing methods. We have successfully tracked 1,381 high-risk contacts and 3,450 low-risk contacts to avoid further spread of the disease,” said Kiran Dighavkar, assistant commissioner, G-North Ward (which covers the area). Around 2,184 people from Dharavi have been home quarantined, said officials. There are reports that people are not cooperating with the authorities, saying they are more afraid of losing their jobs.The 240-hectare slum pocket has 850,000 residents and a population density of 66,000 per sqkm, making it one of the more cramped spaces in Mumbai, the world’s fifth most densely populated city. Activists and health workers had expressed concerns over how social distancing is practically impossible in an area where an average of 10-12 people stay in each of 57,000 housing units measuring around 250 sq ft.Following the G-South ward is the E ward (Byculla) with 125 cases, D ward (Malabar Hill, Walkeshwar) with 107 cases, M-East (Govandi, Mankhurd) with 86 cases, and H-East (Bandra, Khar, Santacruz) with 85 cases. Considering the urgent need of hiring medical staff including doctors, nurses, lab technicians, ward boys and other paramedical staff, the BMC on Tuesday came up with a notification to fill up required posts on an urgent basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/dharavi-s-covid-19-case-count-touches-55/story-WMe2xjSC2NmsKZMo3mO7TI.html
14-04-2020||City||Son of restaurant owner ends life, kin accuse constable of abetment||Son of a restaurant owner ended his life by hanging self from a ceiling fan at his house on the Benjamin Road in the Division number 3 area here on Tuesday morning.The family of the deceased alleged that he committed suicide after being harassed by a policeman.The family said, “He has also left a suicide note in which he has named a constable of the Division number 3 police station and a resident of the same locality for harassing him. He has also mentioned in the note that the accused were demanding Rs 50 lakh from him.”The deceased has been identified as Gagandeep Singh Dev, 30. He, along with his father and younger brother, was running a fast food restaurant near the Division number 3 chowk.Amarjit Singh, father of the deceased, said, “The constable was a friend of Gagandeep. The family of the constable is settled abroad and he was urging Gagandeep to help him in going abroad.”Singh added, “The constable had demanded Rs 50 lakh from Gagandeep so that he could go abroad. Gagandeep had also asked the cop to wait till the lockdown was over. However, he kept on pressing for money. From Monday midnight till 6 am on Tuesday, the constable made several calls to Gagandeep. However, he did not respond.”He added, “On Tuesday morning, Gagandeep was very much tensed. He had his breakfast and went upstairs in his room, where he hanged self. His wife was first to witness his body hanging with the fan when she went to call him. When she raised alarm and we also rushed to the room.”The father of the deceased said, “We rushed Gagandeep to the Christian Medical College and Hospital, where he was declared brought dead.”Inspector Satish Kumar, SHO at the Division number 3 police station, said, “In the initial inquiry, the police have found that Gagandeep had strained relations with his father and brother. The police have also got a mobile recording of the same in which Gagandeep was speaking to a local about it over the mobile phone. So, the police are probing the case from all angles.”The inspector added the statement of every family member was being recorded. The police are also scanning the suicide note. Stern action would be taken against the constable if found guilty, he said.After the police allegedly withdrew his security cover, Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) chief and MLA Simarjit Singh Bains, raising the issue of suicide by Gagandeep Singh, demanded a case against the accused constable of Division number 3 police station for abetment to suicide.He also demanded action against commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal for being custodian of the department.He added, “The police personnel have been extorting money from shopkeepers and vendors. My party stands by the aggrieved family.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/son-of-restaurant-owner-ends-life-kin-accuse-constable-of-abetment/story-L4CMyV0CSqGtBFEj58qmIM.html
14-04-2020||City||Patients, staff sing songs to keep their spirits high at Civil Hospital||: It has been a week since the Thane Civil Hospital has been converted into a Covid 19 hospital; in the last two days the number of positive patients has also increased. The civil surgeon, Kailash Pawar, to lift the spirit of patients, urged them to sing Hum Honge Kamyab. “We urged the patients to sing and clap, as staying in isolation and having no close ones by your side, while going through the medication process can be quite a difficult period emotionally. This is why we asked them to sing along. It was quite refreshing for the medical staff as well,” Pawar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patients-staff-sing-songs-to-keep-their-spirits-high-at-civil-hospital/story-rMmLdb2pEWd1R8eSLI8jaN.html
14-04-2020||City||75-year-old woman from Navi Mumbai dies of coronavirus||After Navi Mumbai reported 11 cases on Monday, a 75-year-old Covid-19 patient from Vashi died on Tuesday. The city also reported one case and Panvel reported three new cases on Tuesday.The case from Navi Mumbai is from Belapur village where six members of a family had tested positive on Monday. Their family member, a 57-year-old man had succumbed to Covid-19 on April 12. A 33-year-old man of the same family has tested positive.Municipal commissioner Annasaheb Misal said, “Belapur village has been declared a containment zone. The 75-year-old woman who had tested positive died. She had breathing problems.”Five people, who had tested positive earlier, have now tested negative.Misal said, “A man, a woman and a 7-year-old child of the same family from Nerul, who had tested positive earlier, have now tested negative. One person from Airoli and one from Vashi have tested negative after testing positive earlier.”The total count of Covid-19 positive people in Navi Mumbai is 51; 17 have recovered and there four died.Panvel City Municipal Corporation has 26 cases after Tuesday’s three new cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/75-year-old-woman-from-navi-mumbai-dies-of-coronavirus/story-07SKcuS8lTRfHQQwBGhLPI.html
14-04-2020||Mumbai||Seven districts have no case of Covid-19 so far||While Maharashtra has reported the most number of Covid-19 cases in the country, seven districts in the state – Parbhani, Nandurbar, Nanded, Wardha, Bhandara, Chandrapur and Gadchiroli – have not reported a single case so far. Local authorities are now adopting safety measures like organising door-to-door surveys; quarantining people with international travel history; treating those with respiratory problems; home delivering essentials; setting up mobile clinics; disinfecting vehicles entering the district; and restricting the supply of produce from districts affected by the virus. This is in addition to the lockdown restrictions imposed by the state government.Under the Epidemic Disease Act, 1897, the state government has empowered district collectors to take decisions they feel are necessary to contain the coronavirus outbreak.Parbhani collector Deepak Mugalikar said his district borders were sealed even before the decision by the state government. “We chose to seal the border on March 11. With the help of asha and anganwadi workers, door-to-door surveys were carried out of 2.5 lakh houses in the city and around 30,000 houses in villages. With this, we could identify 62 people who had travelled abroad but did not report to the local authorities. They were quarantined at government facilities and all tested negative. Also, 1,150 people with respiratory problems were identified, of whom 750 who needed treatment were admitted to hospital and treated,” Mugalikar said.“Around 36,000 people who have come from cities such as Mumbai and Pune were also home quarantined for 14 days. Vegetable markets were divided into several sections and a mobile application is being used for home delivery of essentials. People have to put in their demand and we ensure they get the items at home,” he said.In Parbhani, 333 people were tested and 289 reports came back negative. Test reports of the remaining 35 people are still pending.Vipin Itankar, district collector of Nanded said they identified 70,000 people who had come from different cities and were quarantined for 14 days. “With the help of asha and anganwadi workers, we are still conducting regular medical check-ups of these people as we have heard that a person can test positive even after 14 days. We have also set up 14 fever clinics and one mobile clinic to test people having symptoms of cough, cold, and fever,” Itankar said. Those who have returned from abroad were also quarantined and tested negative. In Nanded, medical check-ups are being conducted on those entering the district with supplies of essential commodities, Itankar added.Wardha collector Vivek Bhimanwar said that they are strictly following social distancing in the district by dividing two major vegetable markets across 18 open grounds. “All the crowded places are being monitored by a dedicated officer. Around 16,000 people who have come from cities like Pune and Mumbai have been home quarantined and visited twice in a day by dedicated staff. Also, 230 people who had travelled abroad were quarantined at government facilities and were tested. Test reports of around 160 people have come back negative,” Bhimanwar said. The districts adjoining Wardha, such as Nagpur and Yavatmal, have reported Covid-19 cases. Considering this, the district collector has stopped vegetable supplies from these districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/seven-districts-have-no-case-of-covid-19-so-far/story-ry1pLWQIgluMW4YBB90dqL.html
14-04-2020||City||42-year-old woman found murdered in Ludhiana’s BRS Nagar||A 42-year-old woman was found murdered on Tuesday at I block of Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar, a posh locality in Ludhiana.The victim, identified as Geeta Rani, used to run a book store in Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar market. Police said, “On Tuesday morning, Geeta’s domestic help, who came to fetch money from her, spotted her body. She found the main door of the house open and Geeta lying dead on the floor with a polythene bag around her face. She raised alarm and informed the landlord, who lives on the ground floor of the house. Later, the police were called on.”According to the police, the woman was murdered two days ago, but the landlord was unaware about it.“The woman lived alone in a rented accommodation as her husband, who works in a private company in Hyderabad, used to visit her in a month or so. She was earlier living in Hyderabad and had relocated here eight months ago,” police said, adding that it was their second marriage after they had met on a social networking site. They got married a year ago and had strained relations. Since no valuables were found missing from the house, police suspect rivalry behind the murder.They have been scanning CCTV cameras installed in the locality.“It is suspected that the woman has been suffocated to death, but the things will be clear only after the postmortem report comes. Two or more people can be involved in the murder. Before suffocating her to death, the assailants have hit on her head with some blunt weapon, there were marks around her neck also,” assistant commissioner of police (ACP, West) Sameer Verma said.Victim’s brother Hemant Verma, a resident of Noorwala road, told police that his younger brother Lokesh Verma informed him about the incident on Tuesday morning, following which he rushed to the spot.The Sarabha Nagar police have registered a case against unidentified accused under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code.Meanwhile, there was panic in the area when the locals spotted the police personnel wearing personal protection kits in the locality. They thought the woman has died due to coronavirus infection. Later, the police informed that it was a murder.Fourth murder after the lockdown After the lockdown, it is the fourth murder in Ludhiana. Three cases have been solved by the police.On March 23: A courier company employee killed his colleague with bamboo stick and iron rod at their office on Gill Road.On March 29: Suspecting his wife of infidelity, a labourer murdered his wife in Gahi Bhaini village. On April 3: A salesman of a liquor vend was hacked to death in Chapki village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/42-year-old-woman-found-murdered-in-ludhiana-s-brs-nagar/story-WtPqvzeWtOTjLIRlor0DoK.html
14-04-2020||Lucknow||UP to send local migrants back home; those from other states will stay||Hours after the Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced to extend the lockdown till May 3, the Uttar Pradesh government cleared the air on sending back home over 1.25 lakh migrants lodged in over 5,000 shelter homes across the state.“The migrants who have completed 14 days of quarantine will be permitted to leave for home after their health check-up. Those who have not finished the quarantine time will have to wait. The migrants from other states will stay wherever they are till the lockdown is in force. The health department will screen all of them and the revenue department will give them food packets similar to what flood victims are given,” said Awanish Awasthi, additional chief secretary, Home.Chief minister Yogi Adiyanath, while announcing his government’s intention of exploring partial relaxation in lockdown in some sectors on Sunday had said that the migrants who have completed the stipulated quarantine period would be sent home with an advisory for another 14-day quarantine at their homes.On Monday, he said that the health teams in host districts would first do their health checkup and the district administration will make lists of people (with their names and proper addresses) before sending them off to their home districts. Back home, the district’s administration will keep surveillance on them for another 14 days.A state government said: “We will play a good host to migrants. We will drop them home. They cannot go home on their own because public transport continues to be off-roads.”After the lockdown on March 24 when all public transport system had come to a grinding halt, a large number of UP migrants in other states had started making mass movement.They reached bordering districts--with the majority at Noida, Ghaziabad and Delhi.Migrants walking home long-distance turned a phenomenon and public outrage. The state government then decided to press in 1,000 buses, brought in 2.7 lakh migrants from outside UP and also transported nearly 1.7 lakh, inter-districts migrants. By the time the Central government ordered to seal the borders, most of these transported migrants had reached their homes. And remaining 1.3 lakh were lodged in 5,200 shelter homes across the state.However, the migrants who are in UP, but belong to the other states, will continue to stay at the shelter homes and same is the case with the UP migrants who are stranded in other states.The state government, last month had appointed nodal officers for different states who will coordinate with those states where UP migrants are stranded and organise for their well being in the shelter homes in those states.A UP State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) officer said we had not started preparing for the migrants ride home but will announce as soon as we get a green signal to operate.Another officer said the decision had been taken about sending the migrants home but the procedures that had to be followed will take some time.Lucknow Division Commissioner, Mukesh Meshram said: “We will start processing their departure formalities as they complete their 14 days quarantine cycle. Because, on reaching home, they have to be in home quarantine, we have worked out food packets for them. Each food packet will have 10 kg wheat flour, 10 kg rice, 5 kg pulses, 5 kg potato, oil, 250 gram each of chilli, turmeric, salt, and sugar. This is enough for a family for fourteen days, but in case they exhaust it before 14 days, then the respective district administration will make one more supply to them.”The district administration and panchayat will keep an eye on the heath and quarantine of the migrants for 14 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-to-send-local-migrants-back-home-those-from-other-states-will-stay/story-Psfy8NaT0fPtsjxhTYVcZP.html
14-04-2020||Chandigarh||15-bed ICU with four ventilators set up at Panchkula civil hospital||The Panchkula health department has set up a 15-bed intensive care unit (ICU) at the civil hospital, Sector 6. As many as four of these beds are equipped with ventilators. Besides, arrangements for seven-bed high dependency unit (HDU) have also been made.For years, critically-ill patients have either been referred to the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, Chandigarh, or Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, due to lack of proper ICU and ventilator facility. Around 30 medical staff, including four doctors, are currently working in the ICU. The strength of the staff will be increased with installation of more ventilators.Meanwhile, the doctors and paramedical staff are working round the clock in isolation wards and high risk areas in the hospital. As a precautionary measure for these frontline Covid-19 warriors, the health department got installed seven air purifiers installed in high risk areas including emergency ward, labour room, ICU and isolation ward.Around 115 isolation beds and a flu screening corner have also been set up at the hospital. Arrangement of separate ambulances for coronavirus patients and nine medical mobile units (MMU) to provide health services to people at their doorstep have been made.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/15-bedded-icu-with-four-ventilators-set-up-at-p-kula-civil-hospital/story-dntIsg0SE7U7myeLqObelN.html
14-04-2020||Chandigarh||17 shops gutted in furniture market on Chandigarh-Mohali border||At least 17 shops were gutted in a fire that engulfed the Sector 53 furniture market late on Monday night. The blaze started at about 11 pm after what people reported sounded like a gas cylinder blast in the house of a migrant worker, police said.However, no casualties were reported as the area was deserted because of the curfew imposed in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak.“People say that they heard a blast which sounded like a cylinder explosion, which seems possible. However, we are verifying the claims. Petrochemicals kept outside the shops in large quantities also acted as a catalyst to the fire,” said a fireman, resting anonymity.About 11 fire tenders from across the city were pressed into service, but most of the shops with wooden furniture and furnishings were gutted by the time the flames were doused at about 4 pm on Tuesday morning.In 2018, Chandigarh police had registered an FIR following a complaint by market president Satish Bhandari’s son that the market had been deliberately set ablaze on December 11, 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/17-shops-gutted-in-furniture-market-on-chandigarh-mohali-border/story-aK0YSm8C72iia3YBIGqD8O.html
14-04-2020||City||Admn disallows use of sanitisation tunnels in city||With the state government discouraging the use of sanitisation tunnels stating that the chemical being used can be harmful for the body and that tunnels also create a false sense of security, the district administration has decided to wrap up the operations of the tunnels installed at the premises of different government departments.The tunnels, which were earlier installed at the municipal corporation (MC) headquarters (Zone A office), civil hospital and the mini-secretariat, which houses the deputy Commissioner’s (DC) office, the police commissioner’s office and key offices of the administration, are now being made dysfunctional.Administration officials said, apart from harmful effects of the tunnels, the major concern of the government is that the people were having a false sense of security after moving through these tunnels and they might get diverted from washing their hands and other precautionary measures.The department of health and family welfare had, on Monday, citing the advisory of the World Health Organisation (WHO), issued directions to the DCs that the tunnel should not be used as it creates a false sense of security among residents. Also, alcohol and chlorine, used in the tunnels, can be harmful for mucous membrane. Further, sodium hypochlorite solution is recommended for sanitisation of surfaces and instruments.While the tunnel was made operational at the DC office last week, it was established at the MC headquarters a few days ago.A tunnel had also been installed at Gurdwara Manji Sahib in Alamgir village. The administration officials have appealed to residents to avoid using the tunnel and take all necessary precautions and maintain hand hygiene.Deputy commissioner Pradeep Agrawal said the aim of the government to divert the public from using the tunnels is that the tunnels create a false sense of security. It is possible that the person is not properly sanitised in the tunnel and he might spread the disease. The public should take all the precautions and should maintain hand hygiene to avoid infection.‘NEED TO FIND ALTERNATE DISINFECTANT’“Rather than dumping the idea of installing disinfectant tunnels just due to the use of a chemical – sodium hypochlorite – the state government should work to find an alternative solution/chemical to disinfect human bodies in tunnels,” said Jatin Sood, owner of the Royal Group of Industries, Mandi Gobingarh, who had supplied the tunnels in different parts of Punjab and has been getting orders from other states, including Haryana and Himachal as well.Samrala industrialist Harjeet Singh, who had installed the tunnel at the MC headquarters, said the tunnels were being used by different countries and rather than scrapping the project, the government should find an alternative to sodium hypochlorite.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/admn-disallows-use-of-sanitisation-tunnels-in-city/story-TkGyfwYtTuVFhjF2eouKEN.html
14-04-2020||Chandigarh||PGIMER warns docs, staff against creating funds for PPE purchase||Medics at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) have been warned by the management to refrain from seeking contributions on the departmental level for purchase of safety equipment.The Hindustan Times on Monday had reported that at least two departments have mooted an idea to generate funds on the departmental level for the purchase of safety equipment other than what is being provided by the institute.The strict protocol adopted by the institute involves distribution of safety equipment based on risk of exposure. High-risk zones, where N-95 masks, gloves, coveralls, goggles, head and shoe cover are provided, include the severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) section, Covid-19 sample and testing centres, the ICU/critical care ward, and the isolation ward.In moderate-risk areas, where only N95 masks are provided, include the triage area in the OPD, some parts of the emergency ward and doctors’ chambers in the few functional OPDs. Masks and gloves are being provided in low-risk areas.PGI director Jagat Ram said, “We have adequate stock of PPEs, masks, sanitizers and in this regard, a resource management committee for steady supply of goods and materials has already been constituted. All equipment is being provided as per the standard protocol, which is being updated as suggestions are received from departments and workers.”An official notice circulated in all departments reads that the it has come to notice of the director of the institute that the faculty members, nurses and other staff of the institute have publically conveyed that there is a shortage of safety gear and sought funds for the same.It further mentioned that none of the employees of the institute should request for donations and creation of funds by making contributions. Approval of the director should be invariably taken in such circumstances and non-compliance thereof may invite suitable disciplinary action, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pgimer-warns-docs-staff-against-creating-funds-for-ppe-purchase/story-ElzaihYuzuhm6SVJQFxaDP.html
14-04-2020||City||Foot pedal-operated hand wash machine installed at New Model Running Room||For the safety of loco pilots, assistant loco pilots and guards, the railway authorities have installed a foot pedal-operated hand wash machine at New Model Running Room in Ludhiana.Though all passenger trains stand cancelled, around 70 loco pilots, assistant loco pilots and guards, are working daily as the parcel trains and goods trains are still operating.Station director Tarun Kumar said earlier, the pilots and guards were provided sanitisers before entering the running room. “But as washing hands is the best way to keep them clean, we decided to provide a hand wash system at the entry gate,” he added.“So that they don’t touch taps or liquid soap dispensers, we have set up a foot pedal-operated machine for dispensing soap and pumping water from the tap,” Kumar said.Divisional railway manager Rajesh Agrawal said this method was adopted to prevent the spread of coronavirus and save water. “Besides, the rooms of pilots and guards are being regularly disinfected and all precautions are being taken for their safety,” he added.RELAXATION IN REFUND RULESAs the cancellation of all passenger trains has been extended till further orders, the railway authorities briefed about cancellation and refund rules.The DRM said no passenger ticket booking will be available at reserved and unreserved counters and even online. “All reserved and unreserved counters at railway stations will remain closed till further orders. So to cancel the tickets, only e-ticket cancellation facility is available as of now.”The authorities have extended the time period for cancellation and refund of counter tickets to three months from the date of journey. “Besides, the cancellation facility is available at helpline number 139 but only for those who have provided their mobile numbers while booking tickets,” he said.He added that the passengers will get full refund for cancellation of all booked reserved tickets, whether booked through PRS counters or e-ticketing. “As a special measure, railway will also refund the cancellation charge so deducted from the already cancelled tickets for the journey period after March 21,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/foot-pedal-operated-hand-wash-machine-installed-at-new-model-running-room/story-tZoXqGFxoGrkX6KdJMkpDN.html
14-04-2020||Mumbai||350 new cases take Maharashtra’s Covid-19 infections to 2,684, casualties rise to 178||The total number of people infected by Covid-19 in Maharashtra rose to 2,684 on Tuesday after 350 new cases were reported, the state health department said.Eighteen Covid-19 patients died during the day to take the toll of casualties to 178, the highest in the country. A total of 259 people have recovered from the infection.Maharashtra continues to have the highest number Covid-19 cases among the 10,815 cases in the country. Amid the lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus, there was a major scare Tuesday afternoon after hundreds of migrant workers gathered at the Bandra West railway station demanding transport to go to their homes in different states.The police, which have already been stretched to enforce the lockdown, had to resort to a lathi charge to disperse the crowd of workers.Hours after the fracas, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray went on Facebook to tell workers that they are safe and that there is no need to worry. He said the Centre will make arrangements for their return as soon as the lockdown is lifted. Earlier, Tuesday morning, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the extension of the lockdown till May 3. Most chief ministers had sought an extension of the lockdown and many states including Maharashtra had already extended it till April 30.The lockdown which began on March 25 for 21 days was to end Tuesday midnight.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/350-new-cases-take-maharashtra-s-covid-19-infections-to-2-684-casualties-rise-to-178/story-cBzis9FruEZ5aCUfLT9lSP.html
14-04-2020||City||Woman injured in Ludhiana after car carrying police personnel hits her scooter||A 40-year-old woman was injured after a Maruti Suzuki Swift car, allegedly carrying some police personnel, hit her scooter on the Elevated Road near the Clock Tower here on Tuesday morning. The woman was identified as Rajwinder Kaur, a resident of Shimlapuri.Youth Akali Dal (YAD) district president Gurdeep Singh Gosha, who happened to cross the accident site in his car, saw the woman and rushed her to the ESIC Hospital in his own vehicle along with one of the occupants of the car.Gosha said, “I was crossing the road at 11am when I saw the injured woman. I called for an ambulance, but the emergency vehicle didn’t reach the spot. So, I took her in my own car to the hospital.” He alleged the policeman, who accompanied them to the hospital, left soon after without extending any help to the woman.She is admitted to the hospital, but her condition is stated to be stable.The police personnel travelling in the Maruti Suzuki are stated to be posted in the Salem Tabri police station. Inspector Rajwant Singh, station house officer at Division number 1 police station, said they had not got any complaint about the accident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-injured-in-ludhiana-after-car-carrying-police-personnel-hits-her-scooter/story-H8vBoKBKW0qykcrPiMK3EK.html
14-04-2020||City||Teams formed for cremating unclaimed bodies of Covid-19 patients in Ludhiana||After finalising Ramgarhia cremation ground near Dholewal military complex for cremating unclaimed bodies of Covid-19 patients in a gas chamber, the municipal corporation (MC) has formed two teams of volunteers.The move comes after a man refused to cremate the body of his Covid-19 positive mother last week.MC secretary Jasdev Sekhon has been appointed as nodal officer for conducting the cremation with full precautions. Sekhon would communicate with the two teams for cremation of the unclaimed bodies.Two groups, led by IAS officer-special secretary, animal husbandry and higher education, Manpreet Singh Chhatwal and in-charge of traffic marshals in Ludhiana, had come forward for cremating the unclaimed bodies in the city. Chhatwal would be accompanied with volunteers from Maa Baglamukhi Dham, Pakhowal road.Four traffic marshals, Mandeep Keshav Guddu, Charanjit Singh Fateh, Prince Kapoor and Sanjeev Kumar Tinku, had stepped up for the cause.As per the orders issued by the MC Commissioner, Kanwalpreet Kaur Brar, health officer of MC Vipal Malhotra has been directed to provide PPE kits for the safety of volunteers and staff which would cremate the bodies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/teams-formed-for-cremating-unclaimed-bodies-of-covid-19-patients-in-ludhiana/story-AJUlwf8ZWeZNcOdXDkDzeP.html
14-04-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Delhi adds 8 more containment zones, count up to 55. See complete list here.||The number of coronavirus containment zones in Delhi rose to 55 on Monday after 8 new areas were added to the list.The Delhi government expanded the list of containment zones in the national capital to 55. One of the eight new red zones was B-Block, Shastri Park, in the north-east district.This was one of the only two districts - north-west is the other - that did not have any area under the containment zone. The north-east district is highly vulnerable due to its densely-populated residential neighbourhoods.A list of containment zones issued by the government late on Tuesday evening also included areas in Sangam Vihar, C-2 Janakpuri, several lanes in Chhuriya Mohalla of Tughlakabad village in south Delhi and Jahangirpuri in north Delhi, Bara Hindu Rao area and Nawabganj in central Delhi.Here is the complete list:1. Entire affected street near Gandhi Park, Malviya Nagar2. Entire affected street of Gali No 5, 6 &7, L 1 Sangam Vihar3. Affected area around H. No.A-176, Deoli Extension4. Shahjahanabad society, plot no 1, Sector 11, Dwarka5. Dinpur Village6. Gali No. 5 & 5A, H-2 Block, Benagli Colony, Mahavir Enclave7. Markaz Masjid and Nizamuddin Basti8. Nizamuddin West (G and D block) areas9. Area of Street/Gali No. 18 to 22 of Zakir Nagar and nearby area of Abu Bakar Masjid of Zakir Nagar10 (Core) rest of Zakir Nagar as Buffer Zone11. H. No. 811 to 829 and 842 to 835 - Khadda Colony, Jaitpur, Extension, Part-II12. H. No. 1144 to 1134 and 618 to 623 - Khadda Colony, Jaitpur, Extension, Part-II13. Gali No. 16, Kachhi Colony, Madanpur Khadar, Extension, Delhi14. Mehela Mohalla, Madanpur Khadar, Delhi15. H-Block, Near Umra Masjid, Abu Fazal Enclave16. E-Block, Abu Fazal Enclave, Delhi17. H No. 97 to 107 and H. No. 120-127 Kailash Hills, East of Kailash18. E-Block (E-284 to E-294) East of Kailash, Delhi19. H. No. 53 to 55 & 25, Shera Mohalla, Garhi, East of Kailash20. B Block Jahangirpuri21. Gali No. 1 to 10 (1 to 1000) C Block Jhangirpuri22. H. No 141 to H. No 180, Gali no. 14, Kalyanpuri23. Mansara Apartments , Vasundhara Enclave24. 3 Galis of Khichripur including Gali containing H. No. 5/387 Khichripur25. Gali No 9, Pandav Nagar26. Vardhaman Apartments , Mayur Vihar, Phase I , Extension27. Mayurdhwaj Apartments , I P Extension, Patparganj28. Gali no. 4, from H. No. J- 3/115 (Nagar Dairy) to H. No. J- 3/108 (towards Anar wali Masjid Chowk), Kishan Kunj Extension29. Gali No. 4, from H. No J- 3/101 to H. No. J - 3/107 Krishan Kunj Extension30. Gali No. 5, A Block ( From H No. A- 176 to A-189), West Vinod Nagar31. E-Pocket, GTB Enclave32. J & K, L and H pockets Dilshad Garden33. G, H, J, Blocks old Seemapuri34. F- 70 to 90 block Dilshad Colony35. Pratap khand, Jhilmil Colony36. Shastri Market, including J.J. Cluster of South Moti Bagh37. Bengali Market/ Babar Road adjoining area of Todarmal Road, Babar Lane and School Lane Sadar Bazaar38. Chandni Mahal39. Nabi Karim40. In and around area of G-174, Capital Greens, DLF, Motinagar41. In and around area of B- 1/2, Paschim Vihar42. In and around area of 11/3, 2nd Floor Ashok Nagar43. In and around area of H. No. A-30, Mansarovar Garden44. Balaji Apartment, Sant Nagar, Burari45. In and around A-1B/75A, Krishna Apartment, Paschim Vihar46. In and around A-280. J.J. Colony, Madipur47. In and around area of 36/4, East Patel Nagar48. Gali No 1, 2 & 3, Block-D, Sangam Vihar49. C-2, Block, Janakpuri, Kothi No. -119 14.04.202050. Gali starting from H.No. G-54 to F-107 & Entire Gali starting from H.No. CN-854 to H.No. 137, Chhuriya Mohalla, Tughlakabad Village51. 1100 Wali Gali (H. No. 1181-1200), 1200 Wali Gali (H. No. 1238-1268),52. 1300 Wali Gali (H. No. 1306-1331), H-3 Block, Jhangirpuri, Delhi53. Bara Hindu Rao Area54. Nawab Ganj Area55. H.No,-62, Gali No-4, B-Block, Shastri Park||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-delhi-adds-8-more-containment-zones-count-up-to-55-see-complete-list-here/story-Qrne9MQTiuENoGeuQRl6PM.html
14-04-2020||City||Ludhiana DC takes stock of arrangements at Khanna, Sahnewal, Payal mandis||Deputy commissioner (DC) Pradeep Kumar Agrawal on Tuesday visited the mandis in Khanna, Sahnewal and Payal areas of the district and took stock of the arrangements made for the wheat procurement season that is to begin on Wednesday.While interacting with the arhtiyas (commission agents) and labour in the mandis, the DC said that this time, due to the novel coronavirus pandemic, the farmers have to bring their produce in mandis only as per the given schedule. He said that as a precautionary measure to contain the spread of coronavirus, the district administration has to ensure that there is no rush in mandis. Farmers will be issued token passes and on the basis of these tokens farmers will be allowed to bring their produce in mandis.Arhtiyas have to ensure that the farmers bring their produce as per their given schedule, he added.The district mandi officer has been directed to ensure cleanliness and other facilities in mandis, Agarwal said, adding that meanwhile, the officials of the mandi board have given training regarding hand washing, wearing masks, maintaining social distancing and use of sanitiser to arhtiyas and farmers.He also directed the district officials of food, civil supplies and consumer affairs department to ensure that they provide ample amount of jute bags to arhtiyas well in advance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-dc-takes-stock-of-arrangements-at-khanna-sahnewal-payal-mandis/story-qkLNDldnSJs0ZAN1RNyHyN.html
14-04-2020||City||Panchkula corona count reaches 6 as woman tests positive; husband put under watch||A 44-year-old Panchkula woman, reportedly not having any travel history, tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday, taking the district’s count to six. Officials said the woman is a a post office employee and lives in Sector 15.It was on April 9, when three Panchkula men, who attended a Tablighi Jamaat event last month in Sikar, Rajasthan, tested positive for Covid-19, taking the count to five. The first two Panchkula Covid patients, a woman salon worker and a staff nurse, however, recovered and were discharged from the civil hospital in Sector 6 on April 11. With this, there are now four active cases in Panchkula. District nodal officer Dr Rajiv Narwal said the post office employee was admitted to hospital on April 11 with symptoms. Her blood samples were sent for testing but they were cancelled and the PGIMER lab in Chandigarh sought fresh blood samples.“The woman’s second sample tested positive. As per initial details, it has been learnt that she and her husband have stayed put at their residence and only went to the market for essential goods. We have also admitted her husband and his samples have been sent for testing,” said Dr Narwal.Officials said prima facie there has been no travel history. Around 12 relatives of the woman have also been taken to civil hospital to be screened. It has also been learnt, said officials, that some relatives of the woman from Delhi had visited her before the lockdown.Meanwhile, director general of health services, Suraj Bhan Kamboj, said they have yet to receive a confirmation report on this. As per data received from the hospital administration, around 500 samples have been taken so far for testing, of which 412 tested negative. Reports of more than 70 persons, including four of a family of Garhi Kotaha village in Raipur Rani are awaited. They had reportedly attended a wedding in Jawaharpur village in Derabassi three weeks ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panchkula-woman-tests-positive-for-covid-hubby-put-under-watch/story-SEhtzbGbQPyrlCI8PNj1HO.html
14-04-2020||City||Working in the Times of Pandemic: ‘Virtual teaching has proved beneficial for students’||While the lockdown has slowed down life for many, Ravinder Kaur, a government school teacher, finds herself more occupied these days with taking virtual classes and attending household chores.42-year old Kaur, who teaches English and Social Studies in Government Senior Secondary School, Nurpur Bet, said, “I am looking forward to reopening of schools after normalcy returns so that I no longer have to be on phone all the time.” “Earlier, I used mobile only to take calls and, sometimes, to use the social media, but these days, I’m on phone throughout the day either checking the assignments sent by my students or clearing their queries. I hope, we collectively succeed in overcoming this situation and go back to the traditional way of teaching,” said Ravinder, who, presently, takes virtual classes for Classes 7, 8 and two batches of Class 10 (including a new batch of this session) from her school. Likewise, she also teaches around 100 meritorious students of Class 10 in the district in a separate session from 12 to 1 pm. These are the students, who have scored more than 95% in the pre-board exams and are being prepared for admission to meritorious schools.“Around 9 am, I give all my students the day’s assignments and check their work the very day. I inform them a day ahead if I have to take their test. All government teachers are trying their best to ensure that students keep in touch with their studies amid lockdown,” she said.Commenting on the effectiveness of the virtual teaching, Kaur said the medium comes with lots of loopholes and challenges, it has proved to be very beneficial for the students keen on continuing their studies even amid the lockdown.“A teacher always knows what potential every single child in a class carries. So, whenever I give students an assignment and an average performer sends back a precise answer without even a single mistake, I know it has been copied. I always call such students and tell them not to copy answers from the internet and try to attempt it on their own,” said Ravinder, sharing that virtual teaching does not provide a teacher an opportunity to form a rapport with the students and discipline that an ambience of the class provides and the process is largely mechanical. Kaur, who is a mother of a 13-year-old son, also spends her evening in cooking different delicacies.“I’m really fond of cooking, so I have been using my evening time in learning new dishes. Recently, I made an Arabic dessert, Umm Ali, which was liked by everyone in the family. I also tried my hand in making samosas and bundi laddoo,” shared Ravinder, who lives with her husband Mandeep Singh, mother-in–law Inderjit Kaur Bhatti and son in BRS Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/working-in-the-times-of-pandemic-virtual-teaching-has-proved-beneficial-for-students/story-HeoZuY3sitViyNkbAAUTPI.html
14-04-2020||City||APMC market to open on Wednesday||The wholesale markets of APMC, which had shut on Friday, will open on Wednesday. The decision has been taken following two days of deliberations between traders, mathadi leaders and government officials.The vegetable, onion-potato, grains and spices market have decided to start business from April 15.APMC director and wholesale trader, Ashok Walunj, said: “We had shut the market as all the stakeholders were worried about the prevailing situation. However, government officials, NMMC commissioner and other authorities have been speaking to traders and mathadi leaders over the last couple of days.”Walunj said that all precautions have been made for the safety of traders, mathadis and those who come to the market. The sanitisation marchines, temperature guns and masks are in place.The traders of the fruit market are yet to take a decision on opening the market.In Thane, the vegetable markets and grocery shops which were closed for the past few days will be operational from April 15. The Thane district collector said the vegetable and grocery markets are decentralised as per each ward so people will not have to crowd the city’s main market. The Thane Municipal Corporation has shut the wholesale market in Jambli Naka and shifted hawkers to 17 spots across the city. (Inputs from Megha Pol)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/apmc-market-to-open-on-wednesday/story-yWa9FtpAOGNppxOFR1sL3O.html
14-04-2020||City||BSNL retiree loses ₹75,000 to ATM fraud in Mohali||A Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL) retiree lost ₹75,000 to after he had allegedly sought help while swiping his card at an ATM at Baltana in Zirakpur. Complaint Sadrudin Ansari, a resident of Saini Vihar, Phase 3 in Baltana, lodged an FIR with the Baltana police post stating that on April 11 he had gone to withdraw money from the ATM and a youth, who was present at the ATM kiosk, swapped his debit card with his card after he sought help from him.Ansari alleged that the accused had withdrawn ₹75,000 from his account in the last three days in three instalments of ₹25,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/alleged-fraud-drains-bsnl-retiree-s-rs-75-000/story-EBrTA7oOqiX9wUVuMtF2IM.html
14-04-2020||City||₹50 lakh used N95masks seized in Virar, 3 held||The local crime branch, Palghar, arrested three persons and seized ₹50 lakh worth of used N95 masks from a rented flat in Virar. The masks were sourced from Bhiwandi, said API Siddhawa Jaybhaye of LCB,Palghar.A police officer said, “The three accused would clean the used masks in a washing machine, iron them and later pack them in original pouches. They would then sell it to some select medical stores.” The trio have been arrested under Section 420(cheating),269,270(negligent act likely to spread infection of disease) of the IPC, Essential Commodities Act 1955 and Epidemic Disease Act,1897. More arrests are likely in the case, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/50-lakh-used-n95masks-seized-in-virar-3-held/story-FJiBNE7gRbUlpZ3qgT7PMP.html
14-04-2020||City||Nehru Sidhant Kender Trust contributes ₹60 lakh to combat Covid-19||Ludhiana: To combat the Covid-19 outbreak, Nehru Sidhant Kender Trust, an organisation that late Sat Paul Mittal set up in 1983, on Monday contributed ₹60 lakh of which ₹50 lakh were donated to Punjab chief minister’s Covid-19 relief fund while ₹10 lakh to the Indian Red Cross Society.The chairman of the trust, Rakesh Bharti Mittal, said, “We are facing the biggest healthcare crisis of modern era in the form of the Covid-19 pandemic and it is the need of the hour to contribute liberally towards the fight against this unprecedented crisis and supplement the efforts of government, other bodies and associations engaged in providing relief work.” The trust also expressed its sincere gratitude to all the government and private functionaries, including frontline and backend workers, who are working round-the-clock to keep the country going and providing all essential services to citizens, at grave risk to themselves.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nehru-sidhant-kender-trust-contributes-60-lakh-to-combat-covid-19/story-x1XK7MA1MNwBJMKo8MGPGO.html
14-04-2020||City||Thane gets two drive-through Covid testing facilities||Thane Municipal Corporation on Monday set up a drive-through Covid-19 testing facility at two spots in the city -- Cadbury junction and Kalwa naka. Residents have to register online and will be given an appointment. Swab samples will be taken and the report will be uploaded online within 24 hours. “The facility, which will be open from 10am to 6pm, has been started to make sure more people get tested for coronavirus. The process will ensure minimum contact with people,” said Sandeep Malvi, public relations officer, TMC.Around 58 people have registered to avail the facility at Cadbury junction. However, there have been no registrations at Kalwa yet.The cost of testing is Rs4,500. One will have to come in a four-wheeler. Bikes are not allowed. Those who do not have a four-wheeler, can contact TMC’s fever OPD. They will make provisions for an ambulance. “The testing will be done inside one’s vehicle hence it is important to get registered and submit the receipt along with payment receipt and prescription from a doctor,” added Malvi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-gets-two-drive-through-covid-testing-facilities/story-GKnDcM3mmZJvGTaJQRuJuL.html
14-04-2020||City||Ludhiana DC pays homage to Dr Ambedkar on his 129th birth anniversary||A district-level function was organised to mark the 129th birth anniversary of Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar at the District Administrative Complex, here on Tuesday. Deputy commissioner (DC) Pradeep Kumar Agrawal, chief guest on the occasion, paid floral tribute to the Dalit icon and Bharat Ratna awardee. “Dr Ambedkar was an outstanding leader of our freedom struggle and a staunch crusader for the rights of the downtrodden and traditionally disadvantaged sections of our society,” the DC said, adding that a scholar, educationist, legal luminary, social reformer and political leader, Dr Ambedkar’s philosophy and life are an inspirational profile of courage and conviction. He also exhorted the youth to follow the path shown by Dr Ambedkar, the architect of India’s constitution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-dc-pays-homage-to-dr-ambedkar-on-his-129th-birth-anniversary/story-Fly2TSHMDMWtuP4Ly73XeL.html
14-04-2020||Mumbai||Social distancing goes for toss in Bandra, ‘homesick’ migrants protest||Ignoring lockdown norms, over 1,000 migrant workers who earn daily wages gathered here on Tuesday demanding transport arrangements to go back to their native places, hours after Prime Minister Narendra Modi extended the coronavirus-enforced curbs till May 3.The gathering in suburban Bandra, in violation of lockdown norms, created a potential law and order situation for an overstretched police force and the men in uniform resorted to mild force to scatter the crowd.A police official said the migrants, who assembled around 3 pm, were dispersed two hours later and have been assured accommodation and food till the lockdown lasts.In viral videos, police were seen resorting to mild cane-charge to disperse the migrants, who had gathered at the bus depot near the Bandra railway station in suburban Mumbai.Most of these migrant workers were from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Bihar, and they reside in nearby slums and other areas on rent.Police authorities heaved a sigh of relief as no untoward incident occurred at the site, where more than 1,000 people were estimated to have been present.The daily wage earners were demanding arrangement of transport facilities so that they can go back to their native towns and villages.The gathering in Mumbai came close on the heels of a violent protest last week by migrant workers in Surat, who, too, were demanding that they be sent back to their native places.Daily wage workers have been rendered jobless ever since the lockdown was announced late last month to stem the spread of COVID-19, making their life a constant struggle.Though authorities and NGOs have made arrangements for their food, most of them want to go back to their native places to escape the hardship brought by the sweeping curbs on movement of people. Train and bus services were suspended as part of the lockdown exercise.Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said the migrant workers who gathered outside Bandra railway station might have expected that the PM would order reopening of state borders.They were told by the police that borders are not going to be opened and the situation was now under control, Deshmukh said.The migrants were assured that the state government will make arrangement of food and accommodation for them, following which the crowds dispersed, the minister said.The gathering triggered a blame-game between the Shiv Sena-led government and the opposition BJP.Tourism Minister Aaditya Thackeray blamed the Centre for the protest by the migrant workers and sought a road map to facilitate their journey back to their native places.In a series of tweets, Thackeray said, “The current situation in Bandra, now dispersed or even the rioting in Surat is a result of the union government not being able to take a call on arranging a way back home migrant labour.” “They don’t want food or shelter, they want to go back home,” Thackeray said. He said feedback from all migrant labour camps is similar - that these workers want to go back to their native places.“Many are refusing to eat or stay in these camps,” he said. Currently, more than six lakh people are housed in various shelter camps across Maharashtra, he added.Describing the Bandra gathering as an intelligence failure, former BJP MP Kirit Somaiya said the state government should explain how so many people gathered at a spot despite the lockdown.BJP leader and former minister Ashish Shelar said the protest shows failure of the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress government in enforcing lockdown.Lockdown should be made successful because it is for the safety of people, who should be provided with foods and other essential commodities at their doorstep, Shelar said.Additional CP Manoj Sharma said, “These all are local residents. A large number of people reside in this locality (Bandra), no legal action has been taken yet.” According to a police official, the daily wage earners assembled at the bus depot and squatted on the road leading to the suburban railway station.Local Congress MLA Zeeshan Siddique said this situation arose when people came to know about the lockdown extension.“This is not a government failure, because we are also monitoring the situation from the very beginning. I personally distributed essential commodities to more than 50,000 people.Under such a situation police should talk politely with the common man,” Siddique said.One of the labourers, who did not reveal his name, said, NGOs and local residents are providing food to migrant workers, but they want to go back to their native states as the lockdown has affected their source of livelihood.“Now, we don’t want food, we want to go back to our native place, we are not happy with the announcement (extending the lockdown),” he said.Asadullah Sheikh, who hails from from Malda in West Bengal, said, “We have spent our savings during the first phase of the lockdown. We have nothing to eat now, we just want to go back at our native place, the government should made arrangements for us.” Another labourer, Abdul Kayyun, said, “I am in Mumbai for last many years but have never seen such a situation. The government should start trains to shift us from here to our native place.” Hundreds of migrant workers took to the streets of Mumbra town in Thane district on Tuesday, demanding that they be sent to their hometowns in light of the COVID-19 lockdown, which has rendered them jobless.Workers, mostly from Jharkhand, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, and Uttar Pradesh, who live in rented accommodations, claimed house-owners were demanding rent from them and they were unable to procure essentials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/social-distancing-goes-for-toss-in-bandra-homesick-migrants-protest/story-s2IZyeWZ3yGqIoRgBAjRRJ.html
14-04-2020||Lucknow||UP hinterland preparing khadi masks, sanitisers and PPE kits||Women in Uttar Pradesh’s hinterland are playing a crucial role in the fight against coronavirus by preparing masks, sanitisers and Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) kits. The Uttar Pradesh State Rural Livelihood Mission (UPSRLM) has roped in rural women in 52 districts across the state to make khadi masks and sanitisers. HighlightsThe UPSRLM is an autonomous registered society that works under the rural development department, state government. Its job is to implement National Rural Livelihoods Mission in the state.Districts preparing masks – 52Sanitizer – Auraiya, Balrampur, Deoria, Firozabad, Jalaun, Maharajganj, Mahoba, Mirzapur, Moradabad, Pratapgarh, Shamli, Siddharth Nagar, VaranasiPPE kits- Auraiya, Balarampur, Basti, Chitrakoot, Firozabad, Hardoi, Lakhimpur Kheri, Prayagraj, Siddharth Nagar, Varanasi. In 10 districts, self-help groups working under the c are also preparing Personal Protection Equipment (PPE). The Base Hospital, Lucknow Cantonment, which is a designated 450 bed COVID-19 hospital for Army personnel and their dependents, has ordered 2000 PPE kits prepared by the self-help group of the UPSRLM in Lakhimpur Kheri district. The Kheri unit has branded its product as ‘OP Kavach’.The UPSRLM has trained around 2,000 women in villages across the state for preparing khadi masks and sanitisers. These women have already started preparing masks to cater to a large The UPSRLM has a tie-up with Gandhi Ashrams for providing khadi cloth for masks. A district-wise target for preparing masks has also been set. Till date around 8.36 lakh masks have been prepared and 4.74 lakh have been sold in market. In addition to this, these self-help groups have prepared 1,606 litres of sanitizer and 7,624 PPE kits.These masks are making their way to markets with the help of the district administrations. In some districts, they are being distributed free of cost to needy.“In rural pockets across the state all self-help groups associated with the Uttar Pradesh State Rural Livelihoods Mission are preparing khadi masks and sanitisers. The Gandhi Ashram is providing cloth,” said Sujeet Kumar, mission director, Uttar Pradesh State Rural Livelihoods Mission.“Till date more than 8.36 lakh masks, around 1,606 liters of sanitiser and 7624 PPE kits have already been prepared,” said Kumar.It may be pointed out that the Yogi government has decided to make 66 crore triple layer khadi masks for people of the state.The government has also made wearing of masks mandatory even after the lock-down is over.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-hinterland-preparing-khadi-masks-sanitisers-and-ppe-kits/story-3QVxO21jVLGxxSXltyaDJI.html
14-04-2020||City||Mohali’s sixth Covid-19 patient recovers, discharged from Gian Sagar Hospital||A 37-year-old Covid-19 patient, who was admitted at Gian Sagar Hospital, Banur, recovered from the disease and was discharged on Tuesday. With the district’s sixth patient being discharged, there are a total of 50 active Covid-19 cases in Mohali. The nodal officer of the isolation centre at the hospital, Dr Gurwinder Singh Mehmi, said the patient, a resident of Sector 69 in Mohali, was admitted on March 26. The woman’s husband was also infected with the virus and had been recently been discharged from the Sector 16 government hospital in Chandigarh. Mehmi said the couple had returned from London and had developed symptoms of the disease. “The woman is the first patient to have recovered at the Gian Sagar Hospital,” he said.The lady thanked the doctors, nurses and the other staff for taking good care of her.She has been advised to remain indoors for next 14 days as a precautionary measure. The Punjab government has established a dedicated isolation centre at Gyan Sagar Hospital for Covid-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-s-sixth-covid-19-patient-recovers-discharged-from-gian-sagar-hospital/story-YXr2VeTIwTf8e7wRyAv5BK.html
14-04-2020||Chandigarh||Curfew in Chandigarh extended till May 3, relaxation timings to be decided April 20||Following the Centre’s decision to extend the lockdown till May 3, the UT administration on Tuesday, decided to continue the curfew in tandem with the Centre.The development comes on a day when no fresh case of Covid-19 has been reported in the city, while two patients have recovered and were discharged from Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research. With this, the total number of active cases in the city, which has recorded 21 cases since March 18, stand at 12.The Chandigarh administration will also take a call on fresh restrictions or relaxations during the curfew, if any, on April 20, after examining the extent and frequency of coronavirus cases in the city.The decision was taken in the daily review meeting chaired by Punjab governor and UT administrator VPS Badnore. He urged residents to bear with the inconvenience in the larger interest of the country.Even as the administration debated over relaxations to be introduced during the curfew, a decision has been taken to implement Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement of stricter enforcement till April 20, and not introduce any relaxations in this week. Badnore said the next week would prove extremely crucial and any relaxation at this stage will spoil the benefits accrued so far by maintaining strict curfew in the city. The curfew imposed on March 24, a day before the 21-day lockdown was announced from March 25 onwards.Significantly, while most states opted for a lockdown, Chandigarh, like Punjab, imposed a curfew. However, after it was slammed for failing to deliver essential commodities to the doorstep as promised, the administration had to introduce an eight-hour relaxation. Later, the relaxation period was halved to four hours from 11 am to 3pm. Any change in curfew relaxation timings will be examined next week.Reiterating that all restrictions should be enforced strictly, Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla, on Tuesday, wrote to the administration, stating, “With the extension of the lockdown, all restrictions imposed in various sectors and on various activities, will continue to remain in force. These restrictions, which have been spelt out in consolidated guidelines of ministry of home affairs, must be enforced strictly.” The letter further emphasised that the UT could not dilute restrictions imposed by the Centre. UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida said, “We are already one-step ahead of the lockdown as we imposed a curfew. No additional restriction is needed at this point, but a review will be done on April 20.”Some instructions are still awaited from Government of India regarding benefits to be provided to affected farmers and daily wage earners. The departments concerned will examine and submit their proposals to the administrator for a final decision, Parida added. The central government is expected to issue detailed guidelines to all states and Union territories on Wednesday.CURFEW EXTENSION---Curfew extend till May 3---Decision on fresh restrictions or relaxations on April 20---Curfew relaxations timings remain from 11 am to 3 pm---Curfew passes issued under ‘Government officers/officials’ and ‘essential services’ extended up to May 3||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/curfew-extended-in-chandigarh-till-may-3/story-3k5gfuvqVrVxS3uz3UU69I.html
14-04-2020||City||Eerie silence prevails at otherwise bustling Ghumar Mandi market||The Ghumar Mandi market, which was once a hub for buyers and bustling with people, is now being haunted by an eerie silence due to lockdown in the wake of coronavirus outbreak.The pedestrians who used to struggle for walking space due to huge vehicle movement on the market roads, are now nowhere to be seen. Since the lockdown has been imposed, over 500 shops have been shut and only stray dogs are seen wandering around on empty roads.Though residents and shopkeepers are missing the daily hustle and bustle of the market, they are now being able to hear the birds chirping, something that earlier got lost in the din due to traffic.The main market of Ghumar Mandi is spread over a 1.1km-stretch, from Bhai Bala Chowk to Ghumar Mandi Chowk, to Aarti Chowk. Located at the heart of the city, it has been the hub for buying wedding apparels, cosmetics and artificial jewellery. Besides, one could even find products of daily use in the market–there are shops selling kitchen utensils, electronics, garments, footwear, grocery, hardware, and medicines. Further, there are even some restaurants and street food points.Lavdeep Gautam, a resident of Krishna Nagar, Ghumar Mandi, said the market area is just a walking distance from his house and he has never seen such silence in the otherwise vivacious place. “Sometimes, it feels like we have gone back in time. It is pleasant to see clean, empty roads where no horns are blaring, but the cause of this calm is unpleasant,” he said, adding that the area was giving employment to thousands of persons. “Many workers were living hand-to-mouth and now, it has become difficult for them to survive,” he added.“In 1937, there used to be only around seven shops here. The area turned into a full-fledged market after 1984 when people from various states and districts settled here and set up their shops,” said Pawan Batra, president of Ghumar Mandi market association.‘DIDN’T KNOW THAT LOCKDOWN WILL GO ON FOR SO LONG’“We had closed the market on March 20, two days prior to the curfew order by the state government. We were prepared for this lockdown but we didn’t know that it will linger on for so long,” he said.Though earnings are being hit, staying inside homes is crucial to arrest the spread of the virus, he added. “For everyone’s safety, we should follow the instructions of the government,” Batra said.“All shopkeepers are taking care of their workers during these hard times. I have 100 people working with me. Earlier, I used to pay them salaries on the seventh of every month, but this time, I paid them salaries on April 1 so that they can manage their household expenses,” he said.Batra added that as markets are closed, miscreants can easily target the shops. “The administration can enrol volunteers, especially for night duties, so that thefts can be prevented,” he suggested.Meanwhile, other shopkeepers said for the first time, the entire nation is under lockdown for so many days. “Except for the manufacturing of essential commodities, all other economic activities have come to a halt. It has become difficult for us to pay salaries to the employees from our savings. If one employee is getting ₹10,000 per month and there are 50 employees working in a firm, an employer has to shell out ₹5 lakh from his own pocket. Though we have paid salaries for this month, how will we pay the employees the next month?” they said.Aneesh Kapila, owner of a clothing store in the market, said, “If we stay alive, we will work hard to again earn our livelihood. As of now, it is important to save ourselves.”Talking about losses, he said, “There are no sales, no purchases, and the clothes in the shop are gathering dust. We are paying salaries to the employees from our savings. So there are heavy losses,” adding that he paid 120 workers their salaries from his savings.“As the lockdown has been extended, all shopkeepers will conduct a meeting to discuss about the payment of salaries at the month end as it has become difficult for us to pay all salaries,” he added.Gurdeep Singh, owner of a hardware shop in Ghumar Mandi, said the shopkeepers are surviving through their savings, from which they have paid the salaries to their employees.“The administration is only thinking about labourers and not us, shopkeepers. How we will earn our livelihood when at the end of the day, we are the receiving end?” the shopkeepers said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/eerie-silence-prevails-at-otherwise-bustling-ghumar-mandi-market/story-5Nv97vPSLq2HymD0x1ZkZL.html
14-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab health minister Sidhu launches rapid testing facility for Covid-19 in Dera Bassi||In a bid to intensify the battle against coronavirus disease (Covid-19), Punjab health and family welfare minister, Balbir Singh Sidhu, launched rapid testing facility at Dera Bassi in Mohali on Tuesday.He handed over 500 rapid testing kits to civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh, which can be used to screen suspected Covid-19 patients.Sidhu said these kits can be used to quickly screen suspected cases on the spot.He added that the test can be conducted by taking a blood sample from the suspected patient with a single prick, and the result will be available in 15 minutes.Sidhu said the test will initially be conducted for all patients attending flu corners of government health facilities, who have symptoms for more than seven days. Thereafter, samples of those found positive would be sent for further testing, he added.The minister said this initiative will help in real-time assessment of potential cases and would save the time. Epidemiologist Harmandeep Kaur Brar, coordinator for Covid-19 patients in the district said, “We can now start screening residents from Dera Bassi’s village and then to other areas. With testing being the key to control the spread of the pandemic, the government is planning to continuously expand its testing facilities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-health-minister-sidhu-launches-rapid-testing-facility-for-covid-19-in-dera-bassi/story-wCbi7cnSlPAWktOsnNJLNK.html
14-04-2020||Delhi||NDMC presses its fire tenders into service for disinfection in Lutyens’ Delhi||The New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC), Tuesday onwards, has added its fire tenders to the disinfection drive in Delhi’s Lutyens’ area. The civic body was so far using 40 backpack sprayers and four horticulture tankers to spray 1% Sodium Hypochlorite, a sanitising solution, on its open roads, markets, parks, JJ clusters, etc. However, now three of its fire tenders will also be pressed into service. “Today, we covered several avenue roads with these fire tenders, such as Lodhi Road, Subramanyam Bharti Marg, Max Muller Marg, Shahjahan Road and Pandara Road. On Wednesday, Mother Teresa Crescent, Park Street, Shankar Road, Mandir Marg and RK Asharam Marg will be covered,” a senior official of the council said. “The advantage we have with fire tenders is that they have a very long range—we can cover a large area with their help in a short time. As per our calculation, we can cover all of Lutyens’ Delhi with these tenders in just six days,” he said. Lutyen’s Delhi is spread over 42.74 sqkm. Only about 3% of Delhi’s geographical area and population is under the NDMC’s jurisdiction, but this includes the Parliament, North Block, South Block, Supreme Court and other sensitive installations. So far, one area—Bengali Market on Babar Road, and the adjoining Todarmal Road, Babar Lane, and School Lane—has figured as a Covid-19 containment zone under the NDMC jurisdiction. Besides, the Charak Palika Hospital the NDMC runs in Moti Bagh is also a screening centre for the disease. Recently, the NDMC set up a unique ‘Flu Counter’ there with adequate barriers between healthcare providers and the incoming patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/ndmc-presses-its-fire-tenders-into-service-for-disinfection-in-lutyens-delhi/story-wvF8HkVouWkI4YK3uEexVL.html
14-04-2020||City||Congress MLA accused of urging locals to vote for party in exchange of ration||High drama was witnessed at the EWS Colony in ward number 17 here on Tuesday when Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader and area councillor Jasmeet Kaur’s husband, Balwinder Singh, accused MLA Sanjay Talwar of asking residents to vote for the Congress in the next elections if they needed ration, being provided to the needy by the state government.A video went viral on the social media wherein Balwinder Singh had allegedly caught a Congress worker with voter ID cards and a voter list of the area residents.Singh alleged Talwar was distributing ration only to those families or residents, who were having voter ID cards and the Congress worker was also flouting the social distancing norm by asking residents to visit a particular house for getting them enlisted for ration. He said a complaint has been forwarded to the police demanding action against the MLA and his associates.District SAD president Ranjit Singh Dhillon said, “The Congress is playing politics at this time of crisis when poor people are struggling to get food. Earlier also, Congress leaders had taken the credit of langar. being distributed by gurdwara committees.Refuting the allegations levelled against him, MLA Talwar said, “No ration has been distributed in the said area. They are working to prepare separate lists of migrant labourers living in labour quarters and other residents due to which they needed their voter cards for writing down their address.”Talwar added, “There are 2.5 lakh migrant labourers residing in his constituency and he had asked the administration to deploy quarter owners to feed the labour. This is why separate lists are being prepared so that the administration could provide ration to other residents. The final decision on the same is yet to be taken.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/congress-mla-accused-of-urging-locals-to-vote-for-party-in-exchange-of-ration/story-TIcYhocCHVQ5v22xSg0ihK.html
14-04-2020||City||Don’t argue, but carry a weapon, Mohali SSP orders personnel at nakas||Punjab police personnel can now carry weapons at nakas set up to stop movement of people and vehicles in the lockdown in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak. However, they have been asked not to argue with anyone after Sunday’s brutal attack by a group of Nihangs left assistant sub inspector (ASI) Harjeet Singh with a severed hand in Patiala.“Don’t argue with anyone at the nakas,” senior superintendent of police (SSP) Kuldeep Singh Chahal ordered his forces in Mohali district on Tuesday.However, “one police personnel deployed at a naka will be armed as a precautionary measure after the attack (on the ASI),” said Manphull Singh, station house officer, phase 1, Mohali.Boosting moraleChahal has also been visiting the nakas to boost the morale of 1,600 policemen deployed there round the clock. “Datey raho (keep working), but be safe. Don’t be afraid and don’t allow anyone to cross the naka without a curfew pass. However, don’t argue,” is his message.Police personnel are working in 12-hour shifts at nakas with six present at a given time. “We have divided time amongst us so that each one of us gets adequate rest and has time to eat as well,” said a constable in Zirakpur.However, things have not been easy for them. “People we stop start arguing with us when asked to present their curfew passes. At times we have to face the ire of people stepping out of their homes when we ask them for curfew passes,” said a woman constable who did not want to be named.Police personnel now, while stopping people from walking or foot or in vehicles, will seek their colleagues’ intervention in case they are disobeyed with offenders detained and the duty officer and police station concerned informed. Vehicles will be impounded and cases registered.Two cops to take detainee to temporary jailMeanwhile, the Mohali administration has converted the hockey stadium in Phase 9 into a temporary jail where violators of curfew restrictions will be detained.As another precautionary measure, however, two police personnel and not one will escort the detainee to jail. So far, Mohali police have registered 408 FIRs for curfew related violations, arrested 562 persons and impounded 849 vehicles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/don-t-argue-but-carry-a-weapon-mohali-ssp-orders-personnel-at-nakas/story-OzAYVCdcjhfWfT3ffmxWfP.html
14-04-2020||Mumbai||Lockdown: Local trains suspended till May 3||Local train services in the city will remain suspended till May 3. The extension of cancellation in train services was issued by the railway ministry an hour after Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address to the nation on Tuesday. “It has been decided that the cancellation of all passenger train services on Indian railways, that is express, passenger trains; suburban trains and trains of metro railway, Kolkata shall be extended till 3rd May 2020.” mentions the circular. The circular however states that train services may resume after evaluating the coronavirus situation. “Resumption of train services as may be warranted in consideration of public safety, keeping in view the emergent situation, shall be announced in due course.” states the circularLocal train service that will remain suspended for a total of 42 days is the longest in recent times. Train services were earlier suspended for 72 hours during floods of 26 July in 2005. Local train operations were delayed but train services did not stop after the 26/11 attacks in the city. The train services were also operational during the 1992 Mumbai riots.Passenger associations have stated the extension of cancellation is the need of the hour. “Earlier when local train services were operating for essential workers, but people misused it. Social distancing is very crucial right now and local trains can become easy carriers of the virus. The government should focus on providing better road transport during the lockdown,” said Subhash Gupta, president, Rail Yatri Parishad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/lockdown-local-trains-suspended-till-may-3/story-ZpfQcYUO2EgvJQ1HSxP7VI.html
14-04-2020||Chandigarh||Veggie prices unlikely to rise in Chandigarh despite curfew extension||Prices of vegetables and fruits are not likely to rise in the city even though the Centre announced an extension of the lockdown period on Tuesday, up to May 3.Earlier, prices had doubled for most fruits and vegetables around March 24 when curfew was imposed. But on Tuesday, no jump in sales or prices was reported, which UT administration officials attribute to their enterprise of selling green groceries via CTU buses.Speaking about this, Rashwinder Singh, who works as the auction recorder for Chandigarh market committee at the Sector 26 mandi, said, “Sales on Tuesday remained on par with previous days and there was no panic buying. The mandi has plentiful supply so people have nothing to worry about. Rates have stayed constant for the past several days and are unlikely to change now.”Punjab farmers, however, are complaining that they are getting very low prices for their vegetables. Prahlad Singh Bhamia, a farmer from Fatehgarh Sahib, said, “We are selling vegetables at a loss and the extension of curfew means we will go on losing money. The government should provide more benefits to farmers to ensure we don’t suffer.”Officials of Punjab mandi board confirmed the adequate supply of vegetables in Mohali, too. Auction recorder for PMB, Harpreet Singh, said officials were supplying vegetables to residents and have been able to meet most of their orders.Most vegetables are being sourced locally in Punjab. But fruits such as grapes and oranges come from Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh, so transporters say supply may be affected. Secretary of Chandigarh transport association, BL Sharma, said, “Trucks are not plying regularly as industries are shut. Fruits formed only 20% of the cargo and only refrigerated trucks are running, so supplies may diminish by May.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/veggie-prices-unlikely-to-rise-in-chandigarh-despite-curfew-extension/story-KQjebkJO10qcnPFAFAseWI.html
14-04-2020||City||Advance payment scheme: Ludhiana firm pays ₹10cr power bill to PSPCL||A week after receiving no response on its offer to give consumer 1 per cent interest per month on advance payment on power bill, Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) received its first advance payment of ₹10 crore from an industrial enterprise based in Mandi Gobindgarh of Khanna circles under Central Zone. M/S Oasis Enterprise has made the advance payment for the next six months to PSPCL on April 13. PSPCL’s central zone that includes Ludhiana (east), Ludhiana (west), Khanna, and suburban circle covers majority of industrial clusters in the state concentrated in Ludhiana and Khanna.Confirming it, DPS Grewal, engineer-in-chief, central zone, PSPCL, said “It is the first such payment. It is a positive development and it will help PSPCL. This is highest advancement payment ever made to the power corporation. I have contacted company’s owner Sushil Gupta and expressed my gratitude for making such a big advance deposit. He is committed to deposit more amounts in advance. I urge all the consumers, including domestic and commercial, to come forward to help PSPCL improve its financial position during the lockdown.”Grewal said that he has approached all big groups, including Oswal, Vardhman, Hero Cycles and industrials associations, in the central zone and asked them to avail the offer.“While some are contemplating the offer, others are waiting for the guidelines from the government about the conditional withdrawal of the lockdown from April 20 before taking any financial decision. We are hopeful that all consumers will come forward since it is a lucrative offer,” he added.Official informed that some PSPCL employees have already started paying their electricity bills in advance.“Khanna superintendent engineer (SE) Himmat Singh Dhillon has recently deposited electricity bills of a whole year in advance. Similarly, many of the staff members have also made advance payment,” he added.Meanwhile on Tuesday, Vardhman Adarash Ispat Pvt Ltd, based in Ludhiana, also made an advance payment of ₹3 crore to PSPCL. Only those confident of paycheck will avail offer: Consumers“Though it’s a great offer, however, only those who are sure of their next paycheck would go for it. Survival is the priority for the people, not savings,” said Aayush Chaku, a resident of Model Town Extension. “1 percent return is a handsome offer made by the PSPCL, but sadly the industrialists in Ludhiana have no incoming payment right now, so I don’t think they would be taking the offer. Since the lockdown, we are only paying bills, giving salaries and providing essentials to our workers. It is a good offer made in a wrong time,” said Upkar Singh Ahuja, president of Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU)PSPCL offer to its consumersStaring at losses due to the non-consumption of electricity by bulk consumers amid lockdown, PSPCL had last week made the offer to all its consumers.“PSPCL offers all its categories to make advance payment towards their electricity bills up to March 2021 and earn 1% interest on advance payment. Thus consumer will earn 12 % interest per annum (double the rate of interest per fixed deposit),” PSPCL’s appeal read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/advance-payment-scheme-ludhiana-firm-pays-10cr-power-bill-to-pspcl/story-sB7oS60aNKOgubh1aAQa2I.html
14-04-2020||City||Jalandhar: Have full faith in health officials, say family of four that beat Covid-19||A family of four that tested positive for Covid-19 last month after coming in contact with a relative, Baldev Singh of SBS Nagar, the first virus fatality in the state, say reliance on each other and support of health department officials helped them manage the crisis remarkably well.Harjinder Singh Virk (50), his wife Baljinder Kaur (45) and their son Hardeep Singh (25) tested positive on March 19 and their older son Sandeep (27) on March 27.All of them returned home on Sunday after being tested negative twice.“All of us were in the isolation ward together at the Civil Hospital under medical observation. Frankly, I was worried about my family even though we were not showing any symptoms and when my second son tested positive I was alarmed. We were aware of the fact that our relative Baldev had died due to Covid-19,” said Harjinder Singh.He said the staff gave them healthy meals and kept their morale high even though they could not communicate with other relatives during their three-week stay at the hospital.Virk’s wife, Baljinder, said she was slow to recover but it was all right as her husband and children were with her. “All of us are constantly motivating each other and we have faith in God. On March 28, after my first report was negative I got the confidence that I would recover soon,” she told HT over the phone.Baljinder says people diagnosed with Covid-19 should not panic. “Doctors are there to help us, there is nothing to worry about. Just cooperate with and have faith in the health officials. You will recover for sure.”Now quarantined at home, the family is checked up regularly by accredited social health activist (Asha) workers who are also providing them meals and medication, said Asha supervisor Meena Rani.Phillaur SDM, Dr Vaneet Kumar, who with senior medical officer, community health centre, Bara Pind, Dr Jyoti Phokela, has been supervising the entire contact tracing and containment exercise, and sending people for testing, said that just like the Virk family, other people can recover from the virus without panicking and other residents should take precautionary steps to stay safe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jalandhar-have-full-faith-in-health-officials-say-family-of-four-that-beat-covid-19/story-AWtsFyL15o3Dqxh1zaPQ6N.html
14-04-2020||City||Kin of suspected Covid-19 victims made to scramble for bodies at Ludhiana civil hospital||The ordeal of kin of the suspected Covid-19 victims seems to be unending. Besides being denied treatment at private hospitals, the kin of the deceased have to run from pillar to post for possession of the body at the civil hospital.As the test reports are getting delayed, the bodies of the deceased keep lying in the hospital for nearly two to three days, while the kin of the victim battle with anxiety.Mukesh, elder brother of 10-year-old girl who died at the civil hospital on Friday, said it was on Sunday that the family learnt that the deceased was tested negative for coronavirus.His ordeal did not end here. Mukesh had to look for the body, as there was no one to guide him. “We weren’t informed whether my sister had tested positive for the virus or not. Police told the family that she had tested negative. On Sunday, I visited the civil hospital, where I was told to collect the body but nobody informed me from where or guided me through the process. After shuttling from one office to another for over an hour, I was told that the body was kept in the mortuary. There I was asked to show the report. Again I went to the doctor concerned, who gave me a slip and thus the body was released,” said Mukesh, who has lodged complaint with the health department in this regard. He said that compassion was completely amiss. “We were already going through a tough time as my sister could have survived had she been given the treatment on time. And to top it all, the indifferent attitude of the health department has disappointed us,” said Mukesh.He is not alone, relatives of Paramjit Kaur narrate similar ordeal.Sukedev Singh, son of 60- year- old Paramjit Kaur who died on Saturday, said neither doctors nor the staff did anything to save his mother.“First the private hospital denied admitting my mother on learning that she had breathing difficulty. And when I took her to the civil hospital, the staff there told me why I have brought her to the hospital. No one came near my mother and I helplessly watched her die. Instead of hospital, I got a call from the police that my mother was tested negative. It is painful that doctors first delayed the treatment and then remained mum about the test report,” said Sukhdev Singh. Surinder Kumar, a resident of Amarpur, said that he was shifted from flu corner to isolation ward. “For two days no one even checked about my health. The place is fully infected and sanitisation has been given a complete miss,” said Suresh.Following all guidelines: SMOSenior medical officer (SMO), civil hospital, Ravi Datt said, “We are following the guidelines. First, our rapid response team visit the locality and home quarantine the person if they find any symptom. Then suspected patients are rushed to the hospital. If the report comes out negative, the patient is sent home with an instruction to remain home quarantine for two weeks. In the case of death, we inform the police chowki located on the hospital premises and the police officer concerned gets in touch with the family of the deceased.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kin-of-suspected-covid-19-victims-made-to-scramble-for-bodies-at-ludhiana-civil-hospital/story-IFC4Xg0azrCYAtgtTrcsvJ.html
14-04-2020||City||Residents of Mohali’s Kumbran village want ration distribution streamlined||Residents of Kumbran village here alleged unequal distribution of ration and demanded door-to-door supply in the wake of the extension of the curfew. Residents of the village, including a large number of migrants staying on rent, demanded streamlining of the ration distribution by various organisations as well as the administration.“We were called near the Grecian Hospital saying that ration will be distributed there. We left around 1pm and even after waiting for more than two hours, no ration was provided to us,” alleged Raksha, a resident of the village. “They told us that ration will be provided in the village. We are running out of food. How are we going to feed the families?” she said.Another resident, Santosha Devi, “The family members are hungry. There is no food or money. We are not allowed to move out. With no work, how will we feed the children?”Balwinder Singh Kumbran, president of the district unit of panchayat union, said, “The administration needs to chalk out a strategy for door-to-door delivery of ration. The villagers are being harassed in the name of ration distribution.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/residents-of-mohali-s-kumbran-village-want-ration-distribution-streamlined/story-3o3sKacC8kKE1SLT0DYJ2I.html
14-04-2020||Chandigarh||Wish to serve on the frontline, says PGI nurse who survived Covid||A 32-year-old nursing officer of Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh, who recovered from Covid-19 on Tuesday, wishes to be on the frontline in the war against the epidemic once he joins work.The male nurse is among the two patients discharged from PGI on Tuesday after recovering from the disease, bringing the number of active cases in the city to 12. “I have to spend the next two weeks in home quarantine but I am eager to report back on duty. This is the time when people need us. And I want to serve those suffering from the virus and help them recover,” the nursing officer said, as he returned home after 15 days in the institute’s isolation ward. Another patient who recovered is a 42-year-old woman from Sector 30 who was detected with infection on April 3. She had contracted it from her son who had returned from Dubai and later tested positive. Director PGIMER, Professor Jagat Ram, said “These are first two patients who have recovered from the virus after all patients were shifted from city hospitals to the Nehru Hospital extension block.”The male nurse had tested positive for Covid-19 after he treated a 65-year-old in the emergency ward who was a suspected corona virus patient from Nayagoan in Mohali district. After he tested positive, 22 nursing officers and 5 doctors were also quarantined.“It was a family re-union. I was worried for them. I belong to Kerala and my family had no support in the form of relatives here. My 11-month-old daughter was my motivation, but i was also terrified for her,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/wish-to-serve-on-the-frontline-says-pgi-nurse-who-survived-covid/story-KYdZ1L8diWsO5jn0ZG7kfO.html
14-04-2020||City||Anganwari workers among foot soldiers in battle against Covid-19 in Jalandhar||Anganwadi workers are playing a significant role in the ongoing battle against the coronavirus outbreak in the Doaba region.They are assisting the health department in carrying out extensive ground-level work, including door-to-door survey, besides delivering food and medicine to children and pregnant women.In Jalandhar district, where 24 people have been found positive for Covid-19 so far, there are around 1,654 anganwadi centres and over 1.10 lakh children enrolled with them.Though the state government has shut down anganwadi centres, workers are ensuring home-delivery of materials for mid-day meal to children and pregnant women.“We deliver packed boxes of raw material, including milk powder, rice, and bulgur in each house of registered pregnant women, lactating mothers and anganwadi children,” said Maya Devi, anganwadi worker from Nagar Khurd in Jalandhar east.She said they have also been preparing masks at their homes and distributing these free among needy people.Another worker Mohinder Kaur from Virk village, where four people tested positive for coronavirus last month, said besides delivering food, they have assisted delivery of four women of the village in the recent past.Sunita Rani, a worker from Kapurthala, said, “Though we are under risk of virus infection as we visit hundreds of houses on daily basis, including those of coronavirus patients, we continue to perform our duty eight hours a day in the service in humanity.”Rajwinder Kaur, anganwari worker of Kahlon village in SBS Nagar, said they also face various difficulties during their work. “For example, the behaviour of NRIs towards us had been hostile when we used to visit their houses on daily basis to know their health status.”Rajwinder also said that there is always risk of virus infection but they never shunned their duty. “We traced all the NRIs in the district and kept surveillance so that they remain under home quarantine.”She said that more than 5,000 beneficiaries, including children and pregnant women are registered with anganwari in SBS Nagar. “We distribute required essential commodities to them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/anganwari-workers-among-foot-soldiers-in-battle-against-covid-19-in-jalandhar/story-R3wu1AR5km1PPpvchdMiLJ.html
14-04-2020||Chandigarh||Mercury in Chandigarh crosses 37° mark, relief likely on April 17||With clear sunny weather, day temperature rose to 37.4°C on Tuesday, the highest this year so far, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). However, rain is expected on Friday, IMD officials said.Officials said, “Western disturbances are likely to bring around 20mm rain on Friday along with thunder and lightning. This is likely to continue till Saturday. The weather will get cloudy on Thursday as well so a dip of around 3-4 degrees can be seen during this period.”The maximum temperature went up from 36°C on Monday to 37.4°C on Tuesday. Minimum temperature rose from 19.1°C on Monday to 20.6°C on Tuesday. In the next three days, the maximum temperature will remain between 33°C and 27°C while minimum temperature will remain between 20°C and 21°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mercury-in-chandigarh-crosses-37-mark-relief-likely-on-april-17/story-IMaWl2V5sev2M5bS6nJN1O.html
14-04-2020||Mumbai||NSS volunteers start a helpline to assist those in need||Students from colleges affiliated to the Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University, Aurangabad, and National Service Scheme (NSS) have started a helpline to assist those in need. “People have called for assistance in buying groceries or medicines, and the NSS volunteers help them out,” said Atul Salunkhe, state liaison officer, NSS. He added that after the state universities were asked to encourage more NSS volunteers to register online top volunteer. Over 1.4 lakh students have already registered on the official website. “Soon we hope to start a helpline that could reach out to people across the state,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/nss-volunteers-start-a-helpline-to-assist-those-in-need/story-ldsV5SPfgLtoAD7120M2qL.html
14-04-2020||City||Fear of infection haunts waste collection staff in Amritsar||As contagious biomedical waste is being generated at hospitals and quarantine centres where coronavirus patients are being treated, fear of getting infected is haunting the biomedical waste collection employees in Amritsar.“We are scared of going to Guru Nanak Dev hospital (GNDH), Amritsar, where six corona positive patients are being treated. Gloves, masks, incubating tubes, personal protection equipment, cotton wool and syringes make over 40kg of the Covid-19 medical waste,” said Avtar Singh, 28, an employee of the Amritsar Enviro Care Systems Pvt Ltd, a biomedical waste management company, which collects waste from city hospitals and disposes it.“The medical waste is segregated into different coloured bags. I fear collecting the ‘yellow’ bags with ‘Covid-19’ mark on them,” said Lovepreet Singh, 27, another employee of the firm.“Everyone is a little worried. Over 70 sanitation workers were provided proper safety equipment. PPEs are provided to all the employees as per the guidelines laid down by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) for Covid-19 waste. We sanitize our vehicles daily with D-125. We are also providing adequate sanitisers to all workers daily,” said Dr Inderpal singh Pasricha, managing director of the biomedical waste collection firm.“We collect over 40kg Covid-19 waste from GNDH daily and dispose it at 1,200°C. Amid lockdown, we have witnessed 40% dip in total medical waste collected from GNDH,” he added.On an average, over 200kg biomedical waste is collected from the hospital every month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fear-of-infection-haunts-waste-collection-staff-in-amritsar/story-dbBZsT2AqLe3DV7QA3Y9VM.html
14-04-2020||City||Ludhiana’s CMCH resumes its OPD services||After remaining closed for almost three weeks in wake of the lockdown to control the spread of the novel coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the outpatient department (OPD) services of all specialties at the Christian Medical College and Hospital resumed on Tuesday. The hospital will be screening all patients and their attendants at the entrance itself and anyone showing symptoms of coronavirus will be immediately taken to the flu-OPD. The hospital has separated the Covid-19 ward from emergency but patients have been advised to take all necessary precautions such as wearing masks and gloves and maintaining proper social distance from others. For inquiries, patients can contact: 0161 2115203 or 0161 2115000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-s-cmch-resumes-its-opd-services/story-3GSu0evIcddOWxX2YoQu8L.html
14-04-2020||City||14-year-old boy held for rape of 8-year-old girl in Greater Noida||A 14-year-old boy was detained for allegedly raping an eight-year-old girl after offering her a toffee in Dankaur on Monday evening. The girl was sent for a medical examination to confirm rape, police said.The victim’s parents are daily wage earners while the suspect lives with his mother, who runs a grocery kiosk in the neighbourhood. The suspect’s father died a few years ago.Rajesh Kumar Singh, deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said the incident took place on Monday evening. “The families of both the victim and the suspect live in the same neighbourhood and are known to each other. On Monday, the suspect visited the victim’s house and stayed there for a while, playing with the girl. The girl’s family did not object to this since the boy was known to them and was a frequent visitor to their house,” Singh said.Police said later, the suspect lured the girl outside after offering her some toffee. “The suspect’s mother was at the kiosk. The suspect brought the girl to his house, locked her inside a room and sexually assaulted her. The girl later returned home and informed her family members about the attack,” Singh said.A team from Dankaur police station reached the spot on being informed and apprehended the suspect. Police have registered a case against him under Section 376 (rape) and also Section 3 and 4 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. “The suspect was sent to juvenile home. The girl has been sent for a medical examination and the reports are awaited,” a police officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/14-year-old-boy-held-for-rape-of-8-year-old-girl-in-greater-noida/story-i1US4wZPmzej5xsGvTee8I.html
14-04-2020||City||Wheat procurement in Patiala: 6,500 coupons issued to farmers||All preparations are in place for wheat procurement in Patiala which is set to start from Wednesday.To avoid rush of farmers at purchasing centres, the administration has issued over 6,500 coupons to them so far and added 180 additional purchasing centres to ensure that precautions and protocol related to Covid-19 are followed.At least 2.34 lakh hectare is under wheat cultivation and the agriculture department is expecting production of over 9.41 lakh MT wheat this time against last year’s 9.5 lakh MT.Patiala deputy commissioner Kumar Amit chaired a high level meeting with officials concerned to review the preparations.The DC said that the district mandi board has started issuing coupons and farmers will be allowed to bring one trolley of wheat yield using the coupon.“Only farmers with hologram coupons will be allowed to enter the purchasing centres. The sub-divisional officers have been directed to shift their offices to market committee premises to ensure hassle-free operations,” he said.Around 290 purchasing centres — 110 main grain markets and 180 new purchasing centres — have been set up across district.The DC has directed officials of mandi board, food and civil supplies, transport and purchasing agencies to not show any laxity.“Officials and farmers have been directed to follow social distancing,” he said. Officials are to coordinate with banks for direct and quick payment to farmers and commission agents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/wheat-procurement-in-patiala-6-500-coupons-issued-to-farmers/story-cI3uW7A3sgSRvPdpCot2JM.html
14-04-2020||Chandigarh||Stranded at Chandigarh PGIMER, patients yearn to go home||Suman, a 28-year-old cancer patient from Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh, has been stranded in Chandigarh since March 17 due to the curfew. She has been visiting the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research for treatment and is one among at least 15 other families from different regions who are now stranded here due to curbs on movement.“My initial round of chemotherapy treatment is over. My 57-year old mother and my 8-year-old daughter are pleading with everyone to show us a way out by which we can go back home,” she said.Her mother Ram Sevi, who works as domestic help in Kanpur, is the only earning member of the family which includes Suman’s widowed sister and her 7-year-old son. “She must be in dire straits. I don’t know from where she is arranging for food. This time is tougher on me than the day my daughter was diagnosed with cancer,” Ram Sevi said.Similarly, 65-year-old patient Pushpa Devi, from Doda district in J&K, was to be operated at PGIMER on March 23. “We left Doda on March 20 and reached here on March 23, but the lockdown was announced and surgeries were cancelled. Now, I am suffering pain in my abdomen due to a complicated condition of a urinary tract stone, and am unable to return home too. It is difficult situation,” Pushpa Devi said. 11-year-old Manjesh Kumar is from Mansa Punjab. He is suffering from aplastic anemia, an autoimmune disease in which the body fails to produce blood cells in sufficient numbers. He was referred to PGI from Rajindra Hospital Patiala on 19 March, following which they consulted doctors here for a couple of days. “The lockdown was suddenly announced and now we are stranded,” said Chandan Dev, Manjesh father who works in a rice mill.UT health secretary, Arun Kumar Gupta, said the state governments concerned should provide assistance in this regard. “We have requested their state governments to arrange for transportation and we will issue them transit passes considering the situation,” he said.Director PGIMER Dr Jagat Ram said several patients have been sent home through the proactive approach of the governments and staff here. “I will look into it again and ensure that no body suffers due to this issue,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/stranded-at-chandigarh-pgimer-patients-yearn-to-go-home/story-Gfss2oFLk5wy3zDivrzi9K.html
14-04-2020||City||Lockdown: Absence of migrant labourers, contractors likely to hit litchi crop in Punjab||Absence of migrant workers and contractors who fled the state after the lockdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic is likely to hit litchi production at a time when Punjab seems set for a bumper crop.Litchi (Litchi chinensis) lasts for about a fortnight after it ripens in the first week of May, so preservation and marketing it requires advance planning. This year, however, most growers, some of them well-heeled orchardists and big landlords, are wondering how they will fare as people who worked for them had left for their villages in Uttar Pradesh (UP).The contractors take land on lease for two years after paying an advance to the landowners and then make the remainder of the payment after selling the fruit in various markets.A bulk of the produce, being expensive, is sold in Pathankot, which has a litchi processing plant; and in Chandigarh and Delhi, where it is in demand.Traders in these cities are also the financiers of the contractors.Dilbag Singh Cheema Lali, owner of an 11-acre orchard in Ranjit Bagh village, says if the labourers and contractors do not return to Punjab the growers will face a total loss.The growers have also submitted a demand charter to Gurdaspur horticulture deputy director, Dr Lakhwinder Singh, urging him to request the deputy commissioner to allow the labourers and contractors to handle the preservation and marketing of litchi grown in about 200 acres in the belt covering Dhariwal, Dinanagar, Gurdaspur, Sujanpur and Narot Jaimal Singh.When contacted, Dr Lakhwinder Singh said he was confident that the growers with their experience in fruit production, would be able to manage things with local labourers. “If the migrant contractors or labourers are called from UP to Punjab, they will first be quarantined for 14 days and then it will be too late for them to do anything to market the crop,” he saidMeanwhile, Cheema demanded that the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL), which supplied power for only four hours at night to the orchards, should increase it for two hours more to allow daytime irrigation.Two litchi varieties, namely Dehradun and Kalkatti, are grown in the state.Cheema also said litchis attracted bats so nets were spread over trees and lights installed to keep them away as had been reported that bats were the cause of coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lockdown-absence-of-migrant-labourers-contractors-likely-to-hit-litchi-crop-in-punjab/story-drP2XSm4p6W3HNiK6UTqrM.html
14-04-2020||Chandigarh||Drug ingredients get dearer as HCQ demand goes up in HP||With the sudden surge in demand for hydroxychloroquine (HCQ), an anti-malarial drug being used to treat Covid-19, the prices of active pharmaceutical ingredients have increased manifold.The small-scale pharmaceutical factories in Himachal Pradesh, especially in Nalagarh, Barotiwaala and Baddi, are facing acute shortage of raw material. A kilogram of these drug ingredients, which earlier cost ₹7,000, is now being sold at ₹48,000.These small units in Baddi have the capacity to manufacture around one to five lakh tablets daily, while the bigger companies can produce about 1 crore tablets in a day.“The trade of HCQ is now totally controlled by the government, but there are some traders who are indulging in black marketing of active pharmaceutical ingredients of HCQ,” said Dr Rajesh Gupta, president of state drug manufacturing association.“The Centre has already stored adequate stock of HCQ and there are around 3.5 crore tablets stocked in government stores. This will boost the stocks up to 10 crore tablets besides supplying the drug to foreign countries,” Gupta said adding that the demand for anti-malarial drug was far more than the manufacturing capacity of state’s units.The units producing active pharmaceutical ingredients for HCQ are based in Maharashtra, Uttarakhand and Madhya Pradesh.The government has ordered the manufacturing the units to increase the production of HCQ to treat Covid-19 patients across the country,” said state drug controller Navneet Marwah. “So far we have not received any complaints about the increase in the price of HCQ ingredients,” he claimed.There are 40 units in the state that have the approval to make HCQ tablets. These are based in the pharmaceutical hubs of Baddi and Nalagarh in Solan district, Kala Amb and Nahan in Sirmaur district and Sansarpur in Kangra district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/drug-ingredients-get-dearer-as-hcq-demand-goes-up-in-hp/story-C3dmCKkBe4xFHwl1692ifO.html
14-04-2020||Chandigarh||One more tests positive for Covid-19 in HP, tally now 33||One more person with links to Tablighi Jamaat tested positive for Covid-19 in Una district, taking the total number of cases to 33.A resident of Kuthera Kherla village in Amb sub-division of the district is the primary contact of Tablighi Jamaat workers who were tested positive earlier this month.Kuthera Kherla village has emerged as a major hotspot in the state with 11 cases. With this, the number of active cases in the state has gone up to 16.Meanwhile, the state government on Tuesday extended the curfew till May 3. The order to this effect was issued by additional chief secretary (health) RD Dhiman. The government has also made wearing face masks mandatory while stepping out of homes. Earlier, the masks were mandatory only in areas marked as Covid-19 hotspots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/one-more-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-hp-tally-now-33/story-UOoCfqXbyfeHAsaMubXYDN.html
14-04-2020||Chandigarh||PGIMER’s young medical team proud to be on the Covid-19 frontline||Their seniors are their ‘guiding force,’ but young doctors, nurses and other health workers at the frontline of the Covid-19 battle at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) are glad to get this opportunity, even though it’s “difficult to breathe,” at times in personal protective (PPE) gear.Dr Deep Kanth’s duty starts at 3am and for the next six hours the 27-year-old wears the “suffocating” and “heavy” PPE suit attending to the critically ill Covid-19 positive patients at PGIMER’s Nehru Extension Hospital, now referred to as Covid Hospital.When he was assigned to the intensive care unit (ICU) at the hospital, Kanth, said he was happy. Speaking to Hindustan Times after intubating a patient and attending to three others, he said the only person he was worried about was his mother, who was hypertensive.“She lives close by, but I cannot see her as I am dealing with Covid-19 patients,” he said.As Kanth’s duty ended at 9 am, Dr Anu Kewlani, aged 29, took over.Anyone entering the ICU was required to first wear sanitary clothing or scrubs, then the hazmat (protective) suit and PPE, which included gloves, eye protection and safety footwear. Then he or she attended to patients and answer emergency callsThe first day, Kewlani said, was difficult because of the PPE. “We have to wear three layers and it gets so uncomfortable. You can’t drink water or urinate for six hours and at times it’s hard to breathe. But when you know that this is keeping you safe you have to accept the discomfort.” “Grateful” to be given the opportunity to work with Covid-19 patients,” Kewlani said her family back in Madhya Pradesh was proud of her.She in turn was proud of how PGIMER was managing the health crisis. “Seeing how the senior doctors have managed things and set up the Covid Hospital, I am proud to say I work for the institute,” Kewlani added.About 10-15 young nurses work in a shift. “All young nurses in their late twenties or early thirties are posted here. It’s tough for those in their 50s as they have multiple ailments, but they never hesitate to support us,” said a nurse.Tinson Thomas, 31, nursing officer, got married recently and cancelled plans to go home for Easter. “On the first day at the ICU I was nervous, but when you look at worried patients, you know you can’t afford to lose your calm,” he said.“Pray for us,” he requested this correspondent.On the young staff at the battle zone, Dr Jagat Ram, director PGIMER, said, “The seniors are the guiding force, who are working the entire day planning everything, holding meetings, and ensuring everything runs smoothly. The younger people are on the frontlines.”The high-risk health workers were not allowed to go back home and put up at the private rooms in Nehru building for seven days. After that they were home quarantined for 14 days.“Rooms in the private wards are our new homes for the time being. These have separate entry and exit points. Our meals are kept outside the rooms and we are not allowed to venture out,” added Kanth.All of the young doctors, however, had just one plea for the public: “Please follow the lockdown sincerely.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pgimer-s-young-medical-team-proud-to-be-on-the-covid-19-frontline/story-qGwhYlzKreRY1RCmSJWTAN.html
14-04-2020||City||Water wastage to elicit fine in Mohali from April 15||To curb the shortage of water this summer, the water supply department and the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) from April 15 will start issuing challans to people found wasting/misusing the resource.The drive will remain in place from April 15 to June 30 in Sectors 66 to 80 that fall under GMADA and the remaining sectors that are under the municipal corporation and water supply department.As per the notice, watering lawns, washing courtyards and vehicles, etc is prohibited between 5.30am and 8.30am. If a resident is found violating the order, a notice will be issued for the first offence, a challan of ₹1,000 will be imposed the second time, three-time offenders will have to pay ₹2,000, and the fourth time will elicit disconnection of water supply without notice. Booster pumps and hose-pipes will be confiscated. To get the connection restored, defaulters will have to pay ₹5,000 along with an affidavit.Mohali MC commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg said teams are already conducting random checks in morning hours.Mohali, on an average, requires 30MGD (million gallon daily) of water, but the supply is limited to 20MGD—10MGD from the Kajauli waterworks and an equal amount from 75 tube-wells. During peak summer, however, the demand reaches 32MGD, causing a shortage of 12MGD.Sunil Kansal, chief engineer of GMADA, said, “Though we will start challaning for wastage of water from April 15, no aggressive drives will be held as some employees are busy on Covid-19 duty. Moreover, due to the lockdown, people are not using their vehicles, so washing will also be less.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/water-wastage-to-elicit-fine-in-mohali-from-april-15/story-4Sbj7hcZXAz85a3YpYS8HO.html
14-04-2020||Mumbai||NGO issues notice to government over decongestion of prisons||A city-based non-governmental organisation has sent a legal notice to Maharashtra government alleging undue delay in implementing the Supreme Court directive of March 23, instructing all state governments to decongest prisons amid coronavirus pandemic.The NGO, Global Care Foundation, has issued the notice through its counsel, advocate Tanveer NizamNizam. It states that pursuant to the Supreme Court directives, the Maharashtra Legal Services Authority on March 27 asked the state government to identify the under-trial prisoners and convicts lodged in jails across Maharashtra, who fulfil the criteria set out by the apex court.However, the NGO has complained, the state prison authorities have not acted with the required sense of urgency and till date, only 1,000 prisoners have been released from Maharashtra prisons, though about 11,000 prisoners in state jails are entitled to be released under the Supreme Court order.“In the light of the present situation of the outbreak of Covid-19, there is an immense urgency to depopulate and de-congest the prisons as the progress of the disease is increasing rapidly, besides, there is absolutely no facility for social distancing in prison cells, across Maharashtra,” states the notice issued by advocate Nizam.Despite the impending danger to the lives of the inmates, there is a lack of urgency on part of prison authorities, it adds.The NGO has urged Maharashtra home department and the prison authorities to release the prisoners entitled to be released under the apex court order dated March 23 be immediately released on cash bail or sureties extending up to ₹5,000 each. It has also offered to provide free legal aid to these prisoners and has sought the list of the eligible prisoners from the home department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ngo-issues-notice-to-government-over-decongestion-of-prisons/story-7ahRWDD31VqoIenY9n3QRP.html
14-04-2020||Chandigarh||Railways can ferry stranded trucks if asked: Ambala div||With life coming to a standstill amid the lockdown, stranded truck carriers and their drivers can reach their destinations, if they approach Ambala division of Northern Railway, said an official.The railway division has extended its run-on run- off (RO- RO) services to transport stranded trucks to their desired locations on a commercial basis.With the countrywide lockdown, several trucks are stranded at different locations across the country. Despite transportation of essential items being permitted, the lorries are unable to reach their destinations. The RO-RO services could help transport traders across the country.What is RO-RO serviceThe RO-RO service allow trucks to be loaded on railway flat wagons. Each train has the capacity to carry 30 to 40 trucks. The service are very popular in Southern Railways.Explaining more about the service, divisional railway manager GM Singh said, “ The division is ready to commence the service on a commercial basis, if a demands come from the operator or from the state. However, the final decision will be taken after consulting the railway board.”When asked about whether there was a destination limit for transporting trucks, he said, “ We will drop it across the country, but there are some conditions required to be fulfilled to run these types of trains. For example the station needs a proper ramp from where trucks can be loaded and later unloaded at the location like in our region, Ambala, Patiala and other district stations which have these ramps.In Chandigarh, around 800 transporters and workers are stranded at the transport parking in Sector 26 amid the curfew, including those from different states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/railways-can-ferry-stranded-trucks-if-asked-ambala-div/story-c8xslD6j7EhIH6xiQQeOUN.html
14-04-2020||City||With senior citizens left to fend for themselves, Delhi Police step in||New Delhi: At 99 years old, and living alone in his Defence Colony home, Inder Dev Sawhney, is the eldest senior citizen in the city, according to Delhi Police records. He had returned home after a fortnight under observation at a city hospital just a week before the nationwide lockdown was first announced on March 24. He was entirely dependent on his caretaker, Sanjay.But from March 25, when the lockdown kicked in-- which has been now extended til May 3 -- Sawhney had to fend for himself. Sanjay, not among those listed as providers of essential services, was not allowed to step out of his home nearly seven kilometres away from his employer’s residence. With his two children settled abroad and relatives unable to travel, Sawhney dialled the Delhi Police senior citizen helpline – 1291.“For the first five or six days, I managed things myself. The problems began when I started running out of medicines and other essential items. Sanjay wanted to come, but the police did not allow him. I then called the helpline and told a police officer about my problem. They called Sanjay to Defence Colony police station and gave him a curfew pass, which has allowed him to continue visiting me,” said Sawhney, who ran a fabric showroom in Connaught Place till 20 years ago. A curfew pass is issued by the police and Delhi government to allow those involved in essential services to travel around the city during the lockdown, as well as cross the national capital’s interstate borders.Sawhney was not alone in his distress call to the police. The senior citizen helpline’s call records show that distress calls by senior citizens have increased nearly 20-30% during the lockdown.While the number of Covid-19 cases continue to rise across the country, elderly citizens, especially those who live by themselves, have been left stressed and anxious. At a time when most of the city has been mandated to stay indoors, the elderly must contend with the absence of house helps, arranging their own medicines, ration and other essential items, and contending with medical emergencies.To help them tide through till such time restrictions are lifted, Delhi Police personnel have been making efforts to come to the aid of senior citizens.The helpline has received nearly 1,200 calls since the lockdown was announced. Apart from seeking help, the elderly have also called the police about the availability of vaccines in the market, or about precautions to keep the contagious disease at bay.There are around 39,000 senior citizens registered with the Delhi Police.“Initially, on an average, 80-90 calls were being received every day, while before the lockdown, this number was between 50 and 60 a day. A majority of the registered senior citizens call us to complain that their caretakers or house helps were not able to travel because of the lockdown, or because they need medicines. We helped some of them by issuing curfew passes to their helps. The calls have come down in the last three-four days” said Muktesh Chander, special commissioner of police (operations).A homemaker living alone at her Vasant Kunj residence, 75-year-old Raj Handa said, “As soon as the lockdown was announced, I purchased rations and other essentials to last for around two months. But, I was not able to buy my medicines when they ran out. I called the police and they delivered the medicines the very next day.”For 95-year-old Kailashwati, who had been on ventilator support in a private hospital and had been recently been discharged, the police ensured nursing staff could make daily visits to her Shalimar Bagh home.“I sought the police’s assistance for my mother so that we do not face problems in the event of a medical emergency. The local police acted on our request swiftly, and assured that the nursing staff coming to our house would not be stopped,” said Mohit Rattan, Kailashwati’s son.The police’s senior citizen cell has also started calling each of those registered with them to ask about their well-being and if they had any personal requirements.“We have so far contacted almost 37, 000 of them. All their issues are being resolved. If anybody seeks our help in procuring ration or medicines, the concerned local police station is being informed. They deliver the items as soon as possible,” said deputy commissioner of police (crime) Rajan Bhagat, who is supervising the senior citizen helpline.“A policewoman called me yesterday and asked about my well-being and if I needed anything. I thanked her for it. We feel secure when police personnel come to ask about us or call us. They always try to resolve our problems,” said Sharda Mishra, who is in her 80s and lives in Greater Kailash.“A lot of elderly people in cities and even villages are living on their own, and many of them are diabetic or suffering from heart ailments. During these uncertain times, the stress and sense of helplessness will increase among elderly people. So, it becomes very important for their family members, friends, and neighbours to speak to them regularly and know about their well-being,” said Dr. SK Khandelwal, former professor and head of department of psychiatry in AIIMS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-senior-citizens-left-to-fend-for-themselves-delhi-police-step-in/story-IXUqYu8IwoS2enSQGD796N.html
14-04-2020||City||‘Revenues hit, ₹1,600 cr spending cut proposed by depts’||A debt-ridden state, Punjab has been hit hard by the coronavirus-induced national lockdown at a time when finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal was slowly trying to put the state’s finances back on track, forcing him to now redo his budget maths. Manpreet spoke to NAVNEET SHARMA about the sharp dip in state revenues, his contingency plans and expectations from the centre. Edited excerpts:What impact will the extended curfew have on the state’s economy?There has been hardly any economic activity in the past three weeks. The state is suffering a loss of at least ₹7,000 crore a week in its GSDP (gross state domestic product). This has hit tax revenues. We are losing ₹150 crore a day in goods and services tax, value-added tax, state excise, etc. Add to this, another ₹30-odd crore loss to Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL). We have to look at our budget calculations again.How do you plan to cope with this unexpected situation?It is an act of God and no one could have predicted it. I do not even see the end of the tunnel as yet. Once we get there, we can talk about solutions. With no tax coming, all we can do is slash our expenditure.What kind of spending cuts are we talking about?There is a cabinet sub-committee that has been formed by the chief minister to look into this whole gamut. Of the 42 government departments, 16 have given proposals for cut in expenditure of more than ₹1,600 crore, suggesting curtailment of projects or their deferment till the next financial year. Other departments are still to submit their suggestions. The sub-committee will meet on Wednesday. At this moment, we are just thinking of staying on course vis-a-vis our committed expenditure, including salaries, pensions, debt servicing, old-age pensions, Covid-19 expenses and power subsidy.Which means capital expenditure will take a hit.That’s true. We had proposed capital expenditure of ₹10,000 crore in the budget this year. We are still in the first quarter. I am hopeful things will stabilise.When do you expect the economic activity to resume in Punjab?We are lucky that procurement season is starting (from April 15). We have a bumper harvest and ₹24,000 crore will be infused for wheat procurement in next few weeks. Though all states are in lockdown, no other state has the advantage that we have at this moment. When farmers get money, economic activity starts. Then, there will be another ₹40,000 crore from paddy.What are your expectations from the Centre? Is any help coming?No, we have not got anything. We are still waiting for pending receivables such as GST compensation arrears. If they (Centre) are not collecting any taxes, I also have to curtail my expectations. But I foresee that at some point, all the state finance ministers will have to go to the Centre on these issues. I am sure the Centre will try its best to help the states. Right now, all they are talking about is an increase in the state’s borrowing limit (fiscal deficit), which will only add to our debt.What’s your take on PM’s statement on the need for striking a balance between “jaan” (lives) and “jahan” (the outside world) for lockdown?As the finance minister of a small state, I don’t have the status to say anything on his comment. But slogans alone won’t work, better planning is needed. We need two doctors – one who will take care on medical side and the other who can pull India out of this economic crisis. This is not a child’s play. India is in danger of falling into a debt trap. We will have to find some way out because the impending economic crisis could be bigger than coronavirus. If India can manage this crisis as well as help others with vaccines and medication, then you do not have to lead delegations to other countries for seeking investments. There will be so much goodwill that they will come on their own.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/revenues-hit-1-600-cr-spending-cut-proposed-by-depts/story-VVSqk3xs0i6LXOPVhLgFzH.html
14-04-2020||Chandigarh||Battalion of medics battle against Covid-19 at Haryana control room||In stark contrast to the general hospital campus in Panchkula — which has been wearing a deserted look since the clamping of nationwide lockdown — is the situation at Haryana’s control room for Covid-19.Adjacent to the office of director general, health services, the centre witnesses intense action day in and day out in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak. Armed with computers and cell phones, about a dozen doctors and other staff members stay in constant touch with the health workforces of all 22 districts of the state, noting down every detail pertaining to the arrival of Covid-19 suspected as well as positive cases, their samples and results. They also focus on the contact tracing of the suspected and confirmed Covid-19 cases, following the same protocol. Though all senior officials are actively involved at the district as well as state level, the control room’s dedicated team has in it senior-most to junior doctors of the integrated diseases surveillance programme (IDSP) wing, which collects all types of Covid-19 related information. It also passes on the government’s instructions to the district teams on real-time basis, besides keeping tabs on each case, say doctors of IDSP, which is headed by Dr Usha Gupta.Director general, health services, Dr SB Kamboj says an adequate number of Isolation beds have identified in various government and private facilities besides persons quarantine facilities in rooms and dormitories. According to official information, 11 full or partial covid hospitals and medical colleges including one at Nalhar (Nuh), Mullana (Ambala) and Agroha (Hisar), besides exclusive covid wards in 26 other government and private hospitals and medical colleges in the state. Likewise, top officials say there is an adequate stock of essential protective equipment, including 3-ply masks, hand sanitisers, hydroxychloroquine 200mg tablets, N95 masks, PPE kits and VTM media available in hospitals and medical colleges to effectively combat the novel coronavirus. Also, besides three private labs in Gurugram, five government labs, one each at PGIMS, Rohtak (capacity of testing 120 samples per day) and BPS Khanpur Kalan (80 samples per day), ESIC Medical College, Faridabad (80 samples per day), Kalpana Chawla Medical College, Karnal (80 samples per day) and NRCE Hisar (25 samples per day) are for testing samples for the infection. About his teams, health minister Anil Vij says not only the top officials, even doctors from all faculties were working with dedication. Their efforts were even lauded in the cabinet meeting a few days ago, he adds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/battalion-of-medics-battle-against-covid-19-at-haryana-control-room/story-ivR8NMBfmaDlTwz6x8znpM.html
14-04-2020||Lucknow||Pt Channulal Mishra sings Karo-Na song!||People from various fields of performing arts are contributing their bit to spread awareness about the deadly coronavirus infection. Padma Bhushan Pt Channulal Mishra too has done it in the way what he is best known for. The legendary singer has come up with a song ‘Gandagi Karo-Na’ that he has written, sung and composed.Over the phone from his native city Varanasi he said, “My song is a message to the society. I feel from ‘gandagi’ (unhygienic conditions) is something that is cause of all ‘bimari’ (diseases). Then it may be living in unhygienic conditions, not washing hands or following practices that are not as per the social norms. Today, as Prime Minister Narendra Modi said the social norm is to stay inside and keeping oneself clean.”In the song he has also mentions about the collective efforts required in defeating the deadly virus from contraction. All these emotions and expressions he has written and composed in the song that he has shared on his website and YouTube channel.This song is based on ‘dhun’ (tune). “It’s not based on any raag. Raags have their own ‘niyam’ (rules) while this is based on dhun.”Mishra urges all to follow the lockdown rules. “In Benaras we say ‘Malik kahe jo kijiye, shaam ko paise lijiye’. So, whatever our PM is suggesting we must follow it completely as he is advising after looking into all the possible scenarios,” Mishra says.Talking about his daily routine he shares, “In morning, I practice one hour of ‘pranayam’ (yoga) and ‘vyayam’ (exercise) and over hour of puja-archana (prayers). Then post breakfast it’s time for TV show ‘Ramayan’. Then I take a training session of my disciple Aman which is followed by the ‘Mahabharat’ show. A simple meal usually ‘khichdi’ and afternoon sleep. Evening again its training time followed with lemon tea. Thereafter, I watch the repeat telecast of both TV shows.”The simple classical singer sums up in a sentence, “Chana for food, Gangajal for water, music and the land of Baba Vishwanath you don’t need anything more in life.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/pt-channulal-mishra-sings-karo-na-song/story-WC9YJVTDTMZFUO50QFQIVJ.html
14-04-2020||Mumbai||47-year-old man dies after BEST bus rams into two-wheeler||A 47-year-old man died after a BEST bus rammed into his two-wheeler, topping him and his friend who was riding pillion, in Vikhroli on Monday morning. The bus driver has been arrested.The deceased was identified as Arjun Shivram Bambale and the pillion rider as Shailesh Waghela, 42. Waghela escaped unhurt while Bambale succumbed to injuries.The bus, plying on route number C-60, was being driven by Dadasaheb Narayan Bhandare,49, when he rammed into the two-wheeler near Tagore Nagar junction on Jogeshwari-Vikhroli Link Road (JVLR) in Vikhroli (East). “The front portion of the bus dashed the two-wheeler due to which Bambale fell on his left and sustained injuries on his head, leg and ear,” said a police officer. The bus was proceeding from Borivli station (East) towards Deonar depot.Bambale was taken to Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Hospital in Tagore Nagar where he was declared dead. The BEST bus driver was arrested in Bhandare. A First Information Report (FIR) was registered against the driver under sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way) and 304 A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/47-year-old-man-dies-after-best-bus-rams-into-two-wheeler/story-tL5PUWOzEFH8qE5bLbJFJJ.html
14-04-2020||Chandigarh||No fresh case reported in Himachal in last two days||Himachal Pradesh has not reported any fresh coronavirus case since the last two days.Additional chief secretary (health) RD Dhiman said a total of 100 samples were tested on Monday, which turned out negative. All the 159 samples tested on Sunday were also negative.So far, the state has seen 32 confirmed cases, including one fatality. The positive cases were reported from bordering district of Kangra, Una, Solan and Sirmour.A maximum of14 cases have been reported from Una district, followed by 9 in Solan and 4 each in Kangra and Chamba while one case was reported from Sirmour.So far, a total of 12 patients have recovered and were discharged from hospitals. Kangra district, which reported the first three cases in the state, is now COVID-free.The state has currently 15 active cases while four have been shifted out of the state for treatment.Till date, 1,213 samples have been tested in Himachal Pradesh out of which 1,181 were negative.As many as 5,637 people with travel history to coronavirus-affected countries have been put under surveillance of which 2,151 are quarantined at home or in isolation wards; 3,486 have completed the mandatory 28-day quarantine period, and the rest have left the state.ALL ACTIVE CASES HAVE JAMAAT LINKAll the 15 cases active in the state are either Tablighi Jamaat workers or their primary contacts. Of the confirmed 32 cases, twenty-three were Jamaat workers.So far, the authorities have identified 915 Jamaat workers on their primary contacts and put them under quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-fresh-case-reported-in-himachal-in-last-two-days/story-kkNbc61uExzrybuhniI08M.html
14-04-2020||Chandigarh||J&K administration reaches out to NGOs, volunteers for ‘effective’ lockdown||The Jammu and Kashmir administration has sought help from local volunteers and NGOs for effective implementation of lockdown in towns and villages amid the coronavirus crisis.As the number of Covid-19 cases witnessed a surge, the lockdown is being strictly enforced on the ground. However, there have been complaints of violations at some places, especially during evening hours. With an aim to strictly enforce the lockdown, the police have decided to take help from local volunteers.“To stop the virus spread, we have reached out to NGOs, volunteers or students and asked them to come forward in this difficult time,” said Baramulla station house officer on the social media.“In response to the initiative taken by the district administration for fortifying efforts against the pandemic, over 1,000 volunteers have registered themselves under ‘Project Jazbaa’,” the Pulwama administration said in a statement.Meanwhile, Srinagar deputy commissioner Shahid Choudhary issued a circular asking NGOs and volunteers distributing food among the needy to get them registered with the administration.Recently, Srinagar’s Chest Disease Hospital returned six ventilators that were donated to the hospital by one of the prominent NGOs operating in the city. The administration had claimed that the ventilators were returned due to space crunch at the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/j-k-administration-reaches-out-to-ngos-volunteers-for-effective-lockdown/story-otq8ykWweF1vIQg7c2qdGM.html
14-04-2020||Chandigarh||After 3 killed in shelling, Kupwara villagers feel civilians new target of Pak army||The killing of three civilians, including a minor, in three Kupwara villages, has left the residents feeling they are the ‘new targets’ of the Pakistani forward posts along the LoC.On Sunday evening, three civilians – an 8-year-old boy, 36-year-old woman and 18-year-old youth –were killed when shells landed in three villages of Kralpora block in Kupwara. This is the first time that civilians were killed during Pakistani shelling deep inside Kupwara. Last year, shells had damaged a few houses in the villages, but no casualty had occurred.Locals said that the shells which landed in Tumna, Redi and Hatchmarg villages might have been aimed at the big army installation in the neighbouring Panzgam locality from where the Indian Army has been targeting Pakistani posts with heavy artillery.Kralpora block development chairman Mohammad Akbar said it is the first time that shells have fallen deep inside Kupwara villages. “People are quite scared after three civilians got killed due to the mortar shelling. Now, the villagers are demanding community bunkers for their safety,” he said adding that Panzgam villagers had earlier protested against the installation of artillery guns in the ground close to the village.Stating that there was no fresh shelling in the area since Sunday, Redi block development chairman Firdous Ahmad said, “This is the second time since last year that shells have landed in our village. The government should now provide us with community bunkers. Last year, I had written a few times to the government asking for bunkers, but nothing happened. Bunkers were given to areas which are closer to the LoC.”Ahmad, however, said that tension between the locals and the army began at Panzgam after the latter moved heavy guns in the ground being used by villagers. “Without any notice to the villagers, the army began shelling across the LoC at night. Earlier, army used to fire shells from inside their camp which is spread over a vast area. Now they are using the ground close to villagers’ houses.”Ahmad termed it unfortunate that while the world is dealing with coronavirus, India and Pakistan are engaged in ceasefire violations and getting civilians get killed. “Both the governments should focus on handling Covid-19, instead of shelling,” he said.Local villagers said though the LoC was far from the area, they were on the target now.Redi sarpanch Hyder Ali told HT that when shelling began, dozens of civilians left the village for safer areas. “Now, people have started to return. However, we can’t sleep at night and fear things could turn worse if India and Pakistan resort to ceasefire violation.A senior army officer, however, claimed that the army didn’t use any artillery from the civilian areas.The villages of Kralpora, Redi, Chowkibal, Hatchemarg, Tumna, Panzgam are around 30 to 45 kilometres from the LoC and can be targeted from three sides from PoK – Tanghdar, Ferkivan, Bangus and Keran.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/after-3-killed-in-shelling-kupwara-villagers-feel-civilians-new-target-of-pak-army/story-gTvOziqp5jCA93OUgCSH2I.html
14-04-2020||City||Mixed feelings about the lockdown, says fuel station operator||New Delhi: Before the nationwide lockdown was announced last month, Pushpendra Pandey would be busy filling petrol and diesel in hundreds of vehicles throughout his eight-hour shift at a fuel station, urging motorcyclists to wait in a queue, moving quickly between dispensers, and collecting payments. As he sat down to speak to Hindustan Times, though, he was free for almost 15 minutes before there was a car he had to attend to, at the fuel station where he works in south Delhi’s Saket. “I hope laziness does not set in by the time my workload gets back to the usual,” says the 45-year-old, who has worked at the station for the last 22 years. He dispenses fuel and the driver hands him the payment -- the exact amount billed -- in currency notes. “Some customers ask me to keep the change so as to avoid any kind of contact,” says Pandey. Pandey has noticed another marked difference in the behaviour of motorists coming to the station ever since the 21-day nationwide lockdown, which has been extended further till May 3, began.“Earlier, they would make every effort to hide the card swipe machine from me while entering their card pin. After the lockdown, they prefer to tell me their pin code rather than key it in themselves”.Many don’t even want the receipt or memo anymore, he adds.As for him, Pandey says he has been taking all possible precautions to keep himself germ free. He rubs sanitiser on his hands after refuelling the car, and says he does so each time he feels he has come in contact with a customer. On occasions when drivers use the card swipe machine, he gives the gadget a rubdown with sanitiser as well. “Physical contact is inevitable, though. Most people pay by cash which may have changed multiple hands before reaching me. Fingers often touch while exchanging cash,” he says. The usual timings for this fuel station were 6am to 12 in the night. With customers dwindling due to the lockdown, though, it operates for general motorists only till 9 pm. “However, a couple of my colleagues stay on till midnight in case an ambulance comes by which needs fuel,” he says.These days, Pandey leaves his home in Sangam Vihar around 7.45am on a motorcycle to begin his duty from 8am. He faces no hurdles at police checkposts; his uniform and identity card help him sail through. He has brought along his lunch from home, but he isn’t sure when he’ll get to have it. “Footfall has dipped by nearly 90% and I am not sure when a customer would arrive. Since the number of attendants too has been reduced I have to take care of multiple pumps, unlike before when I was tasked with handling just one. If I start eating and a customer comes, I may have to get up mid-meal to attend to them,” he says.Unlike many other essential service providers struggling to find tea while out on work during the lockdown, Pandey has had it easy. “A colleague who stays nearby brings tea for us twice a day,” he says.Though work is much less than usual, spending his free time at work is a bit of a challenge. He isn’t allowed to use his mobile phone at the fuel station for the fear of fire. “If I receive a call, I walk out of the premises, keep it short and return,” he says.So far, the lockdown has given him mixed feelings. One day, a woman drove into the fuel station, asked Pandey and the others to be careful, and then left as quickly as she came. “It was a warm feeling,” he says.On another day, a man riding a motorcycle demanded that a five-litre bottle he had be filled with petrol. “We have been turning down such requests ever since the Delhi riots. That man called the police to complain that I wasn’t doing my duty,” he says. Fortunately for him, the police gave the customer an earful.A welcome change, though, is that Pandey has also not experienced any untoward situation involving inebriated men and goons, after the lockdown was imposed. “Instances of customers in a drunken state and ruffians bullying us would take place almost every day. However, with the liquor shops now closed, we have been able to avoid that menace,” he says.When Pandey leaves from work at 4pm, he will call his wife to keep hot water ready. “I take my work clothes off outside the door of my house and head directly to the bathroom where I wash them and take a bath,” says the father of three.With less work, Pandey and his colleagues have to report to work only on alternate days. And that had him worried for several days until the payday arrived. “I received my entire salary,” he beamed happily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mixed-feelings-about-the-lockdown-says-fuel-station-operator/story-W4PbLvUpZhyrHIwex2L4vN.html
14-04-2020||Chandigarh||Orchardists in HP worry about hail damage to fruit trees without nets, labourers||Orchardists in Himachal Pradesh are worried about unavailability of nets and labourers to put them up to protect apple and stone fruit trees such as cherries from hailstorms as the nation remains locked down due to Covid-19.They fear that rain and hail received now is likely to destroy crops.“It’s getting difficult to find labourers. Many of us live far away from our orchards and are not able to go there. Stone fruits are about to ripen and we have requested the government to reopen factories which produce stone fruit packaging material,” said Surinder Mehta, an orchardist from Kotgarh.Dr Manmohan Singh, director of the state’s meteorological department, said due to a fresh western disturbance, the higher reaches were likely to get snow with rain rain in the middle hills for the next few days. A yellow (severely bad weather) warning has also been issued for the middle hills on April 17, even as weather remained dry in the state during the last 24 hours.Minimum temperatures were normal while maximum temperatures were one to two degrees above normal.Shimla remained dry with minimum temperature at 15.5 degrees Celsius.Minimum temperature in Kufri was 12.5 degrees C, while Manali recorded 8.2 degree C and Dalhousie 14 degrees C. Dharamshala, Solan, Bilaspur and Harmirpur recorded lows of 12.8; 13, 16 and 16.5 degrees C, respectively.Kalpa in Kinnaur district was a cool 6.7 degrees C, while Keylong in Lahaul-Spiti district was coldest at minus 2.6 degrees C.Una was the warmest at 35.7 degrees C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/orchardists-in-hp-worry-about-hail-damage-to-fruit-trees-without-nets-labourers/story-CDrEfGETE2cDNccvb87ejP.html
14-04-2020||Pune||On the frontline: Our biggest challenge is contact tracing as positive cases are rising, says PMC assistant health chief||Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) assistant health chief, Dr Vaishali Jadhav, has been playing a crucial role in handling the Covid-19 pandemic. Her responsibility is to undertake contact tracing of Covid-19 patients and to initiate a survey in a one-three km radius of positive cases and sanitise the locality. Here’s what she had to say about her work. What is your role in this crisis? My primary responsibility is contact tracing. Once a positive patient is found, we start the contact tracing of the persons who may have come in contact with the patient and may have got infected. I pass on the information to the concerned ward office where various medical teams have been formed. These teams visit the family members and others who came in contact with the positive patient and check whether they are displaying any symtoms. They are also asked to remain in home isolation. Our teams keep a follow-up for the next 14 days. My other responsibility is to undertake a suvery in a 1km to 3km radius of the infected person and sanitise the area. How does your day begin and roll out? My day starts very early and how it pans out is not in my hands. On an average, for the last few days, work has been going on till 10 pm as our teams have been encountering various problems which need to be sorted out. We need to update information time to time. Although the physical work gets done during 8am to 10pm, work on the phone goes on throughout, from early morning.What precautions are you taking?I have been visiting some hospitals while doing co-ordination alongside and therefore have to take basic precautions such as using the mask, hand gloves, frequent washing of hands and use of sanitiser. Keeping social distance during site visits and in the office is also important.What is your assessment of the Covid-19 crisis in Pune? How do you see it unfolding? Positive cases are increasing day-by-day and they have started multiplying. It is tough to say that how many days such a situation is going to continue. If people remain at home and follow the guidelines given by centre, state and municipal corporation, it would help us to take control over situation much earlier.What gaps do you see in healthcare and relief work?Since cases have started multiplying and the number of positive cases is increasing, our biggest challenge is contact tracing. The faster we are able to do the contract tracing, lesser would be the number of people infected. Our main challenge is to increase the search teams and increase manpower. We have appealed to the citizens that the health teams are working for their safety. Therefore, citizens should co-operate and give proper information. It would help us control the situation faster.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/on-the-frontline-our-biggest-challenge-is-contact-tracing-as-positive-cases-are-rising-says-pmc-assistant-health-chief/story-0uQcuXXDIgTDfALuKv4Y5M.html
14-04-2020||City||60-year-old man tests positive for Covid-19 in Punjab’s Gurdaspur district||GURDASPUR:A 60-year-old man from Bhaini Paswal village of Gurdaspur district has tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Punjab special chief secretary Karan Bir Singh Sidhu on Tuesday tweeted that the patient’s brother had died in Jalandhar with similar symptoms on April 7 though he was not tested for Covid-19.Gurdaspur civil surgeon Dr Kishan Chand said that the patient has now been referred to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital in Amritsar.On April 9, he was admitted in a private hospital in Gurdaspur. Sources said that the lady doctor who attended to him in the private hospital has been quarantined for 14 days.Gurdaspur deputy commissioner Mohammad Ishfaq said that Bhaini Paswal village has been cordoned off as a precautionary measure.Contact tracing of the patient has been initiated and those who had come in touch with him have also been quarantined for 14 days and their samples are being collected.A meeting of the district health officials was chaired by the deputy commissioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/60-year-old-man-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-punjab-s-gurdaspur-district/story-JNx2ODsCCxvJqoHLtSCDGP.html
14-04-2020||Pune||Sassoon’s 1,000-bed dedicated Covid-19 facility begins operations in Pune||The newly constructed 11-storey building of the civic-run Sassoon General Hospital was commissioned on Monday. The building will now function as a dedicated facility to treat patients diagnosed with Covid-19 infection.This is the first facility in the state built by the Public Works Department (PWD).As the number of patients is increasing in the city, the hospital is now adding 1,000 beds to its already existing capacity for the treatment and isolation of Covid-19 patients, authorities of the Sassoon General Hospital said. Dr Ajay Chandanwale, dean at Sassoon hospital, said, “The hospital has started to function and we are shifting the patients from the old building to the new one. I have personally supervised the process.”According to Manoj Saunik, PWD secretary, this is the first Covid-19 hospital made operational after the outbreak. “About 475 beds have been installed and an additional 300 beds have been ordered as per orders from the collector. The entire building can accommodate around 1,000 beds. At present there are 50 ICU beds, 100 isolation beds and 325 general beds. According to Atlas Copco Company’s head office in Sweden, the oxygen supply system - its supply, installation, piping, testing and commissioning in less than 30 days - is a first in company’s history.”An executive engineer working with the PWD on the project, requesting anonymity said, “The extension of the building will go on in three phases, phase one which is currently completed, phase two is adding another 150 beds and then phase three includes 700 beds. The patients are now being shifted from the old building hospital to the new building.”The new building proposal was approved in 2008 and construction started in 2009, however, due to frequent change in council of ministers, the project got delayed for almost a decade, said officials who are aware of the development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/sassoon-s-1-000-bed-dedicated-covid-19-facility-begins-operations-in-pune/story-MkN4w4dBeQ49zZyUJlKiKO.html
14-04-2020||Lucknow||UP’s coronavirus cases rise to 657, death toll remains pegged at 5: Official||As many as 657 people have tested positive so far for coronavirus, which has claimed five lives in Uttar Pradesh till now, a state Health Department official said on Tuesday.Joint Director-cum-State Surveillance Officer Vikasendu Agrawal of the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) on Tuesday said, “A total of 657 corona-positive cases have been reported from the state. Till now, the state has reported five deaths -- one each in Basti, Meerut, Bulandshahr, Varnasi and Agra.” On Monday, 75 persons tested positive for coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh, taking the total in the state to 558.Additional Chief Secretary (Information) Awanish Awasthi said 80 to 85 per cent of the cases have been reported from identified hotspots.“The total positive cases in the state are 558. So far, 49 patients have fully recovered and discharged,” Principal Secretary (Health) Amit Mohan Prasad told reporters on Monday.Of the 49 cured and discharged patients, 13 were in Noida, 10 in Agra, nine in Meerut, seven in Ghaziabad, six in Lucknow and one each in Kanpur, Shamli, Pilibhit and Lakhimpur Kheri, an official statement issued here said.Prasad said there has been an improvement in the sampling mechanism in the state.“On Sunday, the maximum of 1,980 samples were tested. Now, we are collecting about 2,000 samples a day,” he added.The total number of samples sent for testing so far in the state is 13,278. Of these, results of 177 samples are awaited, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-s-coronavirus-cases-rise-to-657-deaths-remain-pegged-at-5-official/story-f20OJPgXfYNzh5uLnqi5gL.html
14-04-2020||City||Two new Covid-19 cases reported in Mohali, taking Punjab district’s count to 56||Two new Covid-19 cases were reported in Mohali district on Tuesday, taking the count of positive patients to 56 in the district, highest in Punjab.The 38-year-old house help of the 78-year-old Kharar woman, who died on April 7 and tested positive for coronavirus later, was also diagnosed with Covid-19. The second patient is a 56-year-old woman of Jawaharpur village in Dera Bassi, whose sample was sent again and found positive. With this, the village count has gone up to 38.Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said, “We have isolated the Kharar family and teams have been sent to collect samples. Both the women have been admitted to Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur. All patients admitted in various hospitals of the district are responding well to treatment. The lane has been sealed and we have already began the screening of the residents.”Asked about the primary source of infection both at Kharar and Jawaharpur, he said, “We are yet to ascertain that. The house help could even be the source in Kharar. As for Jawaharpur, we have asked intelligence agencies to trace the mobile location of the panch as he is hiding some information.”Six hotspots in districtJawaharpur is the worst hit in the district as it alone has 38 cases out of the total 56. The village located on the Chandigarh-Delhi highway, with a population of around 3,000, has been declared a hotspot by the state government along with five others areas in Mohali city — Phases 3A, 5 and 9 besides Sectors 69 and 91 — which have reported two cases each. Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said besides Jawaharpur village, the administration has sealed three nearby villages. “In other hotspots, we have sealed the respective lanes, which have around 10 to 15 houses each. Every individual in these houses is being screened. Those found symptomatic are being tested for infection,” he said, putting emphasis on monitoring, screening and sampling. Reports of all 49 people screened in these five areas have come negative.Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said Jawaharpur has been declared a containment zone as there are highest number of patients there. “The screening exercise is almost complete. We have directed all residents not to step out of their houses and to wear masks to prevent the spread of coronavirus infection,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-new-covid-19-cases-reported-in-mohali-taking-punjab-district-s-count-to-56/story-00dfrcUBlnr6sf6t196eVL.html
14-04-2020||Jaipur||48 new Covid-19 cases take Jaipur’s tally to 418; Rajasthan’s numbers climb to 954||As many as 48 new coronavirus positive cases reported on Tuesday in Jaipur took the Rajasthan capital’s tally to 418, with Rajasthan now accounting for 954 cases, said Additional Chief Secretary Rohit Kumar Singh.Jodhpur had the second highest 82 corona patients, and Tonk and Banswara 59 cases each. Kota has so far reported 49 cases, Bikaner 34 cases, Jhunjhunu 31, Jaisalmer 29, Bharatpur 10, Bhilwara 28, Churu 14, Dausa 11, Dholpur 1, Dungarpur 5, Karauli 3,Pali and Sikar two each, Udaipur 4, Pratapgarh 2, Nagaur 6, Jhalawad 15, Barmer 1 and Hanumangarh 2.The corona cases have been reported in 25 of the 33 Rajasthan districts, Singh said.A total of 11 deaths have been reported in the state, including five in Jaipur, two in Bhilwara, and one each in Bikaner, Kota, Tonk and Jodhpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/48-new-covid-19-cases-take-jaipur-s-tally-to-418-rajasthan-s-numbers-climb-to-954/story-72bJx8BxNEs4FGfrH2DIRL.html
14-04-2020||Education||Patna Women’s College Admission 2020: Application process begins from April 15||While some colleges and universities have decided to wait until the lockdown is lifted to start admissions for the new academic session, Patna Women’s College (PWC) is set to begin its online admission process from April 15.As per the notification issued by PWC on Sunday, the online admission form for various courses at undergraduate, postgraduate and diploma level will be available on the official website of the college, www.patnawomenscollege.in from April 15 onwards. The entrance test for all the undergraduate courses, including vocational and traditional programmes, will be held in the first week of June, while the entrance test for Masters in Computer Applications is scheduled to be held on June 20. However, there will be no entrance test for Masters in Arts, Science and postgraduate diploma courses.According to a college official, all courses are based on choice based credit system (CBCS) syllabus, giving flexibility to students to choose their course from a list of elective, core and soft skill courses.“We have planned to hold the entrance tests in June, which used to be earlier conducted in May, expecting that the lockdown would be lifted by then and the situation will be back to normal. In case of any change in the date of the entrance test, it will be notified on the college website and college notice board”, the official said on Monday.PWC, founded in 1940, is the first college in the state to earn the status of an autonomous college, in 2018.On the other hand, students are quite worried about filling the online admission form due to lack of digital documents.Priya Kumari, a class 12 student, said, “I wish to apply for Bachelor of Business Administration in PWC as it is the best college for girls in the entire state. But, I am doubtful about converting the required documents sucha s my photograph, class 12 documents, caste and domicile certificate into the digital format amid lockdown since smartphones are not good enough for scanning documents.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/patna-women-s-college-admission-2020-application-process-begins-from-april-15/story-hLCwRVGD0Cbdyj66ouWp7M.html
14-04-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s Covid-19 cases rise from 72 to 1,510 in 16 days||The number of coronavirus cases in India crossed the 10,000-mark on Tuesday, with the infections doubling over six days (till Monday) and the government expanding containment efforts and ramping up testing in an attempt to curb the highly contagious pathogen from sweeping across the country.Delhi recorded its biggest daily spike yesterday with 356 cases on Monday, according to Delhi government health officials. The national capital has recorded 1,510 cases so far, becoming the city with the most number of infections.The number of cases in Delhi increased from 72 on March 29 to 1,510 on Tuesday - most of the 356 cases reported on Monday appeared to be linked to the Nizamuddin gathering. The national capital reported its first case on March 2, when a 45-year-old who travelled from Italy tested positive. According to officials in the Delhi government, about 1,050 of the total cases are attendees of the Nizamuddin event or their contacts.The Delhi government has set up a task force to identify suspected coronavirus cases in all districts of the city.Amid the rising number of cases, a ‘Corona Foot Warriors Containment and Surveillance Force’ has been constituted at every booth level by Chief Secretary Vijay Dev, a Delhi government official told news agency PTI.Each team of the force will have five members including a booth-level officer, civil defence volunteer, police constable, sanitation and anganwadi worker, the official said.The government launched a massive sanitisation drive in those areas declared as red zones, and high-risk zones identified by the colour orange to prevent the spread of the disease. “Massive sanitisation drive underway in Delhi. Sixty machines, including 10 hi-tech Japanese machines, have been deployed,” Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted.The administration also ran a pilot disinfection drive using the hi-tech Japanese spray machines at Rajinder Nagar Assembly constituency.Meanwhile, in order to ensure strict compliance of social distancing norms, the Delhi government will implement odd-even rules in all wholesale markets of the city. Traders will sell vegetables on alternate days, Delhi Development Minister Gopal Rai said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-covid-19-cases-rise-from-72-to-1-510-in-16-days/story-Y52zHhkzMqaJtY3JXGqZJP.html
14-04-2020||Delhi||With siren, stickers on car man poses as IAS officer to avoid lockdown, held||A 29-year-old man was arrested in the national capital for allegedly impersonating an IAS officer to avoid the lockdown restrictions imposed to contain the spread of coronavirus, police said on Monday. Aditya Gupta, a resident of Keshavpuram, was travelling in his car when he was stopped by police at a picket three days ago.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here  His car had a siren and stickers of the Delhi Police and the Government of India, police said.Gupta argued with a policeman on being stopped and claimed that he is a senior IAS officer working with the Union Home Ministry, police said. The policeman asked Gupta to show his identity card but when he failed to do so, the official informed the SHO of Keshavpuram about the incident. On turning suspicious, police grilled the man further and he was busted, a senior police official said. Gupta, who works at a private firm here, had earlier also posed as a senior IAS officer to avoid the lockdown restrictions, he said. A case was registered against Gupta under relevant sections of the IPC and he was arrested, the official said, adding that he was later released on bail. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-update-with-siren-stickers-on-car-man-poses-as-ias-officer-to-avoid-lockdown-held/story-Vxqx5XAwdmPOx57KSrjKQK.html
14-04-2020||Mumbai||Maha jumps from 1,000 virus cases to 2,000 in six days||Maharashtra doubled its tally from 1,000 to 2,000 coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in six days as it recorded its biggest 24-hour jump in cases with 352 more patients on Monday, taking the number of infected people in the state to 2,334. The state recorded 11 deaths on Monday, the health department said, taking the toll to 160.The Maharashtra government on Monday also officially extended the lockdown, which was to end at midnight on April 14, till April 30. On Saturday, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had already said the state would extend the lockdown. The state government is also looking at allowing micro-, small- and medium- enterprises (MSMEs) to start operations in districts that are not affected or less affected by the outbreak. A proposal for allowing industries is being prepared by the state industries department. However, the state has not taken a call on colour-coding districts based on the severity of cases and relaxing curbs in regions that are not much affected.Of Monday’s cases, Mumbai recorded 242 alone, taking the city’s tally to 1,540. Besides Mumbai, 39 cases were recorded in Pune; 14 in Malegaon; 11 in Nagpur; nine in Thane; seven in Mira-Bhayander; six in Pimpri-Chinchwad; five in Vasai-Virar; four each in Aurangabad, Buldhana and Kalyan-Dombivli; one each in Ahmednagar, Dhule, Nashik, Navi Mumbai, Panvel, Raigad and Yavatmal. Of the 11 deaths in Maharashtra, nine were in Mumbai and one each in Pune and Mira-Bhayander.The state took 30 days to cross the 1,000-case mark on April 7, while it crossed the 2,000 mark in just six days on April 13. The state health department is not perturbed by the doubling of cases as the spread of the virus is still in stage two or the local transmission stage, where disease transmission is limited to those with travel history to affected countries or those in contact with the infected person.State health commissioner Anup Kumar Yadav said the coronavirus spread is not “exponential” and is under control. “We are still in stage two of transmission. The spread is now in clusters, but it is not exponential. Our cluster containment plans are showing results and it is not going out of control. Any infectious disease has a growth pattern. One is the way it is growing now, and the other is it growing exponentially, which is seen in some other countries. We are confident that the measures we have taken at an early stage are well-placed; it is responding well. So it should not go out of control,” Yadav said.According to Yadav, the state is conducting an average of 3,000 coronavirus tests daily, and he attributed the increasing number of cases to aggressive testing too. The state government, he said, is now awaiting antibody test kits from the Centre to carry out “rapid testing”. “We are waiting for the kits. It would be first used by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). We do not plan to use it elsewhere in the state. Besides, we are also awaiting the Centre’s nod for pool testing permission, which the state had sought,” he said.Malegaon in Nashik district has seen a surge in the number of coronavirus cases. On Monday, 14 cases were reported from the area, taking the tally to 29. It is being looked at as another cluster where the spread had spiked. The district authorities in conjunction with the municipal council are looking at demarcating containment areas in Malegaon.Meanwhile, the state government is considering allowing industrial operations across the state except for areas of Mumbai and Pune, which has a high number of coronavirus case. State industries minister Subhash Desai held a review meeting on Monday and had directed the department to submit a proposal on where the MSME and other industries can be reopened.“Excluding the areas of Mumbai and Pune, which has a high number of Covid-19 cases, a proposal should be prepared to allow industries to start their operations with certain restrictions in the rest of the districts of the state,” said Desai, in a statement.Desai further asked the department to give priority to food processing units that would provide relief to farmers. These units would also provide employment to labourers, said Desai, adding that all these things will be put before the chief minister for approval.Senior state government officials said the state has so far not decided to relax lockdown measures in the areas that are less affected by the outbreak. Senior officials also added that no decision on colour-coding districts has been taken so far. Thackeray held a meeting with divisional commissioners and senior police officials on Monday to take stock of the situation.On the lockdown extension, a notification issued by chief secretary Ajoy Mehta on Monday read “It is expedient to take measures further to contain the spread of coronavirus, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred under section 2 of the Epidemic Disease Act, 1897 the state government directs that the lockdown orders shall now be extended up to and inclusive of April 30, 2020.”Officials said that the rising numbers of cases have forced the state government to extend lockdown till April 30 to prevent the state from slipping in to phase three — community spread — of Covid-19 outbreak.“It was necessary to extend the lockdown period as the state has been the worst-hit by the pandemic and more than a hundred cases are coming per day for more than a week. The spread can be arrested only with the help of a lockdown,” said a senior official requesting anonymity.“We are planning to give relaxations in areas that are not affected or have minimal cases. We have advised to allow to start industries with conditions such as they will have to accommodate workforce if not at the work place, then somewhere near the workstation so that workers won’t have to commute and social distancing can be maintained,” said a senior official, requesting anonymity.There won’t be any relaxations in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) and Pune Metropolitan Region, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-jumps-from-1-000-virus-cases-to-2-000-in-six-days/story-HqgS2s3y5trkySpfCeCovK.html
14-04-2020||City||5 held for attacking, molesting Panchkula female health worker||Police on Monday arrested five people who alleged attacked and molested a woman health worker on April 10.The accused, Brij Bhushan, Amit, Manjeet Singh, Sandeep and Golu, hail from Billa village in Chandimandir.The woman, who also belongs to the same village, works as a nurse at the gynae ward of civil hospital in Sector 6.In the FIR, the woman stated that she was returning home from duty with her husband and when they reached the village, some youths, who were sitting at a naka stopped them.She stated that she had explained them about her job and even showed her identity card, but they began beaten them and they tore off her apron and duty coat.She alleged that the accused asked them to leave the village and used communal slurs.A case under Sections 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/5-held-for-attacking-molesting-panchkula-female-health-worker/story-a8Nm5O4xiSmQOQBWIB5ZiK.html
14-04-2020||Chandigarh||In absence of lockers, urns hang from trees at Chandigarh cremation ground||The municipal corporation is faced with a strange problem. In the absence of adequate lockers to store the mortal remains of those who have died during the lockdown, several urns with ashes now hang from the trees at the cremation ground in Sector 25. As a result, the MC has decided to add more lockers to make space for urns that have not been collected by the families of the deceased.While several in the town had asked the UT administration to issue them special transit passes to Haridwar so they could immerse the ashes in Ganga river, MC’s medical health officer Dr Amrit Warring said there were no directions from the UT to issue such passes to the relatives of the deceased.“Therefore, extra lockers are being provided for safekeeping of the urns till the time these are not handed over to their relatives,” he said. Meanwhile, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) local convenor Prem Garg said that the cremation ground is full of urns as nobody is taking them to immerse in Ganga due to the lockdown. “I request the administration to issue special transit passes to the relatives to take these and immerse these in sacred rivers,” he said.He added, “I, too, offer to take all those unclaimed urns to Haridwar in a vehicle and immerse all these after performing collective rituals at the ghat on behalf of the relatives of the dead.”A senior official of the UT administration, who did not wish to be named, said they had issued few transit passes recently, but the visitors were not allowed to enter Haridwar. “I had also spoken with the Haridwar district magistrate, who said no one was allowed to enter the city for performing last rites till the time the lockdown is in place,” he said. He added that the effort is to increase the number of lockers in order to ensure safety of the urns. “Since the cremation ground is under the MC, they are taking all possible measures to increase resources,” he said.There is no official figure on the number of unclaimed urns lying with the MC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/in-absence-of-lockers-urns-hang-from-trees-at-chandigarh-cremation-ground/story-yK0ltZI0jQ9nAHFZzyMGtK.html
14-04-2020||City||Now, a ‘leopard sighting’ in Mohali’s Phase 9||Wildlife teams from Ropar and Chhatbir zoo carried out a search operation in Phase 8, after the police control room received a call reporting a leopard spotting in the area, on Monday.The first call was received four days ago informing them about the movement of a leopard near the nallah behind Amb Sahib Gurdwara in Phase 8, which has now been converted into a nature park. On Sunday night, the PCR received a call reporting similar movement near Yadavindra Public School in Sector 51.The wildlife teams have installed three cages and two cage cameras in the area and used drones for screening, but so far, nothing has been found.District forest officer of Ropar, Monica Yadav, said “We have not found pug marks so far. Four forest staffers have been deputed along with police officers in the area. A rescue team from Chhatbir Zoo is on alert and we are coordinating with Chandigarh forest officials as well.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/now-a-leopard-sighting-in-mohali-s-phase-9/story-kbgfSx91ly0v8Acr6TBOOJ.html
14-04-2020||City||Summer break in Chandigarh government schools from April 15 to May 15||In the wake of the coronavirus pandemic and the consequent curfew imposed in the city, the UT administration on Monday decided to advance summer vacations in schools.During the daily review meeting chaired by Punjab governor and UT administrator VPS Badnore, it was decided that all government schools and government-aided schools — around 115 with more than 1.5 lakh students — will have summer vacations from April 15 to May 15. Private schools have been advised to adopt the same schedule. The 21-day curfew, which was imposed on March 24, is all set to be extended by at least another two weeks, said a senior UT official, privy to the development, adding that the decision to advance summer vacations was taken in view of it.POWER, WATER BILLS, PROPERTY TAX DEFERREDThe last date for payment of electricity bills already issued has been extended from April 15 to April 30. The decision will benefit around 2.25 lakh consumers in the city.The administration has also decided that electricity bills for the next bill cycle will be issued on average basis as direct meter reading is not possible. If any consumer wants to take their own meter readings for actual consumption bill, they may send a WhatsApp or text message to the subdivisional officer (SDO) concerned. From divisions number 1 to 10, the phone numbers are 80541045-01, 02, 03, 04, 05, 06, 07, 08, 09, and 10, respectively.Due to closure of Sampark centres, electricity consumers can make digital payments at sampark.chd.nic.in and through esampark Chandigarh mobile app.Late payment surcharge has been fixed at 1% per month instead of 2% per month from March 24 to June 30.A moratorium on payment of fixed charges is provided to all industrial and commercial consumers for the bills raised during the period from March 24 to June 30. These deferred charges will be covered in an equated manner over the next three bills to be raised after June 30.The administration has also deferred the recovery of municipal and cow cess charges in electricity bills.Similarly, the payment of water charges and recovery of property tax imposed by the municipal corporation have also been deferred till further orders.Also, with curfew expected to continue, easing of restrictions is expected for home delivery of food, private clinics and people walking in early hours, said a senior official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/summer-break-in-chandigarh-government-schools-from-april-15-to-may-15/story-IL1WuSCCkMXioiVM2sZrUM.html
14-04-2020||Ranchi||Amid Covid-19 pandemic, Jharkhand hints at parole for Lalu Prasad||The Jharkhand government on Monday sought the advocate general’s views on the possibility of granting parole to incarcerated Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief Lalu Prasad who is undergoing treatment at Ranchi’s Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS). Lalu, who is serving imprisonment for his role in the fodder scam, is under treatment in the private ward of RIMS here. The hospital is also the dedicated state Covid hospital where seven positive cases are now under treatment.The issue was discussed in the cabinet on Monday. “The chief minister has taken a serious view of the issue. He called the advocate general in the cabinet meeting and has sought legal opinion over the issue. He will soon give his advice,” agriculture minister Badal Patralekh said after the cabinet meeting. Backing a parole for the former Bihar CM, the minister said he stands the risk of being infected as he is in old and is in proximity to the building where Covid-19 patients are being treated.Last week, the Jharkhand government had said the decision to release Lalu Prasad and other prisoners on parole would be decided by the respective courts.The 72-year-old former chief minister of undivided Bihar has been serving a jail term after his conviction in the fodder scam in December 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/amid-covid-19-pandemic-jharkhand-hints-at-parole-for-lalu-prasad/story-odMtOVvC8JyaoHNNQI7VXP.html
14-04-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh PGI to inject hope with plasma therapy trials in critical Covid patients||The Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) is planning to start convalescent plasma therapy for Covid patients, wherein blood plasma from those who have recovered from the infection will be infused into critical patients.PGIMER director Dr Jagat Ram said: “PGI is planning to start a trial of blood plasma therapy, wherein plasma from the blood of a recovered Covid-19 patient will be taken and its anti-bodies transfused into another critically ill patient. This will boost the patients immune system which could help fight the virus.”He said paper work for the therapy has been started and they will soon begin trials. Explaining the therapy, a doctor from PGI’s blood transfusion department, not wishing to be named, said, “We all know that a recovered patient has developed antibodies. In this trial, blood plasma will be taken from one who has recovered from Covid. This plasma, which is expected to contain antibodies specific to the novel coronavirus, will be transfused into a critically sick patient to boost recovery.”He said only those patients will be included in the plasma therapy trial who have completed 28 days of recovery and it cannot be done without their permission.He said trials for the investigational new drug will begin after taking due clearances. “We are making a project proposal to be sent to drug controller general of India (DCGI) for clearance. Apart from this, the Indian council of medical research (ICMR) has also sought entries from hospital that wish to start the trial. We, too, will also write to ICMR,” he said.It will take at least two weeks to get all clearances, he added. “The four departments – internal medicine, blood transfusion, virology and preventive and social health – are working together for this. We are positive this therapy will help critically ill patients,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-pgi-to-inject-hope-with-plasma-therapy-trials-in-critical-covid-patients/story-YuvSXXSnPdWFIZ78ndk4FN.html
14-04-2020||City||Costly labour, curbs on movement rock the boat for Mohali farmers in harvest season||His face covered with a white cloth, a sickle in his hands, Ashok Kumar from Uttar Pradesh is busy harvesting the wheat crop in Dayalpura village, Dera Bassi, for which he will be paid ₹400 per day with ration and food.“Ghar ja nahi sakte thay, paise thay nahi jab se kaam band hai, so ab fasal kaat rahe hain (couldn’t go back home, didn’t have money, so now I am harvesting wheat),” said Ashok, who worked as a labourer at a construction site before the curfew was imposed. It was difficult for a few days but now they will be able to earn some money, he said.He and scores of other migrant labourers have picked up the sickle to harvest wheat for landowners whose farm labour is not available owing to restrictions on movement from one state to another.NO CHOICE BUT MANUAL HARVESTING Amid complaints of high labour cost and restriction on movement, Mohali farmers have started harvesting crops. Farmers who earlier opted for combines now have no choice but to opt for manual harvesting as their labourers are not back yet. Where labour is not available at all, family members are picking up the sickle and toiling in the fields.“In Dera Bassi and Zirakpur area, migrants are being employed to harvest wheat and they are doing it readily. Earlier, construction work was a priority for labourers due to better wages, but the curfew has stalled all work so the labour force is willing to harvest the crop. In return, farmers will pay them in cash or kind, depending on their agreement,” said Amrik Singh Malkhpur, a landholder in Malkpur village, Dera Bassi. He also said that social distancing was being maintained during manual harvesting.Harpal Singh Sodhi of Dera Bassi owns land in Dayalpura and is facing trouble in going to his fields. “They don’t stop a tractor but moving on a two-wheeler is a complete no-no. The labour is charging ₹5,000 to ₹6,000 per acre along with ration. This will make it expensive for the farmer.”Rajinder Singh Bhanojia, sarpanch of Bhanojia village in Mullanpur, said that construction labour was charging ₹400 per day along with ration. “Manual harvesting is slow and so the farmer will end up paying more. Combines will be allowed only after April 15,” he said.COMBINES IN DAY TIME ONLY Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan has issued orders that combine harvesters will be allowed to operate only from 6 am to 7 pm.Pradeep Bhatnagar of Dera Bassi said that combines were available but restrictions in the use of combines will slow down harvesting. He said, “Farmers will have to spend more. With farm labour not available as they couldn’t return after Holi, farmers will face a tough time taking their grain to mandis. Migrants are available but they are asking a high price.”The district administration will be issuing special pass​es indicating the date on which farmers will be entitled to carry their produce to the mandi. Social distancing norms will be strictly followed by the labour as well as the government staff at the mandis. Special steps are being taken to provide masks, sanitisers and soaps in all the mandis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/costly-labour-curbs-on-movement-rock-the-boat-for-mohali-farmers-in-harvest-season/story-GB1kkKciDtRDcm2UbqD3xN.html
14-04-2020||Lucknow||Muslim cleric issues advisory for Ramzan||Leading Muslim cleric Maulana Khalid Rasheed Farangi Mahali has issued an advisory for Muslims on how to observe Ramzan during the lockdown. Farangi Mahali has appealed to all Muslims to follow the lockdown guidelines strictly during the holy month that is expected to begin from April 24. “Only those living inside mosque will read ‘Tarawih’ (extended prayers at the night after the Isha prayer during Ramzan) inside it while the rest can do the same at their home as coronavirus has to be controlled with the cooperation of every individual,” said Mahali who is also Imam of Eidgah Aishbagh.The Central government has enforced 21-day complete lockdown in the entire country to fight coronavirus pandemic. Though the lockdown period is supposed to end on April 14 but is likely to be extended.“In such case I advise all Muslims to follow the lockdown guidelines and maintain social distancing while fasting during this period. All Muslims are expected to pray at home for end of corona pandemic and things returning back to normal.”He also added that Iftar (ending the day’s fast) in mosque must be avoided and only those people living inside the mosque can perform iftari inside. Those who used to organise iftari for the poor and needy in the past can donate directly to the poor instead of making them assemble at a point. No one should assemble at the mosque.“I also call upon the people to ensure that no one sleeps hungry. Also people should carry out zakat (donation) as it is mandatory in Islam. Besides, everyone should try to read complete Quran Majeed during this holy period,” said Mahali, who is also the chairperson of the Islamic Centre of India.Similarly, Shia cleric Maulana Kalbe Jawwad, Imaam of Asafi Masjid, has also appealed to the members of the community to follow the lockdown guidelines during Ramzan.“Everyone should fast and pray inside their house for the end of the corona pandemic so that normalcy could return. There is no other alternative but to follow social distancing to save humanity. Even in Arab countries lockdown is implemented to control the pandemic.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/muslim-cleric-issues-advisory-for-ramzan/story-5LaTjDZ4wox7GYNPFITwqO.html
14-04-2020||Chandigarh||At 36°C, Chandigarh begins to feel the heat||Summer has kicked off on a strong note, with temperatures rising 10 degrees from a week ago. On Monday, the city’s maximum temperature touched 36°C, the highest this year, and is likely to remain so, even as some respite is likely due to cloudy weather on Tuesday, says the weatherman. In comparison, this maximum temperature was recorded a bit earlier — on April 6 — last year, said India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials. “A weak western disturbance will bring clouds tot he region on Tuesday, along with winds below 40 km/hr. However, a cloudy night will also lead to a rise in minimum temperature,” said the weatherman.Officials added that another western disturbance is likely to affect the city on Friday, due to which the city can expect drizzle and thunder, but the maximum temperature will go on rising.Humidity levels have also started going down, going below 30% routinely during the day, making the days dryer. In comparison humidity used to remain around 50% in the first two weeks of March. On Monday, maximum temperature went up from Sunday’s 33.9 degrees to 36 degrees, and the minimum temperature went down from 20 degrees to 19.1 degrees. Over the next three days, the maximum temperature is expected stay around 36 degrees while the minimum temperature will stay between 20 and 21 degrees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/at-36-c-chandigarh-begins-to-feel-the-heat/story-MFZakPnY8Mfu4O9ACzYhhN.html
14-04-2020||City||In highest spike in a day, GB Nagar reports 16 more cases, total at 80||Noida: The Gautam Budh Nagar district reported 16 new Covid-19 cases on Monday -- the highest spike in cases in a day so far -- taking the total number of patients to 80, officials said.Of the latest 16 cases, nine are linked to the Ceasefire firm and are from sector 5 and 8, two are members of Tablighi Jamaat from Kulsera village in Greater Noida, three from the private hospital in sector 62, one healthcare professional and a girl from Eta Sector, Greater Noida, whose source tracking is yet to be done.The district administration received over 250 test reports on Monday. The reports were getting delayed for the last one week, following a sharp rise in the number of people being tested in the district. All the reports have come from the National Institute of Biologicals in sector 62. The Aligarh Muslim University had also sent pending reports to NIB to reduce load. Officials were compiling the data till late Monday night.Referring to the cases linked to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin, officials said at least 72 persons who had attended the Markaz meeting and their contacts are under government quarantine.“All the persons who have been found positive were already under quarantine at our government centres which shows that our strategy is working and we have managed to contain the spread. We have been keeping people under quarantine who are primary or secondary connections of the infected persons,” said Narendra Bhooshan, Chief Executive Officer, Greater Noida Authority.According to the officials, some of the identified coronavirus positive patients include a 34-year-old woman and her 11-year-old son from a group housing society in Sector 62. A 17-year-old girl from Eta Sector in Greater Noida and a 25-year-old man from Gaur City in Greater Noida West.Three of the latest cases are linked to the woman from Delhi, a lab technician attached with a private hospital in sector 62 who was found positive on April 7. The mother of the 11-year-old was the roommate of the 20-year-old nurse attached with the hospital. The child lived with their relative in the same sector. The man from Gaur City is also colleague of the 20-year-old.In another development, a 32-year-old man who killed himself at a quarantine centre on Sunday evening has been found negative for Covid-19. The person had allegedly jumped from the 7th floor balcony of the quarantine room at Galgotias University in Greater Noida. Officials received his reports on Monday. A magisterial inquiry has been ordered in the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/in-highest-spike-in-a-day-gb-nagar-reports-16-more-cases-total-at-80/story-JDGhRtE9Jhi3hPDlS7xe6N.html
14-04-2020||City||Cursing myself since I tested positive for Covid-19, says panch of Punjab ‘hotspot’||“I have been cursing myself since the day I tested positive,” says Malkit Singh, the 42-year-old panch of Mohali’s Covid-19 hotspot, Jawaharpur Village, his voice full of remorse he speaks over the phone from his hospital bed at the Post Graduate Institute at Medical Education and Research (PGIMER).One of the first persons to test positive on April 4, Malkit Singh and his cousin, the village sarpanch, reportedly defied curfew norms to organise community meals and interact with locals, because of which 37 of their family members were infected.The village, with a population of 3,000, is the largest Covid-19 cluster in Punjab, sending Mohali’s count soaring to 54. It has been declared a containment zone with residents being tested and no one allowed to step out of their homes“I could never imagine all of this happening in the village because of me. I have been cursing myself ever since I tested positive. Initially I thought I had picked up the infection from a worker, but when they all tested negative I was shocked and till date I don’t know how the infection came to our village,” he told the Hindustan Times.‘Thankful for early detection’A panch or village official was required to interact with people, said Singh, who owned a business to decorate marriage palaces in the area. “I used to meet a lot of people every day. But I am thankful that due to early detection many people were saved, otherwise the number would have crossed 100,” he added.When asked why he and the sarpanch violated curfew orders, Malkit Singh said his house was right in front of a dharamshala (community centre) and meetings were held there by village officials to plan the distribution of essential supplies. “The mistake we made was that we did not maintain social distancing or wear masks as these were not available in the markets,” he said.‘God will take care of things’Speaking to HT, the sarpanch said she was praying for life to return to normal in her village. “We do not know what happened but the Almighty will make things right. I really feel sorry that our village has now become infamous, but we have faith in God and will win the battle against the disease. It may take some time, but the good old days will return,” she said.The sarpanch’s husband, admitted at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur said the maximum persons infected in the hospital were their relatives. “It is a tough time for all of us. We request the villagers to stay indoors,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cursing-myself-since-i-tested-positive-for-covid-19-says-panch-of-punjab-hotspot/story-MGWedsDqG2buMXTGzFsaAL.html
14-04-2020||Lucknow||Yogi: Corona impact on China can be investment op for UP||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday said the Covid-19 (coronavirus) impact on China could be an investment opportunity in disguise for Uttar Pradesh. He also asked officers concerned to “take ‘strictest’ action against anyone who conceals Covid-19 infection or deliberately spreads it.”Yogi was speaking at a review meeting he held with the Covid-19 management ‘Team-11’ to review the lockdown scenario in the state. “Under the present global scenario, the US, Japan and several other countries intend to withdraw their investments from China. This could be an opportunity for Uttar Pradesh,” said Yogi, according to a statement issued by his office. He asked infrastructure and industrial development commissioner, principal secretary of MSME and principal secretary of industrial development to make proposals regarding this aspect.Yogi further said: “Identify anyone who hides the infection or attempts to deliberately spread it. Not only this, but also act against any district magistrate or district police chief if they commit any lapse on this count.”The chief minister, talking about the Covid-19 hotspots in the state, said testing for coronavirus must be ramped up in the hotspots. “Make categories in the hotspots and then put multiple teams to executive testing. Also, consolidate door-step delivery of essential items in the hotspots. Work so well that the people in the area get to notice the work being done for their benefit,” he said.Principal secretary, medical and health, Amit Mohan Prasad informed the chief minister that Pilibhit emerged as the first district in the state to have become a Covid-19-free district. All the coronavirus positive patients there have been cured.Yogi said that emergency and critical care should be restored in hospitals without compromising on coronavirus safety protocols. Principal secretary, medical education Rajneesh Dubey informed that the state had only one Covid-19 testing lab on March 3, now it has 14 operational testing labs. Yogi asked him to start a lab in Mathura too soon. Yogi asked the officers concerned to start making arrangements for sending home those persons who have completed 14-day quarantine at shelter homes. “Also, make arrangements for take-away food packets (of grains) for them before they start their homeward journey. Provide a list of such people with their names and addresses to the respective district administrations so that the administrations monitor them for their health status,” Yogi said.Taking about people from other states and countries stranded in UP, Yogi said, “Contact them and sort out their pro​blems.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/yogi-corona-impact-on-china-can-be-investment-op-for-up/story-UEd9KGCYTXSTC7kYvUZRQO.html
14-04-2020||Noida||‘Ceasefire’, Noida’s own Covid-19 super spreader company||Contrary to its name and nature of work, a Sector 135-based security and fire safety solutions company ‘Ceasefire’ has put lakhs of residents of Gautam Budh Nagar at risk of contracting the deadly Covid-19 virus and offered no solution on how to make them safe.After the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in south Delhi’s Nizamuddin, which accounted for 1,071 Covid-19 cases in Delhi -- about two-thirds of the total cases confirmed of 1,510 (till Monday) -- Ceasefire has emerged as the second biggest super-spreader in NCR.The company was directly, and indirectly, responsible for a majority of Covid-19 positive cases in Gautam Budh Nagar, prompting the Uttar Pradesh government to declare 13 areas of the district as Covid-19 hot spots. Till Monday evening, of the 68 cases in the district, 41 have been linked to Ceasefire – about 64% of all cases – while another 13 cases have been found in other parts of India, taking the overall tally of Ceasefire-related cases to 54.The nightmare started on March 16, after an auditor of the company complained about symptoms of Covid-19. The visiting auditor had come from the UK. The company’s managing director, too, had returned from the UK on March 1, while another employee had returned on March 7.Shockingly, instead of being isolated by the administration, they themselves volunteered to go into quarantine, which they jumped soon after. The MD is still at the isolation ward of a hospital, despite two of his reports coming negative for the disease as doctors believe he is an asymptomatic carrier of the virus. “Nobody wants to spread a pandemic in society. The moment we noticed that our company has become the source of infection, we asked all employees to go into quarantine and take tests of Covid-19. But, we didn’t anticipate the speed of the spread and by the time things got worse, many lapses had happened on our part as well,” the MD said.When asked why his company had concealed the travel history of its employees, he refused to answer.According to the administration, all three persons jumped their quarantine and were attending office, consequently spreading the virus among other employees and then to their family members. The district administration and the health department proved a colossal failure to check the spread of the disease in its nascent stages, with the result that the company and the cases it gave rise to became the root cause for the transfer of then district magistrate BN Singh and chief medical officer Dr Anurag Bhargava. In a meeting with district officials on March 30, chief minister Yogi Adityanath expressed his displeasure with these officials for their inability to contain the surge in Covid-19 cases and divested them of their duties. While Bhargava refused comment on this, BN Singh said that he had done what “was deemed best at that time”.The first thing that the new district magistrate Suhas LY did upon taking charge on March 31 was to seal the Ceasefire premises and sanitise it. But that was too little, too late.The first Ceasefire employee had tested positive for Covid-19 on March 17 and by March 25, 12 employees were positive. But even then, no one from the health department or the district administration bothered to visit the company. Ceasefire employees said security guards were reporting for duty even after so many employees had tested positive.Company officials claim that it had asked all its employees to stay at home after the first case was reported. But due to 21-day nationwide lockdown from March 25, instead of staying put at home, several of them went back to their respective hometowns. A Ceasefire employee, preferring anonymity, said, “At first, I didn’t understand why the company asked us to remain on leave. I knew of their mischief only when my wife, mother and son tested positive for Covid-19. They are now in the isolation ward. But, since I am not positive for the disease, on the doctors’ opinion that I may be a carrier, I have put myself in quarantine,” he said.When the state government found that the company had succeeded in giving the slip to the administrative and health authorities – by breaking the quarantine periphery – it asked the Noida police to step in for some fire fighting.The Noida police collected employee details and started coordinating with the police in other districts from April 1. Commissioner of police (CP) Alok Singh said it was really hard to reconnect the broken links. “There were many torn links in the case. The toughest task was to solve the matrix, to identify the super spreaders (person responsible for transmitting the disease to most others),” he said.With the intervention of the Noida police, the administration was finally able to carry out contact tracing of infected persons and get a handle on consequent infections using comprehensive coding. Sample this: Of the total 162 of employees at Ceasefire, 23 tested positive. “Ceasefire employees spread the virus to persons in Delhi, Haryana, Punjab and Rajasthan, besides to many in districts of Meerut, Bulandshahr, Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar,” Singh said.The police chief further said so far, the police have established telephonic conversations with over 1,200 B parties (contacts) of infected persons, living in different states and have also established direct or indirect contact with all employees of the company.“All of them have been put under home quarantine and we are in regular touch with them. While 26 persons have been found to be primary infections, 28 others have been declared as secondary infections,” he said.Explaining the coding process, Singh said employees of the company have been marked with abbreviated code of Ceasefire, i.e. CF-1, CF-2 and others. “For the B-parties – who were in contact with the employees – we have given codes like CF-1/1, CF-1/2 and so on. For the C-parties – who were not in the direct contact with the employees, but in the contact with B-parties, the code is like CF-1/1/1, CF-1/1/2 and so on. With these codes, we are now able to establish whether the new cases have any connection with the companies or not,” he said. Singh further said that a similar sort of coding for everyone who lives or works in GB Nagar, is already on the cards, to trace out the cases systematically. “A complete database is a must to win this crisis. We are safe till we are able to trace out cases and their sources. The moment the tracing chain will be broken, our situation will be dire,” he said.Dr Saurav Srivastava, the head of Covid-19 ward at the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in Greater Noida, also agrees that systematic contact tracing is a must.“There is a hairline difference between an infected person and a carrier. It is not necessary that a carrier will always test positive for Covid-19,” he said.In the context of Ceasefire-related cases, Dr Srivastava said it is still a mystery that two persons from the company, who are believed to be the key sources of infection, had tested negative in repeated tests.“In cases of this nature, it is hard to identify the exact source. Strangely, four other Ceasefire employees were also found negative in tests, but 12 of their family members were found positive for Covid-19. As a doctor, I can’t rule out that they might have overcome the infection at an early stage – maybe due to a strong immunity,” he said.Earlier, the Expressway police had lodged an FIR against Ceasefire under Section 45 (offences committed within India), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code.The FIR was lodged on the orders of the chief medical officer for hiding the foreign travel history of a few employees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/ceasefire-noida-s-own-covid-19-super-spreader-company/story-mDqszFJCD5QQvfHdv22uKL.html
14-04-2020||Chandigarh||150 arrested for venturing out of house for morning walk in Chandigarh||An advocate, businessmen and IT professionals literally “walked” into trouble on Monday as police arrested 150 persons out for their morning constitutional despite curfew orders in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. About 32 others were arrested for venturing out without masks and 18 FIRs registered.A number of Punjab and Haryana bureaucrats were among 466 rounded up and let off with a warning.The special drive to nab walkers was carried out in 120 parks across the city, including 40 in the central sub-division, 35 in the east and 45 in the south sub-divisions.Police stations under which maximum arrests were made included Sarangpur with 98 persons in six cases; Sector 11 with seven persons in two cases; Sector 3 with six persons in one case; Sector 26 with 15 persons in six cases; Industrial Area with nine persons; Sector 19 with three persons and Sector 34 with nine persons in five cases.Majority from colony areasA majority of the people arrested by Sarangpur police are from colony areas. “They went for walks in the morning even after repeated warnings,” said a police official.Among those arrested were a 26-year-old B Tech graduate working in a private firm in Mohali and a 35-year-old man with a degree from an Australian university working for an international firm, said a Sector 19 police station official, requesting anonymity.The Punjab and Haryana bureaucrats rounded up were let off with a warning, said a senior police official carrying out the drive.“Senior citizens too were rounded but they cited health problems as the reason why they needed to walk,” said a police official posted in the south subdivision. Without masksOf the 32 arrested without masks, 14 were from the east sub-division in 13 cases. Only two cases were registered in the central sub-division with 11 persons; and three cases with seven arrests in the south.Commenting on the drive, senior superintendent of police (SSP) Nilambari Jagadale said, “The crackdown will continue till the time people completely adhere to the prohibitory orders. They need to understand that it is being done for their welfare and keeping their safety in mind. Anybody found going for a walk will be booked immediately.”The cases are being registered under section 188 (disobedience of order promulgated by a public servant) of the Indian Penal Code, under which a person can be fined up to Rs 1,000 and be imprisoned for up to six months.The chief patron of Chandigarh Residents Association Welfare Federation (CRAWFED) and president of the Senior Citizen Council of Sector 38, Major (retd) DP Singh, said, “All RWAs and senior citizen groups had messaged members to abstain from morning walks to stop the spread of Covid-19. The police must continue to take action against people not following orders.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/150-arrested-for-venturing-out-of-house-for-morning-walk-in-chandigarh/story-ItAz6ahCMr4vqy1negOD8H.html
14-04-2020||Delhi||What makes an area a red zone?||Chandni Mahal, Nabi Karim and Sadar Bazar in Old Delhi, G and D blocks of Nizamuddin West in the south-east district, and B block in north-west Delhi’s Jahangirpuri, apart from the two designated coronavirus disease hot spots at Nizamuddin Basti and Dilshad Garden, are among the 47 containment zones declared by the Delhi government to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).But the reason why these areas have been picked for greater curbs are varied -- from population density, to awareness, to a cluster of infections, to proximity to high-risk areas, to the inability to track the source of infection. Multiple state government officials HT spoke to said that there were no common rules, guidelines or checklists to define containment zones. An order by the Delhi government’s directorate general health services, dated April 12 said that containment activity can be undertaken “even if there is a clustering of three cases.” But the order also said that a final decision will be “taken on the ground by the district authorities as per the geographical boundaries of the area of the cluster”.“The aim is to stop the chain on of transmission of Covid-19. We are declaring an area a containment zone, even if there is just one case but if we feel there is a threat of clustering or community transmission. While basic guidelines have been given to district administration, but the final decision is left to the medical team and the district magistrate at the ground level,” said a senior district official who asked not to be named.So, for example, Chandni Mahal, Nabi Karim and Sadar Bazaar were sealed after small clusters of Covid-19 cases was reported in these areas; parts of Nizamuddin West neighbourhood were declared containment zones because of their proximity to Tablighi Jamaat headquarters in Nizamuddin Basti; and Vardhaman Apartments in Mayur Vihar was declared a “red zone” though there was just one case reported because the common areas and utilities of the society were found hard to protect from contamination.While there is a 21-day lockdown in place across the country, the containment zones have stricter restrictions. People living here -- the zone could be a block, a street, a plot, or just a building -- are not allowed to step out of their houses, and essentials are home-delivered directly by the authorities.They are also subjected to the Delhi government’s enhanced safety protocols -- described last week by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal as “Operation SHIELD”. The S stands for sealing, H for home-quarantine, I for isolation and tracing, E for essential supplies, L for local sanitisation, and D for door-to-door checking. “The objective is to contain the area so that proper disinfection of the neighbourhood and screening of residents can be done to avoid further spread of the virus. A neighbourhood in south Delhi’s Deoli was declared a containment zone after eight members of a family were found positive with Covid-19. Similarly, some areas around the Markaz building in Nizamuddin were turned into containment zones after many people evacuated from there were tested positive with Covid-19,” said joint commissioner of police (southern range) Devesh Chandra Srivastava.While these parameters seem obvious and objective, the selection of areas where there are no more than one or two cases is more complicated, and based on subjective calls by health officials.A second senior government official who asked not to be named said that one of the key parameters considered while deciding these areas required enhanced containment was unclear source of infection, which could be a sign of “community transmission” -- the third stage of the spread of any infection in which the chain of contamination can no longer be established. Once stage three sets in (the first two stages are travel history and local transmission), the next level is epidemic.There are several containment zones where only one case was reported. These include Gandhi Park in Malviya Nagar, and the slum cluster at South Moti Bagh (south Delhi); H and E blocks of Abu Fazal Enclave, Garhi village in East of Kailash, and Mahella Mohalla in Madanpur Khadar (south-east Delhi); and Kalyanpuri, Khichripur and Pandav Nagar in (east Delhi). “A majority of these areas are thickly populated. To break the chain of transmission of the virus, it was felt necessary to declare them as containment zones and screen all the people even though in some areas the patients have recovered. In some areas, the contact history of the patient is yet to be traced due to which chances of more testing positive area high. We are screening all the households in the containment areas and also doing testing of suspected cases,” said the second official cited above.The “densely populated” theme runs across at least 25 of the 47 zones and includes the working-class neighbourhoods of Kalyanpuri, Khichripur, Madanpur Khadar, Jaitpur Extension, Deoli and Sangam Vihar, where officials say the awareness of social distancing is limited as compared to the city’s relatively upscale colonies.“To ensure that the spread of the disease is contained, some aggressive measures have to be taken else it can lead to community transmission. This may be the reason why some of the areas have been declared as containment zones despite just 1-2 cases being reported from there,” said DrJugal Kishore, head of the department community medicine at Safdarjung hospital.In south-west Delhi’s Mahavir Enclave, which was declared a containment zone on Sunday, a nurse working at a hospital that has a Covid isolation ward was diagnosed last week. Her two children and a neighbour also tested positive. “It’s a dense pocket where people interact frequently. So the risk of transmission is very high. We tested as many as 70 persons in the containment area today, and the results are awaited,” an official said.Several officials said the biggest problem Delhi was facing was the possibility of “clustering” in residential localities. “With the movement of residents restricted in containment zones, the district administrations have got some success in slowing down the transmission. Extensive door-to-door screening in each containment zone is also helping identify new cases,” said the first official. Some of the areas where clustering appears to have occurred -- apart from Nizamuddin Basti and Dilshad Garden -- are in central Delhi. Of the 13 deaths reported in the district, five were reported in Chandni Mahal and four in Sadar Bazaar.“Out of 102 people staying in 13 different locations in the Chandni Mahal area, 52 have tested positive. The interaction between people who tested positive and residents of Chandni Mahal can’t be ruled out,” according to the Friday order designating the area a containment zone, issued by the Delhi government’s Central Zone district magistrate, Nidhi Srivastava.“When Sadar Bazar was declared a containment area there were seven cases and now there are 18 Covid-19 positive cases,” said a senior central district official aware of the development.The government says that its “SHIELD programme” is also allowed them to test those with symptoms, isolate and treat patients, and stop further transmission.Delhi’s health minister Satyendar Jain on Friday had said that Dilshad Garden, a Covid-19 hot spot, was “Coronavirus free” with no new cases reported in the last 10 days due to measures taken under the SHIELD programme. Dilshad Garden was among the first areas to be declared a containment zone on April 8.Dr Lalit Kant, former head of epidemiology and communicable disease at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) backed the Delhi government’s decision to declare 47 containment zones. “It is a good thing they are doing by declaring containment zone even if there is one case reported from the area. If these measures are not taken right now, the situation will boomerang. Contact tracing and surveillance is the key to contain the spread of transmission of this disease,” Dr Kant said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/what-makes-an-area-a-red-zone/story-91MOdLOYTeGTUrXHIF083I.html
14-04-2020||Delhi||356 new cases in Delhi: Highest spike puts count at 1,510||The number of confirmed coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the national capital jumped to 1,510 after 356 -- nearly twice the previous high for single-day new cases -- more people were found with the virus. Over 90% of the new infections detected are among people evacuated from the Nizamuddin building of the Tablighi Jamaat.Monday’s numbers underline a trend seen since the end of March: 70% of all new cases in Delhi are from those who were evacuated from the building, where they shared space in close quarters. Of the 1,451 active infections, 49 are in the intensive care unit with five of them on ventilator. So far, samples from 15,032 people have been collected in Delhi and result of 1,008 were awaited till Monday evening.“Most of the 998 samples that remain to be tested in government labs are from the people evacuated under the special operation,” said a Delhi government official. The government stopped referring to the cases linked to the Nizamuddin cluster as those from the ‘Markaz’, replacing it with ‘special operations’. The city reported four more deaths on Monday, taking the death toll due to the illness to 28. A break-up of the 24 deaths reported till Sunday showed that half of the deaths were in one hospital – Dr Ram Manohar Lohia. The hospital has treated only 34 of the 1,120 cases in the city. The death rate at the hospital is a whopping 35%, whereas the death rate among the other cases are just 1%.“Most of the Covid deaths that have occurred in our hospital are of patients who were referred from other hospitals at an advanced stage and had significant comorbidities. The patients who are attending our hospital early in their course of disease or do not have significant comorbidities are faring very well,” said the hospital in a statement.“Whenever such kind of statistic is presented, the first thing we need to see is whether the hospital is receiving the highest number of cases or the most critical cases. And, that is what must have happened. Initially, RML was the only testing centre and it was the first hospital people were getting admitted to. So, most of the critical cases remained there, that could be the reason for the high mortality rate,” according to Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicineSome blame it on the infrastructure. “It is a new medical college, the facility is smaller and the equipment is not advanced, all these issues definitely play a role in mortality,” said a doctor from a government hospital, on condition of anonymity. At least seven more health care workers from two private hospitals in the city have tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday, taking the tally of doctors, nurses, technicians, and sanitation staff with the infection in the city to 55. Of these, 23 are from the Delhi State Cancer Institute, which has become a hotspot for Covid-19. Four patients and the relative of one have also tested positive for the infection. A 2-year-old boy, the son of one of the nursing staff who tested positive earlier, also tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/356-new-cases-in-delhi-highest-spike-puts-count-at-1-510/story-rW1SY80ifhnbzY3byuU4DO.html
14-04-2020||Delhi||In pandemic-hit city, Emoha steps up to help the elderly||Sixty-nine-year-old Sneh Grover, a resident of west Delhi’s Maya Enclave, was worried when Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a nationwide lockdown from March 25, to control the spread of Covid-19.Grover lives with her husband, and reports of senior citizens being more vulnerable to the virus had only added to her panic. Last week, however, her problem was solved when Varun Suri stepped forward.Suri is a volunteer with Emoha Elder Care, a tech start-up offering solutions that enable elders to comfortably live at home. Emoha has been providing services for senior citizens across Delhi and the neighbouring satellite towns for over two years, and recently launched a special programme ‘Elders First, Ghar pe Rahiye’ to help senior citizens in Delhi-NCR survive the lockdown. Emoha volunteers, while delivering essentials at doorsteps, also ensure their own safety by strictly following social distancing norms.In a span of two weeks, more than 2,500 volunteers signed up to help out the elderly purchase their everyday essentials, so that they do not risk their health by stepping out. With Covid-19 cases on the rise in the region, Emoha has launched a free 24x7 helpline — 1800-123-44-5555 — for senior citizen needs.Hindustan Times has partnered with Emoha to cater to the needs of the elderly.From delivering essential commodities at their doorsteps to providing emergency ambulance coordination, virtual doctor consults and even virtual recreational activities, Emoha is going all out to help out the elderly as the pandemic rages on in the city.Saumyajit Roy, CEO and co-founder of Emoha, said they have stepped up their operations considering the elderly needed the most care, during such a crisis. He said that along with expanding their volunteer base, the caregiver service is now also roping in more health care experts to have sessions with their clients to ease the panic around the infection. He added: “Emoha’s strength lies in the fact that our elders feel comfortable calling us for any help they need and we encourage young people to come forward and join us to make this happen.”To register as a volunteer with Emoha Elder Care, people need to sign up on their website www.emoha.com or download the Emoha Responder App on Google Play/iOS store. Likewise, an elder seeking help can also sign up on Emoha’s website, which has over registered 2,600 senior citizens.Explaining how Emoha functions, Roy said most volunteers cater to senior citizens living in their vicinity. For instance, he says, when a senior citizen calls the Emoha helpline to place a request like help with grocery delivery from a neighbourhood, the request will be flashed to all volunteers in the area; these volunteers can then coordinate and buy the required items. Since the requests are forwarded from with a vicinity, volunteers do not have to depend on any mode of transportation to complete the task., and Emoha recommends the elders reimburse the volunteers through digital payments.In Gurugram, the startup has also collaborated with the police to cater to the needs of seniors.Sharing his experience with the service, 63-year-old Murli Das, a resident of east Delhi, said he requested Emoha to help him get two of his wife’s medicines, which he was unable to find in his neighbourhood medical stores because of lockdown restrictions.“The volunteer was a young man named Kamal. He called to assure me that he will find the medicines as soon as he can. Within a few hours, he was at my doorstep. It had been many days since we had spoken to a friendly voice from outside, it felt nice,” Das said in a video message.“In such times when stepping out means risking your lives, it is important to care for our elders. In a day I get three to four calls from my area for the delivery of basic requirements like vegetables and groceries. I just have to buy some extra while I buy some for my own house,” said Shafiq, another volunteer from Emoha.Health experts said such initiatives were welcome because it was important for senior citizens to stay at home. “Anyone above the age of 50 years need to be extra careful. The elderly have compromised immunity and their lungs take more time clearing up. All these factors make them extremely vulnerable to coronavirus,” said Ravi Shekhar Jha, senior consultant and head of department, pulmonology, Fortis Escorts Hospital, Faridabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/in-pandemic-hit-city-emoha-steps-up-to-help-the-elderly/story-ruXFKN73yLMDgkhuqXEzRN.html
14-04-2020||Delhi||Delhi doctor couple quarantined together caught up with friends and each other||Getting back in touch with old friends and spending hours talking to his wife – this summed up the experience of Dr Mohinder Sardana, 62, at the isolation facility of Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital, Rohini, where he was admitted after testing positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). His wife, Poonam Sardana, 61, a gynaecologist who worked at the same clinic, was also infected and admitted to the same room. “The facilities at the hospital were great; I got to share a room with my wife. We were served good breakfast, lunch and dinner. The doctors and staff were very nice and polite. But 14 days is a long time. I called up my friends from medical college and some people I haven’t talked to in years. My wife and I also had the time to just sit and talk to each other, which we miss out during our routine,” Dr Sardana said. He also used the time to watch some movies on his phone and read up a little.“I even got calls from some of my patients who came to know that I had Covid-19,” he said. He and his wife were discharged on Monday after testing negative for the infection twice consecutively.So far, at least 51 healthcare workers across the city have contracted the disease. Dr Sardana has been working at his clinic in North Delhi’s GTB Nagar for 38 years now. He has been treating people with fever and cough for as long as he can remember, but one such patient who came to his clinic in the first two weeks of March passed on the infection to him.Watch:  Delhi’s Dr Mohinder Sardana’s coronavirus experience in isolation ward“I had a slight fever on March 23, nothing out of the ordinary. So, I just had paracetamol and got back to work. Two days later, the fever came back. I also developed a cough that worsened the next day. This got me worried. I closed my clinic and went to get myself tested at one of the private labs. The report came back positive for Covid-19,” Sardana said. A total of 1,154 people in the city have contracted the infection and 24 have died of it. Once he tested positive, his wife – a gynaecologist who works at the same clinic – their maid, and five employees went to Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital to get tested for the infection.“They collected our samples and admitted all of us to the isolation ward in the hospital,” Dr Sardana said. His wife and one of their employees tested positive for the infection on March 30.“I must have passed on the infection to her, as she had stopped going to the clinic about a week before the nationwide lockdown was announced. But what is concerning is that the surveillance teams haven’t been able to trace who passed on the infection to me,” Dr Sardana said. The surveillance teams collected the details of hundreds of patients who had visited his clinic about a week before he started showing symptoms. “My register was locked at the clinic, so I provided some of the numbers on my phone. They also tracked my phone to find the other people I might have come in contact with. They also screened people in a 2km radius of my clinic, but nobody was found positive,” he said.Apart from the fever and cough he had for a couple of days, he did not experience any other symptoms. “As for my wife and employee, their symptoms were even milder. They just had a body ache for a couple of days, took some pain medicine and were fine,” Dr Sardana said.“If the symptoms are so mild, how can we expect to know who is Covid-19 positive and who is not? I am a doctor; I suspected it so I got myself tested. Nobody else would even think of getting the test done for such mild symptoms,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-doctor-couple-quarantined-together-caught-up-with-friends-and-each-other/story-9DTg4CpiS3C016KNng76TP.html
14-04-2020||Delhi||In areas where social distancing not followed, shops to shut early||At several places across the city where the police have received complaints of residents not following social distancing, shopkeepers have been instructed by the police to shut retail shops by 6pm. Retail shop owners in different parts of the city said they were instructed by the police to close shop before the evening rush. Senior Delhi police officers said that police stations across the city are discussing with market welfare associations the different ways to prevent crowding, such as closing early or allowing shops to open at different times of the day. The police are yet to issue a formal order to implement this across the city. Several shopkeepers said they started closing early on the police’s orders, while some said they were doing so on their own. Raj Arora, who owns a grocery store in East of Kailash, which has three containment zones (areas sealed to contain the spread of Covid-19) around, said they were closing their shop before 6pm. “In the evening, the queues get longer. We were told to maintain social distancing norms by the local police else we could be booked. After some areas were sealed, it was decided that we will open the shops only till 3pm to restrict the movement of those who come out in the evening,” Arora said.In nearby Kailash Colony and Greater Kailash-I M-block markets also, retailers said that two days ago, the area station house officer had asked them to shut shop by 6pm, as some crowding was observed around that time. “More movement was seen on the streets and the market around 6pm when people would just come out to get supplies. The two provisional stores and even vegetable vendors in the market now shut down by that time,” said Rajendra Sharda, president, GK-1 M-block market.Joint commissioner of police(southern range) Devesh Srivastava said the police are in touch with all market welfare associations. “We will ensure that people have access to essential items. At many places such as in Govindpuri, the market welfare association told us that they would decide the timings to open shops. They have assured us that they would do it in a staggered manner. Many other market associations have come up with their own ways of ensuring social distancing.” The police said they are focusing on social distancing at market places. Two station house officers were on Friday transferred from their post for failing to ensure social distancing. In north Delhi’s Ashok Vihar also, grocery store owners have decided to shut down early. “There was a lot of movement in the evening and hence the police asked us to close early. We have been closing down by 4pm for the past week,” Sandeep Bhatia, a shopowner in phase-2 Ashok Vihar, said.Several shopkeepers said that while they have been following orders, they are at the receiving end from both the police and the residents. Amit Dudeja, who owns a department store near Tara Apartments, Alaknanda, said that despite the circles drawn on the ground that designate waiting spots, people do not follow the rules of social distancing. “The police lodged a case against me last week for the same even though I had been following all the steps. It was just that people were not standing the way they were supposed to in the queue. Since then I decided to down my shutters by 3pm. Most people come to the market in the evening just to get out of their homes for which we have to pay a price,” Dudeja said.In places like Nabi Karim and Chandni Mahal, which have been declared containment zones, the police are allowing shops to open for three hours in the morning and the evening. Deputy commissioner of police (Central) Sanjay Bhatia said, “ The staggered timings are only for areas in containment zones. We are doing this to ensure social distancing. At the same time, we will ensure that people are not deprived of essential goods.” Senior government and police officers said that they have discussed different ways in which other countries have managed crowding at markets. If the number of cases continues to rise, the state government and police could issue gender-based lockdown rules such as allowing only men and women to shop on different days. In Peru and Italy, the government has ordered men to leave the house three days while allowing women to leave the other three. But several senior officers, who spoke to HT on condition on anonymity, said it was too early to even suggest such rules because the volume of cases in Delhi is comparatively lower than the cities of such countries. GOVERNMENT ON SOCIAL DISTANCING AT WHOLESALE MARKETSDevelopment Minister of Delhi Gopal Rai on Monday held a meeting with the members of the market associations of seven wholesale markets of Delhi. The government in a press statement said they have implemented an odd-even policy in the markets to avoid crowding. “...The odd-even scheme will allow sale at odd-numbered platforms in each shed on dates ending with 1, 3, 5, 7, and 9 and even-numbered platforms on dates ending with 0, 2, 4, 6 and 8...The government has also directed a change in the timings... Vegetable markets will be open from 6am to 11am and fruit markets will be open from 2pm to 6 pm. The entry to these markets will be allowed only through coupons...” Rai said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/in-areas-where-social-distancing-not-followed-shops-to-shut-early/story-xTIVaxUQYTZyZsXlaOdzWK.html
14-04-2020||Delhi||Lives locked down, but learning spreads it wings online||Darshan Ram, 17, had not expected to begin his last year in school from home. Instead of leaving for school at 6.30 in the morning, the class 12 student of Bluebells School International now begins his day an hour later, in front of his computer screen.“My routine has changed since we have to attend online classes from home. I wake up only half an hour before classes begin. Since we have been asked to dress formally and not attend classes in night suits, I change my clothes, eat something, and then attend sessions between 8am and 12pm,” he said.For school-going children across the capital, a new academic session is generally marked with new books, bags, uniforms, and the excitement of starting another year with friends. However, with the rapid spread of Covid-19 cases and the subsequent shutting of all schools, most students and parents are now adjusting to a new alternative — online learning.While the switch from regular classes to digital happened in a flash, Ram isn’t complaining. After attending the online sessions, the Noida Sector 104 resident spends the next few hours completing assignments sent by his school via email. “None of us had ever imagined that we would start our final school year like this. One positive thing about the lockdown is that I’m getting a lot of time to do the things I’ve always wanted to. I’ve recently started a YouTube channel with my father where we upload skits on different topics,” Ram said. Both private and public schools in the capital have switched to online lessons via videoconferencing, recorded video and audio lectures, presentation slides, podcasts, portable document format (PDFs), worksheets and activities on emails. With homes turning into classrooms and books being replaced by computers and phones, the education sector is slowly being reshaped by the lockdown, leading to a shift in the lives and lifestyles of thousands of students, and their parents.Several students said the online mode has made learning more interesting. Himanshi Sanyal, a class 12 student at Mount Abu School in Rohini, said every morning, she looks forward to the online classes. “It becomes easier to understand topics with PPTs and visuals. We generally have 35-minute long sessions in school. But online, we are getting 45 minutes to an hour on each subject. We are getting more opportunities to learn and the responses to our queries are quicker,” she said.Some students, however, miss the fun and banter that a classroom with its desks and blackboard affords. “When we sit with friends, we understand things better and it is much more fun. That togetherness is what I miss now. Also, we are not used to sitting in front of the computer screen for four hours every day and it often causes my eyes to ache. I miss going to school,” Myra Chawla, 14, a class 10 student at KR Mangalam World School, said. School from home amid work from homeParents, too, are taking extra measures to adapt to the new lifestyle. Shreya Sharma, mother of a class 9 student at DPS Mathura Road, said parents have to maintain a classroom-like environment at home while their children are tuned in to a session. “We need to make sure that there is no noise in the background while our daughter attends her classes. Nobody enters the room where she sits with her laptop,” Sharma said.“I also sit with my daughters to get their assignments done since the coaching centres are also closed,” Suman, a lawyer, who has three school-going children, said.Some parents are making alternative arrangements for themselves so that their laptops are available for their children’s classes. Shantanu Sharma, a resident of Mayur Vihar-1 who works with an IT firm, said they have only one laptop at home. “I also have to work from home and have to stay connected to my office throughout the day. Now I’ve changed my shift timing so that the laptop remains available for my 13-year-old son till noon,” he said. New experience for teachers The shift in the medium has been a learning curve for teachers as well. They are now preparing e-learning material, while also adapting to new applications and the look and feel of an online class. Vineeta Nanda, a primary teacher at Mount Abu School, said although there were hiccups initially, things have become streamlined now. “We were all new to the apps. But students were excited from Day One. They are really ahead of us in terms of technology. The lockdown has given us an opportunity to brush up our IT skills and experiment with different methods of teaching. We are making videos and PPTs on every topic. That way, we are developing e-learning material that can be used later during regular classroom sessions as well,” she said.Some private schools also held special training sessions for teachers to make them capable of making the most of the new medium. Manju Sethi, principal of Bluebells School International, said, “While our students and teachers are well trained in using online learning tools, the current situation is different and calls for extensive interactive classroom-like structure. We held a seven-day training session for our teachers from nursery to class 12 to handle this.”Is online the way forward?Ritu Madan, officiating principal at Springdales Dhaula Kuan, said her school is also experimenting with podcasts. Madan said her computer department was engaged in conducting training sessions for teachers on how to prepare educational podcasts. Other than that, the school is also encouraging students to use the CBSE’s learning apps.In a city that is no stranger to emergency school closures owing to everything from pollution to extreme weather conditions and political agitations, an alternative learning medium could be the answer to ensuring an uninterrupted academic session. Last year, the government had shut schools for over a week on account of severe pollution. In February, schools in northeast Delhi were shut due to communal riots. Several principals said with a proper online learning mechanism in place, students will not lose out on classes during situations when they are unable to reach schools. “Sometimes, senior students need online modules for clearing their doubts when they remain at home before exams. Also, schools are often suspended due to pollution or agitations and conflicts. That was why we were preparing an online teaching module. We wanted to create a learning model which would be sustainable in the future as well,” Divya Bhatia, principal of Amity International School in Saket, said.Are students ready for digital learning?Although India’s internet penetration stood at 52.08% in 2019, as per Telecom Regulatory Authority of India data, not many have access to high bandwidth internet connections or devices needed to facilitate online learning. Experts have pointed out that this will be an obstacle in making digital learning a viable alternative.“Right now, we have rushed into online learning, but solid groundwork is needed to make it a viable alternative. For instance, even if students do not have phones or computers at home, they don’t need to go all the way to school. They could go to a local shop or any shared space where they could download lessons and access the e-learning content,” educationist Meeta Sengupta said. “Proper pedagogies and supportive structures have to be designed. Schools should have an online community manager who could manage all content and content curation.”For now, schools have tasked groups of teachers to work closely with students who lack such computer devices and tools. For instance, Springdales Dhaula Kuan has teachers calling all such students and taking a regular update on their learning progress. “Almost all students are on WhatsApp at least. We have a separate group of teachers who ensure that learning material reaches them. The teachers also monitor the progress of the students by calling them,” Madan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lives-locked-down-but-learning-spreads-it-wings-online/story-HE9gL1NxbzpYHsqaroyvvM.html
14-04-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Three new containment zones in west Delhi, one more in Central Delhi||The Delhi government on Monday declared four new Covid-19 containment zones, taking the total of such zones in the national capital to 47. While three new containment zones are in west Delhi district, one is in central Delhi. Till Monday evening, Delhi recorded 1,510 Covid-19 cases and 28 deathsDays after five persons, from the same family, tested positive for Covid-19 in Paschim Vihar, another case was reported from the area but from a different locality -- Krishna Apartment, a middle-class neighbourhood. With this, there are two containment zones in Paschim Vihar. The other two containment zones in west Delhi are East Patel Nagar and a JJ cluster in Madipur after one case each was reported from these areas. There are now seven containment zones in west Delhi district. “The patient from Patel Nagar is admitted to a private hospital and as per the hospital, the patient had a travel history to a foreign country. One positive case was reported from Krishna Apartment. The patient from Madipur JJ colony is a contractual employee. Contact tracing of these cases is on. The area around these locations have been made containment zones,” a west district official, requesting not to be named, said.He added that community screening will be started in these localities from Tuesday.Madipur councillor and mayor South Delhi Municipal Corporation Sunita Kangra said, “Madipur patient used to work at Agrasen Hospital. He tested positive two days ago. Lanes around his house have already been disinfected. Two more cases were suspected in the locality but their test reports were negative.” Sant Nagar in central Delhi was declared a containment zone on Monday, after a person tested positive for Covid-19. With this, there are four containment zones in central Delhi, which has reported 13 deaths due to Covid-19 so far. DM (central) Nidhi Srivastava said Balaji Apartments, in Sant Nagar, Burari, was included in the list of containment zones after one person tested positive a couple of days ago.“Only one Covid-19 positive case is reported from there so far. It’s a micro containment zone as flats here are located in close proximity and so there are potential chances of a virus spread. All 27 flats in the three-storey building have been sealed. Necessary steps are being taken to ensure that residents do not face any problems,” Srivastava said.The Delhi government, on Sunday, had announced 10 new containment zones, including three in East of Kailash residential neighbourhood in southeast Delhi, the district with the highest number of containment zones (12) so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/three-new-containment-zones-in-west-delhi-one-more-in-central-delhi/story-vw9cC0LfOAsAhOIwtAMDhI.html
14-04-2020||Delhi||Areas without containment zones on a war footing to avoid clusters||The 47 containment zones in the national capital are spread over nine of Delhi government’s 11 revenue districts, barring Northeast and Northwest Delhi, where there are no sealed areas. But the administration is working on a war footing to ensure there is no “clustering of cases” in these two districts.From completing contact tracing of existing cases to routine screening in residential neighbourhoods, especially in high-density areas, the administration is taking all possible measures, leaving nothing to chance.The Northeast district is highly vulnerable due to its densely populated residential neighbourhoods. Several pockets here were adversely affected by the communal riots in February, displacing thousands. The district is also in close proximity to Dilshad Garden, one of the two Covid-19 hot spots in Delhi.While 24 and 30 cases have been reported from East Delhi and Shahdara, respectively, two of the three districts in the trans-Yamuna region, only nine cases have been reported from the Northeast Delhi, the third district, which comprises neighbourhoods of Karawal Nagar, Yamuna Vihar, Gokalpuri and Shiv Vihar.In Northwest Delhi, which comprises Model Town, Shalimar Bagh and Rohini, 13 cases have been reported so far.District magistrate (Northeast Delhi) Shashi Kaushal said that house-to-house screening, health check-ups, quick response, round-the-clock monitoring, intensified sanitisation drives and awareness campaigns are some of the measures the administration has taken to control the spread of coronavirus in the region.“So far, no cluster cases have been reported. There are only nine cases (till Monday morning) in the entire district. Containment zones are generally formed when several cases are reported from a single cluster,” Kaushal said.District magistrate (Northwest Delhi), Sandeep Mishra, too, said that “no clustering of cases” has been reported in his area. “All the 13 cases are isolated cases and we have done primary and secondary contact tracing in 11 cases. We are in the process of completing the contact tracing of two cases. There are no signs of clustering in any of the localities from where these cases have been reported,” said Mishra, who has 161 teams doing the screening in the area.While there are no containment zones in their areas, both DMs said that they are taking stringent measures to avoid clustering. Rigorous monitoring, house-to-house survey, health check-up along with blocking of roads are conducted.“Except for sealing the area, we are taking all other measures that are being taken in a containment zone. Rigorous monitoring and screening of households in being done by the health team comprising ASHA and ANM workers. Regular announcements, urging the public to follow social distancing and stay indoors, are also being made,” Kaushal said.Mishra said that in the recent rapid response team (RRT) meeting, it was decided that there is no need, at present, to declare it a containment zone. “All the cases are reviewed by the RRT. As there is no clustering being reported, we don’t want to strain our existing resources by declaring a containment zone, as we will have to divert our staff to the zone. Right now, we are keeping a strict vigil on those who are in home-quarantine,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/areas-without-containment-zones-on-a-war-footing-to-avoid-clusters/story-RlvAwqtQWO0OXci5zyOlML.html
14-04-2020||Gurugram||20 medical teams to be formed to operate mobile clinics in Gurugram||To address the regular medical issues of citizens left unaddressed due to the unfolding of the Covid-19 crisis, the state health department, on Monday, directed all district administrations to form 20 teams, consisting of doctors, paramedics and pharmacist, to operate mobile dispensaries. These teams will visit different areas of the districts in Haryana Roadways buses, which will be converted into mobile clinics, to provide general OPD services and trace people exhibiting Covid-19 symptoms.“For mobile dispensaries to function, a minimum of 20 teams have to be formed, which will include doctors, paramedics and pharmacists. They will visit their assigned areas, examine the health condition of people who approach them for check-ups and provide them with medicine,” additional chief secretary of the health department Rajeev Arora said, adding that this service should become operational latest by Wednesday. In his address on Friday, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said there are 250 mobile dispensaries in the state and their number will be increased to 500. The Haryana Roadways has been instructed to make its fleet available to run these mobile clinics. On Monday, Haryana Roadways officials said they have received instructions from the principal secretary of transport and are awaiting a response from the district administration and chief medical officer. Four buses of the Gurugram Metropolitan City Bus Limited (GMCBL) are being used to carry health teams from hospitals to containment zones, for door-to-door surveys and thermal screening.District surveillance officer Sudha Garg said the department has received the order and has been preparing the plan to start the service. She said the survey of Sector 39 containment zone is over and at least 7,800 people were screened with the help of 19 teams. She added that 27 teams have been formed specifically for Pataudi, from where five cases have been reported and 20 teams have been formed to visit village Raipur in Sohna, from where 10 cases have been reported. As part of the order, from Tuesday, normal OPDs will start at community health centres (CHCs) and primary health centre (PHCs). At the Sector 10 Civil Hospital, doctors have started operating five OPDs—three for flu, one for general medicine and one for paediatrics—in an open area which has been covered by tents. “Except maternity ward and neonatal intensive care unit, none of the health facilities are operating at the Civil Hospital as Covid-19 cases are coming to give samples. For the protection of doctors and health staff, we have set up these tents. We have three flu OPDs as most of the people visiting us are worried about having Covid-19 symptoms. We have demarcated areas to ensure basic social distancing rules are followed,” said a doctor at the flu centre, who preferred not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/20-medical-teams-to-be-formed-to-operate-mobile-clinics/story-FnVv9nSGdmqgwHpRQIMiWP.html
14-04-2020||Gurugram||Work on hold due to lockdown, newer Gurugram sectors will have to wait for piped water||The ongoing lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19 has indefinitely delayed piped water connections to the city’s newer sectors, 81 to 99, which currently rely on private tankers and borewells.With many labourers returning to their hometowns, officials of the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) said that the work of laying distribution pipelines in newer sectors, which was previously set to be completed by June, has been suspended.The GMDA was working on a temporary arrangement to supply water from its water treatment plant in Chandu Budera by May. Pradeep Kumar, chief engineer, GMDA, said, “The work to lay pipelines in this area was supposed to be completed before the onset of summer, but as of now, we are unable to state by when this can happen. Most of the labourers involved in the project have returned to their houses in Madhya Pradesh and Bihar, and there is not enough manpower available.”Residents of these sectors are growing increasingly worried, with private tanker facilities also having reduced their supply in the absence of labour. Vinod K, a resident of a condominium in Sector 81 said, “Private tanker facilities are unable to deliver water frequently, so residential societies which have borewells are using them. We are aware that this is a risky proposition, but are left with no other choice. Water demand is going up because of coronavirus lockdown.”Meanwhile, sectors 73 to 80 and 100 to 115, which were to receive piped canal water by the year-end, will also likely have to wait at least till next summer. “The work to lay pipelines in these areas is more than 70% complete, but has been held up. It will resume when labour becomes available again,” an official in the GMDA’s infrastructure division, requesting anonymity, said.“The construction of a boosting station in Sector 72, which was to supply water to newer sectors, will also be delayed. We do not know by how long,” the official said.Despite the area’s real estate boom, which started around 2010, basic infrastructure, such as sewer lines, water supply and roads (which were transferred to the GMDA from the Haryana Shahri Vikas Pradhikaran) are yet to be developed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/work-on-hold-newer-sectors-will-have-to-wait-for-piped-water/story-j06mDPidZQZCSiJ4x9DgaO.html
14-04-2020||Noida||Two discharged patients taken back to hospital after a test finds them positive again||Two coronavirus patients who were discharged from the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS), Greater Noida on Friday were taken back to the hospital after a second round of tests—conducted after they reportedly recovered— found them positive for the infection again on Saturday. The hospital authorities said the patients had recovered from coronavirus disease(Covid-19) and their samples , sent to the National Center for Disease Control (NCDC), had tested negative, and the report from a lab at Aligarh Muslim University that found them positive on Saturday could be a result of a technical glitch. The patients’ samples have been collected again for another round of testing.As a precautionary measure, the patients, a 53-year-old man from Sector 128, Noida and a daughter of Ceasefire employee who lives in 137, were brought back to GIMS right after the Aligarh reports came on Saturday morning, officials said. At least 54 cases of coronavirus are directly or indirectly linked to the fire solutions firm Ceasefire.“The reports from NCDC have found them negative, but the Aligarh lab reports are showing them positive for Covid-19. It is looks like a technical glitch, but we aren’t aware of it completely. We have got the patients back to the hospital as a precautionary measure. Our laboratory is ready, so we are conducting their tests here once again. We are expecting the reports to come negative and they should be sent back soon,” Dr Rakesh Gupta, director, GIMS said on Sunday.The patients were discharged on Friday the first round of tests, comprising two tests, found them negative for Covid-19. Both the samples, including one sent to NCDC, had tested negative. Before discharging Covid-19 patients after their recovery,two samples are sent for testing within a gap of 24 hours. However, as a precautionary step, a third sample was collected and sent to Aligarh lab for testing and the two were discharged. The third sample’s report came positive on Saturday after which the duo was called back to the hospital and there samples were collected. The samples will be tested at the newly developed Covid-19 lab at GIMS.For the past one week, test reports of patients suspected of Covid-19 were getting delayed causing much trouble to the district health department. The district magistrate had allotted ₹46.22 lakh to GIMS and ₹65 lakh to the Super Speciality Children Hospital in Sector 39 to develop Covid-19 laboratories, so that the delay in reports can be avoided.Most of the samples from Gautam Budh Nagar were going to Aligarh Muslim University or the Meerut laboratories, but since the number of tests have increased in the state, these labs have been overloaded with work. In another development, mother of the Sector 137 patient was also discharged from GIMS on Monday after two of her test reports were negative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/two-discharged-patients-taken-back-to-hospital-after-a-test-finds-them-positive-again/story-knkKEjHjkKNuJyFxpxnnqK.html
14-04-2020||Pune||2 deaths in Pune, 23 new Covid-19 cases||Two deaths have been reported in the city due to Covid-19 on Monday, both from Sassoon hospital. This takes the Covid-19 related total toll in the city to 33.Also on Monday, 23 fresh positive cases were recorded in Pune district, taking the count of progressive positive cases up to 278.The two deaths include those of a 40-year-old male who was admitted on April 11, and was declared dead on late on Sunday night.The patient had comorbid conditions, including diabetes. The report confirming the Covid-19 positive infection came in on Monday.The second patient is a 50-year-old female from Kondhwa Khurd who was admitted on April 9 and was declared dead on Monday.The patient reportedly also suffered from obstructive airway disease with acute kidney injury and obesity.Till date, in Pune city, 27 patients have been declared as having completely recovered from the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-deaths-in-pune-23-new-covid-19-cases/story-bMe9t9I8qFugWlcAkMIsrL.html
14-04-2020||Pune||Pune collector may declare 22 more areas as containment zones||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) plans to seal 22 more areas in Pune after more Covid-19 cases were reported from these areas. The proposal awaits district collector Naval Kishore Ram’s sanction. The district administration has already turned 17 localities in central Pune and Kondhwa into containment zones. The collector will decide to seal the new areas in phase-wise manner or not. Municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad said, “PMC has already sealed eastern parts of Pune which includes peth areas and Kondhwa. As cases have been reported from 22 other parts of the city, we are proposing to seal these localities too.”Gaikwad said that last time PMC had issued the order under Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, but the district collector issued the order under Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) that authorises the executive magistrate of any state or territory to issue an order to prohibit the assembly of four or more people in an area.For better coordination, the civic body proposes that the district administration should take care on these areas and monitor the places with assistance from police and civic administration.Once an area is defined as a containment zone, private vehicle movement will be banned and individuals who step outside their homes must wear masks. The containment, however, excludes vegetable vendors/agriculture-related transport, essentials including grocery and medical, institutional and government vehicles for scheduled period. BoxAreas proposed under containment - Tadiwala road lane number 1 to 48 and ward- Tadiwala road- Ghorpadigaon- Rajewadi, Padmaji, Old Motor stand, Quarter Gate, Bhavani peth- Wanowriegaon - Lumbininagar- Tadiwala road- Chintamaninagar- Handewadi- Yerawada- Ghorpadigaon, BT Kawade road- Laxminagar, Ramnagar, Yerawada- Mohammadwadi, Hadapsar- Parvati Darshan area- Na Ta Wadi, Shivajinagar, Irani vasti-Patil Estate- Bhosalewadi, Wakdewadi-NIBM Road, Kondhwa-Kondhwa Khurd-Kondhwa Budruk-Sai Nagar Kondhwa-Vimannagar-Vadgaonsheri- DhanoriYerawada ward number 6||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-collector-may-declare-22-more-areas-as-containment-zones/story-ZFxeYBdqiX0L7fhfJPvV1J.html
14-04-2020||Pune||Wholesale grocery, vegetable sub-markets to resume operations from April 15 in Pune||After assurance from the police and divisional commissioner of allowing smooth flow of agricultural trade, the Poona Merchant Chamber and representatives of traders and potters, on Monday, decided to open the grocery wholesale and vegetable sub-markets at Moshi, Manjri, Khadki and Uttamnnagar from April 15.Traders of wholesale grocery markets had decided to close the market located at Gultekadi, Market Yard, from April 13, as police had not been allowing entry of personnel with identity cards issued by Pune Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC), which are authorised by the district collector.Pune APMC administrator BJ Deshmukh, said, “Divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar and Pune police commissioner held a joint meeting with representatives of traders and potters and said that there will not be any obstruction to their trade if they present identity cards provided by Pune APMC. After the assurance, traders decided to start business from April 15. The wholesale market would be open on April 14 only for unloading of outstation vehicles.”Deshmukh said that the Poona Merchant Chambers president Popat Oswal and Maharashtra State Agriculture Marketing Board’s managing director Sunil Pawar were also present for the meeting.Pune APMC said that as the grocery wholesale market will start operations, supply of essential commodities in the city would be regular. Vegetable sub-markets open APMC administrator BJ Deshmukh said that with many Covid-19 positive cases around the Market Yard areas, the wholesale vegetable market there will be closed for the next few days. However, sub-markets at Moshi, Manjri, Khadki and Uttamnagar will start operations in the next two days. Deshmukh said, “There is a traders meeting scheduled for Tuesday. We plan to open the sub-markets by April 15, but the main market will be closed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/wholesale-grocery-vegetable-sub-markets-to-resume-operations-from-april-15-in-pune/story-aLjzIQxJ3FQ0arrfK6ndYL.html
14-04-2020||Pune||Text mssg to confirm validity of Pune police pass till April 30||Pune residents who have been granted passes by the Pune police for vehicle movement, will receive a text message for continuation of validity till April 30.All those who have applied and do not receive the texts will need to reapply, Pune police said on Monday.“From the initial requests we realised that most of the people applying for passes are already in the exempted category, but we issued passes anyway. There are various categories, some will continue, some will not,” said Bachchan Singh, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), Crime, Pune.The orders for vehicle movement and assembly prohibition were issued by the city police on March 22 and were valid between March 23 and April 14.However, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has declared an extension of the lockdown till April 30.“We are considering inputs from various stakeholders before giving further orders. More details will be available on Tuesday,” said Ravindra Shisve, joint commissioner of police, Pune.Passes issued by Pune police till April 1040,769 issued for hospital visits22,186 issued for emergency situations, including death and medical issues8,519 passes issued for serious situations||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/text-mssg-to-confirm-validity-of-pune-police-pass-till-april-30/story-55DUD7QLGb7W83MJbtdgVM.html
14-04-2020||Pune||Locked down in a city away from home, students struggle financially, but hostel, PG owners look to ease their pain||With the lockdown in the state now extended till April 30, students in the city who have been quarantined in hostels and rented accommodations, away from home, want to go back home. There are at least 10,000 students who are currently living in the city in private houses, flats, as paying guests (PG) and in hostels. Most of the students find it difficult to deal with every day expenses as their resources are limited and there is a shortage of money, even though flat and PG owners have waived off their rents for the time being. Ramesh Shinde, 19, a Bachelor of Arts student from Nanded, says, “I live in as a paying guest at a residence near Appa Balwant chowk. There were six students who lived along with me, but they left for their hometowns before the lockdown began. Now, I am only one left here and even though the owner of the accommodation is not asking for the rent, getting daily meals is a major challenge. I have an electric stove in the room and make instant noodles or rice sometimes. I even try to get food packets from the social groups distributing it around the city. My family is worried about me and my father had even started to come to Pune to pick me up, on a motorbike, but was sent back by the police officials from the district border.”Coming from the farmer family background, Vishal Dabhade, is also facing similar issues. Dabhade, who hails from Jalna district is enrolled at the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) and is currently living at a friend’s home in Model Colony. “When the lockdown was announced, we thought that it would be only till April 14 and later on, we would be able to go back to our hometowns, but now as it has been extended, it is getting difficult day by day to survive. It is more of a mental challenge for us as the situation is not good outside, my friend and I do not step out. My parents are worried about us, however, we communicate with them every day to assure them of our safety. We cook mostly rice and pulses and bring ready-made food packets. Our savings are being used up and getting financial help from my family is also difficult, as they too are struggling to survive as farmers during the lockdown.”The SPPU hostel and all hostels of colleges affiliated to the varsity, had shut down before the lockdown. However, there are still some foreign students at the SPPU International Students Centre hostel. One of the students who didn’t wanted her name to be disclosed, said, “We stay inside our rooms and get all the necessary facilities from the university. I am in regular touch with my family members and if needed, go out to buy fruits or vegetables to the hostel gate where some of the vendors come.”Suresh Joshi, one of the owners of a PG accommodation in Sadashiv peth, said, “There are 14 students living at our PG hostel and all of them have now gone back to their hometowns. We have not asked them to pay the rent for the next two months as we understand that it is a crisis and most of them belong to an economically weak background.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/locked-down-in-a-city-away-from-home-students-struggle-financially-but-hostel-pg-owners-look-to-ease-their-pain/story-Iq1GeOEYkp3zlJIptZlCyO.html
14-04-2020||Pune||1 doc, 2 nurses at Railway hospital in Pune - who met Covid-19 +ve official - under home quarantine||One doctor and two nurses from the Railway hospital in Pune have been asked to remain in home quarantine, after a railway employee in the city tested positive for the Sars-Cov-2 virus, which causes the Covid-19 infection, last week.Dr MK Ramakrishna, chief medical superintendent, Railway hospital, confirmed this on Monday.The central railway employee who tested positive is undergoing treatment at the Sassoon General Hospital. “He had visited the railway hospital and met the doctor and the two nurses, who are now quarantined,” Dr Ramakrishna said, adding, “From the Railway hospital he was advised to get tested and moved to Sassoon hospital.The Covid-19 positive railway employee does not have a history of foreign travel, or any known contact with a Covid-19 positive person(s); or contact with a person(s) with foreign travel history.“He has been on leave since April 1. His family has been tested. His wife is positive and his two children are negative,” said a railway official, requesting anonymity.The couple is undergoing treatment at Sassoon hospital and are recovering, the official added.The staff at the office where the person works have not been asked to undergo tests, as the infected employee had not been to the office for two weeks before he was found positive.Officials at the office confirmed that they have been contacted by health department officials who have noted their phone numbers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/1-doc-2-nurses-at-railway-hospital-in-pune-who-met-covid-19-ve-official-under-home-quarantine/story-ZjG1gg7glyOzi39OSMpuVP.html
14-04-2020||Pune||It’s an all-out pursuit of fitness for Pune kabaddi star Ankita Jagtap during the lockdown||Ankita Jagtap, Kabaddi Under 25-year-old kabaddi player, Ankita Jagtap, Pune won the 67th Maharashtra state kabaddi championship at Chiplun Ratnagiri in December last year and she earned a place in the state team for the kabaddi nationals. This is third time that Jagtap managed to secure a berth in the state team after 2017 and 2019. Jagtap, an all-rounder who plays for Rajmata Jijau Kabaddi Sang, Shukrawar peth, is one of the brightest players in the sport from the city.Currently, locked down at her house in Bharti Vidypeeth, Katraj, Jagtap is focussed on fitness training and spares some time for prayers and cooking. With a tight schedule, she has made sure that it keeps her busy during the lockdown. Rajesh Dhamdhere and Jaywant Warghade – coaches of Rajmata Jijau Kabaddi Sang give Jagtap and her other teammates a daily fitness training routine to follow.Morning sessionMy day starts at 7am. I train on the terrace and my focus is on workout for the legs which includes free squat, lunges, jumping jacks, varieties of jumps and stretching. The session continues for an hour and 30 minutes. Then, I have a heavy breakfast and take some rest. Later, I help my mother in cleaning the house and then, in cooking. Times passes soon while doing household chores and I love to try to make new recipes. Afternoon sessionAfter lunch, I spend some time on the mobile or watch television news channels to stay updated about the Covid-19 situation. I also rest for an hour. At 5pm, I prayer everyday. During my prayer session, I read books like Shri Guru Charitra and Shreemad Dasbodh. The reading gives me a lot of positivity and peace of mind.Evening sessionBack on the terrace for training, I stretch and then, the evening session is dedicated to upper body workout like dips, triceps dips, push-ups, push down, abs and burpees. The session is usually between 6pm and 7:30pm. Then, I play with my dog, lucky, for an hour. After dinner, I read. I love reading autobiographies and recently, I read The Breadwinner, Mrityunjaya, Not Without My Daughter and The Virender Sehwag Story. Every day reading 20-30 pages of any novel is my routine and it is my favourite hobby since childhood.This is a tough time for all of us and we are following government orders. I am keeping a positive mindset and prefer to read the newspaper and watch television news over social media posts as there are many fake news which are circulating online. GymI miss hitting the gym, but more than that I miss my friends and the kabaddi ground. We do keep a track of each other through video calls, but playing together is bonding on another level. Our coaches are taking care of our fitness.Hobbies Reading books and cooking.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/it-s-an-all-out-pursuit-of-fitness-for-pune-kabaddi-star-ankita-jagtap-during-the-lockdown/story-wmzx1oSjrbNkKnrbQHoNRL.html
14-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab milk producers grapple with price drop, erratic payments amid lockdown||As the lockdown continues, milk producers in Punjab are struggling with low demand, price reduction and irregular payments by mass procurers.As consumption by small-scale milk processers, dairies and halwais these days is nearly negligible, the milk producers are dependent on state milk cooperative Milkfed and big private players like Amul and Nestle for procurement.Prior to the lockdown, 3.15 crore litres of milk were produced in the state daily, but the current figures are not known to us yet, said Milkfed managing director Kamaldeep Singh Sangha. “Around 60 lakh litres are procured by private milk processing brands. Of this, Milkfed is processes 27 lakh litres every day, while the other brands are collectively processing 30-35 lakh litres of milk,” said Sangha. Milkfed sells products under the Verka brand.Sukhwinder Singh a milk producer who also manages a collection centre for milk processors in his village Bhattian, Samrala, told HT that Milkfed and other brands have not paid dairy farmers for the last 20 days. After price revision, the procurement price of buffalo milk has been reduced to ₹47.25/litre and that of cow milk to ₹30-32/litre.Former Verka milk plant head Parminder Singh Chalaki seconded that due to lockdown the entire procurement burden was on the state cooperative and the big private firms. He asked the state government to support milk producers on the pattern of Haryana government which is giving ₹5/litre support over and above the prevailing prices.Reportedly, milk supplies from Punjab to Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir and Delhi are almost nil, which used to be ₹5 lakh litres daily earlier. “We’re in the process of increasing the production of ultra-heat treatment (UHT) milk packs with shelf-life of six months. Nowadays, UHT is majorly bought by the army,” said Sangha.According to him, Milkfed is currently selling 11 lakh litres of milk daily, while 16 lakh litres go into production of milk powder and white butter. “Every day, the state cooperative procures milk worth ₹10 crore and to keep its operations going in the wake of dwindling sales, it has taken a credit of ₹100 crore and is seeking additional ₹150 crore,” said Sangha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-milk-producers-grapple-with-price-drop-erratic-payments-amid-lockdown/story-CuEKtINOtOlEoL1MLNBPOJ.html
14-04-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: 4,800 cops deployed at city borders, outside containment zones||The Gurugram Police on Friday said it has deployed over 4,800 personnel on city borders and outside the nine containment zones to check any kind of unnecessary movement.Gurugram commissioner of police Muhammad Akil said over sixty-four police pickets have been set up outside containment zones where a total of 1,342 personnel have been deployed.The nine containment zones saw tight security arrangements on Friday, especially in Pataudi and Raipur village Sohna, where at least 15 Covid-19 people have tested positive so far. “We have chalked out a micro-level plan, and police personnel have been deployed outside the nine containment zones and 20 borders connecting Gurugram to Delhi and other neighbouring areas like Faridabad, Nuh, Tauru, Sohna, and Rajasthan. The police are coordinating with the district administration and medical teams with the screening of residents and collection of samples in the identified areas,” said Akil. In a meeting on Friday afternoon, the commissioner of police assigned duties to station house officers of all police stations to monitor the law and order situation in the city. Gurugram Police has a total of 6,500 personnel.Starting Saturday, the police will not allow any residents living in containment zones will not be allowed to move out of their residential area unless in case of a medical emergency. “We have directed all the resident welfare associations (RWAs) to ensure all the shops of essential goods are open for the residents. Rest, all the deliveries will only be allowed till the entrance of the condominium,” said Akil adding all deliveries will be monitored by the police teams.Akil said the police have identified entry and exit points in each containment zones and have set up police pickets with at each spot. Maximum deployment is in areas with the most number of entry and exit points such as Sector 9, Nirvana Country, Pataudi, and Raipur village, the police said. The police personnel will work in eight-hour shifts for at least 10 days after which they will be replaced, police said. “All personnel were deployed after their medical tests were conducted and they were declared fit. They will be deployed in three shifts of eight hours each. We have provided three tents for the personnel deployed in each zone to ensure they can take rest and can sit unless they have to check the movement of the residents crossing the picket,” Akil said.The police have taken help from Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) and Public Works Department to seal the areas under containment zones. Only health officials will be allowed to enter these containment zones to conduct door-to-door health checkups. An area spread over five-kilometre is cordoned off in the identified containment zone and an additional area of three kilometre is earmarked as a buffer zone as a precautionary measure. “This containment zone strategy can also help us prevent the transmission of the coronavirus disease to the other parts of the city. We will also monitor and ensure social distancing measures in these areas,” Akil said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-4-800-cops-deployed-at-city-borders-outside-containment-zones/story-yhOs5U6dFOb0GIHXECJW8H.html
