15-04-2020||Chandigarh||PGI serves show-cause notice to doc who gave projection on Covid cases to Punjab government||The Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research has served a show-cause notice to a faculty member who reportedly provided assistance to the Punjab government regarding the projection of Covid-19 cases in the state.PGI officials said that an explanation has been sought from Dr Shankar Prinja, who serves as an additional professor at the Department of Community Medicine and School of Public Health.A senior PGI official not wishing to be named said, “There is a set protocol regarding carrying out research and providing assistance to external agencies, which has not been followed (in this case).”Dr Jagat Ram, director, PGIMER, said authorities were unaware that an expert or faculty member from the Department of Community Medicine and School of Public Health has carried out any study or given an estimate that the Covid-19 may peak by mid-September and can infect 58% of the country’s population. He, however, confirmed that a show-cause notice has been served.On April 10, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh claimed that 58% of the country’s population is likely to get infected with coronavirus while quoting a PGIMER study. He said that the infections were likely to peak by mid-September.Later, the institute issued a press note and clarified that no such study had been carried out to which the CM’s media advisor Raveen Thukral said the report cited by Captain was an assessment by Dr Prinja.Dr Prinja could not be contacted despite repeated attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pgi-serves-show-cause-notice-to-doc-who-gave-projection-on-covid-cases-to-punjab-government/story-XWMzGPDLzMtTZAFTpdmocP.html
15-04-2020||Mumbai||Police helpline got 300 calls from migrants since lockdown began||Around 300 calls, averaging to about 10 to 20 per day, have been received on number 100 from migrant labourers in need of food and shelter since the lockdown came into effect, said Mumbai Police on Wednesday. When asked what measures police is taking to ensure there is no repeat of the recent Bandra like situation, where nearly 2,000 migrant labourers gathered on Tuesday demanding to be sent back home, Pranaya Ashok, DCP (operations) and spokesperson for Mumbai Police said, “All police stations and traffic police have been asked to strengthen the nakabandi points to ensure labourers are not put in vehicles and taken out of the city. Essential service vehicles are especially being checked.”“We have increased our foot patrolling in areas where migrant labourers are staying to find and solve their issues. We along with BMC are ensuring they get basic facilities like food, ration and if they have an accommodation issue, then we with the help of NGOs are also providing them place at shelter homes,” added Ashok. The DCP added that they have received over 300 phone calls on 100 number since lockdown and 10 to 20 calls daily from migrant labourers. “We take their address and send a police team to the spot after getting the call and identify their problems like food or shelter. We then provide it with the help of BMC or NGOs,” added Ashok. The police said somewhere between 15,000 to 20,000 migrant workers are staying in Mumbai city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/police-helpline-got-300-calls-from-migrants-since-lockdown-began/story-ScFHMKpr522xBCpB52epyO.html
15-04-2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: 2745 contacts of Covid-19 patients under the scanner||Through a three-layer surveillance mechanism, the Lucknow police intensified verification of the contacts of Covid-19 positive patients, police officials said.Joint commissioner of police (JCP), Law and Order, Naveen Arora said 2745 people had come in contact with 56 coronavirus positive patients, excluding 31 who tested positive on Wednesday.The JCP said one of the 28 people who tested positive in Sadar area had participated in a community kitchen organised in the area. Another such Covid-19 positive patient was a tailor who came in contact with multiple people. Besides, one Covid-19 positive person had a travel history to Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Naidu and Maharashtra, he added.He said the growing contact list of new positive patients would increase the work of the surveillance team.The JCP said the special cell constituted for surveillance of contacts of coronavirus positive patients was doing three-layer verification —digital verification by scanning mobile call details of Covid-19 positive patients, physical surveillance by collecting intelligence from the locality and field intelligence collected by special branch of the state intelligence as well as central intelligence agencies.He said 255 cell phones, including 32 cell phones of Covid-19 patients, were put under digital surveillance. The figure would rise now as 31 more people tested positive on Wednesday itself, he said.“We are collecting mobile phone details of these patients. Further screening will be done by approaching their mobile contacts with whom they have interacted or met during this period,” he said.POLICE DEPLOYMENT INCREASEDPolice deployment at all 13 hotspots was increased to ensure proper compliance with the lockdown, he said.“Other than three deputy commissioners of police (DCP) and three additional DCPs of three zones, eight assistant CPs, 11 police station in-charges, 88 sub-inspectors and 506 head constables and constables have been deployed at these 13 hotspots. In addition, over two companies of Provincial Armed Constabulary have been deployed in these areas,” he explained. CITY DIVIDED IN FIVE POLICE ZONESThe JCP said the entire Lucknow city is divided in five zones—east, west, north, south and central—which will be supervised by five deputy commissioners of police. He said these five zones are further divided in 14 sectors and 32 sub-sectors. Police deployment was done in two shifts of 12 hours each and, as many as 225 barriers, have been installed to restrict vehicular movement.“As many as 307 sub-inspectors, 292 women constables, 219 head constables and 718 constables are deployed at these barriers,” he said and added, “Moreover, 163 police response vehicles, including 86 four-wheelers and 77 two-wheelers, will keep patrolling the city.”11 TRAFFIC ZONESBesides, the city was divided in 11 traffic zones to restrict vehicular movement. He said at least 10 traffic inspectors, 58 traffic sub-inspectors, 42 head constable promotes, 179 head constables 646 constables and 305 home guards were deployed in these traffic zones. Eleven flying squads were constituted to check duty points, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/lucknow-2745-contacts-of-covid-19-patients-under-the-scanner/story-UjSQU35YvZ7dxvrDv5YbIN.html
15-04-2020||Mumbai||Siddhivinayak padyatra cancelled, Mumbai devotees walk 25km at home||A Kandivli resident, Rakesh Bhandari, and his group of 25 pilgrims, who recently completed their 175th padayatra (walk) from their homes to the Siddhivinayak temple, on Tuesday continued their monthly tradition by enacting the pilgrimage by walking at their respective homes.Around 21 people including Bhandari walked for around 20 to 25 km at their respective homes, the same distance that they covered during their monthly group walks to Prabhadevi’s Siddhivinayak temple.“I had hoped that the lockdown will end on April 14, post which we would have walked to Siddhivinayak temple. However, as the lockdown was extended, we didn’t have an option but to walk at our homes to continue our tradition of padayatra,” said Bhandari. Bhandari along with a group of seven friends started the tradition of carrying out padayatras in 2005. The group now has about 200 members with a core team of around 25 people. On a monthly basis, at least 10 to 15 members walk to the shrine with their family and friends.“It was tough initially. But over the years, it became a fun exercise for all us. Considering we are all runners, when we reach near Mahim signal, we run the remaining stretch for 4.5 km,” said Rajesh Sharma, who stays at Ghatkopar.On Tuesday morning, they had decided a designated time when everyone would run at their homes and click a selfie at the end to get a feeling that they were all together. The run timing for each of them differed from three to five hours. A friend of theirs, who had participated in more than 100 padayatras with them before moving to Australia, also joined the group along with his wife on Tuesday. After the run, each of them prayed to the deity from their place and watched the prayers taking place live on Siddhivinayak temple’s website.Sanjay Karve, a chartered accountant who is a member of the group, spoke of a time when the group had managed to wade through waterlogging to reach the temple during monsoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/siddhivinayak-padyatra-cancelled-mumbai-devotees-walk-25km-at-home/story-1dYBJF16RNwBF7wahaZp6K.html
15-04-2020||City||P’kula count reaches seven as Sector 15 woman’s husband also tests positive||A day after a 44-year-old Panchkula woman, a resident of Sector 15, reportedly not having any travel history, tested positive for Covid-19; her husband also tested positive, taking the district’s count to seven. Confirming the same, Panchkula civil surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur said that the report of the 48-year-old man was confirmed positive on Wednesday evening. While the woman is a post office employee, her husband is an architect.The man was admitted in civil hospital’s isolation ward on Tuesday night after his wife had tested positive. 26 CONTACTS TRACED Panchkula deputy commissioner (DC) Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said that till now 26 people, who had recently come in contact with the woman, have been traced by the health department. They have been shifted to the civil hospital and tested for COVID-19. These include family members, relatives, a private doctor who attended to her and the doctor’s family. Ahuja said the woman had got her health checkup done at a private clinic in Sector 11 on April 6.“As per details, her condition deteriorated on April 2 and she consulted a private doctor afterwards. She came to the civil hospital at a later stage when she required a CT scan. Earlier, the spot was detected in an X-ray,” said the DC. He further said that it was a ‘serious’ case and the health department was trying to trace more people who had come in contact with her as the source of her infection was yet to be ascertained.“As a precautionary measure, I appeal to anyone, who had come in direct contact with her or her family in April, to visit the civil hospital for medical screening,” the DC said.The woman and her husband had claimed that they had stayed put at their residence and only went to the market to buy essential goods.It was also learnt that some relatives of the woman from Delhi had visited her in the last week of March.There are currently five active cases in Panchkula as the first two patients, both women, had recovered and were discharged from the hospital on April 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/p-kula-count-reaches-seven-as-sector-15-woman-s-husband-also-tests-positive/story-n4NjnE8qFQPMIL1M4NIP8I.html
15-04-2020||Lucknow||KGMU e-cards come in handy for blood donors||A young couple from Aishbagh in Lucknow entered the King George’s Medical University (KGMU) blood bank to voluntarily donate blood, an activity which has almost come to a standstill since imposition of the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown.A blood donor e-pass issued by the KGMU made the donation possible.“The passes are now being issued to interested donors as voluntary donation has become negligible though the need remains the same — around 190 units per day,” said Prof Tulika Chandra, head of the department of transfusion medicine at KGMU and head of the state blood bank on the campus.The step was taken as, otherwise, donors could not reach hospital. So, they asked Prof Chandra to find a solution.“They were unable to reach (hospital) as they did not have any document, such as a requisition form from a doctor,” said Prof Chandra, the brain behind the ‘Covid-19 voluntary blood donor’ cards.These duly filled and signed e-cards are issued by the blood bank and transferred via WhatsApp to the donor. “The police too know about these cards now,” she said.The donors can carry these cards on their cell phones and show them to the police on the way. The cards also mention the route to be taken and the date on which the pass has to be used, so that there is no scope for misuse.The Aishbagh couple, Brijesh Singh and Buddhamitra, went to KGMU with these cards. “The husband donated blood while the wife could not do so due to a fitness issue. But she can come again after a few days. We respect the gesture that voluntary blood donors are showing to maintain adequate stock in the blood and save lives,” said Prof Chandra.Voluntary donors can contact the blood bank and mention their details. If a person is find eligible, an e-pass will be sent to his or her cell phone with the name, cell phone number and address. As it is valid only on a specific date, it cannot be used for any other purpose or day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/kgmu-e-cards-come-in-handy-for-blood-donors/story-srOFFYuTLhd8aeelYbFhwN.html
15-04-2020||City||Chandigarh classified Covid-19 hotspot, relaxations ruled out||With the Union health ministry on Wednesday identifying Chandigarh as one of the 170 Covid-19 hotspot districts, classifying it under red zone, strict restrictions will continue amid the nationwide lockdown till May 3.Now, the UT administration will not be able to introduce any new relaxation till the city remains in the red zone — a district with a high number or growth rate of cases.The other two zones are orange (potential hotspot) and green (free of pandemic).The development comes on the day when no fresh case was reported in the city for the third consecutive day, keeping the tally at 21, of which only 12 cases are active.Arun Kumar Gupta, principal secretary, health, said: “In case, there is no positive case in the city for the next 14 days, it will move to orange zone, and if there is no positive case in the next 14 days, it will be identified as a green zone.”Earlier the administration was planning some relaxations after April 20, according to the April 15 guidelines of the ministry of home affairs. These cannot be introduced till the city moves to orange or green zone, said Gupta.“Hotspots are declared after 15 or more cases are reported from one particular geographical area. In a hotspot zone, comparatively stringent measures are taken to contain the spread of disease. It calls for more testing, restricted moment and aggressive contact tracing of the people who have been tested positive. Extra efforts are required to contain the situation,” said JS Thakur, chairman of the PGI Committee on Covid-19 Prevention and Information.According to the Centre’s guidelines, in hotspots, containment zones will be demarcated by the government as per guidelines of the ministry of health and family welfare. In these containment zones, activities allowed for non-hotspot areas will not be permitted. There shall be a strict perimeter control in the area of the containment zones to ensure that there is no unchecked inward or outward movement of population except for maintaining essential services (including medical emergencies and law and order related duties) and government business continuity.A senior UT official, requesting anonymity, said: “Chandigarh has been declared a hotspot for being among ‘highest case load districts contributing to more than 80% of cases for each state in lndia’. It is unfortunate Chandigarh has been considered both a district and state, and we hope the central government reconsiders this particular criterion in the city’s case.”Meanwhile, In the interest of public health and safety, the Chandigarh administration, on Wednesday, banned with immediate effect, the spitting of paan or any chewable tobacco product, sputum, etc in public places, offices, workplaces, factories or establishments. UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida said, “The administrator bans spitting in public places and violators will be criminally prosecuted.”WHAT ARE THE THREE ZONESRed Zone: No activity allowed except for essential and emergency servicesOrange Zone: Minimum activities like opening of limited public transport, harvesting of farm productsGreen Zone: Further relaxation, including opening of MSMEs with in-house lodging facilities for employees HOW CAN CHANDIGARH MOVE TO GREEN ZONEContainment operation will be deemed over when there is no case reported in 28 days after last case tests negative. Hotspots (red zones) will be assumed to be undertaking effective containment activities if no case is reported in 14 days (to be designated orange zones), and will be deemed successful in containment, if no case is reported for 28 days (to be designated green zones).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-classified-covid-19-hotspot-relaxations-ruled-out/story-DCPdZBkvBdAsEjyGhzEkIN.html
15-04-2020||Lucknow||Women doctors put on dancing shoes,compile video to boost people’s morale||Some woman doctors of Lucknow traded their white aprons with dancing shoes for some time to make a 5-minute video to help people combat lock-down stress. Their video is drawing a lot of attention.“It is an effort to tell people they can do different things despite being at home during the lockdown. They just need a little creativity,” said Dr Gunjan Gupta, a pathologist and the brain behind the video.Dr Gupta got this video made in four days and it was ready on her birthday April 14. “How I made this video with clips of 20 women doctors is interesting,” she said.Dr Gupta asked the other doctors to record their dance on a particular portion of the lyrics of a song and send the clips via WhatsApp. This was the birthday gift she demanded from her friends.“The idea came during the lock-down as we could not meet nor do anything together. But we could chat on social media and send video clips to each other. And I insisted that all send a few seconds’ video,” she said.The song ‘Panchchi Banu Udti Phiru Mast Gagan Mein’ from the movie Chori Chori was selected as it is vibrant and positive. On her request, doctors Manisha Bhargava, Nimisha Agrawal, Babita Sinha, Rachna Seth, Nidhi Agrawal, Rameshwari Singhal, Shipra Nath, Shweta Verma, Naina Chandra, Swati Jain, Apeksha Vishnoi, Rachna Agrawal, Sonu Singh, Alka Jain, Shazia Siddiqui, Shweta Agrawal, Babita Sinha, Ruchi Garg, Warija Seth, Shweta Verma and Neerja Singh sent clips that made up an inspiring video.“My daughter Vandita Gupta, who studies in Class 10, helped edit the video. Made in black and white the video seems just right,” said Dr Gupta.The video ends with a message –“the following video is the joint effort of a few doctors of Lucknow to spread the message of remaining positive and spreading positivity in these times.”“All my friends are now sharing the video and appreciating it,” Dr Gupta said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/women-doctors-put-on-dancing-shoes-compile-video-to-boost-people-s-morale/story-f6uQEf8ACsZ3LxwqlmtWVK.html
15-04-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai sees 750 more Covid-19 cases in 5 days||The number of cases in the city jumped up by 750, (from 1,146 cases on April 11 to 1,896 on April 15), within five days, according to the state health department data. In the same period, the death toll also rose from 76 deaths on Saturday to 114 deaths on Tuesday, data shows.The first case in the state was reported on March 9. The number touched 151 cases and seven deaths by March 31. However, the number increased to 1,741 by April 14, with the toll touching 107.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation claims the rise is a result of more testing. According to the BMC’s data, while the testing has increased substantially in the past 15 days, the daily positive percentage, too, has gone up from 3.6% in the first week of April to 5.8%, as of April 12.According to the BMC’s data, between April 1 and April 12, the civic body tested 1,000-1,500 samples daily. The numbers of samples tested was 7,712 on April 1, which went up to 24,279 tests by April 12. Across the state, the number of tests has risen to 46,588 on April 14 from 6,331 on April 1.Dr Sanjay Mukherjee, secretary, Maharashtra Medical Education and Drugs Department, said, “Maharashtra now has 17 government and 15 private labs, making our testing capacity the highest in the country.”On Wednesday, the number of positive cases in Dharavi went up to 60 from 55 on Tuesday and the death toll went up by one to reach eight. A 55-year-old man who had attended Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi last month was declared dead by Sion Hospital on Wednesday. Dadar’s Shivaji Park saw two new cases of coronavirus – a 75-year-old woman and 69-year-old man – and there was one new case, a 55-year-old man in Mahim.A Brihanmumbai Electricity Supply and Transport (BEST) employee was declared dead late Tuesday night. He had tested positive on April 1, and had no international travel history. Five close contacts of the employee were tested and found negative, however, they were quarantined on April 3. Ten more medical staff of Bhatia Hospital tested positive for the coronavirus on Wednesday, taking the count to 35, a spokesperson for Bhatia Hospital confirmed. The spokesperson said, “All of them are being treated at Bhatia Hospital.”Further, after four doctors from Bombay Hospital tested positive of coronavirus, the Bombay Hospital has conducted tests on 120 staff members. Gautam Bhansali, consultant physician, Bombay Hospital, said, “We had tested 36 doctors on Tuesday, after one tested positive on Monday. Three have tested positive. We have tested 120 more staff members.”Municipal commissioner Praveen Pardeshi on Wednesday issued an advisory for protection of senior citizens aged above 60 years. The advisory has asked the medical officers to visit the premises of senior citizens and advice them to avoid going out even to buy essentials and rely on their neighbours, if they stay alone.Meanwhile, a 29-year-old woman from Worli, who had tested positive, killed herself in the hospital. The G/South Ward, which includes Worli and Prabhadevi, also has the highest number of positive cases in the city.As per the data released by the BMC, of the 1,753 positive cases, 1,003 positive cases are reported in seven of the 24 administrative wards. The G-South ward has the highest (360) cases, E ward comprising Mumbai Central, Byculla, Mazgaon has 135 cases, D ward (Malabar Hill, Grant Road, Chowpatty) 130 cases, G North ward (Dharavi, Dadar and Mahim) has 97 cases. Further, H-East ward, including Bandra East, has 96 cases, followed by 95 cases in M East ward (Chembur) and 90 cases in K-East ward including Andheri East, Vile Parle east . The BMC said of the total 1,936 positive cases, 857 were detected as a result of contact tracing, containment measures and fever clinics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-sees-750-more-covid-19-cases-in-5-days/story-45afQEu37ekyrUtaODkZlI.html
15-04-2020||Mumbai||Need to counsel Covid-19 patients: Docs||On Wednesday, a 29-year-old patient of Covid-19 died by suicide in BYL Nair Hospital where she was undergoing treatment for the infection. This is the first case of a Covid-positive patient killing themselves. The incident highlights the urgent need to counsel patients, said doctors. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has since decided to form a special team that will provide counselling to those being treated for Covid-19.The Covid-19 patient was a resident of Worli and had been admitted to Nair Hospital on Monday. Yesterday, she tested positive for Covid-19. According to the hospital, she killed herself between 3.30am and 4am on Wednesday, in a bathroom in the isolation ward. Agripada police station has registered a case of accidental death.“There is growing fear among people about the virus. Fake messages on social media aggravate the situation along with social stigma. Counselling should be made mandatory for all quarantined people, especially Covid-19 patients,” said Dr Vinay Kumar, general secretary, Indian Psychiatric Society. The World Health Organization (WHO) recommends counselling for both patients and caregivers.Dr Daksha Shah, deputy director, health department, BMC, said, “We have decided to take the help of experts from our psychiatry department to counsel patients in order to strengthen the mental health of Covid-19 patients admitted to all hospitals in Mumbai.” The BMC will also deploy extra security staff in hospitals treating Covid-19 patients to increase surveillance of patients and security for doctors.Recovered patients have complained about the unavailability of counsellors in government and private hospitals. A 56-year-old Mira Road resident, who was admitted to Kasturba Hospital in March and was alone in the isolation ward, said, “Sometimes, I would cry. Then the nurses and midwives would come and cheer me up. I wish there had been a counsellor to talk to.”However, doctors working in isolation wards have questioned the feasibility of counselling in these areas since this would require a doctor to spend approximately 30 minutes with each patient. “Sitting in an isolation ward for so long can make the medico vulnerable to infection. Even for us, we try to attend patients as quickly as possible to avoid long stays,” said a doctor at Kasturba Hospital.Psychiatrist Dr Sagar Mundada said counselling sessions may be conducted using video calls. “Patients can be treated through video calls. But even for that, the hospital needs to connect the patients to us, which is not happening,” he said. After the state government announced its medical task force for patient management on Monday, psychiatrist Dr Harish Shetty had alleged the team did not include any psychiatrists and written to the Prime Minister’s office, seeking a review. “This is the mental epidemic in the making. Patients with a history of mental illness require counselling. Otherwise, even though they recover from the virus, their mental health will be compromised,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/need-to-counsel-covid-19-patients-docs/story-4sQX37QPX8M2XC4q0l7oRJ.html
15-04-2020||Chandigarh||Police to ascertain cause of fire at furniture market in Chandigarh||A first incident report (FIR) was lodged by the police to ascertain the cause of the fire that gutted 17 shops at the furniture market in Sector 53/54 roundabout, Chandigarh-Mohali border road, on Monday night.Taking suo motto cognizance of the incident, officials of Sector 36 police station registered a case on Tuesday under Section 436 (mischief by fire or explosive substance with intent to destroy house, etc) of the Indian Penal Code against unidentified persons.The market has around 115 furniture shops and this was the tenth major fire incident reported here since 2001.A police official, familiar to the incident, said, “To probe the case, we questioned three migrants living near the area. However, nothing conclusive came out from it. The problem is that it is difficult to determine the origin of the fire as all the evidence has been destroyed.”“Also, people heading the furniture market union are not cooperative and don’t help us with any information,” he added.Meanwhile, sources privy to the matter said that the shop owners had called the insurance agents to ensure that they inspect the sites and later reimburse the payment.No headway in previous caseThe investigation of a similar fire incident at the Sector 53 market in December 2018 is yet to reach a conclusive end. The major fire had consumed 30 shops and those involved in the trade feared losses to the tune of ₹3-4 crore. The police had called Central Forensic Science Laboratory (CFSL) teams, but so far no report of the fire has been shared with the police department. Police have not rounded up or arrested any person in the case.‘Administration overlooking demand for relocation’The shopkeepers allege that the UT administration has been overlooking their demand for relocation to a safer place.It is learnt the traders are running their business illegally as they do not have a licence. The UT administration had tried to evict them, but they got a stay order from the Punjab and Haryana high court in 1993. Thereafter, there has been no move to shift the market.Past incidentsThe previous major fire was reported in September 2016, when nine shops were gutted in fire started by wielding work in one of the shops.In 2015, eight shops were reduced to ashes while five were gutted in 2014.In 2012, as many as 22 shops were destroyed. Similar incidents were reported in 2001, 2002 and 2009.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/police-to-ascertain-cause-of-fire-at-furniture-market-in-chandigarh/story-BPyJucTL4Dokd0ui3aZ1dM.html
15-04-2020||Lucknow||UP govt orders 55 crore Khadi face masks for rural populace||UP government has ordered 55 crore Khadi face masks so that the people living in the state`s rural area could protect themselves from the Covid 19 virus.According to UP government spokesperson and state Khadi minister Sidharth Nath Singh, the government has decided to provide face masks to every rural resident on a no profit basis, the task of which has been entrusted to the Khadi and rural development departments.FactsDepartments of Khadi and rural development engaged in manufacturing Khadi face masks.55 crore Khadi face masks to be prepared for rural residents of state.7 lakh meter Khadi provided by the department of Khadi to rural development.departmentThe face masks would be sold at cost price and no profit making would be involved.99 MSME units begin manufacturing sanitisers to meet the expected rise in demand.“The Khadi department has provided 7 lakh- meter Khadi to rural development department, which would get the face masks prepared through small self help groups (SHGs) in rural areas of the state.“The initiative does not have a profit component and hence the Khadi masks would be available at a cheaper rate in comparison to market price. The rural development department has been given Khadi cloth and now it is up to it to plan its manufacturing and make them available to the rural people”, he said.As per the minister, the process of making Khadi masks had already started and soon the masks would be available for use by rural population.The minister further informed that a total of 99 Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) had started manufacturing sanitisers, to be used by state’s residents, for saving themselves from the Covid 19 virus.Presently, the state is experiencing shortage of face masks as-well-as sanitisers due to unexpected rise in demand. Medical shops all over the state are not able to meet the demand of consumers. Owing to shortage, face masks are reportedly being sold between Rs 100 to Rs 150 per piece.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-govt-orders-55-crore-khadi-face-masks-for-rural-populace/story-wg4lT19jUKEtLo5wvXblmI.html
15-04-2020||City||3 weeks on, most students still to get mid-day meal ration||CHANDIGARH Punjab has been under curfew for the past three weeks to curb the spread of coronavirus, but its school education department is still to supply mid-day meals to most of the 13.70 lakh government school students across the state.There has been no supply of cooked meals or dry ration to a sizeable number of the 8.18 lakh primary (Classes 1 to 5) and 5.52 lakh upper primary (Classes 6 to 8) students from the time curfew was imposed on March 23. The school education department had, a fortnight ago, announced to supply foodgrains of the mid-day meal scheme to all students in sealed packets at their homes, but the officials in most districts are struggling to find a way to reach them.The curfew has been extended in the state till May 3 and one-month summer vacation announced in all schools from April 11.Director, elementary education, Inderjit Singh said the department was making all efforts to give dry ration and cooking cost to children and had done it in several blocks, but teachers were facing problems due to curfew restrictions. “We have sent instructions to all school heads to send dry ration to children’s homes,” he said.The Supreme Court had, while taking suo motu cognisance on March 18, expressed concern over the impact of Covid-19 on the mid-day meals across the country since all educational institutions had been shut.It also asked all the states and UTs to ensure supply of nutritional food to the children. Two days later, the Union human resource development (HRD) ministry also asked the states to give meals or a commensurate food security allowance.The Punjab State Civil Supplies Corporation Limited (Punsup) started delivery of rice and wheat to 12,942 primary and 6,753 schools upper primary schools across the state after the education department decided to give dry ration for 24 days (9 days in March and 15 days in April). Each primary class student is to be supplied 2.4 kg of dry ration (100 gm per day) and those in upper primary classes will be given 3.6 kg (150 gm per day) for 24 days.The doorstep delivery is expected to start in three to four days in most areas as teachers have been told to make packets and deliver them at homes of schoolchildren, officials of half-a-dozen districts indicated during phone calls made to them over the past two days.In Bathinda district, though wheat and rice have been delivered in several blocks, doorstep delivery is still to commence. “Teachers have been calling up to find out if they will be allowed to enter villages where nakas (barriers) have been put up to stop people from entering. The district administration has been requested to issue curfew passes,” said a department official.The district has transferred cooking cost of mid-day meal into the accounts of 49,092 primary and 34,131 upper primary students at the rate of Rs 4.48 per day and Rs 6.71 per day for 24 days, though.An official in Barnala, which has 31,000 such students, said several teachers reside in other districts and were not sure if they would be able to travel to schools amid curfew. “They are also asking about transport arrangements for distribution as enrolment is high in several schools. Since no transport arrangements have been made, we are telling them to use their private vehicles,” said the official.A Muktsar official said schoolteachers had already delivered dry ration to children’s homes in several blocks. In Ferozepur, foodgrains have been delivered in 42% of the schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-weeks-on-most-students-still-to-get-mid-day-meal-ration/story-CsvYJItHluFUYNHffK77iL.html
15-04-2020||City||Mumbra locals stop teachers who came for health survey||A team of teachers, who was conducting a health survey, in a building at Mumbra was stopped by residents on Wednesday.Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has asked the teachers to survey residents and check for symptoms such as fever, cold and cough.When the teachers entered a building at Kausa, the residents stopped them and tore their papers, saying they would allow only a medical team to carry out the survey. A teacher requesting anonymity said, “The secretary of the housing society asked us not to survey any family in the building. They refused although we told them that were appointed by TMC. They tore our survey papers. We want TMC to give us police protection if they want us to survey in Mumbra.”Last week, TMC officials, too, faced opposition from Mumbra residents when they had gone to conduct a survey.Manish Joshi, deputy municipal commissioner, TMC, said, “It is not possible to provide police protection to all 30 teams carrying out surveys in Mumbra. If they don’t allow the survey tomorrow, we will register a case against them.”Two cases filed in MumbraTMC has booked two people, including a doctor, in Mumbra for obstructing work. Joshi said, “A doctor was treating patients violating social distancing norms. When we asked him to shift to a civic school, he started arguing and tried to instigate the people. We also booked a local goon who started arguing with us when we were managing the crowd. Both have been booked under section 353 of the IPC.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbra-locals-stop-teachers-who-came-for-health-survey/story-cP4pkx2itQSb2C8q4mNkxM.html
15-04-2020||Mumbai||State directs schools to end academic year||With the extension in the nationwide lockdown until May 3, the state government has decided to end the academic year for schools under the state board as on April 14.In a letter, addressed to the education commissioner on Tuesday, the government directed schools to end their academic year 2019-20 and declare summer vacations to students.“Students in Class 1 to 9 should be promoted based on their marks in the previous exams held. Schools can accordingly draw up their scores. For Class 10, SSC exam, the state board would come up with a marking scheme, as the last paper - Geography has been cancelled,” reads the letter.The state’s publishing bureau- Balbharti has made PDF textbooks for Classes 1 to 12 available on its website. “It is good that the government has decided to announce summer vacations. Both schools and students were anxious as there is a lot of uncertainty about when schools would reopen. Since exams are cancelled anyway, students can sit at home and start working for the next academic year,” a principal of a suburban school said.On Sunday, the education department declared the cancellation of Geography and vocational subject papers for children with special needs. Following the decision, the Maharashtra State Board formed a committee to come up with a revised marking scheme. “It is becoming impossible to transport answer sheets of Class 10 and 12 exams to the homes of teachers due to the lockdown. A decision on how and when to assess them would be made after the lockdown is lifted,” the letter further adds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-directs-schools-to-end-academic-year/story-SJaIVeSxlSwauAhPwGvooO.html
15-04-2020||Lucknow||Lock-down impact: Ashes await immersion, funerary rituals shelved||Inability to perform after-death rituals for departed loved ones due to curbs has compounded the pain of many families during the lock-down to check spread of corona virus. Urns containing ashes are piling up in crematoriums and Shantipath and 13th day rituals pending too.More than 300 urns containing ashes are waiting for immersion in the lockers of Bhaisakund cremation ground and 50 urns at Alambagh and Gulalaghat crematorium are also waiting to be collected due to the ongoing lockdown.Shantipath and terahnvis (13th day ritual) of more than 400 people are also pending.In Hindu religion, the mortal remains of the dead are cremated and then the ashes are immersed into rivers, most preferably the Ganga. Pandit Ram Keval Tewari said,“ In Hinduism it is said a soul gets salvation only after immersion of ashes. But for the past 21 days, due to the lock-down the relatives of the dead are unable to move out with ashes to immerse them.” Due to travel restrictions they are not able to reach places like Haridwar, Varanasi and Kanpur etc for immersion.”Pandit Kaushalendra Pandey of Bhaisakund Ghat said, “Usually shantipath and terahnvi are announced on the ghat but more than 400 people have postponed both the rituals and have planned them after lock-down opens.”There have been more than 500 deaths after March 24 when lock-down started. “That’s why most of the people chose to keep the ashes in lockers instead of immersing them immediately,” said in charge of the Bhaisakund cremation ground Surya Vikram Singh.He said, “Lockers are limited. We have around 84 lockers at Bhaisakund and 40 odd at Gulalaghat and Alambagh where the ashes are kept. But due to unprecedented circumstances people are not able to immerse them. As a result, now more than one urn is kept in a single locker. In some lockers, there are more than 5 urns. However, the ashes carry names of the dead with serial number so that they are not mixed up.”Presently we have kept 12 lockers empty for VVIPs and VIPs said another official of LMC . While rest of them are occupied.Municipal commissioner Indramani Tripathi said, “ These are difficult times , are we are fighting corona so we need cooperation from everyone.The LMC is trying to get more lockers and planning to double the number of lockers after lockdown.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/lock-down-impact-ashes-await-immersion-funerary-rituals-shelved/story-FBAm5J3BnzS10C8KOErtAN.html
15-04-2020||Mumbai||‘Tweak Maha universities laws to help 2020-21 batch finish academic year’||Several heads of higher education institutes got together (WHEN) to share a contingency plan with the government regarding the status of examinations.This comes barely a week after the state minister for higher and technical education Uday Samant formed a special committee of experts to come up with a variety of ideas to adjust the examinations and results of the current semester and plan the 2020-21 academic year.“Before any plans are drawn or executed, the state government first needs to temporarily tweak statutes of the Maharashtra State Public Universities Act, 2015, so that the changes are applicable to the entire 2020-21 batch and are discontinued thereafter. State government needs to pass a temporary ordinance in this matter,” said TA Shiware, chairman of the Mumbai Association of Non-Government Colleges.In a letter sent to the education minister, principal secretary of state education, directorate of technical education (DTE) as well as all heads of state universities, the association has charted out two plans keeping in mind the possibility of another extension of the lockdown.According to the association, state higher education institutes cannot start their next academic year before September-October 2020. “If the lockdown is lifted by May-end, colleges still have the month of June to conduct exams and announce results in the same month, while the university can conduct final year exams in July and ensure results are out by August. Online exams will not be feasible for several students studying in rural parts of the state,” the letter by the association states.In case the current lockdown situation is extended till June 30, the association suggests that all students be promoted based on their performance in the previous semester. “Several state governments are preparing plans but we suggest that Maharashtra take into consideration the decision of the University Grants Commission (UGC) before taking a final call,” said Shiware.College exams aside, admissions process for most professional courses too are stuck at present. The state common entrance test (CET) cell in March decided to postpone the MH-CET for engineering and pharma courses indefinitely. The entrance test was originally scheduled to take place between April 13 and 23 this year.Two weeks ago, the National Testing Agency (NTA) announced that the second phase of Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Mains will now be held in the last week of May. The exam was originally scheduled to take place between April 5 and 11, and as per a statement released by NTA, the next possible dates will be announced only post April 15. About 9 lakh students have registered for this exam.IIT-Delhi announced that the JEE Advanced exam will now be postponed to the last week of May instead of the first week of May, hinting at a delay in admissions to engineering institutes across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/tweak-maha-universities-laws-to-help-2020-21-batch-finish-academic-year/story-Gx5SgGELR2Yr9Svc7fgzhO.html
15-04-2020||Chandigarh||Govt ties up with OLA to launch app to issue e-passes to farmers||The Punjab government has tied up with taxi-hailing service provider Ola to develop an automated platform for issuing e-passes to 17 lakh farmers besides online management of vehicular movement in the state’s grain markets for grain procurement that started on Wednesday.The Punjab Mandi Board took the initiative with the help of the department of governance reforms and public grievances to further streamline the procurement operations in the backdrop of the Covid-19 crisis.The app will also alert the famers about rush at the mandi gates to check overcrowding in tandem with the social distancing guidelines of the ministry of health and family welfare.It will also alert them on pass issuance, expiry and validation.Arhtiyas (commission agents) will be provided with one pass each for a tractor-trailer of wheat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/govt-ties-up-with-ola-to-launch-app-to-issue-e-passes-to-farmers/story-5bavJ4qcPWpaJMlyshIGrO.html
15-04-2020||Mumbai||Ahead of delivery, pregnant woman tests positive, made to wait for 30 hours for treatment||Seven hospitals in the city refused to admit a Covid-19 positive pregnant woman, 27, from Grant Road, who is expected to deliver in three days, owing to lack of Covid-19 obstetrician-gynecologist ward, her husband alleged, adding she was kept at home without medication, even 30 hours after the diagnosis. Finally, BYL Nair hospital agreed to admit the woman on Wednesday evening. According to the protocol of the union health ministry, when a patient is found positive of Covid-19, he/she needs to be immediately shifted to an isolation ward. The Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) recently issued an advisory – Management of Pregnant Women in Covid-19 Pandemic – seeking special care for pregnant women.The woman didn’t have symptoms. Around four months ago, the couple had reserved a bed for her delivery at Masina Hospital. According to the instructions from the hospital, they did the Covid-19 test on Saturday. On Tuesday, when her reports came positive, the hospital refused to admit her, alleged the husband. Dr Vispi Jokhi, MS CEO, Masina Hospital, said, “Nothing like that has happened and I won’t be able to comment on it.”The husband said he then contacted King Edward Memorial (KEM), Bhabha (Kurla), St George, Kasturba, Seven Hills hospitals, along with two private hospitals, but was turned down by all. “BMC officials didn’t admit my wife to an isolation ward and she was at home without treatment even 30 hours after the diagnosis. On Wednesday, some health officers came for inspection and fumigated the building, but refused to admit my wife,” said the husband. When HT inquired with Seven Hills, the biggest isolation facility in the city, Dr Mohan Joshi said, “We don’t have the facility and within a day, we can’t set it up for the delivery.”This comes days after a 30-year-old Covid-19 positive pregnant woman from Nallasopara succumbed to the infection at BYL Nair Hospital in Mumbai Central on April 4. According to a gynaecologist associated with Kasturba Hospital, hospitals refuse to admit such patients owing to the post-delivery complication, along with possible vertical transmission during delivery. “Firstly, the pregnant woman will have complications due to the infection. Secondly, even after delivery, the condition of the mother can deteriorate further, with breathing complications. Lastly, the hospital needs to take proper care to stop any possible transmission of the virus from the mother to the child during delivery,” she said. “This is why, hospitals with Covid-19 isolation facilities, too, are refusing to admit the woman.”“We are looking into it. Our doctors are in touch with them,” said Dr Daksha Shah, deputy health officer BMC, said earlier in the day. “The hospital is sending an ambulance to ferry my wife to the isolation ward. At least, my wife will start getting treatment and we hope to have a healthy child,” said the husband. “If anything happens to my wife, I will drag them to court.”Talking to HT, politician Rais Sheikh, who intervened in the matter, said, “Now, it has been made compulsory to undergo test for Covid-19 before delivery. But in Mumbai, there is no facility for Covid-19 positive pregnant women. This is complete mismanagement.”Health activists said the BMC should convert one of their 28 maternity hospitals into a Covid-19 centre for deliveries and treatment of infected pregnant women to avoid such negligence in the future. “The BMC needs to take precautionary measures to provide better healthcare to pregnant women, who are already vulnerable to the infection. If community transmission starts, more pregnant women can get infected,” said Dr Ravikant Singh, a health activist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ahead-of-delivery-pregnant-woman-tests-positive-made-to-wait-for-30-hours-for-treatment/story-yCQZdWLu4FfK3MzYbwmNpO.html
15-04-2020||Mumbai||Railway e-ticket booking suspended||After a large group of migrant workers gathered outside Bandra railway station on Tuesday afternoon, the Indian Railways has decided to suspend online bookings for its outstation trains.Though the railways had shut the booking counters outside railway stations ahead of the nationwide lockdown, people could make online booking during the lockdown period for train journeys after April 14.The Railways, through Indian Rail Catering Tourism Corporation (IRCTC), issued a circular on the cancellation of bookings and the refund on e-tickets. “There will be no advance reservation of train tickets, including e-tickets, till further advice. However, facility of online cancellation will remain functional.” said the statement.Passenger associations have blamed the Railways’ online booking service for the gathering of migrant workers in Bandra. “The online booking section should have been shut during the first 21-day lockdown period. This is the fault of the railway ministry. They created hope among people that they would be able to go back to their hometowns and this led to the gathering,” said Subhash Gupta, president, Rail Yatri Parishad.An internal letter by South Central Railway regarding a proposal to operate Jansadharan special trains for stranded migrant workers was also widely shared on social media. “The decision on train operations can be taken only by the railway ministry. The letter was an internal one on planning operation of trains only if the lockdown was lifted. No such decision was taken,” said an official from the Railway Board, the apex body of all zonal railways.South Central Railway issued a statement claiming the letter had been misinterpreted and was based on internal planning. “A communication related to internal planning of South Central Railway to assess demand for train services is being misinterpreted in some sections as a decision to run special trains for migrant labourers. There is no such proposal and all passenger trains stand cancelled till May 3, 2020,” the statement read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/railway-e-ticket-booking-suspended/story-KvzqpcWFPsvnqKyp6AWplJ.html
15-04-2020||Mumbai||Form panel to oversee migrant aid: HC||The Bombay high court (HC) has directed the state to constitute taluka-level committees to oversee the work of distributing essentials like food, water, sanitation and medicines to migrants and daily wage workers who have been rendered jobless and homeless due to the Covid-19 lockdown. In an earlier hearing, the court had directed the state to form district-level committees to oversee the work, however, on Thursday the petitioners informed the court that the directions were not being implemented efficiently and thousands of migrants were in dire straits.A bench of justice RK Deshpande, while hearing two public interest litigations (PILs) and a writ petition all dealing with the plight of migrant workers, the homeless and slum dwellers, was informed that the condition of these persons was pitiable as they were stranded in the city and had no means to sustain themselves. The petitioners prayed for directions to the state to ease the suffering of the workers. Additional solicitor general Anil Singh informed the court that as the Supreme Court was hearing a similar petition, no orders could be passed by this HC.Advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni, however, assured the bench that the government was cognizant of the conditions and was taking adequate measures to alleviate the sufferings of the affected persons. He submitted that migrant workers could not go back to their hometowns as there were travel restrictions.After hearing the submissions the bench said that while district-level committees were addressing the problems of the needy and marginalised sections of the society, taluka-level committees would improve coordination better and the state should consider it. The court further directed the government to conduct surveys and medical tests of those wanting to undertake inter-state travel.The court then posted the matter for the first week of May and asked the state to present the survey report as well as act as per the SC orders that are expected to be passed on April 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/form-panel-to-oversee-migrant-aid-hc/story-sSsWvAkDeQQIYX4ilBpjkM.html
15-04-2020||City||TMC ensures essentials for the poor||Thane Municipal Corporation has formed a committee to ensure that migrants in the city get shelter, adequate food, water, and medical care during lockdown. The committee will set up a community kitchen at every ward.After the lockdown was extended, hundreds of migrants from Mumbra came out on the roads on Tuesday, demanding transport to reach their hometown in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. The authorities assured them that their basic needs would be taken care of.A TMC official said, “We will appoint volunteers to cook in community kitchens and food will be prepared as per the demand in each ward. We are also providing food to around 47,000 people daily through elected representatives, NGOs, hotel associations and builders. The committee will ensure food reaches the needy and that no one is left out.”The committee, under the additional municipal commissioner, will also ensure that migrants or daily wage labourers have shelter, water supply and health care.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tmc-ensures-essentials-for-the-poor/story-aVeMBJB5hyTzZFZpkPyvLP.html
15-04-2020||Lucknow||Mohanlalganj village in grief as migrant’s body arrives||A pall of gloom descended on Dakhina village in Mohanlalganj on Wednesday, as the body of 19-year-old Divakar arrived from Jalandhar late evening. Officials said Divakar, who was a Covid 19 suspect, died two days back in Jalandhar.“However, after confirmation that he didn’t died of coronavirus infection, the Punjab government released the body and sent it to his home village,” an official said.Pallavi Mishra, sub divisional magaistrate (SDM) Mohanlalganj, said Divakar had ben ailing for a few days and succumbed to his illness.Divakar’s distraught father Nankau Kumar, who is a farmer and has a family of 10 (including 8 children), thanked the district administration for facilitating the transportation of the body amid lock-down. “I had lost all hope. I never thought that I would be able to perform the last rites of my son. But the district administration came to my help,” said Kumar.Kumar said Divakar was the second eldest among the siblings and worked with a private firm in Jalandhar. He was caught in the lock-down and couldn’t return home. “I don’t know what happened to my young son. It’s is still hard to believe that is he no more,” he added. He said the family was informed about his demise a couple of days back and asked to collect the body. But following the lock-down, the family approached the district administration for help.“We extended complete support to Nankau, who initially wanted to go to Jalandhar to collect the body. We even processed the travelling passes for him and his family,” said Pallavi Mishra, sub divisional magaistrate (SDM) Mohanlalganj.“But before the family could leave for Jalandhar we got the information that since Divakar did not test Covid 19 positive, the Punjab administration had dispatched the body,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/mohanlalganj-village-in-grief-as-migrant-s-body-arrives/story-IZ2Pa9gjAD5IkzDLB85AcO.html
15-04-2020||Chandigarh||Procurement gets off to a slow start in Punjab||Wheat arrival in the grain markets and purchase centres in Punjab was below par on the first day of procurement on Wednesday, with many citing uncertainty and fear among farmers in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic as the reasons behind the poor turnout of farmers. Of the 8,213.5 tonnes of produce that arrived in 252 mandis, most in south-west Punjab, 3,645.5 tonnes was procured by agencies, officials said.To limit crowding and ensure social distancing, the government is inviting a limited number of farmers through coupons, with permission to sell up to 50 quintals of wheat at their closest grain market.The coupons will act as a curfew pass for unhindered movement of the farmers’ tractor-trailers. On the first day, only 6,290 coupons were issued in the state. With the process of issuing coupons still picking up pace, several sellers across the state complained that they could not reach the grain markets.Gurjeet Singh, a farmer from Badesha village near Samrala town of Ludhiana district, went to the Khamano mandi in the morning to meet his arhtiyas (commission agents) to enquire as when he should bring his produce for sale.“The crop I have sown on 12 acres of land is ready for harvesting. But the government wants us to keep it as long as we can even as we want to dispose it at the earliest. This is the dilemma every farmer is facing,” he said.“We don’t have adequate storage space at home. Also, who would unload, load and then unload it again? It will be a cumbersome task. besides, the incentive the government has offered to farmers for holding back teir produce is only a promise,” added Gurjeet.FARMERS FORCED TO TAKE BACK PRODUCERaghbir Singh of the nearby Ramgarh village was asked to take back his 70 quintals of produce he unloaded outside the office of an arhtiya. “I got a pass three days ago and was told to come today. Now, the market committee is forcing me to take back my produce as the moisture content in it is 12.4%, barely 0.4% more than the limit,” he said.“The government has directed us to ensure social distancing is maintained in mandis. Since there is no facility of drying grain in the mandis, the farmers have to keep the produce at home as long as the permissible moisture limit is achieved,” Khamano market committee chairman Surinder Singh said.“Those arhtiyas found defying government directions on maintain social distancing or helping farmers make out-of-turn sale would invite cancellation of their licences for the entire season,” said Surinder.Around 5 kilometres from Khamano, the Sanghol mandi was yet to receive produce.“It is not that we are not helping the farmers in drying wheat in the mandi yards, but we are short of labour. The wheat arrival is likely to pick up in a few days,” said additional chief secretary Viswajeet Khanna, who heads the state-level committee on harvest and procurement.NO FARMER TURNS UP AT MAJHA MANDISNot even a single farmer brought produce to the grain markets in Majha region on Wednesday. The farmers and officials of the agriculture department and Punjab mandi board said the delay in the arrival of the crop was due to moisture in the grains due to the recent rain.Officials of the four border districts of Majha region - Tarn Taran, Amritsar, Gurdaspur and Pathankot – said the produce is likely to start arriving in the mandis from April 20 onwards.“Most of the farmers have not started harvesting due to moisture in the crop. The pace of arrival of wheat will pick up after April 20,” said Sarwan Singh Pandher, secretary, Kisan Sangharsh Committee, Punjab.JALANDHAR, HOSHIARPUR MARKETS GET NO PRODUCE Also, not many farmers turned up at the grain markets in the Doaba region comprising Jalandhar, Kapurthala, SBS Nagar and Hoshiarpur districts.In SBS Nagar district, wheat arrived in only two grain markets of Balachaur sub-division. Produce of 12 farmers was purchased.In Kapurthala district, 105 tonne wheat arrived in two grain markets of Sultanpur Lodhi and Bholath, of which 30 tonne was purchased, said an official. No produce had arrived in Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur districts.NEGLIGIBLE ARRIVAL IN SOUTH MALWAWheat procurement at various centres in south Malwa districts remained symbolic on Wednesday. In Bathinda, only one farmer arrived with his crop whereas nearly 3,000 coupons were issued to farmers in the district.Only two farmers arrived with their produce in Mansa.Moga did not witness any wheat arrival while the Fazilka administration did not issue any token to farmers. Faridkot witnessed wheat sale by 75 farmers.“For Thursday and Friday, we have issued 20,000 and 41,000 passes. Things will be streamlined in a few days,” additional secretary (mandi board) said HS Brar.(Inputs by Vishal Joshi and Gagandeep Singh in Bathinda and Jalandhar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/procurement-gets-off-to-a-slow-start-in-punjab/story-plbbHnYt6xARKE0QuitNZO.html
15-04-2020||Mumbai||After Bandra chaos, the Maha political blame game begins||Left red-faced by the gathering of migrant labourers outside Bandra railway station on Tuesday, Maharashtra ministers blamed the railway ministry, terming the incident a “conspiracy” against the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), meanwhile, called the incident an “intelligence failure” and alleged the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) planned the crowding to give the issue a communal colour.A parallel battle also ensued on social media with hashtags “UddhavResign” and “Maharashtra with CM”. Since the incident at Bandra station, hashtag “UddhavResign” was trending on Twitter. Subsequently, on Wednesday, the Shiv Sena circulated the hashtag “MaharashtrawithCM’ to push it on Twitter. Several members of the party tweeted with the hashtag, backing chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday evening to win the perception battle.Amid the political slugfest, the Mumbai Police have arrested Vinay Dubey for allegedly uploading a video on social media asking migrant workers from north India to gather at Kurla Terminus on April 18 to demand that they should be sent back to their native town. Home minister Anil Deshmukh said, “Misinformation regarding the commencement of trains from April 14, 2020, was spread using 11 different methods. The accounts have been tracked, FIRs are being filed & due legal consequences will follow.” The Maharashtra cybercrime team has identified more than 30 accounts spreading rumour about train services, Deshmukh said.A section of media reported on Wednesday evening that Deshmukh knew Dubey. “An autodriver who donated ₹25,000 to the chief minister’s relief fund eight days ago met me in Mantralaya. I think Dubey was with him. I don’t know him directly,” Deshmukh tweeted on Wednesday. A day after Thackeray urged against politicisation of migrants’ issues, NCP chief Sharad Pawar asked people to refrain from putting misleading messages on social media. He also appealed the political leaders to rise above politics. Terming the Bandra incident as “unfortunate”, Pawar in an address via Facebook Live, said, “Thousands of people gathered near Bandra station and social distancing rules were violated. Do not put any message that will mislead people…I want to appeal to all leaders across the political spectrum that there is nothing wrong in doing politics, but this is not the right time as the country is going through a serious crisis. Hence, there is a need to work in tandem irrespective of which party government is in the state. I’m hoping that due care will be taken to ensure such incidents will not be repeated.”Former Maharashtra chief minister and state public works department minister Ashok Chavan on Wednesday alleged a political conspiracy behind Tuesday’s gathering of migrants at the railway station and a social media campaign which followed demanding ‘President’s rule’ in Maharashtra. “We are investigating the entire episode of crowding by migrant workers at the Bandra station on Tuesday evening. We are investigating who was patronising the social media campaign holding the state government responsible for it,” said Chavan at a video press conference. Chavan and state revenue minister and Maharashtra Congress chief Balasaheb Thorat said that the railways were accepting train bookings till April 14 which added to the confusion. Chavan alleged that the officials of the railway ministry have faulted and minister Piyush Goyal should look into it.Thorat, who was also a part of the video press conference, said the Railways had taken online booking till Tuesday afternoon before announcing the cancellation of all trains. “The confusion among the migrants led to the incident. It did not pertain to any specific community or religion. The crowd included migrants from all communities,” he said.BJP spokesperson Madhav Bhandari alleged Dubey was a member of the NCP. Ashish Shelar, BJP legislator from Bandra West, where the incident occurred, in a letter to Shiv Sena minister Aaditya Thackeray and BMC commissioner Praveen Pardeshi, said the congregation was an “intelligence failure”. In his letter, he demanded that immediate provision be made of ration and financial aid for these labourers. “The plot was orchestrated by Dubey, who is a member of the NCP. He has contested an election on their ticket. If there was any confusion about the trains and if migrants had come to board a train, why would they not carry any luggage, why were there no women and children, why would they come to Bandra local station,” Bhandari asked.NCP spokesperson and state minority affairs minister Nawab Malik said Dubey is not a member of the NCP. On Tuesday, Sena minister Aaditya Thackeray blamed the Centre for not arranging trains for migrants before lockdown was announced on March 24. Senior Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Wednesday sought police action against BJP’s Kapil Mishra who through a tweet posed similar questions like the one Bhandari asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/after-bandra-chaos-the-maha-political-blame-game-begins/story-YnrYmdFpc1usfb9fqW5qpJ.html
15-04-2020||Lucknow||Villagers’ hospitality wows French family caught in lock-down||When a swanky imported car carrying five French nationals stopped in Laxmipur village of Maharajganj on March 25, transcending language barriers the curious villagers understood at once that a foreigner family on India tour was caught in the corona lock- down and needed help. Since then the Pollarez family from Toulouse city of France, on a world tour in their car since 2019, has been camping at the temple of this village, mixing up with the once strange villagers who are showing the spirit of ‘Athithi Devo Bhav’ by showering them with affection and offering them tea, snacks and other essentials while strictly practicing social distancing. While locals in general try to communicate through gestures, some literate ones use broken languages. “When I came here, we and the villagers were strangers to each other but they soon became friendly and helped us a lot. India is great and so are its people,” said an elated Pollarez Patrice Joseph, 40, the family head who drove to India through Pakistan’s Wagha border in February on a tourist visa , visited Indian cities and was on his way to cross the Nepal border through Maharajganj when suddenly everything came to a halt due to the lock -down. He said once the lock-down was lifted, he wished to return to his country in his car, equipped with machines and tools used in repair work.Pollarez Patrice , a motor mechenic by profession, is accompanied by wife Virginie Pollarez, daughters Ophelie Pallarez , Lola Janniefer Pollarez and son Tom Pollarez.Rahul, a local said, “ The entire village is treating them as guests. In Just a few days, the family has learnt to commonly use Hindi words like namaste, dhanyawad (thank you), aap kaisey hai (How do you do?) etc. The family gets up early in the morning and locals offer them tea and snacks which they eat happily .There are moments when they enjoy by dancing on tunes played on mobile phone and share lighter moments with villagers, They also click selfies with locals.” DM Ujjawal Kumar said, “The administration is ensuring that the French nationals do not face any problems. A medical team was sent to check them and all were found well. Police teams have also been instructed to ensure their security.”SDM Nautanwa Jasveer Singh confirmed that the family was on Indian tour since February and was stranded due to lock-down. “All necessary items, including groceries, are being provided to them,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/villagers-hospitality-wows-french-family-caught-in-lock-down/story-0eQa7JqC2sIYxXg3tjDarM.html
15-04-2020||Mumbai||Migrants ‘boycott’ food; authorities counsel them||Migrant workers’ hopes of returning to their hometowns after the 21-day lockdown ended on April 14 were dashed when the state government, and later the Centre, announced an extension. This has led to unrest among the migrant workers staying in shelters in various parts of the state. In some shelters, the ‘homesick’ migrants boycotted lunch on Tuesday after the announcement of the extension of the lockdown till May 3. Authorities at these shelters have now begun counselling the workers.A majority of the migrant workers stranded in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region are from Uttar Pradesh (UP) and other states in north India. Around 75,000 migrants and homeless are living in Mumbai at various shelters arranged at schools, colleges and community halls. “There is unrest among them, especially after the announcement of the extension of the lockdown and the incident in Bandra. More than food and shelter, they want to go back to home amid the uncertainty owing to the pandemic,” said an official from the Mumbai suburban collectorate, requesting anonymity. Ninety such migrants, mostly from UP, are living at Uttar Pradesh Bhavan in Bandra (East). An official said that they are eagerly waiting for the lockdown to end so that they can return home.On April 14, after hearing the announcement of the extension of the lockdown till May 3, many workers became restless. At a shelter in Nashik, the migrants announced a boycott of lunch. “We had to convince them with the help of a psychiatrist only then food was served at 3pm. They have not complained about the arrangements but they have become homesick. We tried to tap the possibility of finding them work but questions arise about the possibility of spread of the virus,” said a senior officer looking after the arrangements at the shelter.At shelters in Palghar and Talasari too, labourers refused to dine. It was only after being counselled by the district collector and other officers, the workers agreed to have dinner. “We have been regularly arranging counselling and meditation sessions for them. We have more than 5,000 labourers from 19 states put up in government and private shelters,” said an official from Palghar district collectorate.Maharashtra has 4,618 shelters in various districts with arrangements for 5.72 lakh migrants. The state government shoulders responsibility for their meals, while NGOs donate toiletries, clothes and other essentials. The state government has allocated ₹90 crore for the arrangements.In Beed, there are around 1,266 migrants stranded from various states. The officer-in-charge at one of the shelters said they organise devotional activities like bhajans and kirtans to keep the labourers engaged.Deepak Nagargoje of Shantivan, an organisation working for cane-cutters, said that more than 9,000 workers are waiting to return home. “More than 2.70 lakh returned home before the lockdown. The rest are facing problems and want to go back at the earliest,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/migrants-boycott-food-authorities-counsel-them/story-mxpuA0LbsC4nvxbZ6YqtlI.html
15-04-2020||Chandigarh||Many mouths, little food: Poor pay price for UT’s miscalculation||It is 1 pm and the Sun is its scorching best. Waiting for food amongst a horde of 500 people at colony number 4, a slum in Industrial Area, Umesh Yadav said it was unbearable to stand in the heat and wait for food. “Today evening we got no food. I dont want to live on the mercy of the government if I can earn two meals a day for my family, but I am helpless,” said Yadav, a printing press worker. Janaki Devi, a middle aged woman, said that few days ago she had requested officials and the area councillor to increase the number of distribution points and deliver food earlier due to rising temperature, but no one has paid heed. “Those sitting in office should try standing in the heat for hours for just two chapattis and dal,” she said. FEW DISTRIBUTION POINTS SEE MAD RUSHNihal Ansari, an unemployed daily wager, said about 2,500 people lived in the colony, but with only two distribution points for lunch and its worse in the evening with one distribution point. “In the mad rush, no one follows social distancing. Many don’t even get food,” he said. Papu Shukla, husband of ward number 13 councillor, said Kajheri village in their ward with 5,000 households has only one distribution point. “When they ask for more, they face humiliation. If it can’t ensure dignity of the poor, it is better the administration stops giving us food,” he said. Bapudham, a Sector 26 slum, is at the mercy of NGOs, with no government involvement or supply. Area councillor Dalip Sharma said there were 1,500 labourers who have been reduced to beggars after the lockdown. “While we manage dinner with help of the area’s transport association and Sector 28 gurdwara, we have no resources to feed them lunch,” he said. UT MAKING CHANGES: DC Deputy commissioner Mandip Brar said changes in the distribution system are underway so needy will be fed well till the curfew is in place. He said distribution of wheat and dal to beneficiaries of Centre’s schemes has been speeded up.With the curfew extended till May 3, many NGOs have backed out from supplying cooked food to UT administration. The pleaded helplessness saying they have run out of dry ration.NGOs and the Red Cross are supplying most of the cooked food distributed by UT administration which claims it supplies about 50,000 food packets to the needy everyday. Organisations which have discontinued the service say they had made arrangements and had mandatory permissions till April 14 only.One such organisation, Shri Chaitanya Gaudiya Math Temple, Sector 20-B, Chandigarh, was supplying 10,000 meals a day. Jai Prakash Gupta of the mutth said, “Resource constraint is an issue but we are trying to find a way to restart.” Non-availability of ration is the biggest hindrance for organisations providing cooked food. Bhupinder Verma, general secretary, Prachin Shiv Mandir Management committee, Ram Darbar, said that in March, the administration assured them of dry ration and temple committee would supply cooked meals. “Even though they didn’t do as promised, we supplied cooked food for 500 people everyday. Now, if we are given ration, our volunteers will contribute,” Verma said. Harishankar Mishra, chairman of Hallo Majra’s Jai Gurudev Sansathan, which supplied 1,000 meals said ration was not available due to curfew. “We are figuring out how to restart but in the current scenario, it it will be hard to do,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/many-mouths-little-food-poor-pay-price-for-ut-s-miscalculation/story-3OMNuSN1EPMdcxfsP6EEYP.html
15-04-2020||City||Six new cases in Punjab, count up to 191||Chandigarh Six new covid-19 cases were reported in Punjab on Wednesday, taking the tally of total positive patient to 191. In Patiala, the wife and two sons of a 50-year-old who had tested positive on Tuesday, were also found to be infected in the test report. In Pathankot, the cases are the husband of a maid, who was employed at a Sujanpur family, and the second is an auto-driver, who visited the local government hospital with flu-like symptoms and tested positive. The sixth case is from Sangrur, where the patient is a contact of a positive case of Tablighi Jamaat.In Patiala, civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said, “We have taken eight more samples of primary contacts of the 50-year old and reports are awaited.” He added that the process to shift the three new patients to the isolation ward of Government Medical College had started; till now, they had been quarantined at home. He added that they quarantined 450 persons, who had come in contact with the 50-year-old, a resident of Safabadi Gate. He was part of one of the groups distributing food to the needy amid the lockdown. Deputy commissioner Kumar Amit has imposed a ban on distribution of langar in the city. Door-to-door surveys have been started in at least four colonies, where the 50-year-old went to distribute langar. The administration has also ordered the screening of the entire population that resides under the municipal corporation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/six-new-cases-in-punjab-count-up-to-191/story-ZTyr6C1UuZe7j3zlFVeXbK.html
15-04-2020||City||Thane reports 14 new Covid-19 cases||Nineteen people were found to be Covid-19 positive in Thane district on Wednesday — out of this, 14 cases are from Thane city, taking the city’s toll to 101. Thane had 45 cases till Sunday and 87 cases on Tuesday. Mumbra and Kalwa have been sealed as most of Thane’s Covid-19 positive cases have been recorded from the two areas. RT Kendre, special executive officer, health department, TMC said, “Although Mumbra and Kalwa are sealed, people are seen roaming outside. On Tuesday, hundreds of migrants were on road.”Most employees of state housing minister Jitendra Awhad have tested positive after being in contact with a person from Mumbra, increasing the number of cases at Vartak Nagar. Dinkar Desai, member of Indian Medical Association, said, “Most cases are in Kalwa and Mumbra areas. The cases which have increased in the past three days are mostly contact cases.”He added most staffers of Thane Healthcare Hospital tested Covid-19 positive. “We are able to find the index cases or primary source of contact. There are no random cases,” added Desai.After Kalyan-Dombivli did not report a single case of Covid-19 on Tuesday, two new cases were reported on Wednesday. A 30-year-old man and a 42-year-old woman from Dombivli (East), who work in a private hospital, have tested positive, said the health department of Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC). The hospital is shut for five days and its staff quarantined.“Eleven contacts of the two patients will be tested. The other employees have tested negative,” said Pratibha Paan Patil, epidemic officer, KDMC.The total number of cases in Kalyan-Dombivli has reached to 58 and 16 patients have recovered. Bhiwandi taluka reported one positive case of Covid-19 on Wednesday. A 65-year-old woman from Borivli-Padgha village has tested positive. The woman, a cancer patient, is awaiting a surgery. Shashikant Gaikwad, tehsildar of Bhiwandi, said, “We are checking her details and how she got infected. Four members of her family have been quarantined.”After an increase of 11 cases in Navi Mumbai on Monday, highest one-day spike in the city, it saw one positive case on Wednesday. Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has recorded 52 positive cases till now and four deaths. No cases were reported from Panvel.On Wednesday, Eknath Shinde, state urban development minister and also Thane guardian minister, said the capacity of Covid-19 designated hospitals in Thane district will be increased. “We will increase the capacity of the Covid-19 hospitals in Thane district to ensure every patient gets treatment at the right time and there is no shortage of beds,” said Shinde, at a review meeting.(Inputs by G Mohiuddin Jeddy)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-reports-14-new-covid-19-cases/story-yUPGSuW6IGUG36L2WBrGSM.html
15-04-2020||Lucknow||Mob attacks health team in Moradabad,CM orders NSA against culprits||Two people, including a doctor, were injured when a mob of local residents attacked a health department team in Nagfani area of Moradabad on Wednesday afternoon. The team had gone there to take away relatives and contacts of a Covid 19 victim to quarantine them. Police dispersed the violent mob using mild force and took at least 10 people into custody. Moradabad district magistrate Rakesh Kumar Singh, SSP Amit Pathak and SP (city) Amit Kumar rushed to the spot with heavy force after receiving information about the attack. The injured Dr S C Agarwal and a health worker have been admitted to the district hospital for treatment. Taking a serious note of the incident, chief minister Yogi Adityanath has asked officers to invoke the National Security Act (NSA) against those who attacked the health workers and police in Moradabad.District magistrate Rakesh Kumar Singh said that the health department team had gone there to take away relatives and some others who came in contact with a person who died of Sars-Cov-2 on Tuesday. When they entered the area near Hazi Nebwali mosque, a group of local residents attacked the team. The mob damaged two vehicles and two people, including a doctor, sustained injuries. The DM said that at least 10 people had been taken into custody while others involved in the incident were being identified and stern action would be taken against them. Heavy force has been deployed in the area and people have been asked to remain indoors.Meanwhile, the chief minister’s office said in posts on twitter, “The attack on health and sanitation staff and policemen is unpardonable and is condemned. Action under provisions of Disaster Control Act will be taken and National Security Act will be invoked against them.”It said recovery of damages caused to public property would be made strictly. The CM’s office said the district administration should identify such people immediately and besides providing security to the common man, strict act should be taken against anti-social elements. It said the CM had taken a serious note of the incident, adding that doctors, health department staff, sanitation workers and policemen deployed for security had been working round the clock during the crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/mob-attacks-health-team-in-moradabad-cm-orders-nsa-against-culprits/story-a6kW7uO5LAb1ObQJ2pVv5N.html
15-04-2020||Mumbai||Zoos up efforts to prevent Covid-19 among animals||The state zoo authority has lauded zoos for their efforts to prevent coronavirus among animals, including comprehensive health screening of workers.After a tiger in an American zoo tested positive for coronavirus, there are concerns that animals could contract Sars-CoV-2, and nine zoological parks and four wildlife rescue centres across the state were asked to submit a compliance report by the Maharashtra Zoo Authority (MZA) last week. The zoos submitted their responses by Tuesday.“Almost 80% of all centres are complying with instructions issued by the Centre and the state government. There are no symptoms or abnormal behaviour displayed by any animals so far,” said Ravikiran Govekar, member secretary, MZA.With 318 captive animals and birds, Veer Mata Jijabai Bhosale Udyan or Byculla zoo has screened all 30 zoo keepers for symptoms of Covid-19 at the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) Maratha Compound in Byculla (East) over the past week. A health screening report with details of travel history, family health history, recent illnesses, and Covid-19 related symptoms. “None of the staff or animals has showed any symptom. The idea was to cut off the first point from where any infection can be transmitted to any of the animals,” said Sanjay Tripathi, director of Byculla zoo. “A protocol has been put in place where staff members are not allowed to move outside zoo premises under any circumstances.”Santisers are being kept outside every enclosure, all vehicles entering the premises are mandatorily sanitised and only one gate has been kept open during the day. “While there is no change in animal diet, all food items are boiled, sanitised using potassium permanganate (KMnO4) disinfectant solution and then offered to the animals,” said Tripathi. “Managing in-house facilities is the most important factor during these trying times.”Rajiv Gandhi Zoological Park in Katraj developed a special Covid-19 dress, including masks and caps, for all zoo keepers to curtail any transmission of infection to animals. Nisargakavi Bahinabai Chaudhary Zoo in Pimpri-Chinchwad has been practicing social distancing, isolation, and sanitisation of the premises thrice a day. Maharaj Bagh Zoo in Nagpur provided a list of dos and don’ts to all staff members. Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP), Borivli, had also screened all its staff, especially those handling tiger, lion and leopard enclosures. Any persons detected with any illnesses at SGNP have been directed not to report on duty.“Of the 13 centres, these are some that stood out in developing an appropriate protocol of getting health check-up for staff, safety of food provided to animals, among other efforts. We have issued an internal advisory to other zoos to replicate such efforts,” said Govekar. “Three important points directed are screening of staff handling animal, orientation on sanitisation and social distancing, and looking out for any symptomatic changes in captive animals,” said Govekar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/zoos-up-efforts-to-prevent-covid-19-among-animals/story-avrgt0I3AqvZnwXgJ5hJzM.html
15-04-2020||City||Ambernath Covid centres do not have enough staff, say officials||Around 32 people living in slums in Ambernath have been home quarantined. Although Ambernath has four quarantine centres, officials said they do not have staff to take care of patients. After three positive cases, Ambernath Municipal Council (AMC) has asked close contacts of patients to be quarantined. Dr Shashikant Dode said, “It is difficult for the 32 people to be home quarantined as their homes are very small.” AMC chief officer Devidas Pawar did not answer calls nor respond to messages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ambernath-covid-centres-do-not-have-enough-staff-say-officials/story-udnBd9y78lMWWvCnr4flNO.html
15-04-2020||City||No case in Amritsar for 6 days||No new covid-19 patient has been reported in the district over the past six days, with the last case reported on April 9, when a 24-year-old resident of Jandiala Guru, who had returned from the UK on March 19, was tested positive. Since April 10, 112 samples, including 13 contacts of the last patient have been tested and all have been negative. Overall, 250 samples from the district have been tested, of which 11 have been positive. “We have screened around 54,000 persons, in Sultanwind road and Krishna Nagar localities, where two deaths were reported due to coronavirus, but no person was found symptomatic to the disease. A 40-year old man of Amarkot area was admitted in the isolation ward after he was found suffering from fever during screening but he has tested negative for covid-19,” said Amritsar civil surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore, adding that they had conducted a three-day door-to-door screening process across localities. District nodal officer Dr Madan Mohan claimed, “The health department worked round the clock to trace contacts of those found positive. The tracing and isolation of suspected patients helped control the infection. We still need to be watchful, as some on our watch-list might develop symptoms.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-case-in-amritsar-for-6-days/story-BNPWTV2gqBayySMju9A42H.html
15-04-2020||City||Tribals mistake doc as thief, pelt stones; 4 cops hurt||Around 300 tribals mistook a Thane-based doctor, who had gone to the area to distribute food grains, as a thief and pelted stones at his vehicle at Saarni village in Dahanu. Four policemen got hit by stones and were injured the incident when they arrived at the spot to rescue the doctor. The mob mistook the doctor to be a thief as there were rumours in the village that thieves were posing as doctors and police while robbing.“We have filed cases against 250 persons and arrested 15 of them under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code, Disaster Management Act,2005, and Maharashtra Covid-19 Regulations,” said a police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tribals-mistake-doc-as-thief-pelt-stones-4-cops-hurt/story-sqadmeGUUX2XfJw5XZ9BwM.html
15-04-2020||Chandigarh||PGIMER decision to stop staff from pooling money for safety gears draws flak||The decision of the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) directing faculty members and nurses to refrain from pooling money for buying safety gears at the departmental level has drawn flak from employees’ organisations. The PGI Employees’ Union has written to the Prime Minister’s Office and the Union health ministry stating that it is unreasonable on the part of the hospital administration to restrict health workers from arranging their own personal protective equipment (PPE) as it shows the insensitiveness and lack of compassion at a time of a pandemic.Another organisation, Medicos Legal Action Group, has also demanded revocation of the orders.“On the one hand, the PGIMER is not able to provide the equipment in the areas where there is considerable risk and, on the other, the administration is stopping employees to buy their own equipment. What kind of diktat is this?,” said Dr Neeraj Nagpal, convener of the group.He added, “It is unethical on the part of the authorities to pass such orders at a time of scarcity of products.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pgimer-decision-to-stop-staff-from-pooling-money-for-safety-gears-draws-flak/story-dR4lNWR5l6BDMcDLY6l9wK.html
15-04-2020||City||NCP leader Anand Paranjpe’s wife tests positive||A day after Thane NCP president Anand Paranjpe tested positive, his 43-year-old wife too tested positive for Covid-19. Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner of TMC, said, “Paranjpe’s wife has also tested positive. She was among the close contacts of Paranjpe.” Paranjpe had visited Naad Bungalow, state housing minister Jitendra Awhad’s residence, where he came in contact with an infected person.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ncp-leader-anand-paranjpe-s-wife-tests-positive/story-0m0iVyxJTj8WDlVCqxyoUL.html
15-04-2020||City||Ghaziabad villages regulate entry/exit to fight Covid-19||Khirajpur village — which is about 10km inside from the main Delhi-Meerut Road in Ghaziabad district — has gone into a voluntary lockdown and put in place stringent rules for its residents, similar to those being observed in containment areas, to contain the spread of Covid-19. Khirajpur is not the only village to have put in place stringent measures.“Ever since the first positive Covid-19 case was reported from Ghaziabad city in March, we disallowed entry of outsiders to our village. We have erected barriers and no outsider is allowed. In case the relative of any resident arrives,they are put up at the primary school on the outskirts of our village and the family or the village committee takes care of their food and other requirements.They are not allowed to enter the village,” said Sartaj Amhad, the pradhan of Khirajpur , which has a population of about 2,400 people.“Initially 2-3 people had come, but when we told that they will have to stay at the school, they left. It is a norm here that visitors stay at the school instead of the home of their relatives in the village. At the main entrances, we have put up hand wash and sanitizers. locals of the village, mostly farmers, have to manatorily use the handwash/sanitiser after returning from their fields,” he added.He said that during 2018-19 Swacchta campaign, the villagers had removed large garbage dumps from the open areas and even those spreading over the private land. This has helped them maintain a clean surrounding and reduced seasonal diseases.At a little distance away lies Sarna village in Muradnagar, which houses a population of about 500 families. The village is located at a distance of 3km from the Delhi-Meerut Road.“We have also barricaded the main entrance to our village. As a precautionary measure we have also disallowed entry of vendors. Only a handful of vendors who live in villages are tasked to supply fruits and vegetables from the markets. We have also disallowed entry of outsiders or relatives of local people. Announcements regarding the same were made through 65 loud speakers,” said Neeraj Tyagi, the village pradhan.The chain of loudspeakers has also helped villagers connect to events like Prime Minister’s address on various occasions and his speech is aired live.“Through the loudspeakers, we make announcements to our residents and have informed them that they should not be asking heir relatives to visit till the lockdown is in place,” he added.Similar barricading has also been undertaken at Dasna Dehat area, ever since a countrywide lockdown was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi last month to fight the spread of covid-19.The Dasna Dehat area comprises about 8-10 localities like Bhoorgarhi, Kudiagarhi, Gurjargarhi, Indergarhi, Akash Nagar etc and houses a population of about 70,000.“Dasna Dehat areas are close to Masuri, which is a hotspot and under intensive lockdown. All the main entrances of the localities have been barricaded with the help of bamboo poles. Banners/posters have also been placed with messages that state that entry of outsiders is prohibited,” said Satish Kumar, who represents his wife Reena Devi, who is the pradhan of Dasna Dehat.Satish said that any outsiders who arrive to these areas will have to stay at the nearby private college which has a number of rooms.“We have no other option but to request them to stay at the college. So far people have not come. In case they come we will take care of their food and daily necessities. For observing lockdown, we have also formed a committee of 4-5 members who are tasked to obtain information about any outsiders trying to enter our areas. Vendors from outside are also not allowed in and only identified local ones are selling fruits, vegetables . It is only in emergency cases that people are allowed to move out,” he added.At present Ghaziabad city has 14 hotspots. A majority of these are in city areas with only a few l— ike Naipura in Loni, Khatu Shyam Colony in Duhai and Masuri — coming under the rural areas.“We have heard that many villages have restricted entry of outsiders and have been observing a complete lockdown. It is good that the villagers are taking precaution against the virus. This is in turn a major help for us as we can concentrate more on containment zones and hotspot areas where positive Covid-19 case have been found,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer of Ghaziabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-villages-regulate-entry-exit-to-fight-covid-19/story-1ftTNJFEldh69nttvQSpSK.html
15-04-2020||City||Ghaziabad: Random sampling started in Covid-19 hot spots, delayed test reports a major issue||Teams from the Ghaziabad health department have started random sampling of people living in Covid-19 hot spot areas and containment zones. The Uttar Pradesh government on Wednesday has also directed the districts to ramp up collection of samples so that more people can be traced and shifted to quarantine centres.In Ghaziabad, chief medical officer Dr NK Gupta said the health department has started collecting about 20 samples a day from 14 hot spot areas.“But delay in getting test reports is a major issue. Till Wednesday, we have 547 samples which are pending as we have not received any report for the past three days. Earlier, we sent samples to Delhi but now we send them to a lab in Noida. However, we have started random sampling from containment zones and hot spot areas in order to ascertain if there any positive cases in these localities,” Gupta said.On Wednesday night, a doctor from Indirapuram was found positive for coronavirus, officials said.With the new positive case, the total number of hot spot areas may increase to 16 in the district, the officials said. The officials said a containment area of 1km radius is identified in case a person tests positive for Covid-19 in a particular area. In case of more than one positive case, the radius is increased to three kilometers.In both instances, a two-kilometre buffer zone is also created, where door-to-door surveillance activities are taken up by health teams.“To take up random sampling, our surveillance team will visit households in these areas at random and collect samples which will be sent for testing. So far, we had been collecting samples only of those with foreign travel history or those who complained of symptoms and those who attended religious congregations,” the CMO said.Amit Mohan Prasad, UP’s principal secretary (health), Wednesday said from the initial sample collection of about 150-200 daily, the state is now collecting more than 2,000 samples daily for the past two days.“On Tuesday, we collected 2433 samples. We have also given instructions to districts having no Covid-19 positive cases to send a minimum of 20 samples a day while districts having hot spots or having more than 50 cases should send at least 150-200 samples a day. The sampling and testing have been ramped up so that we discover the spread at the earliest and those found positive can be treated,” Gupta said.He said as per the latest age profile, the state had 17% cases in the age group 0-20 years; 46.5% in the age group of 21-40 years; 26% in the age group of 41-60 years; and 10.5% cases in the age group of above 60 years.Across the state, the total count of Covid-19 cases has risen to 727 (till Wednesday evening) with 55 patients discharged from hospitals and 11 dead. In Ghaziabad, the total number of Covid-19 cases is 28 while seven were discharged from hospitals.The CMO said that a 37-year-old doctor, an oncologist with a private hospital in Vaishali, from a pocket in Indirapuram was found positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday and he got himself admitted to a hospital in Delhi.“Seven of his family members have been quarantined. We are trying to trace his other contacts and these may also include patients who visited him. The pocket in Indirapuram where he resides will be turned into a hotspot. The location of Vaishali hospital may also be turned into hot spot. If the two new hotspots are created, Ghaziabad will have a tally of 16 hot spots,” CMO Dr Gupta added.Prasad said the first set of ‘pool sampling’ was initiated in Agra district Wednesday. Under the pool sampling, individual samples are mixed and tested as one. In case the test is negative, all individual are termed negative. In case the pool tests positive, all individuals will be tested again. Doctors said pool sampling will save on resources and time.“Five samples were pooled and sent for testing in Agra. This concept will be used across the state as well. We have also decided that the audit of all Covid-19 deaths will be taken up and detailed reports of all deceased will be studied by a panel of doctors. This will help us gather insight on each case and the analysis will be helpful in treating Covid-19 patients,” Prasad said.The officials also said students in their final year of MBBS and nursing courses will also be given an opportunity to join the health department’s efforts to fight the coronavirus spread.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-random-sampling-started-in-covid-19-hot-spots-delayed-test-reports-a-major-issue/story-dNsAJcngH0CcKHb2l4dGrN.html
15-04-2020||Noida||Silicon city RWA extorting vendors, allege residents||Despite directives from the Uttar Pradesh government and the district administration, Amrapali Silicon City Residents Welfare Association are reportedly charging money from vendors to allow them to set up kiosks inside their residential premises.The vendors in turn have been jacking up prices of essential items — like vegetables and fruits — in order to recover their costs.The Gautam Budh Nagar district administration, after witnessing a surge of Covid-19 cases, had earlier fixed the rate list of essential items to check black-marketing during the ongoing lockdown.Residents of Amrapali Silicon City in sector-76 of Noida, claimed its residents’ association – Silicon City Social Welfare Association (SCSWA) — has been collecting ₹12,000 per month from each vegetable vendor and Rs 8,000-10,000 from each milk vendor.A resident of Amrapali SIlicon City who did not want to be named said that vendors not willing to pay are not allowed to set up kiosks inside the premises. “The SCSWA is not allowing residents to step out to buy essentials and instead forcing us to purchase essentials at a higher prices,” he said. Rajesh Kumar, another resident, said that in total disregard to rules set by the district administration, the SCSWA was imposing its own set of norms. “They didn’t even allow my milk vendor for doorstep delivery after he refused to pay money. Every item is being sold at a higher price here,” he said.When contacted, Deepak Pandey, the secretary of SCSWA, accepted that the association was collecting a fixed amount from the vendors, before allowing them in the society. “Though I had objected to this proposal personally in the general body meeting, but it was finally approved with a majority,” he said.GB Nagar commissioner of police (CP) Alok Singh said that such extortion by residents’ association was ‘illegal’ and will not be tolerated. “I have ordered the SHO concerned to enquire about this matter. If the residents’ complaints will be found true, stern action against the SCSWA officials will be taken,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/silicon-city-rwa-extorting-vendors-allege-residents/story-xH6hWVBcY1g0SJdbi26qSN.html
15-04-2020||Noida||Poverty hits kids as schools take learning online||Technological poverty, driven by low incomes in a time of crisis, is pinching the under-privileged now more than ever, especially as private schools have taken their classes online. Parents of children, who got admission to private schools under the RTE Act, said they were unable to get assignments or help their children attend classes due to the lack of necessary infrastructure. They fear their children may lose an entire year.“In our family of four we have one phone that has WhatsApp. My two children, are in different grades and have to somehow share the phone. They attend classes on alternate days. We get the assignments and tests, but it’s cumbersome. They try to keep up with the load but they’re beginning to lag behind their classmates simply because we don’t have computers or tablets or even another smart phone,” said Rukmani, a domestic help who works in 7X. Her children, one in class 3rd and another in 5th, attend two different private schools.In view of the lockdown, the government had declared that students from classes 1 to 8 should be promoted to the next grade without being made to write their final term examination. After this, most schools opted to start online classes and share assignments electronically.A private school teacher, who did not wish to be named, said they are using multi-media platforms to include the entire class in a video conference and that the interaction has been as good as that of a real classroom.However, some students don’t have this option altogether as many schools have simply shut operations for now.“I had heard that many schools were operating online. I asked my kids’ school but they said they are closed for now. The kids are studying at home by themselves but we are worried all this may cost them an entire year,” said Sarita, another cook working in Sector 75.Government schools are also trying to follow the online model but they are not having as much success.“We are sharing PDFs and assignments with as many parents as possible through WhatsApp. But not all students have access to a smartphone. We are working to come up with ways to reach out to as many of them as possible,” said Suryaprakash Rai, district coordinator, primary education department.There is no notification yet about when classes may resume, and how would social distancing be ensured, after the lockdown is lifted.But some private schools said that once normal school operation resumes kids who are lagging behind will be helped through extra classes.“We will organise extra classes for students from economically weaker sections. We have a buddy system in place to help these students. We will make it more efficient once the classes start. Every section has a WhatsApp group and all our class teachers have been trying to reach out to as many students as possible, but the efficiency is not 100% and we will work to fill up the gaps for sure,” said Kamini Bhasin, principal, DPS-Sector 30.The online system wasn’t easy for even middle class families with enough infrastructure.“We had one spare laptop in the house. But I have two kids in different grades whose timing for online classes coincides. During the lockdown with electronics not being an essential service, procuring the necessary gadgets was not easy and it was only through a friend who owns a showroom in Nehru Place that I was able to somehow get my hands on another laptop,” said Deepak Jha, a resident of Sector 77.Online classes have led to an increase in the demand for electronics services, repairs and maintenance but with the lockdown in places, people don’t have access to these facilities either.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/poverty-hits-kids-as-schools-take-learning-online/story-SqkZP4eXN4T3eY2ar38lRK.html
15-04-2020||Chandigarh||7-member committee to ascertain desirability of lopping Russian poplars in J&K||The Jammu and Kashmir administration has stopped axing female poplar trees over fears that their pollen could carry the coronavirus. A committee of experts has also been constituted on the directions of the high courtThe division bench of HC on Friday had stayed its 2015 order of felling trees and asked the administration to constitute a committee of experts within four days, to ascertain the desirability of cutting down Russian poplars.The court directions came after a lawyer approached the chief justice following a directive by the administration early this month asking the deputy commissioners to chop trees for their alleged role in pollen-related allergies so as to avoid a rush in hospitals amid the coronavirus pandemic.Following the court directions, the administration on Tuesday formed a seven-member committee to examine all aspects relating to the Russian Poplar trees including the “impact of the pollen and fluff” and the “desirability” of felling the trees.“The committee shall be serviced by the forest, ecology and environment department and shall submit its report within two weeks to the government,” an order by Rohit Sharma, additional secretary to the administration said.The committee is being headed by principal chief conservator forests Mohit Gera.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/7-member-committee-to-ascertain-desirability-of-lopping-russian-poplars-in-j-k/story-9fZSN3bVn6Rtl9nMAgcmOJ.html
15-04-2020||Lucknow||Locked in land dispute, BJP leader shot dead in Bareilly||BJP leader Yunus Ahmad Dumpy was shot dead late on Tuesday night outside his house in Bareilly district by four assailants. The leader was sprayed with bullets and died on the spot.The assailants made an easy escape.The deceased was the vice president of the BJP minority cell in Bareilly.According to family members, Dumpy was locked in a land dispute with Sirajuddin, Isamuddin and Asif. A case had been registered against them at the Baradari police station two years ago.Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Shailesh Kumar Pandey reached the spot soon after getting information. All entry and exit points of the district have been sealed. The police also started raiding the possible locations of the culprits.The body has been sent for postmortem and the SSP said that the accused would be arrested soon.“These three came with one more person and sprayed Dumpy with bullets. Before anyone could realize, the four fled away. They made sure that Dumpy was dead before they left,” said a family member.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/locked-in-land-dispute-bjp-leader-shot-dead-in-bareilly/story-mvQKm3kEzsclKLkq4xG2BI.html
15-04-2020||Lucknow||UP plans death audit of corona casualties||The Uttar Pradesh health department has decided to conduct death audit of Covid-19 patients.With six more deaths reported on Wednesday, the toll of Covid-19 patients in UP reached 11 from five on Monday.Addressing a press conference, principal secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said medical experts would prepare a case file of all Covid-19 patients who died in hospitals.The experts will suggest medical procedures that should have been taken by the doctors to save patients.The health department will brief doctors of government and private hospitals about the findings of the audit, which will assist them in taking required measures to protect Covid-19 patients, he said.Out of 727 Covid-19 positive cases reported in the state till Wednesday, 55 patients have been discharged from the hospitals after recovery while 11 have died.Majority of the deceased were old and suffered from another disease, including diabetes, kidney, liver or heart ailments.To trace the suspected Covid-19 positive cases across the state the health department has amended its sample collection and test strategy. Now, the districts that are coronavirus free will also have to send minimum 20 samples to the laboratories daily. The districts in which more than 50 positive cases have been reported will have to send 200 samples for laboratory test.The sample test will assist the health department in tracking the positive cases fast and admit them in hospitals for treatment.It will also assist the department in checking the spread of the disease, he said.The health department has already prepared a plan to test minimum 2,000 samples daily.On Tuesday, 2,433 samples were tested in the laboratories across the state and another 2,400 samples were sent to the laboratories as well, he said.The health department has also started pool testing of samples.On Tuesday, samples from Agra were sent for pool testing to the laboratory located in KGMU, he said.In a study conducted by the health department it was found that 17% of corona patients were in the age group of 0-20 years, 46.5% of the patients were in age group of 20-40 years, 26% of the patients were in age group of 41-60 years and 10.5% patients were above 60 years. Though the number of the cases was high among the young people, the casualty rate was high among the old people, Prasad said.People should take special precautionary measures to protect the senior citizens and vulnerable people from coronavirus.Along with following Covid-19 protocol such as social distancing, frequent hand wash and covering of the face, the people should also boost their immunity. The smokers should avoid cigarette as they touch their lips during smoking, he said.FINAL YEAR MBBS STUDENT TO JOIN FIGHTLucknow: To intensify the fight against the coronavirus, the state government on Wednesday decided to utilize the services of final year MBBS and nursing students.Additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi said chief minister Yogi Adityanath had directed the medical education department and the health department to post final year MBBS and Nursing students who have completed their course in the hospitals to examine patients and assist senior doctors in the treatment of coronavirus positive patients as well.Their joining will add to the human resource and also provide young manpower to the hospitals. The doctors and nursing staff will also gain by providing service in the hospitals during crisis. They will get training and long term experience as well, he said.Principal secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said the health department had started training of doctors and para-medical staff posted in the government and private hospitals for protection from coronavirus while imparting emergency services in the hospitals, he said.On Tuesday, the training was imparted to doctors and paramedical staffs in 40 districts through zoom application. On Wednesday, training will be imparted in remaining 35 districts, he said.Training will be also given to the chief medical officers posted in all the districts, chief medical superintendents of all the hospitals, doctors, paramedical staff in the government and private hospitals as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-plans-death-audit-of-corona-casualties/story-iHZUg9ifDq0e5zYNbwldLL.html
15-04-2020||Gurugram||Haryana struggles to increase Covid testing as it fails to find partner labs||The six private laboratories authorised to do Covid-19 tests in the city have conducted more than 800 tests in the last 15 days, an average of about 53 tests per day. While the private labs said they were working 24X7 to test as many samples as possible, the collective clearing capacity of these labs is far below the number of samples the district is required to test every day given that Gurugram is Haryana’s largest Covid-19 hot spot. The state has directed the district machinery to take at least 450 samples per day to check clustering of Covid-19 cases. As on Wednesday, the total cases of Coronavirus disease in Haryana were 190. Of these 32 were in Gurugram with 1 death. The district had six active containment zones as on Wednesday. Gurugram chief medical officer Dr Jaswant Singh Punia said they collect about 300 samples every day from public and private hospitals. “On some days, we collect about 400 samples. When the sample number is high (more than 300), we approach private labs (Core Diagnostics and SRL Labs) for testing as directed by the state health department. Other labs are doing tests as per their capacity,” Dr Punia said. As per the data shared by the district health department, private labs have tested an overall 2,173 samples in Gurugram till now. Largely, samples are sent to PGIMS Rohtak for testing, which individually tests at least 150 samples per day. It must be noted that right now the state is only testing a limited number of samples provided by private hospitals where suspected patients are taken.“We are consistently doing tests in our labs, working in three shifts for 24 hours. We did not anticipate the volume of samples would be skyrocketing. We are receiving samples from the health department along with private hospitals and collection from home,” Zoya Brar of the Core Diagnostic said. According to Brar, the lab is not in short supply of RT-PCR kits as they are in contact with five different vendors. “We cannot stock kits but we do have a sufficient number that can last for a few days. We are ensuring a constant supply of kits,” she said, adding that testing should be further ramped up. Dr Risabh Singh Rajput of Modern Diagnostic, one of the ICMR approved labs, said, “We are following the ICMR protocol, taking samples from the private hospital. We are testing 15-20 samples every day.” When HT tried contacting SRL and other labs they refused to comment. HURDLESOfficials said the state government wants the labs to play a larger role and the labs can sign voluntary memorandum of understanding (MoU) to take on additional samples when they increase testing, but only three of the six labs have done that. “As a part of the MoU, the private labs will have to collect samples and test it within a defined time period. As per the norm, they have to ensure the samples are collected from a spot within two hours and test results have to be delivered within 36 hours. Most of the labs are not comfortable with the turnaround time. One of the conditions is that if they are not able to deliver the results in the stipulated time, we would deduct 20% of the overall testing cost per sample,” an officer with the Haryana Medical Services Corporation Ltd, which coordinates supply of all medical infrastructure across the state, said asking not to be named. He also said that the state is trying to reach out to labs who are ready to provide services for the entire state instead of focusing on two to four districts only. “A few of these labs want to restrict to Gurugram alone. It is for this reason we are not able to utilize the potential of private labs,” he said. “Only three labs have agreed to this proposal while the remaining three have expressed their reluctance. We are still talking to them as it would aid in increasing the overall testing capacity, though we are simultaneously increasing the capacity in government set up too,” another HMSCL officer said.Officials said the samples exceeding the government lab capacity are sent to private labs for testing and the payment (₹4,500 per test) is being done by the state government. In Haryana, more than 6,000 samples have been tested until now. Out of which 4,591 tested negative and results are awaited for 1617 samples. There are two government labs — PGIMS, Rohtak, and a BPS Khanpur Kalan, Sonepat — are testing. The capacity of two government labs is at least 200 samples a day. They are trying to increase the capacity to 500 tests per day. LABS HESITANTOfficials and lab experts said the hesitation in the current scenario could be traced to lack of sufficient field force to collect samples from different districts. Brar, who has been working with the Haryana government on various health projects said, “Government has been considering labs that are ready to deploy their field force in collecting samples from different districts and give timely results. It is difficult also as visiting different districts, collecting samples and bringing it to the testing lab is not an easy process. It requires manpower.” Meanwhile, to speed up testing, a government lab has been set up in Faridabad’s ESIC Hospital stating Monday. A CSIR lab in Chandigarh is also functional and they are in the process of establishing five more labs in Nuh, Hisar, Karnal, Rohtak, and Panchkula. Health officials said they are authorised to send samples to Dr Lal Path labs and Dr Dangs lab in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/haryana-struggles-to-increase-covid-testing-as-it-fails-to-find-partner-labs/story-L23TqO0DOU3ZxF9V8A4vBO.html
15-04-2020||Gurugram||Talk shows, musical evenings, online yoga: The World Spa residents keep their spirits high||Staying at home all day long during the lockdown to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) can be a tedious task. But not for the residents of The World Spa in Sector 30, thanks to the society’s own discussion platform World Spa Ki Baat. The talk show is held daily for an hour at 5pm via video conference. Residents who are experts in their respective fields speak on topics such as the modernisation of the Air Force, international affairs, energy security, college admissions, spirituality, and others. “Around 70-80 residents log in to watch the sessions. The speakers are planned and residents are told in advance,” Ashwani Singla, president of The World Spa Apartment Owners’ Association, said. The residents have planned daily engagement sessions to keep indoors. In the morning, the residents can join a virtual yoga session at 7.30am conducted by one of them on alternate days. The session lasts an hour. “Admiral Suren Rao has been conducting yoga sessions in the society for a long time. As the Covid-19 scare broke, his family wanted him to stop the sessions with the residents as he was 73 years old. We then asked him to conduct the sessions online. This is the first time he is using technology for the class,” Rakesh Vij, a resident who spearheaded the lockdown engagement activities of the society, said. In the evening, during sundown, the society has a music hour at 6pm. Two residents in possession of large speakers play songs from the two wings of the condominium. Residents can even place their requests in advance and coordinate a playlist. The society is currently working on a plan to host a Zoom dance party.However, residents of the society have not forgotten about their staff and others less fortunate. The society is located next to Silokhera village. To help the daily wagers in the village, residents raised a fund and adopted 350 families to help during the lockdown. They partnered with the district administration to help distribute the ration the society bought with the fund.“The residents raised around ₹7-8 lakh to help the daily wagers who had been affected by the lockdown. We bought ration for them and provided it to the district administration who helped distribute it in the village,” James Abraham, a resident who has been living in the society for the past 11 years, said. The condominium has over 1,300 residents. The society started preparing for the lockdown by formulating a special task force to take care of its residents. It collected recent travel histories of residents, advised them on safety and other precautions. Singla said that at one point, the society had 92 residents under quarantine. “The task force, which included public health experts, trained our staff on sanitation protocol and rehearsed steps like serving those in quarantine, disposing of the waste and how to extend support to residents in isolation. They were also provided PPE kits,” Singla said. The society also turned to its 17-year-old resident, Mihir Vardhan, a robotics enthusiast, to help with face masks. Vardhan created prototypes of face shields using open-source designs on the Internet at home. These were provided to the staff to protect them against the virus while on duty. “I have three 3D printers at home that I used to print the face shields. They are made from polylactic acid, a polymer. The society had asked for four for the staff, I provided them six,” Vardhan said.The society has one grocery store and a chemist inside its complex. Residents can place their order via WhatsApp beforehand. They are informed when the order is complete. They can then pay and pick up the order. The society is allowing doorstep deliveries of only perishable items; for the rest, deliveries are restricted to tower lobbies. While most condominiums in the city have opted for a no-walk policy, The World Spa focused on providing small windows for residents to go on walks. “There are two slots of three hours each for taking walks in the morning and evening. Towers are alternately assigned the slots. A street inside the complex is provided for this. Residents have to maintain 6ft distance. Older residents and children are advised against stepping out,” Singla said. He added that this decision was taken keeping in mind the physical and mental well being of residents. The society has accommodated around 40 members of staff inside its complex in a vacant building. The staff are offered meals through a community kitchen and they work on a rotational basis. Routine medical check-ups of the staff are conducted daily. Those staying inside the society are being provided 1.5 times their salary for the duration of their stay. “We recently held a high tea and special dinner for them to show our appreciation for their efforts during this difficult time,” Singla said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/talk-shows-musical-evenings-online-yoga-the-world-spa-residents-keep-their-spirits-high/story-lHbU0zVygHvHhqvHt8tX2N.html
15-04-2020||Delhi||Educational institutes scramble to take learning online||The Union home ministry on Wednesday released guidelines stating educational institutes — schools, colleges, and coaching institutes — will continue to remain shut till the end of lockdown May 3, putting universities and educational boards in a spot.A countrywide lockdown till April 14 was put in place by Prime Minister Narendra Modi last month to contain the spread of Covid-19. The lockdown was on Tuesday extended till May 3.Amid the closure of schools and colleges, the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE), which is yet to complete conducting Class 12 board exams, will also not be able to restart its evaluation process that has been on hold since March 19.The CBSE is also yet to conduct re-examination for Class 10 and 12 students of northeast Delhi districts, where board exams had to be postponed after the February communal riots.“Since the lockdown has been extended and the exams, as well as evaluation, are still pending, the board will hold deliberations on how to proceed further,” a CBSE official said .While announcing the closure of educational institutes till May 3, the MHA on Wednesday added that these institutions are “expected to maintain academic schedule through online teachings.” The institutes have been asked to use Doordarshan and other educational channels for teaching purposes. The Delhi government had earlier told HT that they were exploring options of using television channels to reach out to students.In order to conduct exams, however, universities are waiting for recommendations from the University Grants Commission, which has set up a panel of vice-chancellors to find out ways to mitigate academic loss and chart a course of action. The committee is expected to submit its report by Thursday. The varsities have, however, prepared a set of options which can be used for its students.“Online is one of the options being explored. The final decision will only be taken after the UGC panel gives its recommendations. DU has a large number of students and we have to take that into account before making any decision,” said Vinay Gupta, Dean (Examinations), DU.A senior DU official, requesting anonymity, said the university has prepared different modalities including multiple-choice question-based assessment or assignment-based assessment. “We are waiting for the government’s recommendations on how exams should be conducted since there should be a uniform process across the country,” the official said. The varsity is also training its teachers through workshops and webinars on online teaching-learning processes. Students and teachers having queries can reach out to the Delhi University Computer Centre with their doubts.Jawaharlal Nehru University too recommended online examinations on Tuesday and is waiting for feedback from its Deans, before formulating the final policy. “Students who will be unable to give examinations for lack of internet connectivity should be allowed to submit their assignments with a grace period. However, students, who do not have internet connectivity due to the lockdown, will be permitted to write the online examinations after they return to the campus post lockdown,” said a report prepared by the varsity’s committee constituted to look into the matter.On Tuesday, HT had also reported how Jamia Millia Islamia was planning to carry out five 20-marks online assessments and use best of three as the final score. The varsity is also compiling a list of students who do not have access to the Internet to formulate an alternative.In a country with a sharp digital divide, the suggestion to switch to the online mode of education has left many thinking about students who do have access to the internet or devices like smartphones and computers.Poonam Batra, who teaches at the department of education, DU, said, “Due to this lockdown and subsequent online classes, the digital divide is clearly visible. It is worse at school level, where there are major issues, including poor access to computers. While authorities are seeking to digitise education, our ground reality tells a different story. Many students will be left out, resulting in deeper educational inequalities.”Professor Shyam Menon, former vice-chancellor of Ambedkar University, however, said, “Online learning isn’t the ideal scenario but this is an exigency and we are trying to do the best we can. Teachers are using both synchronous (video calls) and asynchronous (email readings) means of online communication to reach out to students since there is an unevenness in access to the internet.”Menon, who also teaches at the department of education, DU, added, “An alternative could be printing out study materials and sending them to students by postal services. That could work once there is some relaxation in the lockdown.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/educational-institutes-scramble-to-take-learning-online/story-HCwg2bumFktXYvmNJn6BYN.html
15-04-2020||City||How Delhi cops plan to enforce extended lockdown||New DelhiThe Delhi police, administration and civic authorities are working out ways to enforce the extended coronavirus disease (Covid-19) lockdown -- from a moratorium on the sale of liquor and tobacco to a ban on spitting -- when some restrictions will be lifted after April 20 to allow select handyman services in the city The police are yet to issue an order on the execution of exemptions for all those who can open for business after that date, but many officers who spoke to Hindustan Times said the department will work closely with the Delhi government, market welfare associations and resident welfare associations to implement them.According to the guidelines issued by the federal ministry of home affairs on Wednesday, many self-employed people like plumbers, carpenters, electricians and automobile mechanics, who are not registered, will be allowed to return to work when the exemptions take force.. “We could issue curfew passes for such persons. If there are no curfew passes, then police will speak to the resident welfare associations or the market welfare associations to give the names of all such persons in their area,” said a police officer, requesting anonymity. They could then be allowed after matching their names and details with their identify proof document such as a voter’s identity card or an Aadhaar unique ID. This practice is already being followed in places like Chandni Mahal and Nizamuddin, which are containment areas.“These are only the list of suggestions we have made in a meeting with our senior officers. The order is yet to be issued,” said the police officer cited above.Beat constables will coordinate with workers like roadside mechanics, who have no links with market associations or residential colonies, another police officer said.“Every police station area is divided into beats. A constable or a head constable is in charge of the beat. The beat could comprise of a lane or many lanes. Each constable is expected to know every person from his/her beat. It will be the beat in-charge’s job to ensure that only the concerned person is out on the road,” the second officer said.The guidelines also state that the sale of liquor, tobacco or any such items will be “strictly prohibited” until May 3, the last day of the extended lockdown. The district administrations said on Wednesday that it has formed teams to ensure compliance with the rule. “The teams comprise of licensing inspectors from the municipal corporations, legal metrology officers (LMOs) from the weights and measurements department, excise inspectors, drug inspectors, and food and civil supplies inspectors. They submit daily reports to us on their actions taken in various districts against activities such as illegal sale, hoarding and blackmarketing,” said Sonalika Jiwani, sub-divisional magistrate,Mehrauli. The rules also talk of allowing some construction activities in the city form April 20. For this, the onus will lie of the municipal corporations. “I will hold a meeting with my officers tomorrow to chalk out a plan for enforcing this. Our inspectors will have to visit every lane and thoroughly check that only those projects are opened where labourers are staying on-site,” said Varsha Joshi, commissioner of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation. “Also, the larger point of inspecting construction activities is to ensure strict compliance with social distancing. Whether workers are being given adequate protection to prevent the spread of the virus will also be checked,” Joshi said. The latest guidelines also said spitting in public should attract penalties. The directive was first issued by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal last month when officials in the quarantine facility in Tughlakabad registered a first information report for misbehaviour by those evacuated from the Nizamuddin Markaz and put under quarantine in mid-March. The complaint said the inmates were spitting even after being warned against it. Compliance with the prohibition of spitting will have to be ensured by the district magistrates, said a senior government official. “This drive is already going on across all districts. We will escalate the crackdown now,” said a district magistrate on condition of anonymity. (ends)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/how-delhi-cops-plan-to-enforce-extended-lockdown/story-VLPd3QVmIuFnK4h2qNfc3J.html
15-04-2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: CMO orders closure of private hospital where corona patient was admitted||The health department on Wednesday ordered closure of a hospital in Daliganj area after it was found that a person who tested positive for coronavirus was admitted there a few days back.“Notice was issued for closure of hospital and all clinical and para-medical staff will remain under home quarantine and a list of the same has been demanded from the owners of the Daliganj Hospital,” said Lucknow’s chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Narendra Agrawal, in a press statement.Different medical associations have, however, opposed the decision. Dr Anoop Agrawal, secretary of the UP Orthopaedic Association, who owns a hospital in Faijullaganj said, “This is discrimination between the government and private hospitals. When a corona positive patient had visited the KGMU, its sanitization was done and functioning of the casualty ward was resumed within 36 hours but the same is not being done in a private hospital.”Dr Rama Srivastava, president IMA, Lucknow said, “Even if a positive patient visited a private hospital sanitization can be done and the staff in direct contact should be put under quarantine but the hospitals should not be sealed.”“The decision to run or keep the hospital closed should be with the owner,” he said. Dr PK Gupta, former IMA president, Lucknow, on Wednesday announced to close his pathology for a few days. “I was running services for four hours a day but if the health department will take such actions it is better to keep establishment closed till the situation is better and health department turns supportive instead of discriminatory.”Doctors said that if such types of actions are taken services such as ultrasound, x-ray and pathology may get affected. “Private sector is supporting the government that has asked us to run emergency services. But if we have to face action for supporting the administration what choice do we have but to shut shops till better times,” said Dr Agrawal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/lucknow-cmo-orders-closure-of-private-hospital-where-corona-patient-was-admitted/story-0ArjXm2o3o6d18P1Mh3zhL.html
15-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab, Haryana HC legal service panel offers assistance through Google Duo app||The High Court (HC) Legal Service Committee has, in most urgent cases, started providing legal assistance to litigants through the Google Duo video-calling app.The move has been made following the directions of committee chairperson Justice Daya Chaudhary due to difficulty in providing legal assistance through the front desk office amid lockdown. The jail superintendents of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh have been directed to make the convicts/ litigants aware about their right for filing appeals in courts.The litigants have also been told that they will now face no problems in filing appeals or petitions and that other proceedings will also be carried out smoothly.The official statement reads, “The litigants may make mention of urgency before officer on special duty (listing), Mobile no - 858800322, and in his absence, before registrar (computerisation), Mobile no - 8053635222, for getting their cases listed before appropriate court.”“The legal retainers are working during the lockdown as per details mentioned on the committee website. All concerned are at liberty to contact officials who have been assigned the duty, on mobile numbers (helpline numbers): Legal assistant - 9872004422, superintendent grade 1- 9417454634, superintendent grade 1 - 9988694811,” the statement reads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-haryana-hc-legal-service-panel-offers-assistance-through-google-duo-app/story-Aom68EJ2gg4CZHePH04cRO.html
15-04-2020||Lucknow||Lucknow reports first corona casualty; 31 fresh cases||A 55-year-old coronavirus positive patient, who was admitted to Lucknow’s King George’s Medical University (KGMU) three days back, died on Wednesday afternoon, said officials.The man, a resident of Nayagaon in Najirabad locality, had reached KGMU’s casualty department with breathlessness. He was also diabetic.“He died in the afternoon,” said Dr Sudhir Singh, spokesperson, KGMU. This is first death in Lucknow and ninth coronavirus casualty in the state.“He was a diabetic and had kidney ailments also. During treatment, it was found that he had infection in the lungs hence was kept on ventilator support in the isolation ward. Unfortunately, he died during treatment,” said Dr Singh.Brother of the deceased had also tested positive while 10 of his family members have been kept in medical quarantine facility. The 100 metre area around the house of the deceased was sealed a day before and the health department had started tracing of contacts.Samples of 160 residents of Nayagaon area had been taken for testing, said an official.On Wednesday, Lucknow reported 31 fresh cases, taking the total number of cases in the state capital to 75.They are resident of Najirabad and Sadar areas and are contacts of people who tested coronavirus positive earlier.They include eight women and 22 men and have been shifted to COVID hospitals in Sadhamau and Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/lucknow-reports-first-corona-casualty-30-fresh-cases/story-Kv3AZ3OfRfIoMCjOZHvE0O.html
15-04-2020||Chandigarh||In hotspot Chandigarh, VIPs out on a morning walk to be named and shamed||Chandigarh on Wednesday was declared a coronavirus hotspot, and one casualty of the move could be city’s VIPs who have continued with their morning walks despite the curfew so far. The administration is now threatening to name and shame them, if they continue with this. According to an officials release, UT Administrator V P Singh Bandore said strict restrictions are required in the wake of the Centre declaring the city a coronavirus hotspot. The city, which serves as the capital for both Punjab and Haryana, has so far reported 21 cases, nine of which have recovered. In a tweet on Wednesday, UT Adviser Manoj Parida said, “From tomorrow, we will publish name and designation of VIPs violating curfew orders and going for morning and evening walks. Be warned.” Parida’s tweet has come as a warning to some retired bureaucrats who ventured out out of their homes for morning and evening walks despite the curfew imposed in the wake of the COVID-19 outbreak. On Monday, the Chandigarh Police had arrested 182 people who stepped out of their homes for morning and evening walks. Police have been regularly issuing warnings to people against going to city parks for a walk. Meanwhile, the UT administrator directed officials to ensure that the instructions received from the Centre are strictly implemented and supervised. Badnore also ordered a total ban on spitting in public places. The principal secretary (home) was directed to issue a necessary notification in this regard, the release said. Director Health G Dewan said 5,75,670 lakh people have been screened in a door-to-door survey. Chandigarh Director General of Police Sanjay Beniwal said till date, 3,772 vehicles have been impounded and 485 persons booked for violating the curfew orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-hotspot-now-official-says-vip-morning-walkers-will-be-named-and-shamed/story-b4Q5MDhgUDJK0XCpbqoQYO.html
15-04-2020||City||Observe social distancing guidelines while harvesting: Mohali DC||The district administration in coordination with the agriculture and farmers’ welfare department is undertaking all the necessary measures to ensure that social distancing guidelines are observed by the farmers and farm labourers while harvesting wheat.On Wednesday, deputy commissioner (DC) Girish Dayalan said, “The combine owners have been sensitised about measures to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. They have been told to sanitise their machines with sodium hypochlorite or sanitisers.”“The combines that would be coming from Handesra and Lalru would also be thoroughly sanitised,” he said.“Farmers and farm labourers engaged in the harvesting process should strictly observe social distancing guidelines and everyone must cover their faces with masks. At the harvesting site, proper arrangements should be made for ensuring hygiene. In case anyone connected with the harvesting process suffers from an ailment such as coughing, fever or respiratory problems, then disengage that person from work and immediately inform the health department authorities.Curfew passes extendedDayalan also said that the restricted movement and curfew passes issued to ensure essential supplies and legitimate travel of people during the curfew/lockdown would be considered valid till the extended period of curfew/lockdown.The district magistrate (DM) had imposed a curfew under Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) till further orders in the district to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus.Hassle free wheat procurement would be ensured, says Balbir Singh Sidhu Meanwhile, state health and family welfare minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said, “The farmers of Punjab have been the backbone of the economic structure of the state.”“The government would ensure that the farming community faces no problems in selling their crops. All-out efforts would be made to purchase all the grains, besides ensuring adequate and quick payment,” he said. He also exhorted the farmers and the arhtiyas to follow the social distancing guidelines and take all the necessary precautions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/observe-social-distancing-guidelines-while-harvesting-mohali-dc/story-3OumeiwaO85DVQdWep4YrI.html
15-04-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka govt sets up GoMs for lockdown measures||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Wednesday constituted four Groups of Ministers (GoMs) aimed at implementing extended COVID-19 lockdown and ensuring smooth supply of essentials.The decision was taken at a meeting Yediyurappa had with top ministers and each group has been tasked with specified responsibilities such as strengthening the supply chain of essentials and addressing requirements of farmers and migrant workers, Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan told PTI. “The discussion was regarding maintaining the essential supplies... also regarding migrant workers and supplies to them including ration was discussed during the meeting...groups of Ministers have been tasked with certain responsibilities,” Narayan, who was part of the meeting, said.Primary and Secondary Education Minister Suresh Kumar said the meeting also discussed containment measures to check the spread of coronavirus and meeting the requirements of farmers in view of agricultural activities commencing.Ashwath Narayn would be in charge of maintaining the essential supplies chain in coordination with Food and Civil Supplies Minister K Gopaliah, Horticulture Minister K Narayana Gowda, Cooperation Minister S T Somashekar and Agriculture Minister B C Patil.Primary and Secondary Education Minister Suresh Kumar will be focusing on migrant workers in coordination with Labour Minister A Shivaram Hebbar.Revenue Minister R Ashoka has been tasked with distribution of ration and supplies in Bengaluru, along with Gopaliah.Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai headed team would look after law and order and facilitating the movement of vehicles during the national lockdown which has been extended till May 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-govt-sets-up-goms-for-lockdown-measures/story-7U8UI3XWuplnYh8NquCeTM.html
15-04-2020||Delhi||Lockdown relaxations offer hope to migrants who work as plumbers, carpenters||When Ram Vir, a 28-year-old plumber, set out to the Capital from his village in Bihar last year, he had dreams of a better life for his family.He had to repay a loan his father had taken from a local money lender for his train ticket and stay in Delhi. His wife and children were also planning to join him in another year.“Everything was going as planned until March 25, when the government announced the lockdown. I lived in a one-room set in Palam, but I gave that up to go back to my village,” Vir said. Vir said that after the lockdown was announced, his panic grew after watching the news of thousands workers like him heading towards their respective villages. On March 27, he decided to follow suit.On his walk to the Anand Vihar Inter State Bus Terminal, as there was no public transport, Vir was stopped along with many others who had thought it better to head home than stay in the Capital without work. They were sent to a shelter home near New Delhi railway station. There, he met quite a few more self-employed people like him -- carpenters, electricians, roadside car mechanics, all with no way to go home.With cash running out, Vir was waiting anxiously for Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address on Tuesday to get clarity on how the days ahead would be. The extension of the lockdown till May 3 initially came as a huge blow to him, but it was only on Wednesday that he realised that there was an exemption for workers like him. An order issued by the ministry of home affairs on Wednesday, has come to the rescue of many self-employed service providers like Vir, allowing them to resume their jobs after April 20 except in areas marked containment zones.Such self-employed service providers are not registered with the government or any home service companies. They are daily wagers found in almost every colony and lives on a call-by-call basis. There are no official numbers as they are part of the large unorganised workforce in the Capital, but a senior Delhi government official said that it could be around 30,000 to 40,000.Unlike registered autorickshaw drivers or those who driver Grahmin Sewa vehicles, they are also not eligible for financial support of the ₹5000 provided by the Delhi government because of the lockdown.“You have no idea how much relief this news has brought me. I will first get out of here and get a new room on rent and then start work,” Vir said.“The centre’s order will be followed. However, the mechanism on how this will be implemented is yet to be devised,” said the official quoted above.By mechanism, he was referring to whether they will be issued passes or the time of day that they are allowed to work, among others.Mukesh Kumar, 27, an electrician, in north-west Delhi’s Rohini said with the days getting warmer, the demand to service and repair air-conditioners and other electronics is likely to pick up.“I have already got a number of calls from my previous clients. I don’t know how much work we will get. There are some tools and spare parts that we have to purchase from different dealers. I hope the government will do something about it,” said Kumar, who runs a small electrical store in Rohini, and has a family of seven to feed.Residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) across the city, however, have not yet decided on whether they will allow these service providers entry. Many have barred the entry of any outsider into their premises as the Covid-19 infection spread.“It may end up defeating the purpose of the lockdown. The workers will go house-to-house carrying same set of tools and baggage, which can lead to spreading of infection. How will one ensure sanitising the entire house?” said HC Gupta, president, Federation of Ashok Vihar RWAs, who is also a doctor. “I will urge people in the area to take the services only when there is an emergency and wait for the regular repairs and other things till the lockdown is lifted.”The state government has said that it will issue a detailed order soon on how the MHA’s order will be operationalised. Suresh Singh, a mechanic, who works at an automobile repair shop in South Delhi’s Lajpat Nagar said that while the move to allow self-employed workers was welcome the government should also announce financial assistance for those whose livelihoods have been affected. “It has been nearly a month since we have earned anything and even now the exemption is for a select few. There should be some financial help for us, so that we can survive this lockdown,” Singh said.Tarun Pradhan, a senior researcher of labour laws and social structures at Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), said that the relief to migrant workers will also control the possibility of another mass exodus from the city.“When a person is not able to survive in a city, unable to afford basics like food, especially under such a scenario when the health and well-being of his family is also at stake, his natural tendency will be to run back to his home. The government needs to assure that these migrant labourers are safe and allowed to earn for their families,” Pradhan.Meanwhile, labour unions feel that the relaxation should not just be limited to a small section of migrant workers.Thaneshwar Adigaur, member of the Delhi Construction Workers Advisory Committee and secretary of Delhi Asangathit Nirman Majdoor Union, said, “The construction workers in the unorganised sector should have also been included when carpenters, plumbers and electricians are allowed. It is a matter of livelihood, as a majority of Delhi’s lower rung workforce has not been able to get the benefit of the Delhi government’s financial assistance scheme. They should be allowed to work so that they can earn their livelihood.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/lockdown-relaxations-offer-hope-to-migrants-who-work-as-plumbers-carpenters/story-RfuPXsQg7iknVHHhoGB8CK.html
15-04-2020||Chandigarh||Month on, PGIMER mulling whether or not to restart OPD services||The Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research is contemplating whether or not to restart the outpatient departments (OPDs) that have been shut since March 19 following the outbreak of coronavirus in the region.The institute’s administration has sought suggestions from department heads on the pros and cons of restarting the OPD services.PGIMER is one of the most prestigious tertiary care institutes in the country, which serves patients from Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir and some parts of Uttar Pradesh.On an average, the hospital witnesses a footfall of 2.6 lakh patients in a month with daily OPD registrations sometimes crossing the 10,000 mark for consultations in 30 departments.Director PGIMER, Dr Jagat Ram said that this rush is a huge challenge before them and managing it is quite a task in view of pandemic in view of fear that virus may spread.Director of PGIMER, Dr Jagat Ram, said, “We are seeking responses from department heads, who will discuss with their faculty members on how the services can start if at all. It can be done in a phased manner, but it will depend on the feedback.” In Chandigarh, too, the administration has suspended all OPD services and non-emergency surgeries in city hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/month-on-pgimer-mulling-whether-or-not-to-restart-opd-services/story-N7xtNi6UnHq9mI3WshDoHM.html
15-04-2020||Delhi||Cops to wear body cameras in containment zones||The Delhi Police is equipping personnel deployed in containment zones with body cameras to record violations and misbehaviour with police and healthcare workers.As the new guidelines, issued by the Central government on Wednesday on the extended lockdown, has specified “spitting in public” a punishable offence, the use of body-worn cameras will also help the police identify and prosecute offenders, deputy commissioner of police (South) Atul Kumar Thakur said.“Body cameras will have a dual benefit. Firstly, it would dissuade people from unnecessarily arguing with police or staffers of agencies deployed in containment zones for enforcement and screening. Secondly, it will help in maintaining surveillance on people in home-quarantine and residents who defy lockdown rules by not wearing masks or stepping out of homes without any purpose,” Thakur said.Delhi’s South and South East districts are among the first to have started equipping their police personnel with body-worn cameras in 16 neighbourhoods, including Nizamuddin, Zakir Nagar, Deoli and Sangam Vihar, where containment zones have been identified.In South district, 15 cameras have been made available while in South East, which has 13 such red zones, 20 body-worn cameras are being used. The other districts have also been asked to provide such cameras to personnel.Personnel in containment zones will wear the camera on their chest, on top of the protective equipment (PPE) kit, to record all the activities happening in front of them, deputy commissioner of police (South East) RP Meena said.“Each camera has the capacity to record audio and video for 10-12 hours. As the government has decided to punish those found spitting in public, the cameras would help us identify people involved in the unhygienic act,” a senior police officer, who is not authorised to speak with the media, said.The city police personnel wear body cameras while regulating vehicular movement, and while manning protests or mass gatherings.According to the officer, most incidents of misbehaviour and altercation with police, health and sanitation staff occur over the use of masks, social distancing, screening of residents or sanitisation of their houses and neighbourhoods.Thakur said that on Wednesday, a Kotla Mubarakpur resident had a scuffle with the police, when he was confronted for not wearing a mask. Apart from the sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease danger­ous to life) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), the man was also booked for obstruction and use of criminal force.“Body-worn cameras may help curb such violent behaviour as the footage can be used as evidence to prove their offences in the court of law,” said Thakur.According to the police data, 180-200 cases pertaining to lockdown violations are registered every day in Delhi. The violators are arrested and bailed, as per provisions under the Epidemic Diseases Act and sections 188 269, 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), and 271 (disobedience of quarantine rule) of the IPC. If convicted, an offender can be sentenced to a maximum imprisonment of two years, or be fined, or face both.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/cops-to-wear-body-cameras-in-containment-zones/story-ZxvSiI8FJOIcJBG9ECnPuN.html
15-04-2020||City||APMC sub-markets to re-open on Thursday||PUNE The Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) in Pune has decided to restart business at the sub-markets in Moshi, Khadki, Manjri and Uttamnagar from Thursday.BJ Deshmukh, administrator, Agriculture Produce Market Committee, Pune, said, “We held a meeting with traders and it has been decided to restart business at the Moshi, Khadki, Manjri and Uttamnagar sub-markets from Wednesday evening.”“Farmer’s can send their produce of vegetables and fruits and the business will commence from Thursday,” he said.“The norm of social distancing will be strictly followed here and only retail vegetable vendors will be allowed inside the market. Individuals are strictly prohibited from entering the markets to avoid crowd,” said Deshmukh.Deshmukh said, “The administration has not decided to commence business at APMC-run Market Yard in Gultekdi as there is a rise in the number of positive Covid-19 (coronavirus) cases reported in the surrounding areas.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/apmc-sub-markets-to-re-open-on-thursday/story-UU5rwmFGo9FdIvBc2MJViL.html
15-04-2020||City||Renew curfew passes after medical checkup by Thursday: Panchkula admn to vendors||The district administration on Wednesday ordered cancellation of curfew passes for fruit and vegetable vendors while directing them to get the same renewed following a medical screening by Thursday.The decision was taken during a meeting presided over by Gian Chand Gupta, Haryana assembly speaker and Panchkula MLA, with deputy commissioner (DC) Mukesh Kumar Ahuja and other officials concerned.Gupta said that the medical examination of vendors selling vegetables and fruits in Panchkula, Kalka, Raipur Rani and Barwala areas should be done immediately. “With an increase in the number of voluntary workers to distribute rations and food to the needy persons, social distancing norms must be followed properly,” he said.He further said, “Social distancing is not being maintained by people in Barwala vegetable market, which is not in public interest. For this, I have asked the deputy commissioner of police for additional police force and sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) to inspect the spot.”DC Ahuja said that the administration had issued the orders of cancellation of vendors’ passes to the secretary of marketing board. Through the orders, vendors were also instructed to get the passes renewed after a medical checkup by Thursday, he said, adding that the vendors come in contact with a lot of people on everyday basis and it is compulsory to get their medical checkup done to protect them and the public from infection.A medical mobile team will be deployed in the office of secretary of the marketing board to conduct on the spot medical examination, added Ahuja.TELEMEDICINE FACILITY STARTEDAmid the lockdown in the city, the facility of telemedicine has been started by the health department for telephonic medical consultation for various diseases. For this, the department has issued helpline numbers - 1075 and 8558893911, where a patient can get any health related information. Besides, teams of 19 supervisors and assistant sanitary inspectors with 82 voluntary workers have been appointed to ensure social distancing and strict sanitisation during medical screening of about 16, 595 slums and shanties in 19 densely populated areas of the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/renew-curfew-passes-after-medical-checkup-by-thursday-panchkula-admn-to-vendors/story-qFWYWBlTtv5609fljZCn8K.html
15-04-2020||Delhi||Man accused of assaulting two Delhi doctors gets bail||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday granted bail to an interior designer who was arrested by the city police for allegedly assaulting two women resident doctors of Safdarjung Hospital after accusing them of spreading Covid-19 in Gautam Nagar area on April 8.Justice Rajnish Bhatnagar granted bail to the man on a personal bond of ₹20,000. In its order, the court said that since the accused was “an educated man” he should have been respectful of the doctors and not threatened them, but stated that no useful purpose would be served by keeping him in judicial custody and crowding Tihar Jail.Police had arrested him on a complaint filed by a 29-year-old junior resident doctor at Safdarjung Hospital who had alleged that the man started speaking about social distancing and remarked that “doctors like them were spreading infection in residential areas”. The incident had taken place on April 8.The man was granted bail by the Metropolitan Magistrate on April 9, but, it was cancelled on the same day by the Additional Sessions Judge looking into the seriousness of the allegations. The aggrieved then moved the Delhi High Court seeking release from jail.Appearing for him, his counsel contended that his client has been falsely implicated and he had only protested against the complainant and her sister for not adhering to social distancing norms. He said that both the women became aggressive and told that they were doctors and knew the meaning of social distancing. However, the court said that the accused, being an educated person, should have been respectful to the doctors rather than abusing and threatening them.“The country is passing through a very difficult phase and the doctors are rendering yeomen service to the nation. The petitioner being an educated man, as stated by the counsel for the petitioner that he is an interior designer by profession, should have been respectful to the doctors rather than abusing and threatening them,” the court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/man-accused-of-assaulting-two-delhi-doctors-gets-bail/story-jq9qF8woe6I4jxUd30KQdM.html
15-04-2020||Chandigarh||Murder of 42-year-old woman in Ludhiana: Police clueless about accused, motive behind crime||A day after the 42-year-old woman was found murdered at Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar, the police were at a loss regarding the accused and the motive behind the crime.Assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Sameer Verma said the victim’s postmortem was conducted on Wednesday evening and the report revealed that she died due to strangulation. The ACP said that they are waiting for the husband of the victim, Geeta Rani, to arrive in the city in a day or two.Geeta lived alone in a rented accommodation at I-block in BRS Nagar and used to run a book store in BRS Nagar market.She was found dead at her residence on Tuesday morning when her domestic help come to fetch money from her. According to the police, the woman was murdered two days ago, but the landlord was unaware about it.Geeta had relocated to Ludhiana eight months ago. Earlier, she was living in Hyderabad with her husband. The police said that it was their second marriage after they had met on a social networking site a year ago. They had strained relations.“We are scanning the footages of the CCTV cameras installed in the area. As of now, there is no clue about the accused as well as the reason behind this murder,” the investigation officer said.They suspect involvement of two or more persons in the crime, he added.A case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered against unidentified person at Sarabha Nagar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/murder-of-42-year-old-woman-in-ludhiana-police-clueless-about-accused-motive-behind-crime/story-WFnSEh8l6AnjEk7hNmmOVM.html
15-04-2020||City||Coronavirus in Ludhiana: Over 100 firemen screened, 2 home quarantined||The fire department screened over 100 staffers for coronavirus, of which two were home quarantined as a precautionary measure on Wednesday. Assistant divisional fire officer (ADFO) Bhupinder Singh said, “A team of doctors from Nightingale College of Nursing, Narangwal, screened the firefighters who involved in sanitisation of city as well.”As per the information, the two staffers who have been quarantined showed no symptoms in the thermal scanning to detect fever, but have been told to stay at their houses for at least 15 days.Among the two, a driver deputed at Sundar Nagar fire station came in contact with an electrician of Amarpura area, from where positive cases have been reported. The driver got a fan repaired at the fire brigade on Tuesday. The other firefighter, deputed at the Gill Road fire station, has been quarantined after a positive case was reported in his village, said the ADFO. Mayor Balkar Sandhu said that the civic body is also contemplating screening of its entire field staff. “I will gtake up the matter with the district administration. VARDHMAN STEELS GIVES SAFETY KITSVardhman Steels donated 25 COVID-19 safety kits including a cover-all suit, to the fire brigade. A doctors’ association will also provide gloves and masks to the firefighters on Thursday.SANITISERS FOR MC FIELD STAFFThe municipal corporation (MC) commenced distribution of hand sanitisers among the field staff. Mayor Balkar Sandhu said hand sanitisers were distributed at the Zone D office and more will be given to filed staff of other three zones as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-in-ludhiana-over-100-firemen-screened-2-home-quarantined/story-sQHoL9KPfabGG3d2chichM.html
15-04-2020||Pune||First day of lockdown 2.0 has Punekars violating social distancing norms, movement restrictions||On the first day of lockdown 2.0 in the country, city roads were flooded with people and vehicles, throwing all social distancing norms out of the window. Punekars were out on Wednesday morning shopping at vegetable markets and groceries and vehicles were plying on the roads throughout the day, despite warning of strict action against violators of the lockdown by the Pune police and Prime Minister Narendra Modi. On Satara road, vehicular movement was particularly high though at police check posts, people were not allowed to pass through without proper reasoning. At several petrol pumps, there was a rush to get fuel, but only those involved in essential services were provided the commodity. In the internal lanes connecting to Satara road towards Balajinagar, Sahakargnagar, Market Yard and Bibvewadi, residents -young and old- were seem roaming about the streets, with no care of the spreading Covid-19 pandemic.Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram said, “I appeal to all the residents to cooperate with the police and other government agencies. All the restrictions are in place for the safety of the people and if violations of crowding and unnecessarily movement is seen, then action will be taken against such violators.”Keshav Bhalerao, a resident of Sahakarnagar, said, “I am surprised to see so many people out on the streets today. I come out daily to buy milk, but today residents were seen flouting all restrictions put in place due to the lockdown. At some of the shops, social distancing was not practiced and could lead to spread of the Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes Covid-19 disease. Police and government agencies should act strictly against the violators.”Even in the containment zones, like Shukrawar peth, Tilak road, Sadashiv peth and Shaniwar peth, people were seen crowding the internal lanes. There was a rush at the vegetable market at Nehru chowk market in Shukrwar peth. Pushpa Waghmare, a vegetable vendor in the peth area, said, “Police force us to shut business after 11am, so we start early in the morning at 6.30am. Residents are familiar with the change in timings and come accordingly. We have made sure our customers follow social distancing norms.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/first-day-of-lockdown-2-0-has-punekars-violating-social-distancing-norms-movement-restrictions/story-m1ptIO0A9CZ0MnJunH9YRO.html
15-04-2020||City||SW monsoon in Pune on June 10: IMD||PUNE The southwest monsoon, critical for India’s economy, will arrive in Pune on June 10, and extend its stay by five days more than earlier forecasts, the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Wednesday.Pune’s new date for the start of the monsoon will be June 10, while it is forecast to exit on October 11, as compared to the earlier forecast of October 6.These new dates are relevant for many sectors and public services like agriculture, water and power management.In other parts of Maharashtra, Kolhapur will see the onset of the monsoon on June 9, but a change in the forecasted withdrawal date, from October 1 to October 11. Satara will see the monsoon on June 10 and its withdrawal on October 9; while Ahmednagar is forecast to see the onset on monsoon on June 12 and withdrawal on October. The monsoon in Nagpur will begin on June 15 and withdraw on October 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sw-monsoon-in-pune-on-june-10-imd/story-yZ0RdD6DdR6I0AUvVMzKHO.html
15-04-2020||City||Jan Dhan beneficiaries give social distancing the go-by outside banks in Mohali||Giving social distancing the go-by, the poor in Mohali district have been queuing outside banks to withdraw Rs 500 credited to Jan Dhan accounts under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY) in view of the ongoing nationwide lockdown. Rumours that the money will be taken back by the government if not withdrawn immediately is making these beneficiaries wait for hours under the sun. Even as the State Bank of India, which has the highest number of PMGKY accounts, has dispelled such rumours, there has been no change on the ground.“Paisa aa gaya hai par nikale kaise. ATM hai par PIN generate nahi hua and bank wale baat hi nahi sun rahe (The money had been credited, but I don’t know how to withdraw it. I have a debit card but its PIN has not been generated. No one is listening to me in the bank,” says Shakuntla Devi, a resident of Pabhat village in Zirakpur, who was standing in one such queue.A visit to various bank branches in Zirakpur and Dera Bassi revealed that officials have failed to deploy staff to ensure that those queuing up follow social-distancing norm. The banks were asked to send text messages to customers to ensure they come on different days, depending on their account numbers. As a precaution, main entrances remain closed and customers are let in one by one after checking their documents.“After standing in the line for about two hours, I have been told that I cannot withdraw the money as days have been fixed according to the last digit of the account number,” said Rachna Devi of Dayalpura village in Dera Bassi, while denying that she got a message about staggered withdrawals from her bank branch. While none of the bank officials contacted for comment for this story were willing to come on record, Dera Bassi subdivisional magistrate Kuldeep Bawa said: “I have asked police stations concerned to patrol the markets and ensure there is no rush outside banks. We are also creating awareness among beneficiaries.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jan-dhan-beneficiaries-give-social-distancing-the-go-by-outside-banks-in-mohali/story-riFd5RR9zJQOMOo3I1mxoM.html
15-04-2020||City||Nearly 50% turnout on first day of mustard procurement in Ambala||On the first day of mustard procurement amid lockdown due to the coronavirus outbreak, nearly 50% farmer turnout was recorded in Ambala on Wednesday.As per data till 4:30pm, of 57 farmers intimated by the market committee on the first day, around 23 farmers brought their crop to the Shahazadpur mandi here. The secretary of the Shahazadpur market committee, Afsar, said, “As per the safety guidelines on the first day, we were expecting around 600 quintals of mustard from the total 57 farmers we had contacted.” “However, we could only collect 250 quintals from 23 farmers,” he said, adding, “The state government has fixed the minimum support price (MSP) at ₹ 4,425 per quintal.”On being asked if lockdown was the reason why farmers did not turn up, he said, “As of now, we cannot ascertain the reason behind the absence of farmers, but I doubt that the farmers might have sold the crop to private millers in January itself to get cash or early payments.” Talking about the safety norms being followed during crop procurement, sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Aaditi said, “Special arrangements were made for thermal scanners, handwash and sanitisers for the farmers and their vehicles at the mandi.”“The farmers waited for their number under the tents while maintaining social distancing. The first day of procurement went on till late evening and we expect more farmers in the next three to four days,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nearly-50-turnout-on-first-day-of-mustard-procurement-in-ambala/story-osEZsPMEKVBdYBPqJQ7sYK.html
15-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab University students’ council opposes move to convert hostels as Covid care centres||Members of Panjab University Campus Students Council (PUCSC) on Wednesday expressed discontent over converting the varsity’s hostels as Covid care centres.The health department of Chandigarh administration had written a letter to Panjab University (PU) on Monday saying that the four hostels of the university be handed over to them when they are intimated. As a part of UT’s Covid management plan, these hostels will be used as Covid care centres in case the situation worsens in the city, read the letter.The health department had informed the varsity that the international hostel and girls’ hostel number 8, 9 and 10 would be required for the purpose of Covid care centres.However, the move did not go well with the student council members of the university.PUCSC president Chetan Chaudhary, who has written to the dean student welfare (DSW) about the same, said, “I have requested the authorities of the varsity and the UT administration to reconsider the move because the hostels have common washrooms and that can accelerate the spread of infection.”“Many students have left their belongings in their rooms and it is impossible to transfer those articles,” he said.PUCSC vice-president Rahul Kumar said, “Shifting the belongings of the students is not an easy task. Instead, we have guest houses in the university such as Golden Jubilee and Rajiv Gandhi guest house, which can be turned into Covid care centres if the need arises.”“The students are panicked over the move as their personal belongings come into grave danger,” said Manpreet Mahal, joint secretary of PUCSC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-university-students-council-opposes-move-to-convert-hostels-as-covid-care-centres/story-4JwoXdBq3L8Wgf1vVgQWHL.html
15-04-2020||City||2 days on, health dept clueless on infection source of Ludhiana ACP||Two days after an assistant commissioner of police (ACP) in Ludhiana tested positive for coronavirus, the health department remained clueless about the source from whom he contracted the virus. The city police, on the other hand, are preparing a list of around 50 people who came in direct contact with the ACP (North), Anil Kohli, who is presently on ventilator support at SPS Hospital near Sherpur Chowk here.The list includes deputy commissioner of police (DCP) level official who had visited the hospital for complete health checkup, additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP), and other officials.According to the officials, Kohli had also visited Jalandhar in the first week of April to meet his brother who was suffering from jaundice. Kohli had also met his cousin (sister) who lives in the city. The samples of both the persons and their family members have been sent for testing.Kohli was also deployed at the New Sabzi Mandi near Jalandhar Bypass on March 27 and 28, the days of huge rush. The ACP was also involved in the search operation of Tablighi Jamaat followers in Basti Jodhewal area in the first week of April following reports that the positive patient from Chowki Mann village in Jagraon sub-division had visited the area and met many people living in Tibba and Basti Jodhewal.Besides sending district mandi officer Balbir Kaur, who had attended a meeting with the ACP on March 28, to self-quarantine, the police department also contacted a market president in Chaura Bazar area who had met Kohli twice in the past 15 days.The report of 15 persons, including two station house officers (SHOs), which was sent on Sunday is yet to arrive.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said all contacts of the ACP were being screening and samples of the people who came in direct contact, including his wife and children and others, have been sent for testing.Deputy commissioner Pradeep Agrawal said so far a total of 844 samples of suspected Covid-19 patients were sent for testing, of which 668 persons were tested negative.1,900 IN HOTSPOT ZONE SCREENEDMeanwhile, the health department screened 1,900 people living in 413 houses of the hotspot zone in Amarpura area of the city, and Chowki Mann and Gure village in Jagraon. As per the health department, none of the persons showed any flu-like symptom.Besides, 48 teams screened 142 persons, of which 87 were kept under home quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-days-on-health-dept-clueless-on-infection-source-of-ludhiana-acp/story-oQ0udMFEO0bdEkHHnSd36I.html
15-04-2020||Chandigarh||Mercury nears 38°C in Chandigarh, a dip expected with Friday rain||With clear sunny weather, day temperature in Chandigarh rose to 37.9°C on Tuesday, the highest this year so far, according to the weatherman. However, rain is expected to bring some respite on Friday, said India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials.“Western disturbances are likely to bring around 20mm rain on Friday with thunder and lightning. This will likely continue till Saturday. The weather will get cloudy on Thursday too, so the city can experience a dip of around 3-4 degrees during this time.”The maximum temperature went up from 37.4°C on Monday to 37.9°C on Wednesday, while the minimum temperature rose from 20.6°C on Tuesday to 24.7°C on Wednesday. In the next three days, the maximum temperature will remain between 33°C and 37°C while minimum temperature will remain between 22°C and 24°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mercury-nears-38-c-in-chandigarh-a-dip-expected-with-friday-rain/story-XWoL1y020YBLXhcK6Jv9tM.html
15-04-2020||City||Wheat procurement in Ludhiana off to a shaky start||The wheat procurement process in the district was off to a shaky start on Wednesday as farmers faced difficulties in procuring coupons that allow them to bring their produce to the grain markets amid the curfew.While the arrival of wheat crop commenced at Asia’s biggest grain market in Khanna, the grain markets in Ludhiana, the hometown of Punjab food, civil supplies and consumer affairs minister and local MLA Bharat Bhushan Ashu, wore a deserted look.In Khanna, the authorities issued the coupons to around six arhtiyas, who then issued them to the farmers for unloading the crop at the market on Wednesday. Each coupon allows sale of 50 quintals. Chairman of Khanna Market Committee, Gurdeep Singh, said, “The regular procurement process will commence from April 17 and be completed in 45 days.”FARMERS’ WOESHaving initiated the process of harvesting, the farmers in the district and nearby areas are in a dilemma as the harvested crop has been loaded in the trucks but they do not have the coupons.Further, a strike by a section of arhtiyas, who have to issue the coupons, has added to the woes of the farmers. The arhtiyas are on strike demanding payment of pending commission pertaining to the last paddy season.President of Kisan Union, Kadiyan, Harmeet Singh, said, “The crop has been loaded in the trucks but we have not received the coupons to reach the grain markets. The administration should take immediate steps to resolve the issue otherwise this will create unrest among the farmers in the coming days.”MLA (Ludhiana West) Bharat Bhushan Ashu said, “The process of issuing the coupons will be streamlined at every grain market in a day or two as the state government and district administration are taking all the necessary steps for it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/wheat-procurement-in-ludhiana-off-to-a-shaky-start/story-ehZTBmfmRZv3DSiBUrxZqN.html
15-04-2020||Gurugram||In Gurugram, containment zones reduced to six areas||The district administration on Wednesday released a revised list of containment zones and stated that only Sun city sector 54, sector 39, village Fazilpur in Jharsa, ward no 11 Pataudi, village Raipur in Sohna and Devi Lal Colony will continue to remain sealed, along with police deployment.The other areas — Nirvana Country, Laburnum Sushant Lok Phase 1, sector 9, Palam Vihar and sector 83 — will no longer be considered as containment zones as they were not susceptible to Covid-19 clustering. Health officials say the areas which are no longer in the containment zone have not reported any Covid-19 case in the last 28 days. “As per the ministry of health and family welfare guidelines, containment zones will be scaled down if no Covid-19 case is reported from a particular area for at least four weeks after the last confirmed case has been isolated and treated at a hospital and all his/her contacts have completed quarantine,” said Dr Jaswant Singh Punia, chief medical officer. Officials in the administration said that they are continuing to implement containment zone guidelines in the six identified areas as before and all roads connecting leading to the hotspots are being guarded by the police. In certain areas, details of people moving out of the perimeter for essential or emergency services is also being recorded. In Nirvana Country, Laburnum Sushant Lok Phase 1, sector 9, Palam Vihar and sector 83, a total of 11 Covid-19 cases were reported, all of whom have successfully completed their treatments and have also completed a mandatory 14 day additional home quarantine, after being discharged from the hospital. Of the total 32 Covid-19 cases in Gurugram, 17 have recovered and 15 are undergoing treatment in the district.According to the health department, they have screened people within 3kilomtre perimeter of the containment zones. Going by the data shared by the department, more than 8,000 people were screened in Palam Vihar, 7,500 in Laburnum society, 6,600 in sector 83, almost 4,000 in Nirvana Country and 7,000 in sector 9. “With the help of ASHA, ANM and medical officers, we have been conducting screening since March, when the cases were reported,” said Punia, adding these areas did not report any clustering of cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/in-gurugram-containment-zones-reduced-to-six-areas/story-bkaZ7NbZI2MMgibhqJZf9K.html
15-04-2020||City||Curfew in Ludhiana: Migrants protest non-payment of full wages, unfair supply of ration||With the curfew in the state being extended till May 3, scores of migrant labourers in and around Ludhiana on Wednesday protested against non-payment of wages and alleged discrepancies in the supply of ration. At Macchiwara, 48km from here, over 40 migrants, hailing from Sitamarhi in Bihar, got together and held a protest against the owner of the aluminium plant – Garg Industries – for paying them wages for only till March 21, and demanded full month’s salary.After police intervention, the matter was resolved in the evening and the owner agreed to pay them the demanded salary.A labourer, Ravinder Yadav, said, “We are stuck here as neither can we go to our home town nor do we have any money left to fend for ourselves.”Samrala deputy superintendent of police (DSP) HS Mann confirmed the issue was resolved after the owner of the plant agreed to pay the full payment.Similarly, in Sherpur Kalan in the Focal Point area, around 200 migrant labourers, who work in different units, came out on the road and held a protest alleging they were not being provided ration by the administration.A labourer, Vinod Tiwari, leading the protest, alleged that ration in the area was not being distributed properly. He accused the area councillor of bias in the distribution of ration.He said, “Upset over biased distribution of ration, a number of labourers, hailing from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, staged a protest against the administration and the police department. We want proper distribution of ration and, if the administration can’t do so, then please, send us back to our native places.”Another protester, Pitambar Thakur, said, “Some people are getting ration twice a week and some have not got a single bag of ration in the past two weeks.”The protest began in the afternoon but, after 15 minutes, the police pacified and persuaded them to lift the protest. However, the protesters again gathered on the road in the evening and started raising slogans against the administration.Additional deputy commissioner of police Ajinder Singh said, “I talked to protesters and assured them that there will be proper distribution of ration. I asked them to volunteer a person from their group, who will be deployed during ration distribution to make sure that ration is properly distributed.”Later, the labourers lifted the protest at 6.30pm, he said.Inspector Varunjit Singh, SHO, Moti Nagar police station, said they served langar to the migrants in the area in the evening, and assured the protesters of proper distribution of ration in future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/curfew-in-ludhiana-migrants-protest-non-payment-of-full-wages-unfair-supply-of-ration/story-gUunSFE0mBidDBI5qyyPRJ.html
15-04-2020||City||Man held in Ambala for attacking cops on Covid-19 duty||A day after three men attacked the cops patrolling on Covid-19 duty in Ambala cantonment, police nabbed one of them for the violation on Wednesday.The accused has been identified as Akbar alias Anna, 30, and the other two are at large. On Tuesday, the police party, led by sub-inspector (SI) Jaswinder Singh, were attacked by the three accused when the officials were crossing the Deha Colony area of cantonment to keep a tab on lockdown violators in the area.A case was registered against the accused under Sections 186 (voluntarily obstructing any public servant in the discharge of his public functions), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 307 (attempt to commit murder ), 506 (criminal intimidation), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act. “As we entered the lane, the three men started hurling abuses at us. Meanwhile, a crowd started gathering and Akbar attacked me with a sharp-edged weapon. The three then threatened us of dire consequences if we enter the lane again and fled with the weapon,” Singh said. Station in-charge Vijay Kumar said, “Akbar was arrested on the complaint of the SI. The accused was presented before a court that has sent him to judicial custody.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-held-in-ambala-for-attacking-cops-on-covid-19-duty/story-Q084UzBw8cUI8sJAK54spJ.html
15-04-2020||City||Amid curfew, Punjab launches mobile app to help govt school kids learn online||To make subject-wise material available online for government school children, the state education department has introduced a mobile app called Iscuela. All content such as e-books, videos and class-wise YouTube playlists are available for the students on this app.Students of pre-primary classes to Class 12 can visit the website “ssapunjab.org/material.html” and can log in with the username and password to get access to the online material. The move has been taken as the government schools have been closed due to lockdown in the wake of coronavirus outbreak. The higher authorities have also instructed the district education officers, school heads and teachers to inform the students about this application so that they can take benefit of the content made available on the app.While earlier the teachers used this online material to teach students in class through projectors, now, all students can gain access to this online material by themselves.DIVISION OF STUDY MATERIALFor pre-primary classes, stories and poems have been made available on this app while students of Classes 1 to 5 have access to e-books of various subjects. For students of Classes 6 to 12, online videos, e-books and monthly study material is available.Sanjeev Thapar, principal of Government Model Senior Secondary Smart School, Punjab Agricultural University, said, “Our teachers are conducting the classes through the Zoom app daily since the lockdown. We have also asked the students to register themselves on this app. Many have responded that they have downloaded the application.”A Class 10 student, Muskan Sharma, said, “I am attending lectures being delivered by my subject teachers on the Zoom app daily and keep revising the concepts after every class. The teachers put in a lot of efforts to conduct classes online and clear the concepts. I have downloaded the Iscuela app and have seen a few videos, which are useful and help clear my doubts.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amid-curfew-punjab-launches-mobile-app-to-help-govt-school-kids-learn-online/story-E1fyfuISqZIqseTb1NWyUP.html
15-04-2020||City||Zirakpur minor caught filming 16-yr-old in bath||A teenager was apprehended for making an obscene video of a 16-year-old girl in Pabhat village in Zirakpur. The girls father lodged a complaint with the police accusing the boy, who is 17, of filming his daughter in the bathroom. After the vicitm noticed the juvenile filming her, she informed her father. A case under Section 354 of the IPC was registered in Zirakpur police station on Tuesday. The juvenile was later apprehended and produced before the juvenile justice board. He was handed over to his his parents after bail was granted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/zirakpur-minor-caught-filming-16-yr-old-in-bath/story-NJwfQqIK2qDmcaK3qYURQJ.html
15-04-2020||Chandigarh||Two more test positive for Covid-19 in Himachal, tally now 35||Two more people tested positive for COVID-19 in Himachal Pradesh on Wednesday, taking the total number of cases in the state to 35.One of the positive patient belongs to Jaunta village of Jawali sub-division in Kangra district while the other is from Samot village of Chowari sub-division in Chamba district. Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said four people, three from Kangra and one from Chamba, who worked in a vernacular newspaper in Jalandhar of Punjab had sneaked into Himachal Pradesh around four to five days ago in a vehicle supplying essential commodities. Their samples were collected after the administration came to know about them.“Samples of the two people have tested positive and the administration is tracing their contacts,” said Prajapati, adding that they were being shifted to Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College (RPGMC), Tanda.Their families have been put under quarantine.The DC said all four who sneaked into the state will be booked under Section 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code and provisions of the Disaster Management Act and Epidemic Act.Out of 35 cases in Himachal, 12 have recovered and discharged from hospital, four have shifted outside the state for treatment while one person has died.Till date, 1,426 people have been tested for COVID-19 and 5,875 have been kept under surveillance in the state of which 4,036 have completed the 28-day observation period and 1,839 are still in quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-himachal-tally-now-35/story-JfWy7mq4QXem1ZcjR3KnBI.html
15-04-2020||City||Pune medical stores to be allotted area-specific days to re-stock from distributors||PUNE Chemists and drug stores in the city, declared as an essential service and therefore allowed to remain open, even in containment zones, will be allotted area-specific days by distributors to re-stock from April 15.Anil Belkar, secretary, Chemists Association of Pune, said, “There are 4,000 medical retail shops and 350 wholesalers in Sadashiv peth. Hence to streamline the process of everyone getting stock, we have decided to allocate each day for a particular area, whereupon 200 to 300 of the stores can get delivery. We have appealed to them to stock up for at least three-to-four days and to maintain the supply chain to make sure medicines are reaching everyone in time.”Across the city, medical supplies are holding for the moment.According to Sonal Kawde of Shree medicals in Sopanbaug, “Distributors have streamlined the process to ensure there is no time lost in getting stock in the store.”Nasir Dafedar, a resident of Kausar baug in Kondhwa, under containment, said, “Despite a lockdown and curfew, the medical stores have a good stock of medicines. I bought medicines for my neighbour who lives alone, and of her prescribed medicines, I had to place an order for only one. I received it after four hours. This delay is expected.” Sagar Tapadiya has three medical stores within the family and he oversees the one in Wanowrie, called Sheetal Medicals. He said, “I am getting a regular supply and my distributor has assured me that there is enough stock.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-medical-stores-to-be-allotted-area-specific-days-to-re-stock-from-distributors/story-KZuldK1vyK6tCXBkkxsrWN.html
15-04-2020||Mumbai||Two police officers test positive for Covid-19||A 34-year-old assistant police inspector posted with the special branch of Mumbai Police and another officer residing at Byculla police quarters was tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday.The officer who stayed at the RAK Marg police officer’s quarters along with two police sub-inspectors has been admitted to Seven Hills hospitals.“After the officer tested positive both the sub-inspectors have been sent to quarantine and one floor of the officer’s quarters at RAK Marg was sealed. All necessary precautions are being taken to check persons who enter or leave the building,” said a police officer.Contact tracing has been done to find out who all were in touch with the officer and precautionary actions have been initiated, added the officer. Saurabh Tripathi, deputy commissioner of police, Zone 4 said, “The police station is working and we have taken all safety measures.”Special branch officers are responsible for gathering intelligence.“Any policemen coming from the job or any common man approaching the police station is first checked for temperature, then sanitised. However, families residing in the quarters are not allowed to move and we have requested them to stay in,” said a police officer, requesting anonymity. Meanwhile, Byculla police quarters was declared as containment zone after a police officer was tested positive. “All the police officers who reside in the building are informed to stay at home,” said a police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/two-police-officers-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-7wW6cXaEW5kFjrV7mV730K.html
15-04-2020||City||People in Punjab’s biggest Covid-19 cluster allege food shortage||Struggling in the fight against Covid-19, Jawaharpur village of Dera Bassi is now battling another front. Some residents allege that they have not received any ration for the last few days and are managing by borrowing from each other.The village, with a population of 3,000, is the largest Covid-19 cluster in Punjab. It has 38 positive patients out of the total 56 cases of Mohali district and was sealed by the district administration around a week back. On April 9, the district administration had strictly banned the movement of people in the area, which was declared a containment zone by the health authorities and nakas were set up all around the village.The administration had claimed that they would be providing food and ration at the door steps of the residents.Jaswinder Singh, a resident of the village, said, “Since the last three days, we don’t have ‘Atta’ (flour) at our house and are borrowing it from our neighbours. Even the vegetable vendors are not allowed in our village.”Another resident, Talwinder Singh, said, “The flour mill in our village is closed and we don’t have any other option. We are thankful to our neighbours who are helping us. Some of the villagers are also struggling to get medicines.”Meanwhile, Dera Bassi sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Kuldeep Bawa said, “These are all false allegations as we have a list of the entire village and have provided them everything. They have milch animals but are asking for Verka milk, which is not a genuine demand.”The villagers have also alleged that the district administration is not allowing them to harvest wheat and fear that the standing crop would be exposed to rain and hailstorms. Gurpreet Singh, a villager, said, “The administration has not allowed us to use our combine harvesters. They have told us that they would provide us with combines but we don’t know when the machines will come. Our crops are ready and we fear that they would be exposed to the rain.”Control rooms set up The district administration has set up control rooms to ensure that food-related issues are redressed at the respective sub-division level itself.The district-level control room number of the nodal officer is 9888201787 and the district food control room number for essential commodities is 0172-2219541 or 7888556264. The sub-division level control room number for Kharar is 0160-2280222, and operator Subodh Kumar number is 9478346212. For Mohali, the numbers are 9814049150 and 7696892956 (operator Nitin Sood). In Dera Bassi, one can call on 01762-297129 and 8360170942.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/people-in-punjab-s-biggest-covid-19-cluster-allege-food-shortage/story-nmIZFAnib1yTY4wY0cFg9L.html
15-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab names 25 cops for new Sewa to Society award||A sub-inspector from SBS Nagar who took it upon himself to convince isolated covid-19 patients to help trace their contacts and 24 other Punjab police officers, who went beyond the call of duty, in service of the community during this crisis time have been named for ‘Director General of Police Honour for Exemplary Sewa to Society’. DGP Dinkar Gupta selected the names for the award, instituted at the initiative of Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh. The awardees continue to work at the frontline of the covid-19 operations and response activities in the state.The awardees include four superintendent of police (SPs), one ASP, one DSP, six inspectors, four sub-inspectors, three ASIs, two head constables and four constables. Gupta said they were selected from nominations that police commissioners and SSPs had sent. He added that the CM wanted the award to be instituted in light of the scale of sacrifice of over 45,000 policemen, working relentlessly across the state, along with social and religious organisations, to realise his resolve that ‘no man will sleep hungry in Punjab’.Vatsala Gupta, ASP Nakodar, did pioneering work in reaching out to the poor and underprivileged slum dwellers of Nakodar town, while DSP Varinder Jit Singh of Rupnagar ensured the supply of essential goods to the poor and needy by mobilising volunteers. SI Jatin Kapoor of Rupnagar motivated panchayats to impose a voluntary lockdown of their villages.SHO Bhagwant Singh of Kharar (Mohali) proactively carried out the tracking and tracing of suspect coronavirus cases. Similarly, SI Neeraj Chaudhary of SBS Nagar took the risk of visiting isolated corona patients to trace their contacts, after some of them refused to cooperate with the epidemiologist and other doctors. SI Shohrat Mann of Pathankot is doing commendable work providing food to the poor and the downtrodden. SI Shakunt Chaudhary of Fatehgarh Sahib has done commendable work as the in-charge of a critical naka point the DGP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-names-25-cops-for-new-sewa-to-society-award/story-pnyutm1rhLnoKOfCerFiaK.html
15-04-2020||Chandigarh||Global pandemic puts study abroad dreams on halt for students of Punjab region||Rohan Verma, 21, was looking forward to pursuing a course in 3D animation from Canada. Verma is now in a dilemma as the lockdown has halted his visa processing.With high commissions dysfunctional and countries imposing restrictions in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak, the study abroad dreams of thousands of students in the region are gripped by uncertainty as the world grapples with the Covid-19 lockdown.Verma said, “I had applied in a Canadian college, but my visa processing was stopped. I am not able to decide what to do next. If I apply here again, I will have to pay the fee again.”Immigration experts say over 1 lakh students from Punjab and Chandigarh land in foreign countries like Australia, Canada, UK and others for pursuing education every year.Navneet Singh, an immigration consultant, said, “Last year we had sent around 1,200 students abroad for studies, but we have experienced a dip this year. Worst affected are those who have already paid their fee and their files are with the high commission offices. Every May and September countries like Canada and Australia take students, but we aren’t sure whether students will be able to go in the fall either.”“Around 50,000 students go abroad from here between July and September, but this year the number will go down,” said Jatin Wadhwa, director of a Candigarh-based education abroad consultancy.Equally hard pressed are those students who are already enrolled in courses abroad, but couldn’t fly due to the lockdown.For 18-year-old Simranjeet Kaur, lockdown has deferred her semester to January 2021. “My classes were scheduled to start in May but now they will start in January next year. I do not have any option but to wait.”Managing director of an overseas solution provider said, “We receive applications mostly from the students of Punjab, Chandigarh, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh. The intake that was about to happen in May in Canada and few Universities of Australia has been deferred. Students as well as parents are in panic.”“For September intake last year we had received over 100 applications, but this year we have not received any. There is much uncertainty because we do not know when board examinations will be conducted. I think we will see a dip of 60% in applications this year,” said Rakeshwar Walia of an immigration and education consultancy based in Khanna.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/global-pandemic-puts-study-abroad-dreams-on-halt-for-students-of-chandigarh/story-XIdlVXEoLWpb5pxfv7ym6O.html
15-04-2020||Noida||Noida removes 4 areas from Covid-19 hotspot list, adds 7 more||A residential society and a housing sector in Noida were on Wednesday removed from the list of coronavirus hotspots in Gautam Buddh Nagar, while seven more places were added to the list, officials said.With the latest changes, Gautam Buddh Nagar now has 27 hotspots, as defined by the district administration, which are completely sealed and any movement into or out of them except for emergencies is barred, the officials said.So far, 80 positive cases of coronavirus have been detected across Noida and Greater Noida in Gautam Buddh Nagar district and 25 of these patients have been cured and discharged from hospitals, according to officials.“Seven new hotspots have been added. Two have been removed and two partially removed. As on date, there are 27 hotspots in the district. The general lockdown principles shall apply on all those places which have been removed from the hotspot list,” District Magistrate Suhas L Y said.Those removed from the list of hotspots are Sector 41, Lotus Espacia in Sector 100, Hyde Park in Sector 78 and Sector 30, according to an official list.“All these places had one case each and they have been removed from the list as they have not shown any new case in the last 28 days starting from the date of sampling,” the document stated.The places included in the hotspot list are Sector 22, Chauda village, sectors 27, 28, 37, 44, 50, Supertech Capetown in Sector 74, Logix Blossom County and Paras Tierra in sector 137 and Wazidpur village, Ace Golfshire in Sector 150, Jaypee Wishtown sector 128, GrandOmaxe in Sector 93B and Eldeco Utopia in Sector 93A, Sector 5 and 8 JJ colony, Designer Park and Shatabdi Rail Vihar in Sector 62 and Lotus Boulevard in Sector 100.In Greater Noida, sector Alpha I, ATS Dolce in Zeta I, Eta-I, Silver City Sector Pi, Omnicron III, Sector 3, Mehak Residency in Accheja village, Stellar MI Omnicron III, Ghodi Baccheda, Begumpur and Kulesara villages have been identified as the localities to be sealed, the list stated.14th Avenue Gaur City, Nirala Greenshire in Sector 2, Vishnoi village in Dadri, Palm Olympia in Sector 16 are the localities in Greater Noida (West) also known as Noida Extension, it added. Altogether there are 27 hotspots in Gautam Buddh Nagar. At some places, one hotspot may include more than one society, like Paras Tierra, Logix Blossom and Wazidpur village have been counted as a single unit in Sector 137, as apparent in the list. PTI KIS TDS TDS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-removes-4-locations-from-covid-19-hotspot-list-adds-7-more/story-eZZFZkkDOEZBPsPhzvm5yI.html
15-04-2020||Chandigarh||27-year-old woman ends life in Ludhiana||A 27-year-old woman committed suicide by hanging herself from a ceiling fan at her rented accommodation in Mundian Khurd here on Wednesday.Police said they were alerted about the incident by the house owner, following which they rushed to the spot and found the woman’s body hanging from the ceiling fan.The body of the deceased woman was sent to the civil hospital for postmortem and her family in Hoshiarpur was informed about the mishap, said police.Sub-inspector (SI) Harbhajan Singh said the woman, who worked as a security guard at Fortis Hospital here, was living alone in a rented accommodation. “The reason behind the suicide has not been ascertained yet and the police investigation is on,” said the SI, adding that the woman was not going to work for the last one month.Police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) at the Jamalpur police station. Meanwhile, the hospital authorities denied having any such employee in their security department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/27-year-old-woman-ends-life-in-ludhiana/story-8uYhMOVOK7fieB6RvTJuYI.html
15-04-2020||City||Suicide by Ludhiana restaurateur: Amid flip flop, police book duo, then cancel FIR||Investigating into the suicide by a 30-year-old restaurateur on Benjamin Road on Tuesday, the police on Wednesday first booked a constable and a resident of the area for abetment to suicide and later cancelled the FIR claiming inconsistencies in the family’s statement.The youth, who ran a restaurant with his father and brother, had hanged himself from a ceiling fan at his house.The accused, identified as Jagjeet Singh Jagga, a constable at Division Number 3 police station, and Sonu Kapoor, were booked on the basis of a suicide note allegedly left by the victim wherein he accused them of harassing him for Rs 50 lakh.However, the police claimed the family’s statement was false, and also suspected them of forging the suicide note.Assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Waryam Singh said earlier the police had registered the case on the basis of the statement of the deceased’s brother and father. “But, during preliminary investigation, it was found that the victim had strained relations with his father and brother and he wanted to live separately,” he added.The ACP added that on Monday night, the man called Robin, the president of the local market association, and told him that his parents were harassing him, prompting the police to investigate further. “Further action will be taken after receiving the postmortem report,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/suicide-by-ludhiana-restaurateur-amid-flip-flop-police-book-duo-then-cancel-fir/story-aIbKDz4GsTNRwkapDvg6tJ.html
15-04-2020||Jaipur||Come forward for coronavirus test without fear, says Ashok Gehlot as cases rise in Jaipur||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday expressed concern over the rising cases of coronavirus in Ramganj area in Jaipur here and appealed to people to come forward for testing for their possible infection without any fear.“I appeal to everyone in Jaipur to please come forward for the corona test and do not be afraid. Many of the corona virus infected patients have recovered and were discharged from hospitals,” Gehlot said in a tweet. He said the state government has provided all facilities in hospitals for treatment. People can call helpline numbers and the government is committed to take care of health and save lives. “We are quite confident that we are capable of defeating corona. I am saying this because I have full faith in my doctors, health workers, sanitation workers, police and administrative officials who are trying to save lives of people without any relaxation. My heartfelt thanks to them for their dedication and selfless service,” he added. All India Congress Committee general secretary and state in-charge Avinash Pandey said all workers of the state government and Congress party are working under the guidance of the chief minister for continuously neutralising the impact of the corona pandemic. Pandey appealed to people to maintain a “supportive atmosphere” along with following the lockdown rules to win over coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/come-forward-for-coronavirus-test-without-fear-says-ashok-gehlot-as-cases-rise-in-jaipur/story-xZpU2hh0XcDFkxekAscwII.html
15-04-2020||Mumbai||ED seeks cancellation of Wadhwan brothers’ bail||The Bombay high court has issued notice to the Wadhwan brothers after the Enforcement Directorate (ED) moved an application seeking cancellation of the bail granted to Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhwan by a special court in February. According to the ED, the cancellation application had been filed in March but due to the lockdown, they had not pursued it. However, as the brothers failed to appear before the ED and have left the city there is an apprehension that they may abscond and hence the sought an urgent hearing of the application.A division bench of justice P D Naik while hearing the application on Thursday was informed by government pleader Poornima Kantharia that ED had filed the application soon after the brothers were granted bail as the grounds were erroneous. She said that ED was to move the application before the HC in March but due to the lockdown and restrictions on the movement they did not pursue it.She further submitted that the brothers were not attending the ED office as per the bail conditions and it later came to light that the brothers had left the city and were first living in Khandala and thereafter at their farmhouse in Mahabaleshwar. “They refused to attend the ED office citing a threat to their life due to the coronavirus, but they felt no fear while travelling out of the city,” said Kantharia.She further added that there was an apprehension that the brothers may abscond and hence their bail should be cancelled and they should be put back behind bars.Despite the nationwide lockdown, the Wadhwan brothers and their family of 23 had left Mumbai and were living in a rented house at Khandala. However, after they were asked to vacate the house they managed to travel to Mahabaleshwar based on a letter from Amitabh Gupta, principal secretary (special), home department. The investigating agencies were unaware of the Wadhwans leaving the city and it was only when a neighbour of the farmhouse alerted the Satara police, the whereabouts of the Wadhwan’s came to light. All 23 members of the Wadhwan family have since been kept under institutional quarantine in Satara.After hearing the submissions the bench issued notice to the Wadhwans and directed the Satara police to serve the same on them and posted the matter for hearing on April 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ed-seeks-cancellation-of-wadhwan-brothers-bail/story-RdPOcfyBSgVozzD8SApQPN.html
15-04-2020||City||Thane traders face problems as TMC shifts market||The wholesalers at Jambli Naka in Thane are unhappy after the market was shifted to 17 spots in the city.The traders said most areas are far off and they do not have transport to travel long distances.They claimed that none of them were taken into confidence while implementing the new system. Thane Municipal Corporation had to shut the wholesale vegetable and grocery market at Jambli Naka as social distancing norms were violated in the market. The markets opened to huge crowds in the past few weeks despite repeated warnings by the authorities. On Tuesday, TMC divided the wholesalers into 17 different spots across the city to ensure there is no crowding in one place. Santosh Mali, a wholesaler, said, “Earlier, they had moved the market to Central Maidan to ensure social distancing, but still there was crowding. Now, they have shifted traders to 17 different spots. Some wholesalers have to go as far as Mumbra, Diva or Ghodbunder, which is difficult. The new spots lack basic facilities such as water, electricity and washrooms.”Another trader, Ankush Thonge, said most of the areas such as Mumbra or Vrundavan society are containment zones so they are scared to do business there. “None of our issues have been addressed. They have to distribute the commodities from 4am to 7am only. It is difficult to cater to all traders in this limited time. There is one transport van which provides produce to all wholesalers. The transport vehicle will not go from market to Mumbra or Ghodbunder. So, those who are allotted spaces in far-off wards will suffer,” said Thonge.The wholesalers have also drafted a letter to the authorities to resolve some of their issues. TMC has asked the wholesalers to sell commodities to only small-time traders and not to residents. A civic official said, “The work of providing them facilities is in progress. But, markets have to be shifted to ensure there is no crowding at one place. The wholesalers will have to abide by the norms or else they will not be allowed to do business.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-traders-face-problems-as-tmc-shifts-market/story-KgrsOk6q4vY0dP3wu3nj7O.html
15-04-2020||Jaipur||41 new Covid-19 cases in Rajasthan, state count reaches 1,046||Rajasthan recorded 41 fresh cases of novel coronavirus on Wednesday, taking the state’s tally to 1,046, an official said.The virus has so far claimed 11 lives in the state.“As many as 41 new cases have come up today -- 23 in Jaipur and seven each in Jodhpur and Kota. A case each of COVID-19 was recorded in Dausa, Nagaur, Tonk and Jhunjhunu districts,” Additional Chief Secretary Rohit Kumar Singh said.He said the total number of confirmed coronavirus cases in the state has risen to 1,046.Among the coronavirus cases in Rajasthan are two Italian citizens and 54 people who were brought back from Iran and admitted to Army health centres in Jodhpur and Jaisalmer.Jaipur has reported the highest number of 476 cases in the state, followed by 102 in Jodhpur, 64 in Kota and 59 in Banswara.Rajasthan is under a strict lockdown from March 22 and a massive survey and screening is underway to trace the contagion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/41-new-covid-19-cases-in-rajasthan-state-count-reaches-1-046/story-LU8gPAAWrMpcThG8YbTUfK.html
15-04-2020||Ranchi||Ranchi administration picks corona patients amid ‘violent’ resistance from section of Hindpiri residents||The Ranchi administration had a tough time taking three positive corona patients to the hospital for treatment on Monday night as a section of locals in Hindpiri, which has emerged at the biggest hotspot in the state with 11 confirmed cases, attacked the health department team that had reached the area on Monday night. As Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) confirmed three more cases on Monday evening, police and health workers teams reached Hindpiri to pick the patients around 10.30 pm, according to locals.The locals were protesting in the team presence, arguing why was the team taking the patients during the night. The team could finally take the three infected people to hospital around 4.30 am on Tuesday. Stone was pelted on the ambulance that was there to pick the patients and police barricades were also vandalised.  With addition of three new cases, Hindpiri has alone recorded state’s maximum of 11 confirmed Covid-19, followed by nine cases in Bokaro, two in Hazaribag and one each in Koderma and Giridih. Till now, two, including one from Hindpiri, have died due to the pandemic.Subdivisional officer (SDO), Ranchi, Lokesh Mishra said four ambulances had been sent to the area. Stones were pelted on one ambulance and vandalised a part of it, he said. “After discussions, we later picked the patients around 4.30 on Tuesday from the locality and admitted them to the hospital,” said Mishra, adding, contact tracing is being done to find out people who might have come in contact with these patients. The SDO said they were also identifying the people who resorted to violence and action would be taken against them.“A section of the residents turned aggressive when administration’s team suddenly came at night around 11 to pick the patients without informing anyone. Some residents were not in favour of it. They wanted the patients to be taken in the morning. The administration should inform at least some community leaders who could help them in the task,” said Ibrar Ahmad, president Anjuman Islamia, Hindpiri.Meanwhile, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) alleged that the Hemant Soren government was adopting discriminatory approach even in lockdown violation. State BJP spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo said the teams of Ranchi police and health workers, who are putting their lives at risk at midnight, went to Hindpiri to pick corona patients. “But police, as well as the health workers, were misbehaved and people demonstrated violating the curfew,” said Shahdeo.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/ranchi-administration-picks-corona-patients-amid-violent-resistance-from-section-of-hindpiri-residents/story-ZlVQcV5l13B6i1eZhEJkIO.html
15-04-2020||City||Father-son duo held with 350gm heroin in Ludhiana||Amid the lockdown in the wake of coronavirus outbreak, a special task force (STF) team arrested a father-son duo and recovered 350gm heroin from them on Wednesday.The accused were identified as Nachhatar Singh, 42, and his son, Sonu Singh, alias Sonu, 22, of Barnala.A case under Sections 21, 29, 61 and 85 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act was registered at the STF police station in Mohali.Sub-inspector Jaspal Singh said the white Maruti Suzuki Celerio car was checked on the basis of a tip-off. “The accused were travelling towards Ludhiana in the car when they were nabbed at a check point installed in Dadahur on Raikot-Barnala Road,” he said, adding that 330gm heroin was recovered from the dashboard of the car.“Later, after questioning the accused, the STF team conducted a raid at their house and recovered 20gm heroin from there,” he said.‘TOOK TO CRIME AS HE WAS UNEMPLOYED’Nachhatar, who has been peddling drugs for the past three years, told police that he took to the crime as he was unemployed, Singh added.“He used to purchase drugs from a Barnala-based resident and then sell it to his customers. His son got involved in the crime along with him around two years back,” the sub-inspector said, adding that to date, five cases of drug peddling have been registered against Nachhatar at various police stations.“The investigation is on. The accused will be questioned and we will try to trace more persons involved with them,” said the sub-inspector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/father-son-duo-held-with-350gm-heroin-in-ludhiana/story-aWcLt9f3W43IapqPapX6zN.html
15-04-2020||Chandigarh||GNDEC starts online registration for admission in various courses||With extension of the nationwide lockdown till May 3, Guru Nanak Dev Engineering College (GNDEC) has started an online enquiry-cum-registration module for admissions in Bachelor of Technology, Master of Technology, Bachelor of Architecture, Master of Business Administration and Master of Computer Application programmes for the 2020-21 session.The college authorities informed that the new users are required to visit their website www.gndec.ac.in and login at the registration link mentioned there. Once registered, the candidates will be provided online guidance related to admissions and counselling to be conducted by IKG Punjab Technical University, Jalandhar, as well as for offline counselling to be conducted by the institute. The module will be helpful for the aspiring candidates who have any admission related questions and the GNDEC team will ensure prompt response to their queries, they added. “We are sure that this pragmatic approach will serve students pursuing hopes for their bright future in present scenario of uncertainty. These tough times will not last much. We will be able to conquer it together,” said Dr Sehijpal Singh, principal, GNDEC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/gndec-starts-online-registration-for-admission-in-various-courses/story-ihqqG1rmyAi4tdkeeJUHTK.html
15-04-2020||Ranchi||Late surge of positive covid cases mark first leg of lockdown in Jharkhand||The first positive case in Jharkhand was recorded on March 31, a week after the national lockdown was announced. It was of a Malaysian woman in her early twenties, a member of Tablighi Jamaat group that was picked from different mosques in the state capital. She is still under treatment at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS). As per the latest official data, the number of positive cases stand at 24, of which two persons have died — one each in Ranchi and Bokaro. Both were senior citizens. These cases have been reported from across five districts including Ranchi, Bokaro, Hazaribag, Koderma and Giridih. Eleven of the 24 positive cases have been reported from one area, Hindpiri, in Ranchi. The entire area, the biggest hotspot in the state with a dense population of around 60,000, has been under curfew for about a week. Six of the 11 cases in Hindpiri are from one single family, including a 60-year-old man who died on Sunday morning. The other two hotspots are in Bokaro. The district’s first case was reported from Tello village under Chandrapura block. A woman of this village, who had been to Bangladesh and then to New Delhi to attend religious congregation Tablighi Jamaat, was detected positive for Covid-19 on April 5. Later, four members of her family were also found infected with novel coronavirus infection.The district’s second hotspot is Saram village under Gomia block from where three confirmed cases have so far been reported. The village came in light after the death of the 75-year-old man who was tested positive few hours before he breathed his last. The deceased, reportedly, had no travel history or contact history with any positive case. The district administration is still tracing the links as to how the man got infected with coronavirus infection.Of the 24 positive cases in the state, the authorities have been able to trace connection of five to Tablighi Jamaat. While Jharkhand figures lower in terms of number of positive cases as compared to other states, it is also due to slow pace of testing. As on Monday, 2,523 tests were conducted from across the state. “First, this is one state which would not have many people who might have come from abroad. As far as migrant workers are concerned, most could not return. One advantage of the state has also been that the population is sparsely habited across the state. Even the urban centres are not very densely populated,” said a health department official. The officials, however, rue the fact that the tests are not adequate for a state with a population estimated to be over three crore. “Obviously, it is due to the lack of number of testing kits, besides the lack of testing centres. We have two centres which are fully operational. The third started on Monday, but it is still to get into the groove. Testing has gathered pace only since April 10 when over 200 samples were picked. Monday saw the highest to date with 406 sample collection. The chief minister and the health minister have been highlighting it during all of their interactions with the Centre,” said an official. One of other aspects of the lockdown has been providing ration and food to the needy. The state government has started over a 1,000 ‘daal-bhaat’ centre across the state besides the Didi kitchens in all panchayats in the state, providing free meal to the needy. The state government is now also planning to transfer ₹2,000 to a migrant worker from one family, stuck outside the state, on recommendation of the local MLA. As per estimates, over seven lakh migrant workers from Jharkhand are expected to be stuck in different states. Taking lessons, the state government has also constituted a subcommittee of three ministers for overseeing the related issues during the lockdown. “We focused on providing food to the needy, besides seeing that agriculture produce and other things like milk production is not affected during the first leg of lockdown. We are going to implement all such measures even more effectively now,” said Rameshwar Oraon, state’s finance and civil supplies minister. Oraon is also a member of the ministers’ subcommittee constituted on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/late-surge-of-positive-covid-cases-mark-first-leg-of-lockdown-in-jharkhand/story-910Wztoa2LDkizo8SWtjuL.html
15-04-2020||City||23 arrested in Ludhiana for violating curfew, 18 cases registered||The city police arrested 23 people on Tuesday for violating curfew and booked them in 18 different cases for violating the orders of the district magistrate.Some of them were roaming on roads without reason while some others had opened their shops.A case under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered against Ashwani Kumar of Surinder Nagar and Sonu of Kakowal Road at the Jodhewal police station. They had opened their footwear shops and were selling products to customers.A case under Section 188 of the IPC was also registered against Reev of Star Colony, Manakwal Road, at the Sadar police station after he was found wandering on the road without permission.Ashok Kumar of Labour Colony was arrested and booked under Section 188 of the IPC and 51-B of the Disaster Management Act by the Division Number 6 police after he was found selling fruits and vegetables in makeshift stall on a roadside in the Labour Colony. There was a huge rush at his stall.Similarly, Raja Ram of New Sunder Nagar, Jasvir Sigh of Guru Nanak Colony, Sukhpal Singh of Shimlapuri, Rajesh Rao, Sunil Kumar and Rajesh Agwas of Shimlapuri, Tarlochan Singh of Janta Nagar, Sat Pal of Guru Gobind Singh Nagar, Amandeep Sharma of Haibowal Kalan, Sanjeev Kumar of Haibowal Kalan, Abhay Kumar of Ram Nagar, Siddharth Jain of Rani Jhansi Road, Jatin Goel of Jamalpur Colony, Gurmukh Singh and Zakir Aalam of Sangrur, Mohammad Aasif Sherpur Kalan, Varinder Sngh of Sanjay Gandhi Colony and Rajesh Kumar of Preet Nagar were arrested and booked under Sections 188 and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the IPC at different police stations.LABOURER HELD FOR MAKING FAKE DISTRESS CALLThe Division Number 7 police arrested a migrant labourer after he made a fake distress call at the police helpline number demanding ration.The accused was identified as Alaudin of EWS Colony.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Sukhdev Singh, investigating officer, said after receiving the call, a police team reached the man’s residence to deliver ration, but found that Alaudin had stocked enough ration at his home.A case under Section 188 of the IPC and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act was registered against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/23-arrested-in-ludhiana-for-violating-curfew-18-cases-registered/story-2JLLypBxRg8t1iq71qnM4L.html
15-04-2020||Chandigarh||Jai Ram announces educational programme for kids on Doordarshan||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Wednesday announced to launch a study at-home learning and teaching programme for Class 10 and 12 students of the state through state broadcaster Doordarshan.He said that the online learning facility from home will be provided to students under the Himachal Doordarshan Gyanshala programme from April 17 onwards.“The education department has prepared programme according to the syllabus of HP School Education Board for Class 10 and 12 which would telecast from 10 am to 1 pm for different subjects as per the time table,” he said.Thakur urged teachers, students and parents to take advantage of the programme but strictly observe the social distancing as per the government direction.CM also launched the ‘Learning from Home- Har Ghar Pathshala’, a home-based teaching programme for the students from Class 9 to 12 during the lockdown period.He said that the programme would help the students to get access to online videos and worksheets from their homes on www.education.hp.gov.in and https//cut.ly/hargharpathshala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/jai-ram-announces-educational-programme-for-kids-on-doordarshan/story-Fd6mwAEEr5xSczJYmlTHaL.html
15-04-2020||Lucknow||‘State govt to give PPE kits for protection of private hospitals’ staff’||A day after sixty-five staff members of King George’s Medical University (KGMU) were quarantined after a patient who was attended to by them tested positive for coronavirus on Monday, the state government issued orders to the health department and the district administrative officers to take preventive measures for protection of the doctors, nurses and para medical staff from infection.Also, the state government has decided to provide PPE kit to private hospitals from Covid Care Fund for the protection of doctors and para medical staff from coronavirus.So far, the government has issued notices to 19 private hospitals across the state that they would be converted into exclusive Covid-19 hospitals as and when the situation demanded so, said principal secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad. Earlier, a government order (GO) was issued that private hospitals would be converted into Covid-19 hospitals as per the need.Addressing a press conference on Tuesday, additional chief secretary Awanish Kumar Awasthi said in a meeting with the senior officers chief minister Yogi Adityanath expressed concern over the KGMU incident. He then directed the officers to take preventive measures in the hospitals, provide PPE kits and equipment to the medical staff deputed in the hospitals, Awasthi added.The master trainers in the health and medical education departments will be also imparted training for the protection from coronavirus. The master trainers, in turn,will train the district level trainers, doctors, nurses and para-medical staff for protection from coronavirus. The NCC and NSS cadets who have been deputed in the awareness programme will also be trained. Also, the state government has decided to start the emergency services in the hospital to provide medical facilities to the patients who are suffering with serious kidney, liver and heart disease.The medical teams deputed in the emergencies will be supplied PPE kits and other items for the protection from coronavirus, the additional chief secretary said.The chief minister will hold meeting with the officers of health and medical education departments to start the emergency services. The measures required to protect the medical team working in the hospitals will be also discussed in the meeting, he said. The CM will give instructions to all chief medical officers and chief medical superintendents of the government hospitals for implementation of the Covid protocol in all the hospitals in the state for protection of the doctors and para-medical staff from infection, Awasthi said.A 55-year-old corona patient living in Naya Gaon in Qaiserbagh area had come to the KGMU on Saturday evening. He visited many areas on the campus and was brought to the triage area. Later, he was shifted to the isolation facility and had to be put on ventilator. But in this process, he came in contact with many staff members who were not protected well against infection.Principal secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said around 50 staff of the KGMU had been quarantined. Their samples were sent for laboratory test, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/state-govt-to-give-ppe-kits-for-protection-of-private-hospitals-staff/story-TgQMdqSq4zTlzLYq1JMOpI.html
15-04-2020||City||Covid-19 testing in Punjab: DMCH to first hold trials of detection kits||The Covid-19 testing that was scheduled to start at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) here from Wednesday has been delayed for the time being.The DMCH authorities claimed that before going ahead with the testing process, they want to conduct some trials.“We have received the testing kits, but in order to formally start the procedure we have to first undergo some trials,” said DMCH secretary Prem Gupta.Describing the procedure, Gupta said, “Two samples of a suspected patient will be sent to the microbiology labs at DMCH and PGIMER, Chandigarh. The results will be compared and only then a final nod will be given to conduct the formal Covid-19 tests.”The district administration had on Tuesday stated that the testing facility at DMCH will start operations on Wednesday.The department of microbiology at DMCH has receiving the nod for Covid-19 testing from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).Recently, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh had proposed the names of DMCH and Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) to the Centre stating that the “two prestigious medical institutions” were capable of conducting the tests for coronavirus. The CM had also sought the requisite approvals for starting the testing facility.At present, the state has three government laboratories – Government Medical College, Amritsar; Government Medical College, Patiala and Guru Gobind Singh Medical University, Faridkot.Besides DMCH, the process is on to initiate testing operations at CMCH. Two specialists from ICMR are set to visit the hospital to share the technical know-how of the testing procedure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-testing-in-punjab-dmch-to-first-hold-trials-of-detection-kits/story-E9zIyk0e7cXsNbzj75D0lM.html
15-04-2020||Ranchi||Covid-19: 150 police personnel quarantined for a week||Around 150 police personnel, who were deployed here at Hindpiri, have been quarantined for a week as the area has been declared as ‘containment zone’ to prevent coronavirus spread, Ranchi Police said.On April 9, the Ranchi administration had announced to seal the Hindpiri locality of the city to prevent the spread of coronavirus after two Covid-19 positive cases were reported from the area.All essential services and commodities are being provided to the residents at their homes, the Ranchi administration said.According to the Union Health Ministry, 27 people have detected positive for Covid-19 in the state, including 2 deaths.After Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the extension of lockdown till May 3, Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren on Tuesday said that lockdown rules should be strictly followed in order to combat Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/covid-19-150-police-personnel-quarantined-for-a-week/story-wibkcmjPSfAruzUBtLFfFK.html
15-04-2020||City||Curfew in Ludhiana: Stranded HIV patients find a saviour in civil hospital centre||The anti-retroviral treatment (ART) centres under the Punjab State Aids Control Society are ensuring that HIV positive patients, whose immune system is already compromised due to their condition, get medication, irrespective of the place they are stuck in due to the curfew to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The ART centres provide treatment and lifelong care to HIV positive patients for free. Those with low immunity are at higher risk of getting infected with Covid-19.Davinder Singh, counsellor in the ART centre based in the Ludhiana civil hospital, which is treating around 4,000 registered patients, said, “Ever since the lockdown, the centre has received over 150 patients from different states including Rajasthan, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh, who had either come to visit a relative or were in the city for other work but are now stuck here and have run out of medicine stock.”“There are many individuals who are not even carrying the treatment card which is required during their routine visit to the ART centres they are registered with, while many only have the wrappers of the medicines,” said Singh, adding that they are keeping these centres in the loop while providing medicines to the individuals.The ART centre is now providing the patients medicines for 90 days against the usual 30 days to save them the commute.COUNSELLING SUSPENDEDSingh said the centre has also temporarily stopped the counselling for HIV positive patients, including jail inmates, so that they do not have to struggle to get to the centre amid the lockdown, and stay safe at their houses with enough medication.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/stranded-in-ludhiana-hiv-patients-find-a-saviour-in-civil-hospital-centre/story-cAnoWNX0J7eiZjArbUtaeO.html
15-04-2020||Lucknow||KGMU casualty ward resumes functioning||The casualty department of the King George Medical University (KGMU), which was temporarily shut and 65 medical staff were put under quarantine after a man who came there for treatment on Saturday had tested positive, has resumed functioning, but with riders.“All the patients first need to reach a screening centre, tell their illness and travel history and then see the doctor in the casualty ward,” said prof Sandip Tiwari, spokesperson, KGMU. The screening will be done in child psychology department and geriatric mental health department.“The arrangement will be in place to make sure that no suspected case goes to casualty. This will reduce chances infection among the medical staff,” said the spokesperson.“The arrangement will continue till chance of coronavirus spread is there. The casualty ward has been disinfected and now work has started here,” he said.On the basis of contact history, samples of 20 medical staffers were taken for coronavirus testing.“Till now, no one among them has tested positive. The remaining 45 out of total 65 put under quarantine are being sent out of quarantine as they had no contact history with the man,” said Prof Tiwari.On Saturday, a patient with breathlessness and known to a medical staff had come for treatment at the ward.“The doctors advised him to first visit triage area where staff wears PPE kit, so that if there are symptoms of coronavirus he may be taken care there only. But he insisted and doctors in the casualty ward attended him. Later, he tested positive for coronavirus,” said a doctor.Meanwhile, KGMU has formed a four-member team to find out how a coronavirus patient could manage to enter the casualty ward on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/kgmu-casualty-ward-resumes-functioning/story-TqJACmGZ06t2pLvJev46mJ.html
15-04-2020||City||Punjab converts all 10 meritorious schools into Covid isolation centres||Punjab education minister Vijay Inder Singla on Wednesday said to contain the spread of Covid-19, the education department has set aside 10 meritorious schools as Covid Care Isolation Centres.Singla, who was at Meritorious School in Ghabdan to review the preparations, said as many as 8,346 beds were available in the hostels of these residential meritorious schools, and around 200 classrooms can also be used by the medical staff for other purposes.These schools are situated in Amritsar, Bathinda, Ferozepur, Gurdaspur, Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Patiala, Mohali, Sangrur and Hoshiarpur districts.“Coronavirus spreads from person to person. Therefore, creation of isolation and quarantine centres will be a boon in averting further spread of this virus,” the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-converts-all-10-meritorious-schools-into-covid-isolation-centres/story-War7eN8fvjkr3VNA6zvtVI.html
15-04-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal govt identifies 10 Covid-19 hotspots, seals villages in 80 panchayats||The Himachal Pradesh government has identified 10 Covid-19 hotspots in five districts and sealed villages in 80 panchayats to contain the spread of the virus.The largest hotspots are Amb sub-division of Una district where to date 15 cases have been detected and Jharmajri and Nalagarh in Solan with nine coronavirus cases.Four panchayats have been sealed in the Amb sub-division while 42 panchayats in Solan district.McLeodganj, Shahpur, Lunj and Gangath area of Kangra district have also been marked as Covid-19 hotspots. Besides, 29 panchayats of Tissa and Salooni area in Chamba have also been declared Covid-19 hotspots.Four cases were reported from the Chamba district. Apart from it, Mishrwala in Sirmour district where one case was reported is also a hotspot.Till March 31, there were only three cases in the state including one fatality, all in Kangra district.However, from April 2, the number of cases increased sharply and have touched 33-mark after cases linked to Tablighi Jamaat link started emerging.No relaxation in curfewNo relaxation in the curfew has been granted in the designated hotspots. All the entry points to these places have been sealed with the policemen are guarding the villages round the clock.All people living in these areas were being screened for symptoms like cough and fever.No one is allowed to go out of their homes and essential commodities are being provided through home delivery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-govt-identifies-10-covid-19-hotspots-seals-villages-in-80-panchayats/story-TAQQT0Vkg8W9MgLbLuEuNL.html
15-04-2020||Mumbai||ED moves Bombay HC, seeks cancellation of Kapil Wadhwan’s bail||The Enforcement Directorate on Wednesday moved the Bombay High Court seeking cancellation of bail of DHFL promoter Kapil Wadhawan, accused in a money laundering case, for allegedly violating bail conditions and travelling during the lockdown imposed due to coronavirus.Advocate Purnima Kantharia of the Enforcement Directorate (ED) mentioned the application before high court Justice P D Naik.The court then issued a notice to Wadhawan and posted the matter for further hearing on April 23.Wadhawan was arrested in January this year by ED for his dubious dealings with gangster Iqbal Mirchi, who died in 2013, and was booked under provisions of Prevention of Money Laundering Act.He was granted bail in February by a sessions court.The ED last week issued orders for seizure of five luxury vehicles in which Kapil Wadhawan, his brother Dheeraj Wadhawan and their other family members travelled to their farmhouse at Mahabaleshwar hill station in Maharashtra’s Satara district during the coronavirus lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ed-moves-bombay-hc-seeks-cancellation-of-kapil-wadhwan-s-bail/story-0wpqDhFZQ1SaMJzsWTCQ6L.html
15-04-2020||Mumbai||Monsoon to have an extended stay of 8 days over the city||The southwest monsoon will have an extended stay of eight days over Mumbai, the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) stated on Wednesday.The normal onset date has been delayed by a day and withdrawal date by nine days, stated IMD in its monsoon forecast. The new onset date for Mumbai is June 11 (against June 10 originally) and the new withdrawal date has been declared as October 8 (against the existing September 29). This means that the normal duration of the entire monsoon over Mumbai will span from June 11 to October 8 across 120 days as opposed to 112 days from June 10 to September 29.“Existing dates were so far based on old data from 1901-1940. We have revised this based on data from 1961-2019 for onset dates and 1971-2019 for withdrawal dates. Earlier, the data was collated from 149 stations. The new dates are based on data from 3,500 stations across India,” said Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, IMD’s director-general. “Based on this, Mumbai’s normal monsoon duration has increased by over a week (eight days),” he added.Across the state, new monsoon advance dates have been delayed by three to seven days while major changes have been identified for withdrawal dates. For example, the onset date for Jalgaon has changed from June 13 to June 18 while the withdrawal is October 6 from September 27. Changes for seven Maharashtra cities were published by IMD on Wednesday. “We cannot go by weather information that was relevant almost 80 years back and that change is visible in monsoon behaviour over the past decade. Climate change has a major role but its exact impact on monsoon is yet to be studied,” said Mohapatra.Delay in monsoon withdrawal by around 10 days is likely to impact the agriculture sector, especially across central Maharashtra, Vidarbha and Marathwada, said Akshay Deoras, Independent meteorologist and Ph.D. researcher at the University of Reading, UK. “Significant rainfall activities beyond mid-September can have a negative impact for crop harvesting. Maharashtra has already seen significant damages to ready to harvest or harvested crops in October in the last few years. The state government needs to come up with an action plan for this,” he said.On Wednesday, IMD released its first stage country-wide long-range forecast for the southwest monsoon (June to September) 2020, which is expected to be ‘normal’ or 100% of the long period average (LPA), with a model error of ± 5%. India defines ‘normal’ rainfall as between 96% and 104% of a 50-year average of 88 cm for four-months.“This is good news as it benefits the agricultural sector, food and water security during this difficult period of the Covid-19 outbreak,” said M Rajeevan, secretary, Ministry of Earth Sciences (MoES) adding that the forecast was based on models predicting favourable ocean-atmospheric global weather factors.There is a 41% probability that the monsoon will be 96-104% (normal) and a 21% probability that it may be 104-110% (above normal). Last year too, the forecast was 96%, but actual rainfall was 110% of the LPA, the highest since 1994. IMD will be releasing its second stage forecast during the last week of May or June first week.HT had reported on April 13 that Mumbai city and suburbs could witness above average rainfall (2,500 mm) this monsoon, more than the seasonal average, as per forecasts issued by independent meteorologists.Meanwhile, private weather forecasting agency Skymet will not be issuing its forecast this year. The agency was widely criticised for their inaccurate forecast last year. “This was a decision taken by our management. The weather patterns and dynamics are changing and we want to invest in our technology so that we come on top and give an accurate forecast. We will be back next year with better technology backed updates,” the agency said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/monsoon-to-have-an-extended-stay-of-8-days-over-the-city/story-0ZDfWEzo5NUbyYSl8qZruI.html
15-04-2020||City||Five transit camps set up for migrating sheep breeders in Himachal’s Chamba||The animal husbandry department has set up five transit camps at Thulel, Khargat, Lahru, Berangal and Koti in Chamba district for providing veterinary aid and other logistics to the migrating sheep breeders.A department spokesperson on Wednesday said the seasonal migration of sheep breeders was going on smoothly in the district and the 280 flocks that had entered Chamba so far had been covered.He said Gujjars were yet to start migrating to Chamba with their livestock.“Currently, veterinary institutions are providing regular services amid the ongoing Covid-19 lockdown, and sufficient stock of medicines and vaccines is available with the department,” the spokesperson said, adding that from Thursday onwards, veterinary dispensaries will also be opened.The official said chief minister Jai Ram Thakur had allowed the free movement of nomads along with their livestock. The state government has already directed to provide all logistical support besides rations to the migratory sheep and animal breeders like Gaddis, Gujjars, etc.Till now, 500 migrating livestock owners have been contacted and about 150 ration kits have been provided to them by the local administrations in Sirmour, Solan, Shimla, Bilaspur, Una, Hamirpur, Mandi and Kangra. The spokesperson said that some issues regarding the sale of surplus livestock were reported by the flock owners and the same will be normalised once the retail shops will be opened.The official added that HP Milk Federation and Kamdhenu Hitkari Manch in Bilaspur district were processing milk regularly. Daily procurement of milk by the federation has increased to 80,000 litres per day from the earlier 65,000 litres/day. Permits are being issued for transporting fodder from the neighbouring districts and approximately 35,000 quintal dry fodder has been received in the state since the beginning of the lockdown.As far as marketing of milk form Gujjars is concerned, 28 gram panchayats where community members are based are currently coronavirus hotspots and therefore their sales have been affected. People in these areas have been advised to prepare products like ghee, cheese, etc., from the surplus milk. The spokesperson added that the department had not received any reports of problems being faced by Gaddis and Gujjars||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/five-transit-camps-set-up-for-migrating-sheep-breeders-in-himachal-s-chamba/story-dhSoikAqC35g4dFmV2hEkP.html
15-04-2020||City||Coronavirus in Punjab: Entire population under Patiala MC limits to be screened||A day after the third Covid-19 positive came to fore in Patiala, the district administration has ordered screening of the entire population living within the jurisdiction of the Patiala municipal corporation (MC).Deputy commissioner Kumar Amit has also imposed a ban on the distribution of langar in the city, with the exception of the Red Cross Society.The latest case, a 50-year-old resident of Safabadi Gate, who tested positive on Tuesday evening, was part of the groups involved in distributing community meals among the needy.The health department has quarantined his nine primary contacts and taken their swab samples for testing. “The department has identified the areas where the patient went for langar service. To avoid further spread of the infection, we have decided to screen the entire population under MC limit,” the DC said, adding that special attention will be given to those exhibiting symptoms of coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-in-punjab-entire-population-under-patiala-mc-limits-to-be-screened/story-kDYFeEsvHGO6RQNw88y4uK.html
15-04-2020||Pune||Duo on marijuana run dressed as PMC staffers arrested in Pune||The Pune police on Sunday night arrested two persons posing as Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) staff and in possession of 219 grammes of marijuana, worth Rs 2,100.The two have been identified as Hrushi Ravindra More, 20, and Sagar Chandrakant Surve, 25, both residents of Parvati.One of the accused wore a khaki uniform with the PMC logo, while the other wore an apron generally used by conservancy staff of the civic body, police said.The police officials at a check post in Khadakwasla found the two walking with a plastic bag at 6:30pm and stopped the duo.The police arrested them and during the inquiry, the duo admitted that they procured the uniform of a civic administration employee who had passed away a few months ago. They also made alterations to the attire and used it to procure marijuana during the lockdown.A case under Sections 8, 20(b), (pp) of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985 and Section 188 of Indian Penal Code has been filed at Haveli police station against the two.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/duo-on-marijuana-run-dressed-as-pmc-staffers-arrested-in-pune/story-TuBXEo6DXqVoKGCsI5HUnI.html
15-04-2020||Delhi||Functioning of Delhi High Court and district courts to remain suspended till May 3||The functioning of the Delhi High Court and the district courts will continue to remain suspended till May 3 with only urgent matters being heard through videoconferencing, a communication from the High Court said. However, it said the number of benches of the judges, hearing matters through videoconferencing, would be increased. The communication said the Administrative and General Supervision Committee of Delhi High Court ordered that all matters listed between April 16 and May 2 in the district courts be adjourned and information about this be uploaded on the website.“The District and Sessions judges concerned, as already directed, may permit the judges and other staff officials to work from home, wherever possible. All hearings be done preferably through videoconferencing which would automatically result in decongestion in court complexes,” the communication said.After receiving several complaints of unavailability of the infrastructure for the video conferencing (VC) of cases, the court also resolved that all judges should be given online training to hear the matters through VC. “All the district and sessions judges shall ensure that videoconferencing is done through ‘Cisco WebEx’. Online training about the manner of use of said software be given to all the Judicial officers and court staff through a Centralized Computer Committee. “Such Centralized Computer Committee would, from time to time, seek necessary instructions from IT Committee of this Court on the aspect of VC hearing and would also ensure that there is complete uniformity amongst all districts in this regard,” it added. The High Court also said that each district and sessions judge (DJ) would be at liberty to take appropriate steps to personally ensure that the mechanism of mentioning of urgent matters in each of the district courts is quick and efficient. It also said that the DJ could depute judicial officers for hearing the matters related to bail and urgent civil/injunction cases, corresponding to the need and requirement of the district court concerned. Reacting to this, KC Mittal, chairman, Bar Council of Delhi (BCD), said that more benches would bring improvement in the functioning and more cases will be heard.“In terms of the district courts, we will observe the situation for a couple of days and if there is any problem, then we can again make some changes,” Mittal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/functioning-of-delhi-high-court-and-district-courts-to-remain-suspended-till-may-3/story-nyWLWLeK0E1JfIOFtzza2J.html
15-04-2020||Pune||Pune police bust illegal transportation and sale of alcohol; four arrested||In multiple cases recorded in the past three days, four men have been arrested for illegal sale and possession of alcohol during lockdown in various parts of Pune district.Transporting liquor in a milk-supply vehicleOn Monday night, the police officials of Bharati Vidyapeeth police station on patrol near Katraj Ghat intercepted a truck carrying boxes of alcohol.The truck’s outer design suggested that it was a milk-supply vehicle. However, upon checking, the police found 12 boxes of alcohol worth Rs 28,800, according to a statement by the Bharti Viyapeeth police station officials.The truck driver and the cleaner have been arrested and a case under relevant sections of Maharashtra Prohibition Act has been registered in the matter.Illegal sale of alcoholIn another case, the Pune rural police found two separate people in Daund with an illegal stock of alcohol, based on information received by sub-divisional police officer Ashwini Sharma of Daund division.The two men were selling the alcohol without a permit during lockdown in Kumbhar galli, Daund. The two were identified as Bapu Shankar Waghmare, 28, and Akshay Gorakh Gholap, 26, both residents of Kumbhar galli.While Waghmare was found with alcohol worth Rs 31,350, Gholap was found with alcohol worth Rs 2,640. The seizure was made by a team led by Police sub-inspector Nitin Mohite.A case was registered under Sections 65(B) of Maharshtra Prohibition act 1949 and Section 188 of IPC at Daund police station.Violating normsIn yet another case in Wakad, the Pimpri-Chinchwad police arrested a man who was found in possession of alcohol worth Rs 14,000.The man allegedly tried to sell these bottles which led to gathering of people on Sunday. Not only did he lack the permit to sell, but the gathering also violated the police orders necessitating social distancing. He was also found in possession of a press card that he misused, said police.The incident happened at 8pm on Sunday night near Tathawade chowk in Wakad.The man has been identified as Satishkumar Vishwanath Bogali, 30, a resident of Ekta colony in Ganeshnagar. A case under Sections 2, 3 and 4 of Epidemic Act, Section 65(e) of Prohibition Act, and Section 188 of Indian Penal Code has been registered at Wakad police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-police-bust-illegal-transportation-and-sale-of-alcohol-four-arrested/story-xb2k7lDHfn6qCuR8WPOCUN.html
15-04-2020||City||Himachal Pradesh govt facilitates seasonal migration of Gaddi community||Amid lockdown in Himachal Pradesh, seasonal migration of the Gaddi community is going on smoothly in Chamba and other districts, officials said on Wednesday. The state government is also facilitating the migration of nomadic communities.The animal husbandry department has set up five transit camps at Thulel, Khargat, Lahru, Berangal and Koti for providing veterinary aid and other logistics and so far 280 flocks that have entered the Chamba district have been covered, said a spokesperson of the department.So far migration of Gujjar community along with their livestock into Chamba has not started to date.During the present lockdown situation, veterinary institutions are providing regular veterinary services and emergency services on-call basis.The spokesperson said that from Thursday onwards, the veterinary dispensaries will also be opened and sufficient stock of veterinary medicines and vaccines is available with the department.“The nomads have been given priority as per the directions of chief minister Jai Ram Thakur and free movement of livestock has been allowed,” he said.The state government has already directed to provide all logistic help besides ration to the migratory sheep and animal breeders like Gaddis and Gujjars communities.He said that till now 500 migrant livestock owners have been contacted who are under migration and about 150 ration kits have been provided to the needy persons through local administrations in the district of Sirmour, Solan, Shimla, Bilaspur, Una, Hamirpur, Mandi and Kangra.He said that there were certain issues related to the sale of surplus livestock but the situation will ease once the lockdown ends.The spokesperson added that HP Milk Federation and Kamdhenu Hitkari Manch, Namhol in district Bilaspur are processing milk regularly. Daily procurement of milk by the federation has increased to 80,000 litres per day from the earlier procurement of approximately 65,000 litres per day.He said that the permits are being issued for transporting fodder from the neighbouring districts and since the start of the lockdown period approximately 35,000 quintals dry fodder has been received in the state.“As far as marketing of milk of Gujjar community is concerned, 28 gram panchayats where Gujjars are based are currently coronavirus hotspots and therefore the sale of milk is affected,” he said.The people in these areas have been advised to prepare products like ghee, cheese etc. from surplus milk..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-pradesh-govt-facilitates-seasonal-migration-of-gaddi-community/story-RJP3M2K7USut4P2Z7ZEvzN.html
15-04-2020||Chandigarh||Provide ₹50/kg MSP to Himachal cherry growers: Singha||Theog legislator Rakesh Singha on Wednesday demanded that the state government announce a minimum support price for the cherry crop to protect growers across the state from losses amid the novel coronavirus outbreak. The CPIM leader said that he and Kalash Federation chairperson Saneepni Bhardwaj had convened a meeting of eighteen co-operative societies in Thanedhar area of Shimla on April 12 to take up the issues being faced by cherry growers. The representatives said that they were facing problems in harvesting the crop, packing, transporting, and marketing the produce in different markets, including the Azadpur Mandi, which is the largest market, Singha said.Kumarsain sub-divisional magistrate, DSP Rampur and senior officers of the state government were present at the meeting.Cherry and other stone fruits such as peach, plum, nectarine, and apricot are expected to be ready for harvest by the last week of April or latest by the first week of May.“There is apprehension among the stone-fruit farmers that due to the coronavirus, farmers will incur heavy losses. The government should immediately announce an MSP for cherrym which should be at least ₹50/Kg,” said Singha.“The representatives of cooperative societies said the Delhi markets under ordinary circumstances order 40,000 boxes per day but this year commission agent will not purchase more that 10,000 boxes per day,” Singha said. He also urged the government to ensure proper supply of packing material from manufacturing units in Baddi and Nalagarh and ensure the produce reaches the markets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/provide-50-kg-msp-to-himachal-cherry-growers-singha/story-ewGUODZa924dTJMFlUbiuK.html
15-04-2020||Pune||120 PMPML buses on emergency duty during lockdown||The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandali Limited (PMPML) has been running around 120 buses daily in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad as an emergency service during the lockdown, as compared to its normal fleet strength of around 1,500 buses on the road. This service is free for Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) workers and policemen but fares are been charged from private emergency service people like security guards or citizens.The average daily revenue is Rs 1.25 lakh as against the average daily revenue of Rs 1.5 crore on a normal day when the fleet runs in full strength.Some PMPML workers’ unions such as the PMPML Rashtrawadi Workers Union has demanded that this service be made completely free for everyone in the emergency period as the revenue is negligible. Sunil Nalawade, vice-president of the union also demanded that once the service is made free, bus conductors could be exempted from duty on these 120 buses and thus protected from the risk of infectionPMPML chairperson and managing director Nayana Gunde said the emergency PMPML service is primarily meant for doctors, medical staff, PMC cleanliness workers and police personnel. The departments concerned are reimbursing the cost of ticket to PMPML and regular tickets are charged from others.About the demand to make the service free, she said, the matter would be given due consideration and “if feasible we will take the call”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/120-pmpml-buses-on-emergency-duty-during-lockdown/story-xNhhnKLM3cX6hNniMAMXEK.html
15-04-2020||Noida||Covid-19 update: Greater Noida man coughs during ludo game, gets shot at||Amid fears over the spread of coronavirus, a 25-year-old man was allegedly shot at by another person, following an argument that was triggered by his “coughing” during a game of ludo at Greater Noida, police said on Wednesday.The incident took place around 9 pm on Tuesday at a temple in Dayanagar village under the Jarcha police station limits, where four people, including the man who received gunshot injuries, were playing the board game, they added.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe injured man, Prashant Singh alias Pravesh, was hospitalised, while the accused, Jai Veer Singh alias Gullu (30), is yet to be arrested, the police said.Both are residents of Dayanagar village and engaged in agriculture, according to the police.“Prashant and three others were playing ludo at the village temple on Tuesday night when Gullu arrived there. An argument broke out between Prashant and Gullu when the former coughed. Gullu got angry thinking he was doing it deliberately,” a police official told PTI.Click here for the latest updates from the coronavirus outbreak“As the argument intensified, Gullu pulled out a pistol and shot at Prashant,” he said.An injured Prashant was rushed to a private hospital, where his condition is stable now, the police said, adding that an FIR was registered against the accused and efforts were on to arrest him. Coughing, fever and difficulty in breathing are some of the symptoms of the novel coronavirus, a highly contagious disease, according to government advisories.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/covid-19-update-greater-noida-man-coughs-during-ludo-game-gets-shot-at/story-GDMbAtI1SxssSs4k14jtRP.html
15-04-2020||Delhi||Flyers hoping to get back home after first lockdown, continue to remain stranded||Aarti Sabharwal, who works at a multinational company in Gurugram, had to catch a flight to Jabalpur from Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport on Wednesday morning to go see her family. As the first phase of lockdown was ending on April 14, she had booked her flight a day later, unaware that the suspension of flights would also be extended up to May 3. Her wait to meet her family seems to be longer than she expected. Sabharwal is stranded in Gurugram, away from her family in Jabalpur, Madhya Pradesh, since March 25, the day 21-day-long lockdown began. “After waiting for 21 days, we booked our tickets with SpiceJet. If there was no clarity on the extension of the lockdown or on whether the flights would be allowed to operate even after April 14, the airlines shouldn’t have accepted bookings at all. Not just this, but even after the lockdown extension was announced, until late Tuesday night, we could see the flight status scheduled, not cancelled. We tried calling the airline repeatedly, but there was no response,” she said.Sabharwal said there was no clarity over the refund of money. “The tickets were more expensive than usual and we have got no response from the airline on the refund. The portal through which we had booked the tickets is still awaiting a response from the airline,” she said.SpiceJet said in a statement in Tuesday that given the extended lockdown “we are cancelling the reservations of those who booked themselves for travel till May 3. Upon cancellation, your entire amount will be maintained in a credit shell and the same may be used to make fresh bookings till February 28, 2021, for the same passenger.”However, Sabharwal isn’t alone. Neha Mahto, who lives in Noida, and had gone to Kolkata to attend a family function, has been stranded there since March 23. “My return tickets with Air India are scheduled for April 19. I didn’t cancel them because there was no clarity whether flights will operate or not, after April,” Mahto, who works as a process coordinator at a private firm in Noida, said.She further said that she had contacted the Air India customer helpline which informed her that the booking amount would be reserved against her ticket and could be adjusted against her future bookings after May 3, valid till September. “However, what bothers me is the fact that now we would have to pay the balance amount against the new bookings; there is no waiver for cancellation and all charges would be levied. In the current circumstances, our money is being toyed with. We cannot ask for cancellation, as there is no waiver as well as balance charges are to be paid for new bookings,” she said.The airlines also took to Twitter to update their flyers about the current situation. In one such tweet, Air India said currently all flight operations are suspended. “We will definitely provide help as and when flight operations resume. Will keep posted with latest updates,” the airline tweeted.Like Sabharwal and Mahto, Abhay Mishra, 30, who had come to Delhi from Ranchi, on March 24, said he had first booked a return ticket on April 2, which he changed to April 17 after the lockdown was announced. But Mishra is now struggling to get his refund. “Now that all flights have been cancelled, airlines must return money to their customers. What most airlines are doing is they are keeping our money reserved in e-wallets and will allow us to later book tickets using the same money. But it is expected that once the lockdown is lifted, air tickets will get expensive. The money we used today might not suffice for ticket prices after 15 days. The airlines must return the money now,” Mishra, who works at a PSU in Ranchi, said.While GoAir also said that it is extending the ‘Protect Your PNR’ scheme till May 3, wherein customers are eligible to reschedule their flight for the next year, i.e., until May 3, 2021, none of the four major airlines—SpiceJet, IndiGo, GoAir or Air India—could give the number of bookings they had to cancel between April 15 and May 3, because of the lockdown extension.After Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the extension of the lockdown on Tuesday, the ministry of civil aviation also tweeted, “All domestic and international scheduled Airlines operations shall remain suspended till 11.59 pm of 3rd May 2020 [sic].”To inform their travellers, the Delhi airport also took to social media and requested passengers to get in touch with their respective airlines for further information on flights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/flyers-hoping-to-get-back-home-after-first-lockdown-continue-to-remain-stranded/story-lhgCb4YJh152qw0xbiEI5M.html
15-04-2020||Mumbai||117 new Covid-19 cases take Maharashtra tally to 2801||Maharashtra on Wednesday reported 117 more people have contracted the coronavirus disease bringing the state’s tally of Covid-19 cases to 2801, health officials said.The worst-hit state in the country had reported 350 Covid-19 cases on Tuesday when it had 350 or more cases for the second consecutive day.Out of the 117 new Covid-19 cases recorded since Tuesday night, 66 were from Mumbai and 44 from Pune. Mumbai has so far reported 1822 of the 2801 cases. Thane had three, Mira Bhayandar two and Vasai Virar and Pimpri Chinchwad one each, officials said.The death toll remained at 178.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicMore than 600 cases of the coronavirus disease have been reported from Mumbai in the last four days between April 11 and April 14. This means around 34% were reported only between Saturday and Tuesday. At least 150 cases are being reported daily in Mumbai on average.Maharashtra’s Medical Education and Drugs department has said 79% of the people who died of Covid-19 had co-morbidities such as hypertension, diabetes, asthma, or blood pressure. The report was based on Tuesday morning’s data from the health department.Click here for the latest updates from the coronavirus outbreakAccording to the data, 120 of the 152 who died had co-morbidities, while 32 didn’t have such existing conditions. However, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) had reported on Monday that 87% of Covid-19 deaths in Mumbai were due to co-morbidity and 7-8% had age-related risk factors.According to data for Mumbai as on April 9, the maximum deaths were recorded in the 61-70 age group (22), followed by 51-60 age group (11), 71-80 age group (8), then 41-50 years (6).According to experts, the main reasons for deaths in Covid-19 patients who don’t have co-morbidities are late diagnosis, low immunity and age-related issues linked to immunity. It also depends on the health of a person’s lungs, they added.Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had said the number of Covid-19 cases is increasing at an alarming rise but there is no need to panic.“Maharashtra rate is high in the country, but it is also because of the highest number of tests we have been performing,” he said.“I have spoken to the mother of a six-month-old kid who has recovered from the infection and an 83-year old woman who recovered from it. This means with courage and patience the war against the coronavirus could be conquered,” the Shiv Sena chief added.The state government has sought permission from the Centre to start clinical trials of plasma therapy and BCG (Bacillus Calmette-Guérin) vaccine, given to newborns and children to prevent childhood tuberculosis, for treatment of Covid-19 patients.“I am sure the state will get breakthrough after getting permission for conducting the studies,” Thackeray had said in his address to the state on Facebook.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/117-new-covid-19-cases-take-maharashtra-tally-to-2801/story-mr2YjZ5ea5TAYX3IX302DP.html
15-04-2020||City||Coronavirus in Punjab: Source of two Patiala men’s infection a mystery||Even as two Covid-19 cases were reported here in the past four days, the district health department has failed to trace the source of infection of both the patients.As per the health department, in both the cases, the patients had no travel history and never came in contact with any other Covid-19 patient.On April 14, a 50-year-old resident of Safabadi Gate of Patiala city had tested positive for coronavirus, while on April 11, a 35-year-old gardener, working and staying at the official residence of a Punjab Civil Services (PCS) officer, had tested positive. Both patients are admitted in the isolation ward of Government Medical College and Hospital here.“We have completed contact tracing of both patients. We also gathered all information from their relatives and other sources about whom the patients had met recently or if they travelled out of the city,” said an official seeking anonymity.He added, “The Safabadi Gate resident is part of a langar sewa group in the city and we are gathering details on his past movements.”Earlier, the reports of six primary contacts of the gardener had turned out negative. The reports of nine primary contacts, including the wife and two children of the 50-year-old patient, are awaited.Patiala civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said no concrete information had surfaced so far.“Our rapid response units and surveillance teams are on the job to identify the primary carrier of the virus in these two cases. They didn’t have any travel history,” Malhotra said.He added that both the patients did not have any connection with each other. They had both shown the same symptoms, including high fever and sore throat with cough, the civil surgeon said.Patiala district has reported three positive cases so far. One of them had travelled to Dubai in March. After full recovery, the 21-year-old patient was discharged from the hospital on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-in-punjab-source-of-two-patiala-men-s-infection-a-mystery/story-gxMjWCjg4Voh8zDD04i5nN.html
15-04-2020||Patna||Covid-19: 56 foreign nationals sent to judicial custody||At least 56 foreigners, including 16 Kyrgyzstan nationals, 14 from Malaysia, 9 from Bangladesh and 17 from Indonesia who were spotted at separate mosques in Patna, Buxar, Araria and Kishanganj and later put under home quarantine, were finally sent to judicial custody late on Monday night after the Emigration Department sent a directive to the Bihar police. All have been found to have Tablighi Jamaat connections.Patna SSP Upendra Sharma said on Tuesday that 16 people from Kyrgyzstan and one from Kazakistan had been sent to judicial custody after two separate FIRs were lodged against them with Digha and Phulwarisharif police stations.The case was lodged under section of 14b of the Foreign National Act, which provides for five years of imprisonment to the guilty. In the course of investigation, police found that these preachers used tourist visa to enter India but later indulged in religious preaching activities. Their passports have been seized by the police.According to the police headquarters, police detained them after Digha locality people raised an alarm about their illegal stay in the mosque when delegates of the Tablighi Jamaat, a religious congregation, died in Telangana.During interrogation, they confessed they had attended Nizamuddin Markaz function and returned to Patna in March. Their visa was valid till July this year, they said.All the 17 foreign preachers tested Covid-19 negative but were placed under quarantine. All 17 have now been sent to judicial custody as their quarantine period came to an end.Sharma said 10 Kyrgyzstan nationals were staying in Kurji mosque and seven in Phulwarisharif mosque. He said they were taken to AIIMS-Patna on March 23 and screened.“They are here on tourist visa and with valid passport. For precaution, they had been home quarantined. One group stayed at a mosque in Phulwarisharif and another group in a flat at Samanpura. Local police stations have kept their passports so that they did not move during the quarantine period,” Sharma said.Kishanganj SP Kumar Ashish said that 11 foreigners, one from Malaysia and the rest 10 from Indonesia, were detained when they alighted from a train on March 22. Another group of 13 persons, including seven from Indonesia and four from Malaysia, were detained on March 28 from a mosque located at New Bhojpur locality of Dumraon sub-division in Buxar district. After a preliminary examination, all of them were quarantined in a local madarsa. According to the Buxar DM Aman Samir, all the foreigners entered India on March 3 and preliminary investigations showed all had Jammat connection.In Araria, a Malaysia national, preacher, identified as Md Khairani Bin Lookman, 65, had reached Araria on March 21 died on March 26. He had landed in Delhi on March 6.Araria SP Dhurat Saayli Savlaram said all the 18 foreign nationals, including 9 from Malaysia and 9 from Bangladesh, were arrested from Araria and Narpatganj police stations area and were sent to judicial custody on Tuesday.The union home ministry had earlier blacklisted tourist visas of over 700 foreign Tablighi Jamaat members for violating visa conditions by engaging in missionary activities in India.The home ministry has also asked the states and union territories to take action against foreign Tablighi Jamaat members for violating the provisions of the Foreigners Act, 1946They could not only face deportation but also end up paying a penalty.Earlier, Union Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba had told the chief secretaries and DGPs of all states to initiate intensive contact tracing of Tablighi Jamaat participants.Bihar witnessed an increase in Covid-19 cases after Tablighi Jamaat delegates from the Nizamuddin Markaz came to the state. At least eight persons in Begusarai and Nawada districts have been found Covid-19 positive after coming in contact with the people who attended the Nizamuddin Markaz event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/covid-19-56-foreign-nationals-sent-to-judicial-custody/story-727HSZdzumrdAn4rqB1wFM.html
15-04-2020||Patna||RJD demands compensation for quarantine suicide victim’s family||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) senior leader, Bhola Yadav, on Tuesday demanded that the state government grant Rs 50 lakh as compensation to family of one Binod Yadav, who committed suicide at a quarantine centre under Bahadurpur block in Darbhanga district on Monday. Binod, a migrant labourer and a suspected case of coronavirus, was reportedly kept at the quarantine centre after returning from Delhi a few weeks back.The RJD leader, an MLA from Bahadurpur constituency, alleged that the incident had exposed the condition of government facilities for suspected Covid-19 patients, adding that it was the government’s moral duty to pay compensation to the family of the deceased . “ The government has announced Rs 50 lakh as compensation in case of death of Covid-19 patients and the same amount should be paid to Binod’s family,” the RJD leader said.According to reports, Binod died around 3.30 pm on Monday after hanging himself from the ceiling. Preliminary investigation revealed that the 30-year-old was suffering from medical ailments and depression.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/rjd-demands-compensation-for-quarantine-suicide-victim-s-family/story-dlOti0dcgEIYt7BhjLY6ZJ.html
15-04-2020||City||Precautions in place, Punjab begins exercise to procure 130 lakh tonnes wheat||Punjab on Wednesday started the massive two-month exercise to procure 130 lakh tonnes of wheat, in what can be termed as Asia’s biggest-ever commodity purchase.In view of the Covid-19 outbreak, the Punjab Mandi Board is ensuring disinfection of grain markets and yards, while labourers, farmers and staff of procurement agencies have been asked to wear masks and wash their hands frequently. Commission agents are using sanitisers and have made arrangements for drinking water and rest rooms for labourers. To limit crowding and ensure social distancing, the government is inviting a limited number of farmers through coupons, with permission to sell up to 50 quintals of wheat at their closest grain market.The coupons will act as a curfew pass for unhindered movement of the farmers’ loaded tractor-trolleys. In the wake of curfew restrictions, the state government has also increased the grain markets from 1,800 to nearly 4,000.On the first day, only 6,290 coupons were issued in the entire state. With the process of issuing coupons still picking up pace, several sellers across the state complained that they could not reach the grain markets. The government plans to issue 27 lakh coupons in a staggered manner till May 31, following which it will begin the process of shifting the procured crop to warehouses.₹19.25 FOR A KG OF WHEATPunjab, which contributes nearly 35% wheat to the national kitty, is buying the wheat for the central food agency — Food Corporation of India, which will further distribute it among different states for subsidised food under the public distribution system.The Government of India has fixed ₹1925 per quintal as minimum support price of wheat.The state government has asked the procurement agencies to ensure payment to farmers within 48 hours of procurement of their crop.“I harvested my crop last week and stocked it in my house. Now, I am here to sell the wheat using the coupon issued by my commission agent. Like other citizens, farmers are also cautious and are ensuring social distancing in the market,” said Gurmukh Singh, a farmer at a market in Rajpura.Another farmer Angrej Singh said as there were limited farmers present, he will be free by the evening. “After selling wheat, I will use my tractor to make straw husk, a dry fodder for animals, to make more money,” he added.The sold crop will be managed by the commission agents, who will handle the unloading, cleaning, packaging in sacks of 50kg and 30kg and then issuing the J-Form (crop sale form) to the farmers.“One Day 1, we have issued 6,290 coupons, followed by 17,995 coupons for Thursday and 41,337 coupons for Friday. The number of coupons will go up to 70,000 per day, depending on space in the markets and pace of harvest arrival. Punjab is committed to purchasing every single grain of harvest. We will complete it by May 31,” said KS Pannu, secretary, agriculture. While usually the process of procurement begins on April 1 and ends by first week of May, this time around, it was not only delayed by a fortnight, but will be staggered and conclude by the end of May. COUPON LIMIT HAS FARMERS WORRIED As the crop has ripened due to delayed procurement, farmers with big landholdings are a worried lot. “Each coupon allows sale of 50 quintals, which is yield of 2.5 acres. How will a farmer with bigger landholdings sell his produce? Worse, the commission agent are issuing only one coupon per farmer,” said Jagmohan Singh of Bhartiya Kisan Union. SCREENING FOR MOISTURE To ensure that only crop, which meets FCI specification, reaches the grain markets, the procurement agency staff are measuring the moisture content and returning consignments with higher moisture. “We have limited space. Thus, we can only accept the wheat meeting the specifications,” said a mandi board official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/precautions-in-place-punjab-begins-exercise-to-procure-130-lakh-tonnes-wheat/story-4DTp40ObZIbkPibmWKlTwN.html
15-04-2020||Patna||A group that arranges for last rites amid lockdown||Arranging a funeral has become difficult for many families losing their loved ones amid the lockdown since lockdown rules specify that attendence at funerals be low, which is also convincing people to get help from a group of activists that help the bereaved families conduct the rituals. They have to hire people to help them in preparing for the last rites and for other arrangements at the cremation site, Gulabi Ghaat in Ranchi, said Jaiprakash, one of the group members. "Even close relatives fail to turn up, partly due to the lockdown restrictions, and partly because of the fear of infection. Some families even prefer to register their presence in the rituals online,” he said.A person hired for the job is paid roughly Rs 300 for a duration of three to four hours. Those who are out of work due to the lockdown readily agree to do the job to earn some money, he said. “Since the lockdown came into effect, we have handled 16 such cases. It’s a home-to-Ghaat service. We not only provide the manual labour but also a vehicle to carry the body in to the cremation site. We have a fixed rate of materials required for the rituals, and have directed the sellers to charge Rs 6,000 for the entire package from middle-income family groups. Poor families can get the same service for Rs 2,000. However, if a family cannot afford that, we bear the entire cost,” Jaiprakash said.Manish Kumar, another social worker in the group, said that even close relatives do not turn up at funerals, fearing risk of infection. “We were shocked when someone contacted us for the first time for this service, on March 25. We received a call from Govind Mitra Road in the city. It was more surprising since the family was quite affluent and had sufficient resources. We arranged ambulance service and collected things from the Ghaat for them,” said Sushil, another member of the group.“That day we decided to help all such families for cremation during the lockdown,” he added.In many cases, families prefer electric cremation because of the crisis. The facility is available at Baans Ghaat in the city, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/a-group-that-arranges-for-last-rites-amid-lockdown/story-GvuJIqiZ1LtmaqCP3VSqpO.html
15-04-2020||Chandigarh||73rd Himachal Day: Commemorative function concludes within seven minutes amid Covid-19 crisis||No trademark lengthy speeches, big announcements or cultural items, this year’s Himachal Day celebrations were a brief and solemn affair.With the spectre of the highly contagious novel coronavirus looming on the nation, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur ensured that the commemorative ceremony concluded within seven minutes.Arriving sharp at 11am, the chief minister, who was accompanied by accompanied by chief secretary Anil Khachi, director general of police Sita Ram Mardi, education minister Suresh Bhardwaj, Shimla deputy commissioner Amit Kashyap and superintendent of police Omapati Jamwal, unfurled the flag on the historic Ridge on the Mall Road.On April 15, 1948, Himachal Pradesh came into existence as a centrally administered Chief Commissioner’s province with the merger of 30 small hill states. This day has been celebrated with much aplomb since. However, this year only the flag was unfurled.Thakur, high-ranking officials and the police contingent that attended the ceremony wore masks. The CM refrained from speaking to the media and immediately returned to his official residence at Oakover and presided over a meeting to review containment efforts. In his message, the CM expressed his gratitude to the people of state for contributing to the journey of inclusive development. He said a special function had not been organised this year in view of the coronavirus pandemic.Governor Bandaru Dattreya also unfurled the flag in the premises of the Raj Bhawan to mark Himachal Day. Later, he spoke with former chief ministers Shanta Kumar, Virbhadra Singh and Prem Kumar Dhumal and asked them to encourage people to download the Aarogya Setu Mobile App.Khachi said the decision to cut a day’s salary of government employees was taken to generate a sense of oneness and to encourage them to contribute funds to battle the Covid-19 pandemic.Himachal was made a Part C state with a legislative assembly in 1952 and the first popular government was formed under the leadership of Dr YS Parmar. HP became the 18th state of Indian Union on January 25th 1971.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/73rd-himachal-day-commemorative-function-concludes-within-seven-minutes-amid-covid-19-crisis/story-GadWwb3Ryhb7x5TZVS8JOK.html
15-04-2020||Patna||Bihar plans mega screening for Covid-19||In a first, Bihar will launch from Thursday a mammoth eight-day active screening, covering all households in the four endemic districts of Siwan, Begusarai, Nawada and Nalanda, in its efforts to stop the spread of the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) to newer areas.These districts account for over 65% of the 66 cases of the virus in the state till Tuesday, after two cases were reported in the past 24 hours. It will also launch door-to-door screening in nearly 8,000 villages, having any person with international travel history last month. The robust screening in villages would cover nearly 17% of the total households in the state, said officials.During the exercise, people found with Covid-19 symptoms would be identified and their samples would be taken for further confirmatory tests.“We believe that those who returned from foreign countries are a potential source of spreading the virus. As such, we have decided to screen every house in the village, having an international traveller who returned in March, to check any missing case in the community that may have escaped detection,” said Deepak Kumar, Bihar’s chief secretary.“We believe Bihar is the first state to launch an intensive active screening programme on this scale,” he said.The state government would also launch an intensive door-to-door screening within three kilometre radius of the dwelling having an infected person, said health officials. “The state government also decided to tap retail drug stores, formal and informal service providers, including MBBS doctors, Ayurveda, Unani and homeopathy practitioners and quacks to collate data on people with influenza like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) who had consulted them,” said Sanjay Kumar, Bihar’s principal secretary, health.Baring the state government’s plans to check the spread of the virus, Kumar said the door-to-door screening in the affected districts and villages would be akin to the pulse polio drive.“We will deploy 50,000 teams, each comprising two members, to visit every household in the affected districts and villages. The survey team will carry a questionnaire and ask people about their travel history and screen people for symptoms of the virus like dry cough, fever or breathlessness, with special emphasis on households having senior citizens above 60 years of age,” said Kumar.The team would re-visit every household after five days to check for Covid-19 symptoms, he said.While screening households in the four districts, the government had also decided to screen dwelling in blocks, which were in adjacent districts. Say for example, while undertaking the exercise in Siwan, the authorities would also screen households in blocks of adjoining districts like Gopalganj and Saran. Similarly, while undertaking the screening drive in Begusarai, the authorities would also screen households in adjoining blocks under Samastipur and Khagaria districts, he added.“We hope to establish infection trail in every case during the entire exercise, which will be completed by April 24,” signed off Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-plans-mega-screening-for-covid-19/story-LuDvw8KSVI8kfvH27gh7eL.html
15-04-2020||Bhopal||All 5 who died of Covid-19 in Bhopal were gas tragedy victims||All five persons who died due to coronavirus in Bhopal were victims of the 1984 gas tragedy in the Madhya Pradesh capital, an official said on Wednesday. On March 21, some organisations working for the survivors of Bhopal gas tragedy wrote to the authorities concerned, saying such people were more vulnerable to the coronavirus infection than normal individuals.“All the five persons who died after contracting Covid-19 here were victims of the Bhopal gas tragedy,” the official said.The Bhopal Memorial Hospital and Research Center (BMHRC), a dedicated facility for the treatment of gas mishap survivors, was recently turned into a medical facility for coronavirus patients, causing hardship to these people, Rachna Dhingra, member of the NGO Bhopal Group for Information and Action, told PTI.The first coronavirus victim from Bhopal, a 55-year- old man, died at a city hospital on April 5 due to negligence of authorities, she alleged.Another 80-year-old gas tragedy victim, who was a retired employee of the Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited (BHEL), was also not given due medical care. He died on April 8 and his sample came out positive for coronavirus on April 11, Dhingra said. Besides, a 40-year-old gas tragedy victim, who was suffering from oral cancer for more than a year, died on April 12 and his sample test report later came out positive for coronavirus, she said.Another 52-year-old gas mishap survivor, who suffered from a permanent injury, had history of tuberculosis and could not get prompt care for his respiratory problems.He recently tested positive for coronavirus and died on his way to the Covid-19 ward at Hamidia hospital, she said.Also, a 75-year-old senior journalist, who survived the gas tragedy, died on April 11 and his sample test report came out positive for coronairus on Tuesday, she said.On March 21, some organisations working for the welfare of gas tragedy survivors wrote to the state and central authorities concerned, saying an overwhelming number of gas victims suffer from respiratory, cardiovascular, kidney problems and cancer as a result of exposure to the toxic gas that leaked at the Union Carbide factory here in 1984.They claimed that these survivors were at least five times more vulnerable to Covid-19 than other people.Instead of paying special attention to the needs of Bhopal gas victims, the state government took over BMHRCand turned it into a medical facility for Covid-19 patients, Dhingra said.For last 22 days, no gas victim was even allowed to avail emergency services there, she said.Dhingra said before BMHRC was converted into a dedicated facility for coronavirus patients, 86 gas tragedy survivors were admitted there.After it was made a hospital for Covid-19 patients, all except five were discharged. Out of these five, a 68- year-old woman died at the hospital due to ailments related to the gas mishap, she said.Besides, out of the gas tragedy survivors discharged from BMHRC, two persons, both aged around 70, died at their homes while another one died at a city hospital due to the gas leak mishap related illnesses, she said.In a letter to gas relief hospital’s monitoring committee chairman, retd Justice V K Agrawal, the NGOs pointed out all these aspects and urged him to re-start the medical facility for gas victims considering their vulnerability.The NGOs have also filed a writ petition in the Madhya Pradesh High Court, demanding that gas victims be provided a dedicated medical facility for their treatment, as was the practice earlier.Meanwhile, taking note of the death of five gas tragedy victims due to coronavirus, the state government has decided to categorise BMHRC as a ‘COVID Health Centre’ where gas mishap survivors can continue to avail treatment for their ailments.An order to this effect was issued late Tuesday evening, a health department official said.“Now, gas victims can continue to get treatment as usual in BMHRC, he said.Bhopal Divisional Commissioner Kalpana Shrivastava said the earlier decision to make BMHRC a dedicated facility for Covid-19 patients was taken at the “government level”.Dhingra said the Out Patient Departments (OPDs) in other government hospitals of Bhopal continue to remain open for gas incident survivors.Arif Aqueel, the former state minister of Bhopal Gas Tragedy Relief and Rehabilitation Department, said the earlier decision to close BMHRC for gas victims was not in the interest of these people, and they should be given treatment at this facility on priority, especially in the OPD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/all-5-who-died-of-covid-19-in-bhopal-were-gas-tragedy-victims/story-hLqYJse99gLnkxwxe8QwWO.html
15-04-2020||Chandigarh||Poor turnout on first day of mustard procurement in Haryana||Few farmers brought their crop to mandis on the first day of mustard procurement in Bhiwani, Jind, Dadri and Mahendergarh districts on Wednesday. Farmers’ union leader Balbir Singh Takhan, who visited Bhiwani’s Behal Mandi, said, “Many farmers failed to turn up as they did not receive the government’s message asking them to bring their produce to the mandis.”A farmer, Ram Chander of Dadri’s Ranila village, said he had brought 40 quintals of mustard to the grain market but was still waiting to sell it. He, however, appreciated the government and arhtiyas’ efforts to procure grain amid the Covid-19 outbreak. “Hafed and marketing officials have assured us that they will start procurement process by tomorrow,” Takhan said.Sushil Kumar, a commission agent from Bhiwani’s Behal, said, “We refused to buy mustard as the government is not making us handling agent on paper.” Village heads purchase mustard at rural centresAfter arthtiyas refused to purchase mustard at few rural purchase centres, Bhiwani administration authorised four village heads to buy the farmers’ produce. When this HT correspondent visited Mitthi, Sidhanwa, Paju and Kurl villages, he found that the centres there lacked basic amenities. However, farmers and village heads had put their best efforts and initiated procurement process. The sarpanches claimed that they were facing issue of weak internet connection, but farmers were cooperating with them. Amit Sangwan, a farmer from Bhiwani’s Mitthi village, said he had brought 40 quintals of mustard to the mandi and local sarpanch procured his produce at ₹4,425.Hariyawas sarpanch and Sidhanwa procurement centre in-charge Sunil Sheoran said, “We bought mustard from 10 farmers in two shifts. We will put all our efforts to purchase farmers’ produce even with limited resources. The farmers covered their faces and maintained social distancing at mandi,” he added.Bhiwani DC Ajay Kumar said they had started the procurement process at 24 out of 32 centres.“50 farmers will be allowed to sell their crop at the bigger grain markets and 10 at the rural centres. There were few concerns of commission agents in Behal, Digawa and Loharu grain markets, which were later resolved. Four village panchayats initiated procurement process in the district today for the first time in the history of Haryana after arhitiyas refused to purchase from these centres. We will start procurement at the remaining eight centres in a couple of days,” he added. Tosham MLA Kiran Choudhry said farmers at few centres in her constituency were not issued gate passes.“If there weren’t any arrangements at purchasing centres, why were the farmers even called there? I want to ask agriculture minister why did he reduce the number of mandis in the district during the last stage?” she asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/poor-turnout-on-first-day-of-mustard-procurement-in-haryana/story-whgNrMiGQPU0WpPLdBxzJN.html
15-04-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai woman who tested positive for Covid-19 reportedly commits suicide||A 29-year-old woman from Jijamata Nagar in Worli, who tested positive for coronavirus disease Covid-19, allegedly committed suicide at BYL Nair Charitable Hospital in Mumbai on Wednesday. According to police, the incident happened between 3:30 am and 4:00 am.The woman had tested positive for the disease last week and was undergoing treatment at the hospital. She hanged herself with the help of a ‘dupatta’ in the bathroom of ward number 25, said Agripada police. A case of accidental death report (ADR) has been registered in connection with the incident.“As per initial information received from dean of Nair hospital, the woman who tested positive committed suicide by hanging herself in the hospital. We have informed police and police procedure is going on,” said Dr Daksha Shah, deputy director, health department of BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).The police have launched investigation. More details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-woman-who-tested-positive-for-covid-19-reportedly-commits-suicide/story-uL8iAuqrPcGn8WOEvbhsAO.html
15-04-2020||Chandigarh||DC marks Panchkula’s Sector-15 as containment cluster, police deployed||A day after a 44-year-old woman, reportedly not having any travel history, tested positive for Covid-19 in Sector -15, the deputy commissioner (DC) on Wednesday marked the area as a containment cluster. After the woman’s diagnosis, Sector-15 was sealed and heavy police force was deployed in the area. Police teams patrolling the area advised residents against stepping out of their homes. DC Mukesh Kumar Ahuja ordered the creation of containment and buffer zones and asked the municipal corporation to sanitise the sector. The deputy commissioner of police (DCP) has been asked to restrict entry and exit of people in the containment zone and to set up nakas to check vehicular movement towards the sector. The health department has been asked to monitor the area and initiate door-to-door screening, to check if any person is exhibiting flu-like symptoms in the containment and buffer zone.The woman in question is a post office employee. Health department officials say the woman and her husband had only stepped out to get essential commodities. Her husband has also been admitted to the hospital and samples have been sent for testing. Twelve of their relatives have also been sent to the civil hospital to be screened. An official, on condition of anonymity, said some relatives from Delhi had visited the patient before the lockdown.Currently, the district count is six. The first two residents to be diagnosed in Panchkula have recovered and were discharged on April 11. At present, there are four active cases in Panchkula.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/dc-marks-panchkula-s-sector-15-as-containment-cluster-police-deployed/story-0X6XS9E76sdd5m8wrJCF1I.html
15-04-2020||Mumbai||2 more FIRs over gathering of migrant workers in Bandra, 1 arrested||Mumbai Police registered two more FIRs in a case related to spreading of rumours which led to migrant workers gathering outside Bandra railway station on Tuesday. One person has been arrested in connection with the case.The second FIR has been filed against a journalist of a Marathi news channel.On Tuesday afternoon, Mumbai Police had to resort to force after a huge mob of migrant workers gathered outside Bandra police station asking the state to help them return to their native places. The incident happened after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced extended nationwide Covid-19 lockdown till May 3.An FIR was registered on Tuesday against 700 unidentified people at Bandra police station.One of the two new FIRs are against Vinay Dubey, a resident of Navi Mumbai, who uploaded a video on social media and asked migrant workers from North India to gather at Kurla Terminus on April 18 to demand that they be sent back to their native place. Dubey - booked under sections 117, 153(a), 188, 269, 270, 505(2) of the Indian Penal Code, and Section 3 of Epidemic Diseases Act - was arrested from Navi Mumbai late last night.The other FIR is against Rahul Kulkarni, a journalist with a Marathi news channel, for running a report stating that a special train will run for migrant workers to their native place, said Bandra police officials.Mumbai Police spokesperson and deputy commissioner of police Pranaya Ashok confirmed that an FIR has been registered against Dubey and that he was arrested. “We have also registered a separate FIR against Rahul Kurlkarni, a journalist from Marathi news channel for running news about a special train running for migrant workers. We are calling him for inquiry today,” said Ashok.Kulkarni has been booked booked under Sections 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 505 (b) (with intent to cause, or which is likely to cause, fear or alarm to the public, or to any section of the public whereby any person may be induced to commit an offence against the State or against the public tranquillity), 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 117 (Abetting commission of offence by the public or by more than ten persons) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) along with Section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act.Bandra police officials, meanwhile, revealed that they have narrowed down on three suspects who possibly were the brains behind gathering of the crowd. All three have been identified as residents of Shastri Nagar in Bandra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/2-more-firs-over-gathering-of-migrant-workers-in-bandra-1-arrested/story-42NfHkOeG8aMPw7vzRRzdO.html
15-04-2020||City||Rohtak court opened at night to help Haryanvi youngster marry Mexican girl, amid Covid-19 lockdown||A district magistrate’s court in Rohtak opened its doors on the night of April 13 to solemnise the wedding of a local youngster with a Mexican girl under the Special Marriage Act as both could not tie the knot due to the lockdown imposed to curb the spread of coronavirus.The couple met on a language learning app in 2017 and got engaged the next year.According to Niranjan Kashyap, who belongs to Surya Colony in Rohtak, his Mexican partner, Dana Joheri Oliveros Cruise, and he applied to get married under the Special Marriage Act on February 17.“We met on a language learning app. In 2017, she came to India on my birthday. Then this February 11, Dana and her mother came to India for the wedding. On February 17, we applied for marriage under the Special Marriage Act which has a 30-day notice,” Kashyap said.“The notice was to end on March 18 but by then the lockdown began so we could not get married. We submitted an application to the district collector after which our wedding was conducted,” he said.He said that Dana had booked a flight back to Mexico on March 24 but with the lockdown being extended till May 3, she has now rescheduled her flight to May 5.Dana said, “I came to meet him in 2017. We later got engaged in December 2018 and I returned to Mexico. I spent two years in Mexico. Due to the lockdown, we couldn’t marry. The deputy commissioner helped us.”The advocate who helped the couple get married said: “Both of them came to us. Since the girl was from Mexico, they can marry under the Special Marriage Act. Later, we approached the district magistrate and he sent requests to the Mexican embassy and other offices for a no objection certificate. After the NOC was obtained, the district magistrate opened the court and performed the wedding at 8pm on April 13.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rohtak-court-opened-at-night-to-help-haryanvi-youngster-marry-mexican-girl-amid-covid-19-lockdown/story-mY46RBwmBpE8ncch7NbVFI.html
15-04-2020||Arts||World Art Day: Artists rise to the occasion, raise funds to fight coronavirus||“The purpose of art is not to simply please; art should inspire people,’’ says Delhi-based artist Roop Chand, who lives by these words. As India goes to war with coronavirus, Chand has his weapons at arms — his paintings. Ever since the lockdown was put in place, he has been drawing inspirational images to create awareness in his audience. “Everyone, no matter what field they are from, should aspire to work for the betterment of the nation as a whole.” Chand plans to sell his artworks and donate the proceeds to the Prime Minister CARES Fund. READ | Artist creates isolation art with lentils, socks and cabbageArt galleries, which have been forced to close their doors, have opened their windows online for those willing to contribute to a valuable cause. Easel Stories, an art platform run by art collector and appreciator Akshay Chandra, is doing its bit during the nationwide lockdown. “I was perturbed by the condition of migrant and daily wage workers across India. So we started supporting the Feeding India initiative, which has been launched to alleviate hunger in the poorest citizens of our country. To raise money, we’re putting up for online sale 12 beautiful pieces by renowned artists, at reduced prices.’’ Chandra’s organisation is not getting any cut from the endeavour and till date, they have sold five artworks amounting to ₹1.5 lakh in donation. South Delhi situated Art Magnum has organised Affordable Masters, an online exhibition showcasing artworks that can be acquired by art connoisseurs and enthusiasts at reasonable prices. Art curator Saurabh Singhvi says, “People have so many expectations from the government, but we as citizens must do whatever we can at our level. We have committed to donate a part of our profits to the PM CARES Fund to fight the ongoing battle against coronavirus, and the prices of artworks, by legendary artists, have been negotiated to bear in mind that this is a charity exhibition.’’ READ | Life in the times of lockdown: Russians are recreating famous art pieces at homeAnother virtual charity show is Paperage, which is organised by Concern India Foundation (CIF) under their Art For Concern initiative. “At this time, we wanted to raise funds towards our work on the ground that supports health teams and protective equipment in the fight against Covid-19. We decided to kick off an art show, Paperage, as an online exhibition of artworks on paper by renowned and senior artists,’’ says Kavita Shah from CIF, adding, “This effort gives people an opportunity to buy art and support (our) efforts in Covid-19 relief.’’ Author tweets @bhagat_mallika||https://www.hindustantimes.com/art-and-culture/world-art-day-artists-rise-to-the-occasion-raise-funds-to-fight-coronavirus/story-expnnLWEplz0WB3DK4s8UK.html
15-04-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Why cramped Dharavi is a concern for experts||Dharavi, the largest slum in India, has reported 55 Covid-19 positive cases, making it an emerging hotspot in Mumbai.Dharavi reported the first case on April 1, when a 56-year-old garment shop owner succumbed to the infection. The civic authorities swung into action, targeting high-risk as well as low-risk contacts. By April 9, Dharavi had recorded 17 positive cases. The BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation, Mumbai’s civic body, has created a total of 29 containment zones to restrict public movement in the area.The 240-hectare slum pocket has 8,50,000 residents and a population density of 66,000 per sqkm, making it one of the more cramped spaces in Mumbai, the world’s fifth most densely populated city.Activists and health workers had expressed concerns over how social distancing is practically impossible in an area where an average of 10-12 people stay in each of 57,000 housing units measuring around 250 sq ft.Six new coronavirus cases, including two deaths, were reported from Dharavi on Tuesday, taking the total number of people affected by the disease in Mumbai’s slum area to 55.“Cases are increasing day by day, but this is the result of our proactive search operation of high-risk contacts and testing methods. We have successfully tracked 1,381 high-risk contacts and 3,450 low-risk contacts to avoid further spread of the disease,” said Kiran Dighavkar, assistant commissioner, G-North Ward (which covers the area).The Maharashtra government plans to deploy additional police forces around containment areas for controlling crowds, especially in crowded areas such as DharaviThe civic body has quarantined 2,184 Dharavi residents and tested 138 high-risk contacts and 3,450 low-risk contacts of the patients from the slum so far. The BMC authorities are also ensuring that the quarantined people get essential supplies such as food and medicine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-why-cramped-dharavi-is-a-concern-for-experts/story-QWZ8Ttotnld49yDfYcw3TJ.html
15-04-2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus update- From lathicharge to probe: What happened in Mumbai’s Bandra||Nearly 1000 jobless migrant workers gathered outside a railway station in Mumbai’s Bandra on Tuesday, hours after Prime Minister extended the lockdown to May 3 to check the spread of the coronavirus infections, demanding for trains to take them home.Mumbai Police baton-charged the protesting migrant workers—mostly from Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal—who assembled near the Bandra railway station around 3pm and dispersed them two hours later.Bandra Police filed a first information report (FIR) against 700 unidentified persons and the Navi Mumbai Police detained an Airoli resident for allegedly uploading a video on social media which officers said may have helped spread the rumours.Watch- Mumbai: Wave of migrant workers swamps bus stand after lockdown extension “The man has been handed over to Bandra Police. They will carry out further investigation; we can’t reveal anything,” said Yogesh Gawde, senior inspector at Rabale police station.Also read: Social distancing goes for toss in Bandra, ‘homesick’ migrants protestWho said what?Labourers“I am from Malda in West Bengal. We heard the government was running a special train from Mumbai. So we packed our luggage to leave the city as we have lost our jobs,” Farooq Shaikh, a daily-wage worker who stays at Behrampada in Bandra (East), said.“We are out of food and now the lockdown has been extended. How will we survive here in Mumbai? We came to know about a special train running for migrants, so we gathered,” Zahid Mistri, also from Malda and who lives in Bandra, said.Also read: What you need to know today“We have spent our savings during the first phase of the lockdown. We have nothing to eat now, we just want to go back at our native place, the government should make arrangements for us,” Asadullah Sheikh, who hails from Malda in West Bengal, said. “I am in Mumbai for the last many years but have never seen such a situation. The government should start trains to shift us from here to our native place,” Abdul Kayyun, another labourer, said. Police and railways officialsVijayalaxmi Hiremath, the senior police inspector at Bandra police station, said they received information about people gathered outside Bandra railway station around 3.30pm. A team of police officers rushed to the spot and found close to a 1000 people there.Additional reinforcement was called from the reserved police force zonal office and from the neighbouring police stations of Khar and Santacruz. Also read: Covid-19 cases rising exponentially, it’s critical to test more: ICMR“We tried to make them understand and asked them to return to their houses, but the crowd was not in a mood to listen,” said Hiremath.“The workers were protesting against the extension of the lockdown, saying they do not have access to food and other essentials,” a western railway (WR) official, who did not want to be named, said.Political to and froThe Bandra incident snowballed into a political blame game between the ruling and opposition parties in Maharashtra as state tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray took a swipe at the central government. “The current situation at Bandra Station, now dispersed or even the rioting in Surat is a result of the Union Government not being able to take a call on arranging a way back home for migrant labour. They don’t want food or shelter, they want to go back home.” Aaditya Thackeray tweeted.He also reiterated the state government’s demand to operate trains for 24 hours for migrant labourers.“Right from the day the trains have been shut down, the State had requested trains to run for 24 hours more so that migrant labour could go back home. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray raised this issue in the PM- CM video conference as well requesting a roadmap for migrant labour to reach home,” he said.After Aaditya Thackeray’s outburst, the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) state unit called the incident a failure of the state.Ex-MP Kirit Somaiya asked the Uddhav Thackeray government to explain how a thousand people gathered at Bandra(West) near the station despite prohibitory orders. Somaiya asked the chief minister to explain what the intelligence agencies were doing and how a large number of people could gather when the police did not allow more than four people in one place.“How and why today?” he asked.Devendra Fadnavis, the former chief minister and leader of Opposition in Maharashtra, said the incident that happened in Bandra was serious and that the state government failed to adequate arrangements for the labourers.“Migrants coming out and demanding food or allowing them to leave for their home state is a failure of the government. It is surprising, that instead of helping the people, ministers are blaming the Central government in an attempt to hide their failure. It is shameful that the government is playing politics at such a time. I urge the state government to hear the people on how they want the ration and food,” he said.Aaditya Thackeray later tweeted saying the Centre and states are facing a Catch-22 situation.“The centre has taken immediate cognizance of the issue and is assisting the State actively. We understand the catch 22 situation centre and states face. I’m thankful to PM & HM for understanding the situation, while trying to ensure the safety of home states of migrants,” he tweeted.“The migrant labour issue persists everywhere. Even as we house more than 6 lakh migrant labour, with breakfast lunch and dinner, the Union and State Govts are coordinating on further relief for the same. We will continue to ensure the comfort of all migrant labour in our camps,” he said in another tweet.Phone call and Uddhav Thackeray’s Facebook addressUnion home minister Amit Shah spoke to Uddhav Thackeray soon after the incident. Shah said that events such as the protest weaken India’s fight against coronavirus disease and the administration needs to stay vigilant to avoid such incidents, according to ANI.He also offered his full support to the Maharashtra government, according to news agency ANI.In a live webcast later in the night, Uddhav Thackeray assured migrant workers that they were not in a lockup and were safe. They should, therefore, maintain discipline for the next two weeks after which arrangements will be made to have them sent home.The chief minister said someone must have “misled” them that trains are starting from today, as a result, they have gathered there. “We have many people who could do this. Do not try to play with their emotions and create a law-and-order situation in the state. I will take strict action against such people. I also ask people not to politicise the issue. This is the time to remain united and fight the pandemic,” the chief minister said.Thackeray also spoke in Hindi during his address.“Why are you worried? You are with us, staying in my state. You will be safe here. There is nothing to worry about. We are not feeling happy to lock you like this. We have to face the challenge unitedly. The day lockdown will be relaxed, you will be allowed to go to your homes. I’m in contact with the central government regularly,” he said.He also said that the state has made arrangements of food and stay of around six lakh migrant workers, along with medical facilities. The state also increased the scope of Shiv Bhojan thali, subsidised meal scheme, to 80,000 per day.What now?Maharashtra’s home minister Anil Deshmukh has directed the police to investigate who spread the rumours about the train and take stern action against those found guilty.Railway authorities also stated that there were rumours on the commencement of train services, however, a notification was issued on the extension of the cancellation of train services.“It is clarified that all passenger train services on Indian Railways, including premium trains, mail/express trains, passenger trains, suburban (local) trains, shall continue to remain cancelled till 12am, May 3, as per guidelines of the Government of India,” the Western Railway said in a statement.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/coronavirus-update-from-lathicharge-to-probe-what-happened-in-mumbai-s-bandra/story-23e56DeUTVBFBbKUdOUbwN.html
15-04-2020||Kolkata||‘My nephew and I never had any symptoms’: Bengal Covid-19 patient in hospital since April 1||A 49-year-old Covid-19 patient, who is in hospital since testing positive on April 1, said he and his nephew never had any symptoms of getting infected by coronavirus.His elder brother, a 59-year-old who too was tested positive, died in a private hospital on April 5. His 21-year-old nephew was released a couple of days ago.Sudip Chatterjee, a resident of Sheorafully in Hooghly district, is under treatment at the Infectious Diseases Hospital at Beleghata area in north Kolkata, the state’s nodal hospital for Covid-19.“My brother had preexisting ailments. He suffered from bronchial problem and hypertension. But I and my nephew never showed any symptom, even though we two tested positive along with my brother,” said Chatterjee.Chatterjee, who is a marketing executive, said he was under nominal medication at the hospital.“I have no symptoms of illness – neither fever nor sneezing and cough. I am on nominal medication. I wonder why my swab samples tested positive yet again,” he said.Overall, 17 people, including the family of their car’s driver and domestic help, have been quarantined for coming in contact with Chatterjee, his brother and nephew. According to him, the source of his brother’s infection remained untraced.“My brother went to Durgapur in train. He might have contracted it during the train journey,” he said.Chatterjee said that a good number of the patients at the infectious diseases hospital have shown mild symptoms and are at no risk. Spending time in ‘virtual confinement’ was the only problem he suffered from. He spent his time using his phone, talking to friends and family members and browsing the internet.He is also thankful to the doctors and nursing staff who, he said, “gave excellent support to sail through the difficult times.”“My realisation is that only those with a weak immune system, especially the elderly ones and those with pre-existing diseases, are getting affected by this virus. There is no need to panic but we must maintain social distancing to prevent crowding in the hospitals,” Chatterjee said.Sixteen patients from this hospital have been released so far after testing negative twice.“There are several patients with nominal symptoms but there is no question of taking any case lightly, as their condition may suddenly deteriorate,” a senior doctor at the hospital said.“Even on Monday night, one patient died at our hospital after his condition deteriorated. Moreover, anyone testing positive, irrespective of showing symptoms or not, is a carrier,” the doctor added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/my-nephew-and-i-never-had-any-symptoms-bengal-covid-19-patient-in-hospital-since-april-1/story-Ui2q438jPFAKwLvyrB0tII.html
15-04-2020||Bangalore||Sec 144 imposed in Bengaluru City until April 20||Bengaluru Commissioner of Police, Bhaskar Rao, said that prohibitory order under Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC), 1973, will remain in place for all parts of the City Commissionerate till April 20.Section 144 of CrPC prohibits the assembly of four or more people in an area.“Prohibitory order under section 144 of CrPC will remain in force, in all parts of the Bengaluru City Commissionerate for a period up to 12 am of April 20 with effect from 12 am of April 14,” according to Rao.Karnataka, so far, has 258 confirmed Covid19 cases, with 9 deaths being reported due to the infection, according to the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on Tuesday.(This story has been published from a wire agency feed without modifications to the text. Only the headline has been changed.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/sec-144-imposed-in-bengaluru-city-until-april-20/story-Q6JTbDUuC6r4Sxqva1H5sL.html
15-04-2020||City||Now, DMCH gets virus testing facility||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has given its nod to the Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMC&H), Ludhiana, to carrying out COVID-19 tests. Earlier, the samples from the city had to be sent to Government Medical College, Patiala, for testing. Christian Medical College and Hospital is also expected to get the facility soon. The state earlier had only three other testing facilities, which include Government Medical College, Amritsar, Government Medical College, Patiala, and Guru Gobind Singh Medical University, Faridkot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/now-dmch-gets-virus-testing-facility/story-Z958c9HA770s7Ly6IE5DfJ.html
15-04-2020||Chandigarh||Migrant workers complain about ‘bad quality’ food served at Jhajjar shelter home||The migrant labourers staying at a shelter home in a government school in Jhajjar complained about poor quality food being served to them. The migrant labourers alleged that the food provided to them is so bad that even the animals will not eat it. Rajni, a native of Uttar Pradesh’s Jhansi said that they were receiving substandard quality food and milk. “The meals are never served on time. The quality of the food is substandard. Many pregnant women are also staying with us. If the administration cannot provide adequate facilities to us, they should make arrangements to send us back home,” she said. A group of women, who were accompanying Rajni complained that they were getting semi-cooked rotis, rice and vegetables.“The administration should allow us to leave this shelter home so that we can go back to our village,” the women added.The women further claimed that they do not have money left.“If not coronavirus, hunger will kill our families. The government is least concerned about us,” the labourers added.Jhajjar DSP Shamsher Singh reached the shelter home and assured the labourers of good quality food.“We have asked the authorities to provide good quality food and milk to labourers, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/migrant-workers-complain-about-bad-quality-food-served-at-jhajjar-shelter-home/story-AYMVMjtyurgiEGK8klwToO.html
15-04-2020||Chandigarh||DLSA appoints two advocates to provide legal aid to women, children in Chandigarh||The District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) appointed two advocates for providing legal aid and support to women and children amid the Covid-19 lockdown.“According to directions of justice Jaswant Singh, judge, Punjab and Haryana high court and executive chairman of State Legal Services Authority, Chandigarh, the names of counsels, Anchal Thakur and Manjit Kaur, has been approved for providing of legal aid and support at the One Stop Centre and 181 Women Helpline in Chandigarh,” an official statement mentioned. The orders were passed after the National Legal Services Authority (NALSA) directed the State Legal Services Authority to provide services to women and children during the lockdown period. The legal aid counsels will co-ordinate with One Stop Centre and officials handling women helpline number to provide requisite legal aid to needy women through telephone or online.In case applications or petitions are required to be filed before the duty magistrate or court, it will be done keeping in view the Supreme Court directions. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/dlsa-appoints-two-advocates-to-provide-legal-aid-to-women-children-in-chandigarh/story-4XDUmfdSBoqIoGMmz8dgiO.html
15-04-2020||Mumbai||Man donates blood for plasma therapy study on Covid-19||A man in his 20s, who recovered from Covid-19 more than three weeks ago, on Monday became the first from Maharashtra to donate blood for a study on the use of convalescent plasma therapy to treat the disease. Wit-hin three weeks of recovery, a patient develops antibodies that can neutralise the virus. The therapy involves transfusing plasma — a component of the blood — from a recovered patient into a patient fighting the infection, to act as reinforcement for the latter’s immune system. Kerala was the first state to start the convalescent plasma therapy with approval from the ICMR. Following in their footsteps, the blood samples were taken at BYL Nair Hospital and the therapy will be carried out at Kasturba Hospital. “On Monday, we took the sample of the first donor who has fully recovered from the infection. Now, it will be sent to Kasturba Hospital, which will decide on the transfusion,” said Dr Ramesh Bharmal, dean of BYL Nair hospital. Five other recovered patients, too, have agreed to donate blood for the study. “It is an experiment. Other important factors are the amount of antibodies produced in the body of a cured patient and the extent of extraction possible,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/man-donates-blood-for-plasma-therapy-study-on-covid-19/story-4rtc6nZpgXK7EAPNRX2BtN.html
15-04-2020||Mumbai||Kandivli, Sewri housing societies form ‘anti-corona teams’||Two housing complexes, in Kandivli and Sewri, have setup anti-corona teams comprising residents, to help citizens in combating daily issues during the Covid-19 lockdown.The 15-storeyed Kamla Ashish housing complex in Kandivli with 250 residents has a core team of five members that have prepared a checklist of daily activities, a register noting in and out time for citizens, and issue passes for one person per family to go out for essentials. Without the pass, residents cannot exit the society premises. The team uses closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras round the clock to monitor those entering and exiting in shifts.“We must follow rules of quarantine strictly. For this, we have constituted the task force to help others as well as ensure all our guidelines are followed,” said Amit Kotak, treasurer. “These five residents also cater to all requirements for senior citizens to ensure they do not step out.”Other responsibilities include monitoring daily cleaning activities, refilling sanitisers at common areas, and replacing toothpicks being used to operate lift buttons. “A grill outside the lift is locked everyday post 8pm and opened only in case of medical emergencies. This team further makes daily announcements about safety guidelines,” said Kunal Ajmera, committee member.Meanwhile, more than 200 residents at Sewri’s Ashok Gardens have taken up different daily activities to ensure the society, comprising 522 flats and 2,000 residents, functions smoothly during the lockdown. While 55 people are holding guard as security, 30 residents are in-charge of housekeeping, 40 fulfil requirements for home-alone senior citizens, 10 cater to gardening and waste management, seven in-charge of electricity, 10 resident doctors look into queries and medical concerns, 25 residents supply essentials to quarantined families, 10 citizens communicate with the civic body for daily updates and important information, five are in-charge of the sewage treatment plant and 30 help the in-house grocery and vegetable store.“We had 185 staff members, who live close to the complex, sub-contracted for us for most of these activities (that the anti-corona team has taken up) before the lockdown,” said Capt Prakash Correa, secretary of the society. “A few days into the lockdown, we minimised the number of workers to 25, who were provided temporary residential and food facilities within the complex. The idea was to not have any interface with the outside world. To compensate for lesser staff, over 200 residents volunteered and were given the option of which verticals they would like to choose.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/kandivli-sewri-societies-form-anti-corona-teams/story-yApyTUYM9qXzxqogr9C6EN.html
15-04-2020||Mumbai||Special train rumours bring migrants on street in Bandra||Hours after Prime Minister Narendra Modi extended the coronavirus-enforced nationwide lockdown to May 3, close to a 1,000 migrant workers gathered outside Bandra railway station, after they heard rumours that the government was running a special train for migrants to return home. The situation eventually forced the Mumbai Police to resort to lathi-charge to disperse the migrants — most of them from Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal — who were demanding the state help them return home. A police officer said the migrants, who assembled around 3pm, were dispersed two hours later.The incident snowballed into a political blame game between the ruling and opposition parties in Maharashtra as tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray took aim at the Union government for “failing to take a call on arranging a way back for these migrant workers”, while the state Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) unit called the incident a failure of the state. Home minister Anil Deshmukh, meanwhile, directed the police to investigate who spread the rumours about the train and take stern action against those found guilty. While the Bandra police filed an FIR against 700 unidentified persons, the Navi Mumbai police detained an Airoli resident for allegedly uploading a video on social media which officers said may have helped spread the rumours. “The man has been handed over to Bandra police. They will carry out further investigation; we can’t reveal anything,” said Yogesh Gawde, senior inspector at Rabale police station. Tuesday’s scenes were a replay of the events in Delhi last month. Daily wage workers have been rendered jobless ever since the lockdown was announced late last month to stem the spread of coronavirus, making their life a struggle. Despite authorities and NGOs making arrangements for their food, most of them want to go back to their home to escape the hardships brought by the curbs.Vijayalaxmi Hiremath, senior police inspector at Bandra police station, said, “We received information about people having gathered outside Bandra railway station around 3.30pm. A team of police officers rushed to the spot and found close to a 1,000 people gathered there.” Additional reinforcement was called from the reserved police force zonal office and from the neighbouring police stations of Khar and Santacruz. “We tried to make them understand, and asked them to return to their houses, but the crowd was not in a mood to listen,” said Hiremath.“The workers were protesting against extension of the lockdown, saying they do not have access to food and other essentials,” said a western railway (WR) official, who did not want to be named.The Bandra police, in co-ordination with the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), also arranged for a truckload of essential commodities for the people who had gathered there. But they refused to accept it, and started heckling the police personnel on duty.“There are around 10 CCTV cameras in the area and we have footage from a drone, which will help us identify the people who were part of the crowd,” said Hiremath.Farooq Shaikh, a daily-wage worker who stays at Behrampada in Bandra (East), said, “I am from Malda in West Bengal. We heard the government was running a special train from Mumbai. So we packed our luggage to leave the city as we have lost our jobs.”Zahid Mistri, also from Malda and who lives in Bandra, said, “We are out of food and now the lockdown has been extended. How will we survive here in Mumbai? We came to know about a special train running for migrants, so we gathered.” Abhishek Trimukhe, deputy commissioner of police, zone 9, said, “We have registered an offence.”Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, who addressed the state via Facebook Live, said no one should politicise the issue of migrants and asked labourers’ cooperation to fight the current situation. Thackeray also warned people against misleading them and disturbing the law-and-order situation.He urged the migrant workers not to worry and stay in the state until lockdown continues. He said that they are safe in Maharashtra and will be allowed to go to their native places the day the lockdown is over.The chief minister said someone must have “misled” them that trains are starting from today, as a result, they have gathered there. “We have many people who could do this. Do not try to play with their emotions and create law-and-order situation in the state. I will take strict action against such people. I also ask people not to politicise the issue. This is the time to remain united and fight the pandemic,” the chief minister said.Thackeray switched to Hindi during his address and told the migrants, “Why are you worried? You are with us, staying in my state. You will be safe here. There is nothing to worry about. We are not feeling happy to lock you like this. We have to face the challenge unitedly. The day lockdown will be relaxed, you will be allowed to go to your homes. I’m in contact with the Central government regularly.” He also said that the state has made arrangements of food and stay of around six lakh migrant workers, along with medical facilities. The state also increased the scope of Shiv Bhojan thali, subsidised meal scheme, to 80,000 per day.Devendra Fadnavis, former chief minister and leader of Opposition in Maharashtra, said the incident highlighted the failure of the state government. “The incident that happened in Bandra is serious. We have been telling the state government from day one to arrange for essential rations for migrants, who do not have ration cards. But the state government has failed to do so. Migrants coming out and demanding food or allowing them to leave for their home state is a failure of the government. It is surprising, that instead of helping the people, ministers are blaming the Central government in an attempt to hide their failure. It is shameful that the government is playing politics at such a time. I urge the state government to hear the people on how they want the ration and food,” he said.Railway authorities also stated that there were rumours on the commencement of train services, however, a notification was issued on the extension of the cancellation of train services. “It is clarified that all passenger train services on Indian Railways, including premium trains, mail/express trains, passenger trains, suburban (local) trains, shall continue to remain cancelled till 12am, May 3, as per guidelines of the Government of India,” said a statement from the Western railway.Tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray took to social media to announce that the crowd had been dispersed but also took a swipe at the Central government.Thackeray said the migrant workers wanted to go back to their hometowns and many were refusing to eat and stay in labour camps.“The current situation at Bandra Station, now dispersed or even the rioting in Surat is a result of the Union Government not being able to take a call on arranging a way back home for migrant labour. They don’t want food or shelter, they want to go back home.” tweeted Aaditya Thackeray.Thackeray also reiterated the state government’s demand to operate trains for 24 hours for migrant labourers.“Right from the day the trains have been shut down, the State had requested trains to run for 24 hours more so that migrant labour could go back home. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray raised this issue in the PM- CM video conference as well requesting a roadmap for migrant labour to reach home,” he said.The FIR against around 700 people has been registered at Bandra police station, under sections 143 (punishment— whoever is a member of an unlawful assembly), 147 (punishment for rioting), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly, guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions) , 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the India Penal Code (IPC) and section 3 of the epidemic diseases act 1897.Meanwhile, more than 100 migrant labourers came out on the streets in Mumbra on Tuesday, demanding they be sent to their homes in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. After the lockdown was extended, they panicked. They came out in droves from their homes and blocked the roads near Rashid Compound at Mumbra around 1.30pm.Mumbra police and State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) personnel reached the spot and stopped them from agitating. They started announcing over megaphones to disperse, saying the government will continue to give them food and shelter. It took around 20 minutes for the police to remove them from the streets.Deputy commissioner of police, S Burse, said, “Around 120 people came to the streets and started demanding transport to return to Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. Most of them stay in Mumbra on rent. We assured them that all their basic needs would be met.” In Kalyan, police saw a crowd of people near Kalyan station area. They were waiting for an ST bus. The cops told them to go home and they immediately dispersed.(with inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/special-train-rumours-bring-migrants-on-street-in-bandra/story-xhbHoTx0rXqLnDuDu7M3GL.html
15-04-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra’s case count rises to 2,684; toll 178||Three hundred and fifty more people across Maharashtra tested positive for the coronavirus and 18 died of it on Tuesday, taking the state’s case count and toll to 2,684 and 178. For a second consecutive day, the state reported 350 or more cases, including 216 in Mumbai alone. The financial capital also reported 11 deaths.With the number of coronavirus cases rising rapidly, the Maharashtra government has sought permission from the Central government for starting clinical trials of plasma therapy and BCG (Bacillus Calmette-Guérin) vaccine — given to newborns and children to prevent childhood tuberculosis —for treatment of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Tuesday. Thackeray, who had reviewed the situation in the districts with no or comparatively fewer coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients on Monday, so as to decide on beginning industrial operations in these areas, said the decision about relaxing curbs will be taken on April 20. He, however, announced a committee of scientists and financial experts, including Raghunath Mashelar, Deepak Parikh and Ajit Ranade, to suggest steps to be taken for the revival of the state economy. The state government has already appointed two separate committees of ministers and bureaucrats for deliberation on revival of the state economy. The government has reportedly deferred its plan to allow industrial operations in some of the districts after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced on Tuesday morning that the decision about relaxation will be taken after reviewing the situation for the next week, until April 20.Of the 18 people who died on Tuesday, 11 are from Mumbai, four from Pune and one each from Aurangabad and Ahmednagar. One victim was from outside the state.Eleven of the victims were in the age group of 40 to 60 years, while five were above 60 years of age and two were less than 40 years. Thirteen of the 18 had underlying ailments like diabetes, high blood pressure, asthma and heart ailments. One of them was suffering from cancer, while one was suffering from tuberculosis, the statement issued by the health department has stated.The state government has performed 46,588 tests till Tuesday. A total of 5,059 teams formed to monitor people suspected of contact history with infected patients and in the containment zones, have so far screened 18.37 lakh people for symptoms of the virus. At present, 67,701 citizens are under home quarantine, while 5,647 are in institutional quarantine. 259 positive patients have so far been discharged after they recovered from the infection.The authorities have traced most of the 1,400 attendees of the Tablighi Markaz event at Nizamuddin in Delhi last month. 755 of them have undergone tests and 50 have tested positive. Seven of them are from Latur, seven in Yavatmal, six in Buldhana, 14 in Mumbai, and two each in Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad, Nagpur and Ahmednagar. One each from Ratnagiri, Nagpur, Hingoli, Jalgaon, Osmanabad, Kolhapur and Washim have tested positive. Seven people, who had come in close contacts with these attendees, have tested positive.The state has witnessed a rise of 1,666 patients and 114 deaths in eight days (April 8 to 14). “Last two days have seen more than 350 patients testing positive, from the average of little more than 200 patients for four days before it. We expect the trend to continue for a few more days before the downward trend begins,” said a senior official from the health department.Thackeray said that it is an alarming rise, but there is no need to panic. “Maharashtra rate is high in the country, but it is also because of the highest number of tests we have been performing. I have spoken to the mother of a six-month-old kid who has recovered from the infection and an 83-year old woman who recovered from it. This means with courage and patience the war against the coronavirus could be conquered,” he said.“We have sought permission from the Centre for starting clinical trial of plasma therapy and BCG vaccine for treatment of Covid-19 in the state. I am sure the state will get breakthrough after getting permission for conducting the studies,” Thackeray said, in his address to the state through Facebook Live.Sanjay Mukherjee, secretary, state medical education department, said they required permission for starting clinical trials from various agencies of the Centre, which includes Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), Central Drugs Safety Organisation (CDSO), Drug Controller General of India, among other. For both studies, BCG vaccine and plasma treatment, permission has been sought.“Haffkine Institute has conducted a study on BCG vaccine as treatment of coronavirus and has got encouraging results. But we have to follow a protocol. We have given all the required permissions from the state and sent it to the Centre. While, Central Drugs Safety Organisation has given the permission, we still need the same from ICMR and Drug Controller General of India. Chief secretary Ajoy Mehta, too, has written to the Centre, for clearing the pending permission,” Mukherjee said. It is said that mild and moderate cases of coronavirus got cured and severe cases gets mild with BCG therapy, he said. After receiving permission, clinical trial can be started, which will be based on randomised-control trials with double-blind technique. The same process is applicable for plasma therapy, said the medical education secretary.India is in the final stages of framing a protocol for conducting a clinical trial for convalescent plasma therapy, which uses antibodies from the blood of cured patients, to treat severely ill Covid-19 patients.Kerala has got permission for conducting clinical trials of plasma therapy in the state.“Once clinical trials are successful, the state can start them — BCG vaccine and plasma therapy as a treatment for Covid-19 patients,” said the medical education secretary.Meanwhile, the state government is tapping the possibility of relaxing restrictions in the districts, where there are no Covid-19 patients and allowing industrial operations there. The cabinet sub-committee of seven senior cabinet ministers deliberated on Tuesday on many such factors to minimise financial losses and bring public life to normal to some extent.“The revival of the state economy is a task before us as the state is going through a challenging economic situation owing to the lockdown. There was a pressing demand for lifting of restrictions on industries in the green-zone districts, which have no Covid-19 patients. We are considering to allow industries to operate with 30% of their manpower to maintain social distancing and at the same time, bring industrial activities back to normal,” said public works department minister Ashok Chavan, who is member of the sub-committee.State government has appointed two committees for the revival of the state economy, which has been wading through challenging times owing to the Covid-19 lockdown. One committee comprises incumbent and former bureaucrats who are serving or have served in the finance department and state-owned financial institutions. The another cabinet sub-committee is headed by deputy chief and finance minister Ajit Pawar and comprises six other senior ministers. In its first meeting on Tuesday, the committee discussed various issues state economy and industry is currently facing and the ways out to face it. The committee was unanimous on the urgent need of relaxing the restrictions on the industries in the districts that fall under the green and orange zones.The issue of allowing migrant workers to go back to their respective states was also discussed in the sub-committee meeting. There are 5.62 lakh migrants put up in 4,618 shelters across the state. They also include the cane cutters who are stuck in other districts and neighbouring states after the harvesting for the season got over. “There could be an arrangement of allowing people to travel to their home district or the state after thorough check-up and valid passes. There are limitations of the authorities to make arrangements for these migrant workers,” Chavan said.Officials, however, said that the decision about the relaxation in the green zone districts is expected only after the due deliberations with the central government. “We expect the guidelines to be issued by the central government over the relaxations in some of the districts. The Centre has already issued a circular to exempt some of the auxiliary segments from the lockdown for the smooth operations of the essential services. But now prime minister, in his address on Tuesday said that they will review the situation over next week before any decision on relaxation. The district collectors have been asked to ready their plan for the industrial operations in the green zone districts, but the decision is yet to be taken,” said an official from the state government. The official said that operation of the industrial units not related to the essential commodities may begin after a week.State government said on Tuesday that it has completed the planning for the seeds and fertilizers required for the sowing on 140 lakh hectares of cultivable land in Kharip season beginning next month. State agriculture minster Dadaji Bhuse said that stock of 16.57 lakh quintal seeds and 40 lakh metric ton fertilizer has been readied for the season.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-s-case-count-rises-to-2-684-toll-178/story-RLch8XHWjnZvV6MdLji4NO.html
15-04-2020||Chandigarh||3 fresh cases take Haryana tally to 185||With three more persons testing positive for Covid-19, the total number of cases in Haryana climbed to 185 on Tuesday. Senior officials said two of the cases were detected in Faridabad and had Tablighi link. The third patient is a 44-year-old woman from Panchkula, who reportedly has no travel history. As per officials, the woman, a resident of Sector 15, is a post office employee.District nodal officer Dr Rajiv Narwal said the woman was brought to the hospital on April 11 after she showed flu-like symptoms. “It has been learnt that she and her husband were at their residence during the lockdown and only came out to get essentials. We have also admitted her husband and his samples have been sent for testing,” he added.However, director general, health services Suraj Bhan Kamboj said they have yet to receive confirmation about the Panchkula case. 41 DISCHARGED SO FARThe health department bulletin said four more patients were discharged on Tuesday, two each from Gurugram and Sirsa, taking the tally of the cured people to 41. There are now 141 active cases in the state, while Mahendergarh, Rewari and Jhajjar districts have yet to register any case. Among the 22 Haryana districts, the five worst-hit are Nuh with 45 cases, Faridabad with 33, Gurugram (32), Palwal (29) and Ambala (7). Most of the cases are either directly or indirectly related to Tablighi Jamaat. Currently, 14,780 people are under surveillance, while 6,163 samples have so far been sent for testing of which, 4,591 have been found to be negative and 1,388 reports are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/3-fresh-cases-take-haryana-tally-to-185/story-gkuF5oowskZ2X1PxHdVwiI.html
15-04-2020||Chandigarh||Six fresh cases take Punjab tally to 185||Punjab on Tuesday witnessed six new Covid-19 cases with Gurdaspur district also opening its account. State now has 185 corona-positive cases and 27 patients have been cured. While two cases were reported in SAS Nagar (Mohali), one each were reported in Gurdaspur, Jalandhar, Patiala and Sangrur.Tuesday number is being seen as a relief for the state which on Monday had added nine new cases. The state has witnessed 10 new cases on Sunday and nine on Saturday.With Gurdaspur also witnessing first case, the virus is now spread in 18 of the 22 districts. Ferozepur, Fazilka, Tarn Taran and Bathinda are the districts where no case has appeared to date.The two new cases took Mohali district’s tally to 56, which is highest in Punjab.On Tuesday, the 38-year-old house help of the 78-year-old Kharar woman, who died on April 7 and tested positive for coronavirus later, was also diagnosed with Covid-19. The second patient is a 56-year-old woman of Jawaharpur village in Dera Bassi, whose sample was sent again and found positive. With this, the village count has gone up to 38.Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said, “We have isolated the Kharar family and teams have been sent to collect samples. Both the women have been admitted to Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur. The lane has been sealed and we have already begun the screening of the residents.”In Gurdaspur, a 60-year-old man from Bhaini Paswal village of Gurdaspur district has tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Punjab special chief secretary Karan Bir Singh Sidhu on Tuesday tweeted that the patient’s brother had died in Jalandhar with similar symptoms on April 7 though his Covid-19 test reports were yet to arrive. Gurdaspur civil surgeon Dr Kishan Chand said that the patient has now been referred to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital in Amritsar.In Jalandhar, a 70-year-old man of Basti Danish Manda tested positive for novel coronavirus in Jalandhar on Tuesday. With this, 25 positive cases, including two deaths, have been reported so far from the district, which is second highest in the state. The district administration has sealed the Basti Danish Manda area family members have been put under isolation A man tested positive for coronavirus in Malerkotla area of Sangrur on Tuesday, taking the district’s tally to three.Malerkotla SDM Vikramjeet Singh Panthey told HT that the 25-year-old patient had come in contact with another patient last week. “The youth met 55-year-old Delhi man at Malerkotla Markaz. He was home quarantined and tested positive o Tuesday,” the SDM said.One case was reported in Patiala, special chief secretary KBS Sidhu announced this through a tweet. (With inputs from Jalandhar, Gurdaspur, and Mohali)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/six-fresh-cases-take-punjab-tally-to-185/story-HUfJh784DkACZdQhyGDD7I.html
15-04-2020||City||In next 5 days, Delhi govt to test 20,000 in containment zones||New Delhi: The Delhi government has decided to undertake a massive testing exercise by conducting 20,000 RT-PCR tests for Sars-CoV-2, the virus causes the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), over the next five days on people living in containment zones and quarantine centres, according to an official order. It has also designated private labs in each of the city’s 11 revenue districts to help with sample collecting and testing because the six state-run centres that conduct these tests are already overburdened.To put the number in perspective, a total of 16,282 tests have been conducted in Delhi since mid-January, when screening for Covid-19 began. A total of about 10,000 tests are carried out across the country in a day. Though the government wanted to scale up testing by using rapid antibody tests -- simple blood tests that give results in 25 minutes and show the presence of antibodies that suggest a person has recovered from a mild strain of Covid-19 and is thus immune to the virus that causes it -- but the kits that were to first come from China on April 5, and then April 10, are yet to be arrive.The Delhi government, which ordered 100,000 rapid testing kits, also planned to use them to speed up testing by pooling samples and testing in batches.“It has now been decided by the competent authority that 20,000 RT-PCR tests are to be performed on a war footing in Delhi in the coming five days for … timely containment of the disease,” said the order, a copy of which is with the HT.The exercise has already started with 692 samples collected from containment zones on Tuesday. Until last week, the Union government was testing symptomatic people who were taken to hospitals on suspicion of having the infection; people who might have come in direct contact with those who test positive; symptomatic health care workers; and people admitted to hospitals with severe acute respiratory infections (Sari) were also being tested. The Indian Council of Medical Research (IMRC) on April 9 changed the guidelines to also allow testing in those with flu-like symptoms from the identified hot spots, gatherings and evacuation centres.The RT-PCR test -- for which a swab is taken from the throat and nose -- is the most accurate Covid-19 test because it detects the virus’s genetic material (RNA) to diagnose current infection. The report, however, comes typically in two to three days.The increased testing would have added to the load at six government centres testing the samples – reports for at least 714 samples were still pending on Tuesday, according to a government report. The Delhi government therefore designated private labs in of the city’s revenue districts to conduct the tests for a fixed price.Dr Lal Path Labs is the designated private lab for tests in the north, north-west, and north-east districts, according to the order. Sir Ganga Ram hospital will conduct tests for the central district, Onquest Labs for the New Delhi district, Dr Dangs Lab for the south district, Apollo laboratory for the South-east district, Max hospital in for tests in the east and Shahadara districts, Prognosis laboratories for the south-west district, and City X -Ray and Scan Clinic for the west district. In case the designated private labs also reach capacity, the samples will have to be referred to Dr Lal Path Labs, the order adds“We are happy to share our infrastructure and expertise for the welfare of the people. This is a very fair way of involving the private labs for scaling up the tests, and Delhi government has been very proactive. They have also promised that the money will be reimbursed within the week,” said Dr Navin Dang, founder of Dr Dangs Labs.The government has also decided to seek the private sector’s help in sample collection.Private laboratories will be paid Rs 4,500 if they collect a sample and use their own testing kit; R 3,500 if the sample is collected by the government and the kit is of the lab; and R 2,200 if the sample is collected by the government and the kit is also provided by it. The Supreme Court last week ruled that all private labs should test for free but later modified the order to say that the tests should be offered for free only to poor patients. According to the new order by the government, the money will be released directly by the state from the Union government’s National Health Mission Covid-19 fund.“The antibody tests are currently not available, and we are not sure when they will be here. Plus, they are not foolproof. Add to that the increasing number of patients in our hospitals who would need at least two tests to be discharged, there was a need to scale up our RT-PCR testing capability. As for testing in the hot spots, what we are seeing is that 30-50% of the cases are asymptomatic. In nearly 10% or 15% of the cases from Delhi we have been unable to clearly establish the source, pointing out the need for increased random testing,” said Dr SK Sarin, director, Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences and the head of a team of five doctors assisting chief minister Arvind Kejriwal in Covid-19 preparedness.ends||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/in-next-5-days-delhi-govt-to-test-20-000-in-containment-zones/story-0v25nrN4infL2g35UmlgFP.html
15-04-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s air quality info inaccurate since Saturday||Recent air quality information regarding particulate matter (PM) for Mumbai has been inaccurate as most pollution monitoring stations of the state pollution control board are not operational. The Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) daily bulletin on Monday and Tuesday is collating AQI data from only five stations since April 11.There are 12 air quality monitoring across the Mumbai Metropolitan Region that record PM2.5, PM10 among other pollutants on a real time basis. All except one in Kalyan, which has been inoperative throughout the lockdown, were functioning normally till April 11. Since then, data from only three PM 2.5 monitors and five PM 10 is being published on the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) website. The reason for the failures at the other stations is not known.“Even though these are continuous monitoring stations, in the event of a power trip or technical glitches, our officers go to these stations for a simple reboot. However, this is not happening due to current restrictions. We will be requesting the government to allow these activities to resume for the benefit of citizens,” said SC Kollur, chief scientist, MPCB. Monitoring stations are not listed under essential services in Maharashtra.Consequently, the air quality index (AQI) being generated for the region does not have data from stations in Worli, Colaba, Vile Parle, Borivli, Sion, Nerul, Kalyan and Vasai. “Having temporal gaps makes it difficult to correctly evaluate the effect of the lockdown on the city’s air quality,” said independent researcher Ronak Sutaria.Based on data collected from all stations other than Kalyan, between March 23 and April 8, Mumbai witnessed a 65-70% decline in air pollution during lockdown, said Kollur.The overall air quality index (AQI) on Tuesday in Mumbai was 70 (satisfactory), according to the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), which has 10 monitoring stations across MMR. Navi Mumbai recorded high PM 2.5 levels with AQI at 120. Gufran Beig, director, SAFAR, said PM 10 levels were marginally higher and explained this as “seasonal phenomenon”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-air-quality-info-inaccurate-since-saturday/story-DKdqprgoG2ngEQkdqO6itK.html
15-04-2020||Gurugram||18-year-old kills himself after father scolds him||An 18-year-old, who was a student of Class 10, was found dead on the railway tracks near Dhankot Flyover on Monday evening. His head had been severed from his body, said officers of the government railway police.The police suspect it to be a case of suicide and have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the code of criminal procedure. The police said the man was identified on Tuesday afternoon after his parents heard from a neighbour about an accident and went to the mortuary.According to the police, he had appeared for Haryana board exams, barring one subject, which could not be conducted due to the outbreak of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and was awaiting results. A police officer privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said that a motorcycle, belonging to the victim’s father, was found parked near the railway tracks.“A preliminary probe has revealed that on Monday afternoon, the man’s father had scolded him and asked him to concentrate on his studies. After some time, his father went to the grocery shop. Around 4pm, he went to his father and asked for keys to his motorcycle, ostensibly to practise riding,” the police officer said.The police said the man rode to the tracks and allegedly killed himself by lying in front of a freight train, which was going towards Rewari. One freight train is operational for transporting railway staff and some essential items amid the lockdown, the police said. His body was handed over to the family after the post-mortem examination on Tuesday, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/18-year-old-kills-himself-after-father-scolds-him/story-mHEAZeReYxBsNecclUEeBM.html
15-04-2020||Delhi||CBSE awaits guidelines for clarity on exams||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) is hoping guidelines the union government will release on Wednesday will provide some clarity on conducting the remaining Class 12 board examinations and on evaluating Class 12 and Class 10 papers, even as it prepares for the worst case scenario of not being able to hold the exams at all. The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISC) is also waiting for the guidelines and preparing to hold exams as soon as possible while the International Baccalaureate (IB) has decided that there will be no tests this year and that all students will be marked on the basis of their predictive grades. “Holding examinations are our top priority and the board is ready to conduct them as soon as the lockdown ends. Meanwhile, the board is also looking to kickstart the process of evaluation which has been stalled (by the lockdown), All exams for class 10 have been conducted and only a few are left for class 12. We are keenly awaiting the guidelines that will be issued by the Centre on Wednesday,” said a CBSE official who asked not to be named. The official added that in case it is not possible to conduct the exams, options such as marking students based on internal assessment would be considered.Significantly, CBSE-affiliated schools abroad have already decided that exams will not be held; these schools are figuring out a way to mark students. “This however will not be a preferred option. Our attempt is to conduct the exams,” said the official, adding that a decision would be taken soon in consultation with human resource development (HRD) minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank and HRD secretary Amit Khare. CBSE secretary Anurag Tripathi said: “We are awaiting the detailed guidelines. At this time we cannot say more, but whatever decision we take will be in the interest of students”.The CBSE had on April 1 decided that it will hold nationwide class 12 board exams in 12 main subjects. There are 12 subjects for which exams are pending in the case of CBSE ( business studies, geography, Hindi (elective), Hindi (core), home science, sociology, computer science (old), computer science (new), information practice (old), information practice (new), information technology and biotechnology) and eight in the case of CISCE.There are also six exams left for ICSE (Class 10). “We are ready with our plans. But we can put them into practice only after the lockdown is lifted or if we get a go ahead from the government,” said Gerry Arathoo, CISCE’s chief executive officer. There are around 2,500 CISCE-affiliated schools in India and abroad. Arathoon said that the board will give at least a week to students for preparations. “We can’t even think about any other mode to hold the exam such as online. We are not well equipped for that.” The International Baccalaureate (IB) has cancelled exams this year in view of the prevailing situation. In an official statement released on March 23, IB said that it consulted stakeholders across the globe and decided that the May 2020 exams should not be held. According to the IB’s official website, it will award the diploma/course certificate to the students after evaluating their overall performance in the last exams. “We will be using vast historical assessment data to ensure that we follow a rigorous process of due diligence in what is a truly unprecedented situation. We will be undertaking significant data analysis from previous exam sessions, individual school data, subject data as well as comparative data of schools who have already completed uploading requirements and those who have not.”The board had asked schools to submit the coursework for all candidates.The extension of the lockdown has not gone down well with some students waiting to appear for exams. Shreya Sinha, a class 12 student in a private school in south Delhi, said that it’s become a “never ending wait” for her. “It’s so unprecedented. I’ve only one exam left and it’s looking like an unnecessary burden. Don’t know what will happen for our undergraduate admission. I want to get over with the exams as soon as possible.” Another class 12 student at Ahlcon Public School said he hasn’t been able to focus on an entrance exam due to the stress of not giving his school exams -- although even the former has been postponed. “I am preparing for the NEET and it’s also been postponed now. It’s so difficult to concentrate on studies these days. I wish my CBSE board exams were over.” NEET is short for the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/with-class-x-and-most-class-xii-exams-over-cbse-hopes-guidelines-will-allow-it-to-evaluate/story-ySE3fxt8ptQvgMZVgEHQLO.html
15-04-2020||Pune||Pune police declare 28 new containment zones||The area in and around Naidu hospital, one of the treatment and testing hubs for Covid-19 in Pune, was declared a containment zone by the Pune police on Tuesday.Ravindra Shisve, joint commissioner of police, announced new containment zones on Wednesday.The restrictions in containment zones are in addition to assembly and vehicle movement prohibition which is applicable in the entire city as well.The new containment zones were declared along with the extension of assembly and vehicle movement prohibition until May 3, in keeping with announcement made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.The new containment zones include 28 new locations distributed over five zones under the Pune city police.In zone 5, Kondhwa area was already under containment, but now parts of Hadapsar have been added to it.In zone 4, Yerawada, Vimantal, Chandan nagar, and Khadki, and areas under the Vishrantwadi police station jurisdiction are now containment zones.In zone 3, areas under Sinhagad road, Dattawadi, Warje, under Kothrud police station, were brought under containment seal.Five areas under Bundgarden police station - including Naidu Hospital and Central Railway district manager’s office, were brought under containment.In zone 1, apart from the peth areas, two more areas under Khadak police station jurisdiction were added to containment.On Monday, Pune Municipal Corporation commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad had written to the district collector suggesting 22 more containment areas be declared.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-police-declare-28-new-containment-zones/story-l7RIXtsVebO4JRQqv4MaHP.html
15-04-2020||Noida||Amid lockdown, forest dept holds census at Okhla Bird Sanctuary as migratory birds fly back||With Summer here, the forest department held a census at Okhla Bird Sanctuary to find that about 343 winter migratory birds have stayed back.The Gautam Budh Nagar forest department that conducted their yearly post-migration bird census amid lockdown has found a total of 13 species of waterbirds in the sanctuary. Of these, six – including the greater flamingos - were migratory while seven were residents. The total number of water birds were 1,241 of which 343 were migratory and 898 were resident.“The census was held last week at Okhla Bird Sanctuary alone and only the water birds were included. Every year some of the migratory birds do stay back,” said Pramod Kumar Srivastava, divisional forest officer, GB Nagar.The migratory birds that were spotted included Greylag goose (18), Bar Headed Goose (25), Ruddy shelduck (12), Northern Shoveler (110), Common coot (98), Greater flamingo (80). The resident water birds included Common Moorhen (111), Purple swamphen (98), Red-wattled lapwing (170), Spot-billed duck (150), Black-headed Ibis (49), whiskered tern (250), black-crowned night heron (70).According to the last annual census held by the forest department in February for the birding year of 2019-20, the sanctuary was abode to at least 21,061 birds from 115 species. The sanctuary is home to about 350 species of birds of which nearly over 60 are local and long-distant migratory.“Most of the birds migrate back but a few are left mostly because of some injuries or illness. Apart from the water birds, certain juvenile raptors also stay back. Their departure is also a sight with a V formation or line formation and the flocks keep on changing the leader as other birds fly in a jet stream,” says eminent birder Bikram Grewal.The migratory birds start arriving here by October, while their strength reaches the peak in December.“Their departure begins by the March and April mid they are all gone to their breeding grounds in central and north Asia,” said birder Jaswinder Singh Waraich.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/amid-lockdown-forest-dept-holds-census-at-okhla-bird-sanctuary-as-migratory-birds-fly-back/story-cQrI7PpvzvtNBf2E4vMcYK.html
15-04-2020||Noida||Noida extends Section 144 till May 3, Aqua Line Metro services to stay shut||The police on Tuesday extended the enforcement of Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) in the district till May 3, after Prime Minister Narendra Modi extended the nationwide lockdown till the same day.The section restricts the assembly of four or more people at one place at any given point.Ashutosh Dwivedi, additional deputy commissioner of police (law and order), Gautam Budh Nagar, said, “Noida police had earlier enforced this restriction till April 14. Since the government has extended the nationwide lockdown till May 3, Noida police has also extended the enforcement accordingly,” he said. All kinds of political, social, cultural, religious, and other gatherings are banned as long as prohibitory orders under Section 144 are in place, the police said.On the directions of state government, the police and district administration are taking strict action violators, who are being booked under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code.Police teams are also conducting patrols to check liquor smuggling in the district. Sankalp Sharma, deputy commissioner of police, Noida, said the police on Tuesday arrested two liquor smugglers in Sector 98. The two were identified as Kallu and Rahul Vajpai, residents of Salarpur village. The police team recovered ₹52,000 cash, two country-made pistols, two cartridges, and a carton of country-made liquor from them.Noida Metro services shut till May 3Meanwhile, Noida Metro Rail Corporation (NMRC), which runs the Aqua Line from Noida to Greater Noida, said services would continue to be suspended till May 3, in concurrence with the lockdown extension.Ritu Maheshwari, managing director, NMRC, said the city bus service would also remain suspended till May 3. “However, regular cleanings, and minimum maintenance to ensure the Metro system remains functional, as well as upkeep of trains, stations and other systems associated with the smooth functioning of the Metro will be performed on a regular basis,” she said.NMRC officials said the body has engaged feeder buses in the distribution of food items to the needy from the community kitchens run by Noida authority in the lockdown, a service set to continue till the lockdown is scheduled to end.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-extends-section-144-till-may-3-aqua-line-metro-services-to-stay-shut/story-KHDodtRAXDWwQHcNjXW0hJ.html
15-04-2020||Chandigarh||Ambala’s 1st patient discharged, seeks action on rumour-mongers||Cured after an 18-day battle with Covid-19, Gurpreet Singh (21) was discharged amid a round of applause from the civil hospital staff here on Monday.Leaving the premises with a smile, Gurpreet, who was the district’s first positive case, said, “I feel relaxed now. I thank the medical staff and everyone else involved in my treatment. The atmosphere in the isolation ward was friendly and positive.”Chief medical officer Dr Kuldeep Singh said, “Every patient who is cured is like a feat for us. On Monday, a 65-year-old Jamaat worker was discharged and today it was Gurpreet. With the recovery of these two, now five Covid-19 patients remain under treatment in hospitals in Ambala.”Gurpreet has been advised to remain at home and maintain social distancing with the family members.Talking about his experience at the hospital, he said, “I had my smartphone, so there was no chance to feel bored. I always kept in touch with my family and they kept boosting my morale. However, I noticed a lot of false information being spread on social media. There was a post with my photos claiming that I’m extremely ill. This had worried my relatives. Someone had shared my test reports on the web with my phone number, so I even got random calls.” He added that action should be taken against those spreading false information.Principal medical officer Dr Poonam Jain said, “The hospital staff was always there for Gurpreet. He was anxious at first, but eventually calmed down as he received proper care and treatment. After his samples tested negative twice, he was discharged.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ambala-s-1st-patient-discharged-seeks-action-on-rumour-mongers/story-Q0OPLTf16z3q2I6RxThE4L.html
15-04-2020||Delhi||Death and dearth, the reality of patients outside AIIMS||All that Rizwan Hasan wants is help to board a bus towards his hometown in Muzaffarpur of Bihar. Being visually challenged, Hasan was accompanied by his wife to Delhi for a second eye surgery at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) on March 21, but has been left without shelter and certainty of two meals a day, since a lockdown was imposed on March 25 to control the spread of coronavirus (Covid-19) .“The day we arrived, my wife had to return home to attend to the last rites of her uncle. Now, I am alone, at the mercy of anyone who is kind enough to bring an extra plate of food for me,” says Hasan, 30, before the police chases him away from outside the AIIMS Metro station, his latest residence.A 100 metres away, under the AIIMS flyover, 29-year-old Madhuri, weeping, sings a sad folk song while her two children sleep on a plastic sheet next to her. Her eight-year-old son has a heart illness (a hole), but his treatment is not on the immediate priority list.“The police offers us lunch, but does not allow others to us food. They let us sleep outside an AIIMS gate at night, but keep chasing us away in the daytime,” said Madhuri, of Ballia in Uttar Pradesh, adding they sometimes make do without dinner. Her son’s surgery, scheduled for March 25, has been postponed and she hasn’t been given a revised date.In the initial days of the lockdown, there was no one to offer them meals, forcing them to spend all their money on food. “If you lift the lockdown today, we’ll have to either travel without a train ticket or walk all the way home,” says Madhuri, who goes only by her first name.Hasan and Madhuri are not alone in this situation. Scores of patients and their relatives, who had arrived at AIIMS for treatment before the lockdown, are spending their days under the flyover, in subways, on footpaths and outside the AIIMS Metro station, as the hospital has shifted its focus to treating Covid-19 patients.While the Delhi government has made shelter arrangements for the homeless and stranded migrants, many AIIMS’ patients and their kin have been left in the lurch.The rain baseras, dharamshalas and tents near AIIMS are operating at full capacity and government officials say that finding space for shelters in this area has been a problem.“We have 25 tents around AIIMS, which can accommodate up to 1,000 occupants at one point. Currently, all shelters are saturated in terms of occupancy because of the lockdown. Space has been a big issue in the area,” said Bipin Rai, member and spokesperson of the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board.He said that authorities concerned have been requested to allocate space for more shelters in the vicinity of the hospital.Atul Kumar Thakur, the deputy commissioner of police (south), said that food is being provided to stranded patients and their relatives. “Our officers go out to serve them meals and also respond with food when we get specific calls about anyone not receiving meals,” said Thakur.TREATMENTS UNCERTAINWhile many of these patients are stranded due to the lockdown, there are some who continue to stay on in the hope of getting surgeries and treatments done.Urmila Devi of Dumka in Jharkhand is one such person who had a chance to leave the city before the lockdown, but stayed back on in the hope that her nine-month-old granddaughter could undergo heart surgery on March 25. “When the hospital does reopen for the regular patients, I don’t know when we’ll get the next date,” said Devi.AIIMS authorities said that no new dates are being given. “We are only doing emergency surgeries at the moment. All those who got the dates before the lockdown or before the out-patient departments (OPDs) closed were sent a message informing about the cancellations. We have the mobile phone numbers of all our registered patients,” said Dr DK Sharma, medical superintendent, AIIMS.When are these postponed surgeries likely to resume? “We do not know. It depends on the situation. We will likely extend our working hours to accommodate more patients when the routine services resume,” said Sharma.DEATHAmid those undergoing hardships here was a 35-year-old cancer patient, Sanjeev, who died last Friday in a subway right outside the hospital, where he was staying. “He had been admitted to AIIMS for the last eight months, but had to leave the hospital due to the coronavirus. Now, my husband and I bide our time sitting on the same blanket on which our son died,” said Meena Devi, Sanjeev’s mother, of Banka in Bihar.Devi and her husband share the subway with 30-40 other patients and their relatives, all sleeping on blankets or plastic sheets. They say this is the only spot outside AIIMS where the police don’t chase them.HEALTH GOES FOR A TOSSAmong the patients is Pankaj Kumar, a 26-year-old resident of Samastipur in Bihar. A liver problem has left him with an abnormally bulge in the stomach and doctors had prescribed him a diet of eggs, milk, pulses and green vegetables, which are currently out of the question. “The people offering us food mostly bring pooris. I shouldn’t eat that, but I would starve to death if I don’t eat what is served,” said Kumar.Even those who have found a place at shelter homes before the lockdown say they are left without the basic nutritious foods prescribed by doctors. Sunil Sharma, a cancer patient, of Begusarai in Bihar, was prescribed coconut water, fruit juice and milk, but neither are they available nearby nor does he have the money to purchase them. “We had come prepared to bear expenses for a month. This has gone much beyond that,” he said.NO MONEYOutside the AIIMS Metro station, Karan Das, who is his late 30s, is left without any money to buy medicines for his 12-year-old son, who was slated to undergo heart surgery. “He has difficulty waking up and remaining active without medicines. But medicines cost us ₹6,000 a month and we have exhausted all our money,” said Das.While some of these patients continued staying in Delhi in the hope of receiving treatment once the lockdown ended, others said they have been stranded.One such patient is Hari Lal, who came to AIIMS on March 23 with breathing problems, but couldn’t leave due to the lockdown. He has no mobile phone, doesn’t remember the phone number of his family members and hasn’t spoken to them since coming to Delhi. “I just want to go home. I’ll walk when the lockdown ends on April 15,” said Lal, unaware that the lockdown has been extended.LACK OF SHELTERMany of the patients said they tried to gain entry into the rain baseras, but weren’t let in.Sudeep Kumar, who manages a group of tents, run by an NGO, near AIIMS, said that the need for social distancing has forced them to accommodate just half their usual capacity. “We also can’t allow in new people for the fear of infection,” said Kumar, adding that about 300 people are being accommodated in 13 tents set up here.At a rain basera run by the same NGO, social distancing seems impossible, despite closing their doors to new entrants. “You give me space and I’ll ensure social distancing,” says Uttam Thakur, the in-charge of the shelter.At the same shelter, cancer patient Mohd Salam, of Bhagalpur in Bihar, said his chemotherapy session has been postponed by two months. “I don’t want to die here. I’ll try to walk back home.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/death-and-dearth-the-reality-of-patients-outside-aiims/story-QLT2ySVr9Jp3FfEPjOEz8J.html
15-04-2020||Delhi||With lockdown extended, varsities brainstorm on ways to conduct exams||With the central government extending the nationwide lockdown to curb the spread of Covid-19 till May 3, higher educational institutes across Delhi are now deliberating on how to conduct the annual examination for lakhs of students. While most institutes are waiting for the recommendations of the committee formed by the University Grants Commission (UGC) to look into the matter, universities have also conducted internal meetings to brainstorm possible solutions. Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) Tuesday said it was trying to finalise the process for conducting exams on digital platforms. Keeping JNU’s diverse student population in mind, registrar Pramod Kumar said a “flexible yet efficient” mechanism will be devised based on the recommendations of the deans and chairpersons, which are to be submitted by Thursday, and after wider consultations. The academic committee has recommended cancelling the summer vacation this year. In its report, it also said students, who will not be able to appear for online examinations due to lack of access to internet connectivity, should be allowed to appear for their exams after the lockdown restrictions are lifted.Najma Akhtar, vice-chancellor of Jamia Millia Islamia, said the university had submitted its recommendations to the UGC panel. “Following consultations with our teachers and deans, we have planned to hold five 20-mark online assessments based on each unit of a paper. The best of three will be taken into account as each student’s final score. This will give students an option to better their scores even if they get low marks in one unit assessment,” she said.With classes being held through video conferencing, several higher educational institutes, including Jamia, had signalled a shift towards the online teaching-learning process in the wake of the lockdown which began on March 24.“I have asked for departments to share data on how many students were unable to attend classes and for what reason, so that we can find an alternative solution for these students,” Akhtar said, while highlighting the digital divide in a country where high bandwidth internet remains inaccessible to many.As per the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India, total internet subscribers per 100 population stands at 52.08 as of September 2019. Of the 1,195 million wireline and wireless subscribers, at least 688 million (58%) were internet users. Not just the internet, devices like smartphones and computers are also not available to all. According to the fourth National Family Health Survey, conducted in 2015-16 across more than 6,00,000 households, only 9% of households has a computer.Keeping this in mind, Delhi University Teachers’ Association (DUTA) made a list of recommendations to DU vice-chancellor and the UGC. This comes a day after the varsity held a meeting with its deans to discuss modalities of online examination which could be conducted for its nine lakh students. One of the options discussed included submission of answers via audio clips.“For a large university such as DU, an online examination system is not viable. The university neither has the infrastructure nor the capability of providing/ensuring a level playing field in terms of accessibility and ease to the diverse student population it caters to,” DUTA president Rajib Ray said in its letter to the V-C on Tuesday.The recommendations listed by DUTA include conducting examinations as soon as universities reopen with priority given to final year students. The teachers’ body also said that shifting to an annual mode of teaching, especially at the undergraduate level, should be seriously considered.ADMISSIONSGenerally, the May-June period is the time when universities and colleges across the capital conduct admissions for their academic session that begins in July-August. The rescheduling of board examination due to Covid-19 lockdown and delay in academic learning is bound to have a ripple effect, which will affect the admission process as well.“We will make all efforts to start the new academic session in July. However, it might be difficult to conduct entrance tests at multiple centres outside Delhi as it was done in previous years,” Akhtar said. “Teachers and administrative officials will wrap up their work for the current academic session by April 30. The work on admission and tests will begin during the summer vacation which is likely to begin in the first week of May.” Delhi University is also mulling over taking the admission process completely online, including the verification of documents and certifications, to minimise the need for students to visit campuses. JNU has suggested conducting interviews of those who clear the entrance examinations via video conferencing. The Ambedkar University of Delhi said it was consulting faculty members and would not be able to comment on the matter yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/with-lockdown-extended-varsities-brainstorm-on-ways-to-conduct-exams/story-WwGplfE8prmCzM2vNCuIXN.html
15-04-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt unlikely to cancel summer break in schools||Even though the nationwide lockdown has been extended by 19 days, the Delhi government is unlikely to cancel summer vacations in schools this year. Although some private schools are of the view that the summer break can be advanced this year to avoid academic loss, government officials said Delhi’s ‘harsh weather conditions’ won’t allow them to continue regular classes in May and June.All private and public schools in the city have been closed since March 13 given the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. In Delhi schools, the summer break starts in the second week of May and continues until June. Schools reopen in the first week of July. A senior Delhi government official said that the education department is taking suggestions from schools, parents and other stakeholders on what can be done about the summer vacations. “It’s impossible for us to cancel the summer break considering the harsh weather conditions of Delhi in May and June. We can’t risk the lives of students. We are considering conducting classes for senior students from 9am to 12pm for some days in June. We are yet to decide on this. It’s highly unlikely that schools will reopen before July for all students in Delhi,” the official said.Many private schools across the city said that it would be better if the government advances the summer break this year. “The government can declare this lockdown period as a summer break and restart the school session by the last week of June. However, the government’s concern over the weather conditions in Delhi during that time is also genuine. They can also come up with a class-wise summer break plan to avoid academic loss,” Jyoti Arora, principal of Mount Abu School in Rohini, said.Alka Kapur, principal of Modern Public School in Shalimar Bagh, said that if the summer break is advanced the school will be able to make up for the loss. “There are many students who are not being to attend online classes. We need to think about these students as well. We can cover their loss if we start early. We will be able to make up for the losses if schools reopen by mid-June. We can hold classes for a shorter duration,” she said.Amita Wattal, principal of Springdales School in Pusa Road, said, “We need to take a lot of things into consideration before deciding anything about the academic calendar. All the schools can’t hold classes in June. Not all schools are air-conditioned.”Meanwhile, both private and public schools in the city have already started conducting online classes for their students to continue learning amid the lockdown. The schools are also sending students worksheets and activities via emails, WhatsApp and SMS daily.The Delhi government is also considering a tie-up with a television channel soon to cover all students. “We are in talks with some channels. We are planning to get four hours’ airtime every day for classes 9 to 12,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-unlikely-to-cancel-summer-break-in-schools/story-26FKD8nVPFf9lNVIApvALK.html
15-04-2020||Delhi||Supply chain stretched, retail stock starts thinning out||Ensuring that the supply chain is not disrupted is a major challenge, especially with an extension of the lockdown for 19 more days, according to various stakeholders.The stock of many essential items, including perishables, foodgrains, packaged items, pharmaceutical products, consumer durables and dairy products, is already thinning out across the city. Traders are apprehensive that continued strict curbs on movement may spark shortages in the short term.On Tuesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that the lockdown will be extended till May 3, with enhanced restrictions for hot spots to contain the spread of coronavirus (Covid-19). The Centre will issue a set of guidelines for states to implement the extended lockdown on Wednesday.Fresh curbs, put in place by the Delhi government to ensure social distancing at wholesale vegetable and fruit markets, are likely to hit the supply of green vegetables, especially those arriving in small and medium-sized vehicles, such as pickup trucks and tempos. The government imposed staggered timings for purchase of vegetables and fruits, token-based entry of only 2,000 vehicles and allowing only one supply vehicle per trader, be it a small or big truck.Traders at Azadpur Mandi, which is Delhi’s biggest wholesale fruit and vegetable market, said that the situation, except for staples, such as potatoes, tomatoes and onions, is likely to worsen at retail markets in a couple of days.“Nearly 60% of major green vegetables are not reaching the wholesale market. The shortage of bottle gourd, ridged gourd, brinjal, bitter gourd and okra at the mandi will start reflecting in retail markets soon. The revised rules are not allowing the adequate supply of these vegetables by farmers. It’s a failed system,” Anil Malhotra, a member of Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC), Azadpur, said.He said that these vegetables and fruits, such as muskmelon and watermelon, are supplied in smaller vehicles from neighbouring states of Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh.Usually, a wholesale trader receives vegetables from three to five vehicles per day. “Nearly 64 traders were challaned for violating the norm of one vehicle per trader. This is creating a gap in supply. For instance, if a trader normally used to get 15 tonnes of these vegetables per day, he will now get only three to four tons. It will eventually result in price rise at retail markets,” Malhotra said.Rajendra Sharma, a wholesaler at Azadpur market, said, “Supply of vegetables coming in big vehicles such as trucks with 25-tonne capacity will not be impacted much but the supply of green vegetables will become a problem if the one-vehicle-per-trader rule is not changed. Nearly 50% of the green vegetables might become expensive in the days to come if the situation prevails,” he said.Sharma said that farmers are not able to supply their produce to wholesalers due to the token system.Haji Yamin, a trader at Okhla Mandi, has similar concerns. He said that instead of limiting the supply and the number of vehicles in the mandi, the government should ensure that people follow social distancing, use sanitisers and wear masks. “Normally, over 100 trucks and small vehicles of fruits and vegetables used to supply to the market, but this number has gone down by 30-40%,” Yasmin said.However, Adil Ahmad Khan, chairman, APMC Azadpur, a Delhi government-appointed official, said that there were some hiccups, initially, in the implementation of the new system and that it would be streamlined soon.“There are some concerns of the traders regarding the supply of green vegetables and entry passes. We have held a meeting with the traders and assured that arrangements will soon be made so that the supply of green and perishable vegetables is not affected. The validity of passes, which were issued to the wholesale traders of the mandi, has now been extended till May 3,” Khan said.Transporters too said that they are working at just 15%-20% of their capacity. Pradeep Singhal, chairman, All India Transporters Welfare Association, said that many trucks are stranded at borders, while there are not enough loaders or drivers. “Most of the workforce has left the city. There are not enough people to drive vehicles. We are in talks with the government and have also requested them to provide social security for drivers so that they are encouraged to resume work,” said Singhal.Besides, retailers and small-time grocery store owners said that they are running out of essential items due to delays and a lack of movement at the wholesalers and distributors’ end.Sumit Dawar, a grocery store owner at Lajpat Nagar market, has been using making trips in his vehicle to procure stock from wholesalers. “Initially, the supply would reach every three days, which gradually started extending to almost a week. People would stock up the moment fresh supply arrived. Besides, many distributors of flour brands, packaged items and toiletries have not been supplying stock. To deal with this, I decided to get permission from the local authorities to use my car for getting some stock, but even then, only a limited stock can be ferried in a car,” said Dawar.In nearby Defence Colony market too, the scenario is similar. “We are running short of a number of packaged items that customers ask for, including milk powder, curd, dry snacks, beverages and toiletries. Most of the distributors have stopped sending supplies for the last 15-20 days. The old stock is fast running out,” said Rajinder Malik, who owns a general store and is also the president of the local market association.At central Delhi’s Gole Market, some stores have run out of cooking oil, ghee, rice flour and condiments. In southwest Delhi’s Dwarka, retailers said that they do have enough pulses and legumes in stock, and are running out of spices, frozen foods and sanitary items. “Many customers ask for items of specific brands of cumin, methi seeds and other items, such as hand wash, toothpaste and soap, fresh stock of which is yet to come,” said Ajay Bansal, who owns a departmental store.The list of essential items drawn up by the government includes milk, fruit, vegetables, medicines, food grains, spices, cooking oils and sanitary items, among others.Wholesale dealers and distributors supply stock from their godowns to retailers across the city. The supply chain relies on several interconnected elements — workforce, transport and availability of containers for packaging, among others. If a single element is disrupted, the entire chain is thrown into disarray.Besides, with only a limited number of people being issued curfew passes, only one or two persons from each shop or warehouse have the permission to commute.Naresh Gupta, the president of Delhi Grain Merchants Association said, “We are able to send out stock only once or twice a week. With limited resources at hand, it is becoming difficult for dealers to transport goods on time.”Vijay Jain, president, All India Traders Association, is hopeful that the new set of guidelines will ease restrictions on interstate transportation. “Though there are some hiccups in the movement of goods, we will ensure that goods reach retailers. We are also hoping that the fresh guidelines make it easier for supplying stock across borders,” said Jain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/supply-chain-stretched-retail-stock-starts-thinning-out/story-uO7H59NjQsWzESRBZUHm6J.html
15-04-2020||Delhi||Delhi declares eight more containment zones, total at 55||The Delhi government on Tuesday declared eight more areas as containment zones in the capital, taking the total count of sealed areas to 55.Three of these are located in South East Delhi’s Khirki Extension, Chirag Delhi and Sangam Vihar, one each in Central Delhi’s Bara Hindu Rao and Nawab Ganj, one in South West district’s Janakpuri, and one each in North East district’s Shastri park and H block of Jahangirpuri.On Tuesday, 51 new cases of Covid-19 were reported in the city, taking the tally to 1,561. The death toll increased to 30, as two more died of the virus. The government has directed all district magistrates to declare containment zones if there is a clustering of cases.Two new Covid-19 clusters were detected in Azad Market in Bara Hindu Rao area and Nawab Ganj in Central Delhi. Sadar Bazaar, Chandni Mahal and Nabi Karim are existing clusters. A senior district official said, “10 persons, including nine of a family, have tested positive for Covid-19 in Nawab Ganj, while three cases, including a death, have been reported from Azad Market in Bara Hindu Rao.”Pandit Mohalla and Jain Mohalla of Chirag Delhi were declared as a containment zone after a resident, who has a milk shop in Khiri Extension, tested positive. The person had come in contact with a patient, a resident of Khirki Extension, and tested positive on April 10. “He (the milk shop owner) also came in contact with 13 other persons,” read the order issued by Sudhakar, SDM, Hauz Khas.Two lanes of Chirag Delhi and street where the milk shop is located in Khirki Extension will be sealed till April 27. Two cases were reported from Chhuriya mohalla in Sangam Vihar and two lanes in the area have been sealed, besides Gali No 1, 2 and 3 that were sealed earlier.The district administration decided to seal the entire C-2 block of Janakpuri after three people of a family tested positive. There are close to 600 households, with a population of over 3,000 and a playschool in proximity to the house where residents tested positive. The C-2 block, which is located centrally, has 32 independent houses.A three-storeyed house in North East Delhi’s Shastri Park was declared a containment zone after two people of a family tested positive. According to Shashi Kaushal, district magistrate of north east Delhi district, “A woman, who is undergoing cancer treatment at Rajiv Gandhi hospital, had tested positive a few days ago. Her daughter tested positive today (Tuesday). 15 members of the family who have been placed in home-quarantine. We have declared just one house as a containment zone. Neighbouring houses will not be affected by this.”Three lanes in H-block of Jahangirpuri were declared a containment zone, besides the two blocks where four cases and one death were reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-declares-eight-more-containment-zones-total-at-55/story-c7Gr7P0Y3rSBdD9xg2kqzK.html
15-04-2020||Delhi||Doctor cycling back home from work mowed down by car in Malviya Nagar, dies||A 52-year-old doctor, who served as a Covid-19 nodal officer and was cycling back home from work, was killed in a hit-and-run accident on Monday afternoon.The doctor, Jai Prakash Yadav, was posted at an MCD polyclinic in South Delhi’s Mehrauli and served as the South zone’s nodal officer for Covid-19, said Alka Gupta, additional director (health and administration department). Yadav’s car had developed a problem a few days ago and as he could not find a mechanic to fix it, he had been using his son’s bicycle to commute to and from work.According to Atul Kumar Thakur, deputy commissioner of police (South), the accident took place around 3.30pm Monday while Yadav was cycling back home to Greater Kailash-1 from the polyclinic. He lived with his wife, who works at a private hospital, and two children in the MCD Officer’s Flat in GK-1. The family belonged to Supaul in Bihar. “The doctor was turning right at a traffic junction near the Police Training School in Malviya Nagar, when his bicycle was rammed by a four-wheeler which sped away immediately after the accident,” the DCP said. Another police officer said it was a white car that hit the doctor. The driver quickly reversed his vehicle to get away from the mangled remains of the bicycle and the injured doctor and sped away. Yadav’s colleague, Ankit, who was right behind him in his car,saw Yadav lying injured and rushed him to Max Hospital in Saket where he succumbed to injuries during treatment. “They were only able to note the colour of the car,” the officer said.Yadav’s colleague, Dr RN Prasad, said the impact of the hit was such that Yadav was thrown into the air before landing on the road. “Ankit Bhai, please save me”, Yadav is said to have told his colleague who rushed him to hospital, Prasad said. “But the impact of the hit was such that his veins had ruptured and he died of excessive bleeding,” he said. The police were alerted by 6.30pm and have registered a case of causing death by negligence and rash driving against the unknown driver. “We are checking the CCTV footage along that route to identify the offending vehicle,” the DCP said. Prasad said Yadav’s car had developed a snag a few days ago and he was unable to find a mechanic due to the lockdown. So he was using his son’s sports bicycle to reach the polyclinic and back. “He had urged a security guard to arrange a mechanic. For the last few days, he was commuting by bicycle,” Prasad said. On Monday, Yadav was returning home after distributing personal protective kits to health workers, Prasad said. Yadav’s brother-in-law, Sudhir Kumar, urged police to spare no effort in arresting the errant driver. “We have heard that the driver was a young man and that he was speeding. When the entire city is in lockdown and there are so few vehicles out on the road, someone was speeding and ended up killing a doctor who was risking his life for the country. Now, we’ll focus on getting justice for him,” Kumar said.Dr Gupta, meanwhile, remembered Yadav as a “good doctor and a very nice human being”. He was handling the Covid screening data for the South zone as its the zonal director. Yadav knew the system well and it will be difficult to replace him,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/doctor-cycling-back-home-from-work-mowed-down-by-car-in-malviya-nagar-dies/story-gbp51Nt3hDEUIo8B0pj4EM.html
15-04-2020||Education||Panjab University students seek waiver of hostel fees||Students of Panjab University have requested the administration to waiver of hostel fees for those who left the campus in the wake of the novel coronavirus outbreak. PU suspended classes on March 15 and directed its employees to work from home. Most hostel residents left the campus and there are only few students in staying there now.Many student parties requested authorities to waive of the fees as students have left the hostels, and there is uncertainty surrounding when classes will resume. Indian National Students’ Organisation (INSO) has submitted a memorandum to dean students’ welfare (DSW) Emanual Nahar regarding the same.INSO’s PU chairman, Rajan Nain said, “After the advisory from university authorities to vacate hostels due to the Covid-19 outbreak, most students vacated their rooms. So, their hostel fees must be waived off from the March 22 till the University reopens. Fees of those who have paid in advance should be adjusted in future.”Panjab University Campus Students Council (PUCSC) president Chetan Chaudhary said, “I had a discussion with DSW regarding waiver of hostel fees and he assured students won’t be burdened financially.”PU DSW Emanual Nahar said, “We have received requests from different student organisations seeking waiver of hostel fee. Since this is an administrative matter, we will take up the issue with the advisory committee of the university.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-students-seek-waiver-of-hostel-fees/story-E68rNUy9kyXZ3YlhmQz1JN.html
15-04-2020||City||LIP MLA Bains loses security detail over his statement on Patiala attack||A day after Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) MLA Simarjit Singh Bains said that the attack on Patiala cops by Nihang Sikhs was a result of simmering anger against the men in khaki, police withdrew his security detail on Tuesday. They, however, did not curtail the security cover of his older brother, MLA Balwinder Singh Bains.Police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said he had received an application from sub-inspector Jagjit Singh, head constables Satnam Singh and Jagdish Chander and constable Mangal Singh, asking to be relieved from the security detail of MLA Bains, who represents the Atam Nagar constituency. The four cops were asked to report to the police lines with immediate effect on Tuesday.Bains, meanwhile, accused Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh of forcing his gunmen to write to the department against him. “I have audio recordings to prove that the four were under pressure. They were threatened that they would be dismissed if they don’t sign on the applications,” he said. Sub-inspector (SI) Jagjit Singh, one of the gunmen, said they are not under any pressure. “The whole department is serving the people of the state by putting their lives at risk. And instead of standing by ASI Harjit Singh, whose hand was chopped off, the MLA spoke against the whole force,” the SI said.Bains further said that he had not justified the ASI’s hand being chopped off. “I used the words ‘adle da badla (tit for tat)’ which means that due to simmering anger against the policemen who inflict atrocities on people, a sincere cop’s hand was chopped off. I never lauded this act. Instead, I spoke against those cops who are harassing people,” said Bains.“Police have been thrashing innocent people during curfew and making their videos. They did not even spare pregnant women or senior citizens. People are angry at this behaviour,” he said, adding that he stands by his statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lip-mla-bains-loses-security-detail-after-his-statement-on-patiala-attack/story-LUIEKOYQerGudnucY9A6eL.html
15-04-2020||City||Long queues in the sun for a meal, yet hundreds go hungry in Chandigarh||Chandigarh: It is 9 am, but hundreds have gathered at the Tin-Shed Colony in Sector 52 for free meals to be distributed four hours later.Among them are 14-year-old Ranjana and her 8-year-old brother. They are surviving on the two meals provided by the UT administration in a day as their parents remain stranded in Uttar Pradesh. Sometimes, however, the food finishes quickly before their turn comes.Food not sufficientHindustan Times on Tuesday found the queue for free meals stretching almost up to one km.Almost 3,000 families of labourers here are struggling to make ends meet as jobs have dried up following the curfew because of the Covid-19 outbreak.Watch | Long queues for a meal in Chandigarh’s Khajeri village, yet hundreds go hungry In fact, some people, in their desperation to be ahead of others, have left their plates to reserve places in the queue by as early as 7 am.One hour after lunch distribution begins at 1 pm, the food, comprising cooked rice and pulses (dal) and rice, is over, while over a 100 people wait to be fed.Others say whatever food they have collected is not enough to feed their families.“There are eight members in my family, but I’ve got food for just three. I was turned away when I asked for more,” rues 40-year-old Sunita.“We are dying of hunger. What will we do with just a handful of rice and daal?” questions 35-year-old Sandeep.“Issey acha hai ki hum mar jaye (It’s better to die).”For many, a whole day goes by waiting for meals “I spend the whole day standing in line for lunch and then dinner. I don’t know how long this ordeal will last,” says 28-year-old Rashmi Soaring temperatures a big challengeThe heat as temperatures in Chandigarh cross 36 degrees Celsius, is making things worse. Bimla, 45, worries she will get a heat stroke after standing in the sun for hours. “My husband is ill. I have three daughters, what can I do?” she asks. “What if I also fall ill? Who will take care of me and my family?”“It’s getting harder by the day with the onset of summer,” says Mamta, another woman from the colony.“The authorities must help,” she says, her eyes pleading.More distribution pointsWhile SDM (south) SK Jain could not be reached for comments, director sports, Tejdeep Singh Saini, overseeing food distribution in UT, denied any shortage of essentials.“Our daily distribution began with 15,000 persons on March 24, which has increased to 55,000 now,” he said, adding that they will streamline the system in Sector 52.Terming the long queues for food a “cruel joke” as people were still going hungry, area councillor Chanderwati Shukla said: “Officials must visit the areas and see how the system can be streamlined.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/long-queues-in-the-sun-for-a-meal-yet-hundreds-go-hungry-in-chandigarh/story-pbU84l3KhK0SWf2311CGtL.html
15-04-2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: 300 people in 52 houses of Naya Gaon to be screened for Covid-19||As many as 300 people living in 52 houses in Naya Gaon (Paschim) area under the Qaiserbagh police station in Lucknow will be screened for Covid-19 over the next 24 hours, after the locality was sealed in wake of two brothers testing positive for coronavirus on Monday and Tuesday, said officials. Twelve other localities of Lucknow were already sealed last week.“We have listed out the details of the houses and close contacts of people who came in contact with the two brothers. The marking of the entire area has been done and the sanitisation process of lanes and houses started on Tuesday evening,” said a senior police official.He said the entire locality, which had been sealed, included two lanes that cross each other within a periphery of around 125 metres.Joint commissioner of police (law and order) Naveen Arora, along with his team, visited the locality to chalk out a plan to enforce complete lockdown. He asked officials to seal all entry and exit points so that no people could come out or go into the locality.Police barriers had been set up at all entry and exit points of the locality while only sanitation staff, health workers and police personnel on duty were allowed there. An extensive sanitisation drive would be carried out over the next 2-3 days to completely disinfect the locality, he said, adding that the adjoining localities would also be sanitised.Arora said the police and district administration were trying to ensure that families living in the sealed locality continue to get essentials. One of the two brothers who tested positive had returned from a Gulf country on March 3 and had come in contact with many people, including around 65 medical and paramedical staff of King George’s Medical University in Lucknow, said police. Cops said that he had also come in contact with Tablighi Jamaat members.Police investigation revealed that the Naya Gaon resident did not tell doctors about his foreign travel history. Though he was feeling sick for the last 11 days, he visited a local doctor instead of going to a hospital, they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/lucknow-300-people-in-52-houses-of-naya-gaon-to-be-screened-for-covid-19/story-9dMgVAQIa04vgLbI6eDlXP.html
15-04-2020||Pune||2 arrested for assault on Pune policemen insisting on face mask||Two men were arrested by the Pune police on Sunday night for manhandling police personnel enforcing the rule mandating the use of the face mask in the city.The two arrested men were identified as Kumer Mohammad Tamboli, 23, a resident of Bopodi, and Shoeb Bashir Mujawar, 23, a resident of Mahadewadi in Khadki. At 8:30pm on Sunday night, Tamboli was riding a two-wheeler near Indira Kalyan Kendra in Kasai Moholla in Khadki. Havaldar Sharad Khairnar attached to Khadki police station pulled him up for roaming without a mask on, according to the complaint lodged by Khairnar.Tamboli allegedly returned with his friends to where the policeman was with his colleague and attacked them both. The two were arrested by the police and produced in a local court on Monday. A case under Sections 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code and Section 51(b) of Natioanl Disaster Management Act 2005 was registered against the two. Assistant police inspector Harish Thakur of Khadki police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-arrested-for-assault-on-pune-policemen-insisting-on-face-mask/story-lz9gVOXQRKRiUTX2yxxaZJ.html
15-04-2020||Noida||As lockdown is extended, Noida authority motivates condo residents with songs||As Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday announced the extension of the nationwide lockdown till May, the Noida authority team motivated residents in two housing condominiums via songs. A team of project engineers, junior engineers and other staff members led by the Noida authority’s officer on special duty(OSD), Indu Prakash Singh, visited Stellar Kings Court housing complex in Sector 50 and Homes 121 housing society in Sector 121 in order to disinfect the common spaces and monitor proper delivery of essential services. “As the extension of the nationwide lockdown was announced, we felt that many people were feeling a bit worried about the spread of Covid-19 in the country. Therefore, we decided to sing motivational songs in order to pray for the country’s safety and give a message that we, as a society, will fight Covid-19 together successfully with a positive mind,” said Indu Prakash Singh, OSD, Noida authority.As the officer broke into a song, some of the residents joined in while maintaining social distancing. Meanwhile, most of the other residents came out in their respective balconies to sing with him. The residents, together with the official sung, “Hum honge kamyab” and “Itni shakti hame dena data.” The Noida authority is conducting a disinfection drive in all housing complexes, villages and other areas once in three days to sanitise all common spaces in order to contain the spread of Covid-19. The authority is mixing sodium hypochlorite in water and spraying the solution in lobbies, clubs, pools, roads, parks, lifts and other common areas. The authority has formed different teams, which have been assigned specific areas to disinfect and also monitor the supply of essential services, water and delivery of groceries.“The OSD with his team sung songs in the badminton court. The residents not only sung with officials but also applauded their work. They are working round-the-clock to provide essential goods to our societies during this time of crisis,” said Rajiva Singh, president of apartment owners association of Stellar Kings Court Society, Sector 50, and the president of federation of apartment owners association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/as-lockdown-is-extended-noida-authority-motivates-condo-residents-with-songs/story-7GBq8VhKmtJnlrfR80YhbL.html
15-04-2020||Pune||Pune records highest single day jump in positive cases; 4 deaths||Pune saw 44 positive Covid-19 cases and four Covid-19-related deaths on Tuesday, the highest daily jump for fresh cases since the Sars-Cov-2 virus pandemic broke out in the city in March.Prior to this, within a 24-hour period, between April 7 and April 8, the city had recorded 39 fresh cases as its highest figure. The death toll in Pune district is now at 38, including one death reported from Pimpri-Chinchwad. The total progressive positive cases are at 322.Of the 322 positives, 28 have been declared cured and have been discharged, 24 of whom are from Naidu hospital, and one each from Sahyadri hospital, Bharti Vidyapeth hospital, KEM and the Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital. Out of the 213 patients still in hospital, 90 are at Naidu; 82 at Symbiosis Centre; nine at Bopodi; two at Laygude; two at Sahyadri, Karve road; nine at KEM; four at Jehangir; two at Poona Hospital; five at Deenanath Mangeshkar; one at Sahyadri, Hadapsar; four at Ruby Hall; two at Inlanks Budhrani; and two at Noble hospital. The remaining have been admitted to Sassoon hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-records-highest-single-day-jump-in-positive-cases-4-deaths/story-p7SxT547rBy1efmMytX3nK.html
15-04-2020||Pune||One of Pune’s youngest and Camp’s first among 4 more deaths; toll now at 38||Four patients who tested positive for Covid-19 were declared dead on Tuesday, taking the casualty toll in the city to 38, including one death reported from Pimpri-Chinchwad.The four mortalities include three females and one male.All the four deaths were reported from Sassoon hospital, which has now recorded 28 of the 38 deaths in the city due to Covid-19.Among the four dead is one resident from the Pune cantonment area, which had so far not reported any Covid-19 related casualty.According to health department officials, all the four deceased were also suffering from other ailments, including liver failure, diabetes and hypertension. Pune Mayor Murlidhar Mohol said, “All the four deceased have been reported from Sassoon hospital and all had other health ailments in addition to Covid19.”Of the four, a 27-year-old male residing at Parvati darshan was declared dead on Tuesday, the youngest Covid-19 related casualty in Pune.The man also reportedly suffered from a liver disease caused by alcoholism.The others include a 50-year-old female residing in Kondhwa, declared on Tuesday and also reported to suffer from hypertension; a 42-year-old female also from Kondhwa, who was admitted on April 12 and, declared dead on Tuesday, was a patient of hypertension, diabetes and asthma; and a 77-year -old female from Ghorpadi gaon, admitted on April 2, suffering from diabetes, hypertension, hypothyroidism and acute kidney injury. Cantonment first’s victim infected by family members returning from abroadA 77-year-old woman who died on Tuesday, the first victim from the Pune Cantonment area, is part of an 18-member family, all of whom have been quarantined by the authorities. PCB chief executive officer (CEO) Amit Kumar confirmed that it was the first death of a cantonment resident. “The deceased contracted the virus from two of her close relatives who came into India,” Kumar said, adding, “Currently, five family members are positive and undergoing treatment in hospital.”Referring to an action plan readied by the Pune Cantonment board (PCB), Kumar said that the administration has received Rs 2.50 crore from the district administration and is giving the final touches to a 100-bed special Covid-19 centre inside the Cantonment hospital.“Pune’s Cantonment area has a population of one lakh and administration has completed door-to -door screening of at least half of its population,” Kumar claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/one-of-pune-s-youngest-and-camp-s-first-among-4-more-deaths-toll-now-at-38/story-PqwfEEiz8ye1myerlGpURN.html
15-04-2020||Pune||Supply of essential commodities in containment zones enough, say residents of Pune; slum dwellers struggle to survive||Presence of restrictions in the containment zones (sealed areas) across eastern Pune has not hampered the supply of essential commodities, say residents. However, those residing in slums claim that there are still problems in getting commodities from fair price shops and shop owners claim that due to the disruption in the supply chain with the wholesale grocery market closed for two days, their stocks are limited. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) sealed all peth areas, including Swargate, Ghorpade peth, Somwar peth, Mangalwar peth, Budhwar peth, Guruwar peth, Shukrawar peth, Shaniwar peth, Raviwar peth, Bhavani peth, Nana peth and areas around the RTO office after maximum number of Covid-19 positive cases were reported from there. Once an area is defined as a containment zone, private vehicle movement will be banned and individuals who step outside their homes must wear masks. The containment, however, excludes vegetable vendors/agriculture-related transport, essentials including grocery and medical, institutional and government vehicles for scheduled period. On Monday, the Pune civic body proposed to district collector Naval Kishore Ram to declare 22 more areas as containment zones. The collector has not taken a call on the proposal yet. Anand Saraf, a resident of the peth area, said, “Although the vegetable market is closed, many vendors are still selling their stock in the internal lanes, which is helpful for residents.The milk supply is regular, too. There is no need to visit to grocery shops regularly during the lockdown, but if needed, all the necessary items are easily available in our areas.” Sandip Bhosale, a grocery shop owner from Swargate area, said, his stocks are running low. “The main market is closed and supply has been hampered. I have to send customers empty-handed even for items which could have been easily available.” Another resident, Vishal Dhanwade, who lives in Guruwar peth, said, “There have been no complaints from residents about availability of essential commodities. Though there are barricades on the roads, it is only to restrict vehicular movement. People can walk to their nearby stores and purchase essential commodities, if needed. The area is sealed, so residents prefer to get items from shops adjacent to their homes and do not step out. Also, the public appreciates the government’s move to seal the area to contain the spread of the Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes Covid-19.” However, Avinash Bagwe, who is a corporator and represents people who live in the slum areas, mainly near Bhavani peth, highlights the plight of the urban poor. He said, “Our area mainly consists of slums. People do not have enough money to procure grocery for a month. They depend on the fair price shops, but since many people do not fall in the below poverty line category, they have not been able to purchase items from the fair price shops. They are daily wage earners and need a source of sustenance during the lockdown. “Along with the problem of daily meals, residents of slums are also dealing with the woes arising due to increasing daily temperature. Most of the houses are 10x10 rooms made of steel. With the temperature rising, residents cannot stay inside their homes during the daytime and hence, come out to roam on the streets. This causes problems for the police officials who ask them to go back. These residents work as domestic helps and are currently not getting any financial help,” he added.Navnath Kamble, a slum dweller from Bhavani peth, said, “I am an autorickshaw driver. However, since March my income has been zero and it has become tough to manage my domestic expenses. We do not get grocery from the fair price shops as we do not fall in the below poverty line category and I do not have enough money to buy grocery for at least 15 days. The lockdown is increasing my burden and I am finding it difficult to manage my home.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/supply-of-essential-commodities-in-containment-zones-enough-say-residents-slum-dwellers-struggle-to-survive/story-bMChej1s4Z3Hj7coYAXdUP.html
15-04-2020||Pune||With dad doubling as coach, Mulye smashes lockdown like it’s summer vacation... with lots of training||Neil Mulye, table tennis  When it comes to table tennis, 12-year-old Neil Mulye is a prodigy from Pune. After showcasing his skills in the cadet category, in 2019, Mulye moved to the sub-junior category. For Mulye, the lockdown is comfortable as he trains at home every day with his coach, who is also his father, Upendra Mulye, at home. Although he misses playing with his friends, video calling has made his life easy. Mulye is also enjoying the re-run of Ramayan and Mahabharat on the television screen.Mulye who stays at Bavdhan, is maintains his fitness with circuit training drills and also practices tables tennis with his father on a mini table tennis table at home or on the dining table. Morning sessionI wake up at 5:45am and my fitness routine starts at 6am. I do exercises which includes circuit training drills. The session continues for an hour. Circuit training includes – press-ups, pull-ups, inclined press-ups, sit-ups (lower abdominals), skipping, among other things. I also do suryanamaskar every day.Once I am done with my routine, I again sleep till 9:30am. After that, I have a training session with Mihir Teranikar via video conferencing. Then, later in the morning, I help my mother clean the house and water the plants. I love watering plants and it is my daily job during the lockdown. Then, I listen to music or watch TV. Afternoon sessionAfter lunch, I don’t sleep and it is time to play with my younger brother- cards or ludo. We also play cricket on the house porch. My afternoons are filled with fun activities with my brother and with my Class 7 exam over, there is no burden of studies. Sometimes, I do study Class 8 books.Evening sessionIn the evening, I exercise again at 5pm. My father also joins me and we play table tennis before concluding our session. Every alternate day, we analyse video recordings of our previous matches individually as well as with all players of PYC Hindu Gymkhana. Our training ends around 6:30pm or 7pm, then I spend time reading story books. After dinner, it is again time to plays cards and ludo with family. Sometimes, we also watch a movie together. The lockdown period feels like my summer vacations, I just miss training on the courts. I hope this lockdown ends soon as I don’t want table tennis players to stay at home during the summer season. Many coaching camps and a lot of practice events take place during these two months and I want to enjoy all that with other players.Gym I don’t train at the gym yet. I will be turning 13 in July and my exercise routine is enough to keep me fit. HobbyReading books, listening music and watching television.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/with-his-father-doubling-up-as-coach-at-home-neil-mulye-smashes-lockdown-like-summer-vacations-but-with-lots-of-training/story-NJYpJjxOSXUuer4tR5kU8J.html
15-04-2020||City||Ludhiana: Spectre of Covid-19 dampens Baisakhi||The novel coronavirus outbreak and acute shortage of migrant labourers during harvest season has put a damper on Baisakhi festivities for farmers in the region. The lockdown, which was imposed to curtail the spread of the deadly coronavirus, has debilitated the farming sector. With numerous migrant workers having left the state, farmers in Ludhiana, Khanna and Jagraon say they are facing in crises. They say the few labourers that stayed behind are unskilled.Pamal village sarpanch Jagdish Singh Grewal says, “Though farmers can harvest crop using a combine, many other tasks remain labour intensive. There are no trained labourers in the area and due to the lockdown, labour cannot travel to Punjab.”“Sadly, the village youth, who come from poor families, are unwilling to help with farm work despite being offered handsome daily wages,” he added. Anoop Singh Grewal, a farmer, who owns land in Hambra area says the lockdown has raised a plethora of concerns: “The government has allowed us to use combine harvesters but it must also allow allied industries to operate. What if the combine develops a snag? Such practical problems need to be addressed before harvesting starts,” he said.Bharti Kisan Union (Rajewal) president BS Rajewal says the government will understand the practical problems only when its officials began visiting the grain markets.“The government has mandated that a farmer can only bring 50 quintals of grain in one go. If a farmer has 200 quintals of grain stocked with him, will he make four trips to the mandi and who will bear the cost of it. How will the grain be moved from one place to the other, especially when there is an acute staff shortage of labour? asked Rajewal.PAU EXPERTS SAY FUTURE OF FARMING IS GRIMPunjab Agricultural University (PAU) experts have predicted that the labour crises will hit paddy transplantation as well.PAU department of economics and sociology professor and head Dr Kamal Vatta says a lot of labour will be required for transplantation of paddy. “With increased demand for labour amid the lockdown, there may be an increase in workers’ wages. This may cause delay in paddy transplantation and decline the area under cultivation,” says Vatta.“The area over which summer vegetables are cultivated may also decline because of shortage of labour. The state government should promote the use of mechanical paddy transplanters and ensure their timely repair and availability to help farmers cope with labour shortages,” Vatta said.The pandemic will adversely impact income and employment in the farming sector. A drop in prices of produce and hike in cost of production will result in lower income for farmers. Non-farm income will also decline, said Vatta, adding that though the wages of agricultural workers will increase it will be accompanied by a drop in other sectors, resulting in an overall decline in wages and employment. Vatta also predicted that unemployment among rural youth will rise as employment opportunities in urban areas decline. The incidence of rural poverty in rural Punjab may increase, Vatta said. “To alleviate the situation, the poor should be provided time-bound food coupons, unemployment allowances and employment should be generated through MGNREGA.The allocations for social welfare schemes should be enhanced,” the professor said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-spectre-of-covid-19-dampens-baisakhi/story-gwWo2Cc69isuHBMDegsS9L.html
15-04-2020||Delhi||Riot victims stitch back their lives by sewing safety gear||Eighteen-year-old Saina, a resident of Shiv Vihar in northeast Delhi, has had little to do since her house and family’s shop were damaged during a communal riot in February. These days, however, she has an important job to do — stitch personal protective equipment (PPE) for front-line workers to aid their fight against coronavirus (Covid-19) disease. “I had planned to resume my studies this year as I had to take a break due to my family’s financial situation last year. I couldn’t because of the riots,” said Saina, who goes only by her first name, adding she finished matriculation last year. “When we got the opportunity to stitch PPE kits and do something about the situation in our country, we knew we had to do it.”The eldest of six siblings, Saina was worried after her father’s e-rickshaw was burnt, home and grocery shop damaged in the riots. While the family was struggling to restart their lives, the Covid-19 disease struck. “We are relying on the ration given to us by the government and various organisations. There isn’t anything else to do. When we got the sewing machines as a part of the rehabilitation drive, we decided to stitch masks and PPE suits during this lockdown.”Saina and three other women, who lost their houses and livelihood due to the communal riots in February, take turns to use the two sewing machines given to them by a civil society collective, which was working on rehabilitation of riot victims in the area.Aasif Mujtaba, a PhD scholar at the Indian Institute of Technology Delhi, who founded the Miles2Smile collective, said, “A local residing in the area, who earlier gave stitching work to these women, got a suggestion from someone that since there is no work and a dearth of PPE kits across the country, these women could be approached for the work.”A sample kit was provided to these women over a week ago along with raw material. Mujtaba says that so far, they have made over 35,000 masks and over 200 full-body PPE kits. “We have now provided them with better quality material (70 gsm) and work on it will begin from Tuesday. Some of the kits have been distributed to volunteers working in the area. We have also approached local police personnel in various areas and will distribute kits to them as well. If there is a demand, we can also sell these it to those in need,” Mujtaba said, adding that the kits would be sterilised before distribution. The remuneration for the labour remains in question. “Right now, we just wanted to help. If there is a demand for more suits and we are paid for the work, it will help us as well,” said Saina, before heading off to finish her day’s work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/riot-victims-stitch-back-their-lives-by-sewing-safety-gear/story-FJSNn6Ks7WMQWlYlHii9dN.html
