16-04-2020||City||Admn takes charge of harvesting at Dera Bassi Covid-19 hotspot||As Jawaharpur village remains a Covid-19 containment zone with no person allowed out, the district administration has taken charge of wheat harvesting in Dera Bassi’s hotspot, which so far has reported 38 positive cases, pushing up Mohali’s count to 56, the highest in Punjab.Two harvest combines belonging to the village have been pressed into service to cover 250 acres under cultivation in the village. “Harvesting has begun and two combines of the village are being used, with no manual operations allowed,” said Avtaar Singh, a villager.Landowners allowed to supervise“Landowners are informed before the harvesting begins and if they have tested negative for Covid-19 they are allowed to stand at a distance and supervise the operations, but they cannot help,” said Jora Singh, a former sarpanch of the village.“As the village is a hotspot no movement can be allowed. Harvesting has begun and villagers are quite co-operative. We will ensure that the hard work of the farmers does not go waste,” said Kuldeep Bawa, sub-divisional magistrate (SDM), Dera Bassi.However, kick starting the harvesting process was not easy as the combine operators as well as labourers had fled earlier fearing they would get infected, forcing the administration to arrange for volunteers after reassuring them of adequate safety measures.“The wheat harvested will be packed separately and kept in storage area that has been been sanitised. We have got three tractor trolleys and two combines and six migrant labourers,” added Bawa.The authorities aim to complete harvesting within this week. Supervising harvesting and procurementMeanwhile, a seven-member team has been set up by Bawa with Sukhchain Singh, block development and panchayat officer, Dera Bassi, as the nodal officer.It includes the station house officer, Dera Bassi, panchyat officials and representatives of the village.“We will ensure that while harvesting proper precautions such as social distancing and wearing masks is followed,” said the block development and panchayat officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/admn-takes-charge-of-harvesting-at-dera-bassi-covid-19-hotspot/story-OwErv5XC0mjhZoTzkt8kHP.html
16-04-2020||Chandigarh||Don’t want double salary, but safety gear: Haryana doctors’ body||The Haryana Civil Medical Services Association (HCMSA) on Thursday announced not to take double the basic salary offered by the state government.Referring to the message received from the health department headquarter that the benefits of double basic salary would be applicable to doctors working at isolation wards, ICUs and sampling for Covid-19, the HCMSA in its communication to health minister Anil Vij said that giving benefit to few doctors would demoralise the entire HCMS cadre. In view of this, HCMSA has decided not to take the double basic salary on this patternThe statement further said that all HCMS doctors posted at different health centres across the state were doing their duties and involved directly or indirectly in various activities to control coronavirus pandemic like screening, treatment, sampling, testing, active field surveillance, treatment at quarantine centre and treatment of migrant labour, isolation ward, various OPDs, emergency services such as labour room, post mortem, casualty and mobile teams.The doctors posted at isolation wards, ICUs and sampling section were using PPE kits but the other doctors on duty were dealing with the patients without having N95 masks and PPE kits and hence, they were on the higher risk because they don’t know which patient was Covid positive or not,” the HCMS Association further wrote.Stating that they had never demanded double salary and that it was the proposal of the chief minister, the association urged the health minister for providing sufficient medicines, ventilators and safety gear in place of double salary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/don-t-want-double-salary-but-safety-gear-haryana-doctors-body/story-uAiUcfeHcAhfnHay4peppN.html
16-04-2020||City||Hail, rain and lockdown: Cane production, sugar industry power on||Barabanki/Bahriach/Gonda/Lucknow : The lockdown has brought most commercial, agriculture and industrial activity to a grinding halt. However, it is work as usual for sugarcane farmers and sugar mills are up and running.“Sugarcane harvesting, weighing, transportation to mills and cane-crushing has been going on. You can see that once we upload the truck with this harvested sugarcane, we will head for the sugar mill in Nanpara,” said Kesri Dayal, a farmer, in a Nepal-bordering Bahraich village.Another farmer, Shuktisj Verma, in Masauli, in Barabanki, said: “Yes, this time, it looks like only cane farmers are unaffected. This is the only crop that has survived both – several bouts of hail and rain, and Covid-19. I think by next week all my cane would be transported to a mill in the district.”A staff member at the procurement centre on the Lucknow-Bahraich highway at Tendwa Basantpur in Bahraich said, “We had instructions from the government to carry on till the end of the cane-crushing season with a rider that we have to ensure social distancing and sanitizing in all our activities.”The sugarcane industry is an essential industry of Uttar Pradesh and is the primary source of almost 35 lakh farming families of the province. The state has a total of 157 established sugar mills out of which 119 sugar mills are operational. According to the UP sugar industry & cane development department website the total sugarcane area of the province is over 27 lakh hectare.Department principal secretary Sanjay R Bhoosreddy said, “The sugar industry is the only large scale industry that is functioning in the state. And the sector has outperformed itself. Against last year’s crushing season, the sugar mills this season have already crushed nearly 300 lakh quintal cane more. Of this 100 lakh quintal was crushed during the Covid phase from March 20 onwards. Sugar mills in the state have crushed 9,320 lakh quintal this season and produced 1,054 lakh quintal sugar out of it.”Of the 119 operational sugar mills in the state, three are of the sugar corporation, 24 are of the cooperative sector, while the rest are in the private sector.UP Sugar Mills Association secretary-general Deepak Guptara said, “The government kept the sugar industry immune from the lockdown and we are committed to continue running till the end of the current crushing season, that is till the April-end.”The crushing season is from November to April.Guptara said that the industry continues to adhere to the social distancing and sanitization protocol that the state government had issued for the industry. He said that some private sugar mills have even housed their staff on the campus itself and have been providing them lodging and food to prevent any possibility of them contracting Covid-19.”The sugar mills and the distilleries have also produced 11 lakh litres of sanitizers since the lockdown began.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hail-rain-and-lockdown-cane-production-sugar-industry-power-on/story-iE1LIPFprYeLAFoCidu3bP.html
16-04-2020||Gurugram||Uniworld Gardens 2 residents watchout for their domestic helpers||With the announcement of the national lockdown aimed at containing the spread of coronavirus, most societies in the city put restrictions on the movement of domestic helpers and support staff leaving many worried if they would be paid in full by their employees given the loss of active working days. However, for those employed at Uniworld Gardens 2 in Sector 47, the resident welfare association (RWA) has come forward to ensure all workers are paid their salaries in full.The RWA using all its communication channels routinely informed the residents about paying workers those employed for household jobs and chores like car cleaning. It even invited employees to lodge complaints with the RWA in case a resident refused to pay them or did not pay the salary in full.“We are trying to ensure that the salaries of all the domestic helpers and car cleaners are paid in full. We have also informed the workers that they can place a complaint with us in case any household refuses to pay. We are yet to receive a complaint as the residents have complied with our requests,” said Joginder Singh, president, RWA. He added that the domestic helpers have also been informed that in case any of them fell sick, they could always reach out to the society for assistance.Residents say that the society has been very particular about enforcing its rule of paying full salaries to the household workers.“Through the society app, we were told that all helpers should be paid in full to help them through the lockdown. Some of them don’t have e-wallet accounts or bank accounts and had to be paid in cash. Residents were given time slots to come down to the society gate and pay the workers. It was well organised,” said Anita Manoharan, a resident. Manoharan added that she had paid her help in advance anticipating a situation like this, but is not sure how she will pay her help the next month as the latter does not have any e-wallet account.“At the beginning of the month, we were called to the society gate and were paid our salaries. Some of the residents paid cash, and others sent it to our bank accounts. We are not allowed to go out so the day we had to collect the salary, I had to request the police on road to let me go out,” said Pompa Mondal, who works as a help at the society and lives in Sector 48. The society has advised its residents against taking leisure walks in the complex to reduce the possibility of contracting the virus. Twice a day, few residents volunteer to be at the gates of the society dissuading those taking walks.“For around one or two hours in the morning and evening, resident volunteers stand at the gate and dissuade other residents from taking walks unless they are going to the grocery store. At the same time, they also supervise the activities of the security team to ensure the screening protocol is followed,” Amit Chatterjee, another resident, said.At the two society gates, the security team has been trained to use infrared thermometers to scan the body temperatures of all those entering the society. All hose entering the society are also required to wash and sanitise their hands at the washbasins installed at the gates. The society is also maintaining records of all those who step out of the society.“Only residents such as doctors, police, journalists and others who provide essential services are allowed to step out. For others, we keep records of their reasons for going out,” said Chatterjee adding the society has also procured chemicals for daily sanitisation of the common areas.Looking after its senior citizens, the society has circulated details of all resident doctors to ensure speedy consultations if needed. For older residents living alone or in need of help, the society has roped in its housekeeping staff to assist them.The society has accommodated the staff inside its complex to minimise their exposure to the outside world. Around 20 staffers have been provided accommodation in vacant apartments with cooking facilities. Ration is also provided to them from time to time. They have also been provided masks, gloves and sanitisers to protect themselves while on duty.“We made it mandatory for our staff to wear masks and gloves. At the same time, we also trained the staff on discarding the gloves and masks properly,” said Singh.The society has one grocery shop that caters to all the residents. Residents can place their order in advance via WhatsApp and informed once their order is complete. They can then pick it up from the store after paying.“Only one person is allowed inside the store at a time. Residents have to wear masks and maintain social distancing norms. We have made markings on the floor to help maintain the distance,” said Chatterjee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/uniworld-gardens-2-residents-watchout-for-their-domestic-helpers/story-moMqmZmfUqIHcn3AjkwU8H.html
16-04-2020||Lucknow||Covid-19 patient’s body laid to rest after midnight drama, 157 booked||The Lucknow police on Thursday lodged an FIR against 157 people after a midnight drama over opposition to burial of a Covid-19 patient’s body at the Aishbagh graveyard on Wednesday night, a senior police officer said.The drama unfolded when a crowd opposed the burial and said that laying the body to rest in the graveyard could lead to infection spreading in the area, the officer added.Additional deputy commissioner of police (Additional DCP), West, Vikas Chandra Tripathi said over 150 people gathered outside the Aishbagh graveyard on Wednesday evening and remained there till the early hours to oppose burial of the Covid-19 patient, who died in Lucknow on Wednesday afternoon.He said the crowd was led by a group of seven people and they locked the main gate of the graveyard.Tripathi said the body of the patient was later buried with the consent of the deceased’s family. The officer said the location could not be disclosed as it may lead to further protests.The additional DCP said the police had lodged an FIR at the Bazarkhala police station against seven identified people, including Babu and Naseem, who are associated with the management of the Aishbagh graveyard, and over 150 unidentified people who gathered from the adjoining localities. He said they were booked under IPC section 143 for unlawful assembly, 148 for rioting, 269 for a negligent act likely to spread infection dangerous to life, 271 for disobeying quarantine rules and 353 for using criminal force to deter police personnel from performing their duties.He said the police photographed and video recorded the entire incident.Those involved in provoking people and creating trouble will be identified through the footage and stern action will be initiated against them, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/covid-19-patient-s-body-laid-to-rest-after-midnight-drama-157-booked/story-0Xa1hjR7m4COk9myHr3ehN.html
16-04-2020||City||Gurugram: Garbage collection trucks to be fitted with speakers to disburse info on Coronavirus||Gurugram: The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has decided to use as many as 242 waste collection vehicles of its concessionaire as a medium to spread awareness and disburse information on precautionary measures to fight the Coronavirus pandemic, officials said Thursday.Each of the vehicles of Ecogreen, the MCG’s concessionaire for door-to-door waste collection, will be fitted with speakers that will be used to make pre-recorded announcements to the public, such as the relevance of Aarogya Setu app, basic precautionary measures to combat the infection, and for updates to residents living in containment zones.MCG officials said since the garbage collection vehicles cover all corners of the city, they were considered the best medium to deliver messages.“The rationale behind using garbage collection vehicles as a medium to spread Covid-19 awareness measures is simple. They are already collecting waste from all parts of the city and by simply fitting speakers in them to deliver important messages to the residents, we can refrain from incurring costs by creating fresh mechanisms. Our primary focus is to make as many residents aware as possible of ways to minimise and limit the threats posed by Covid-19,” said Vinay Pratap Singh, commissioner, MCG.Besides disbursing information on the Aarogya Setu app which is run by the government, the speakers will be emitting seven pre-recorded guidelines and rules to follow for combating and containing Covid-19 such as the importance of staying indoors, making no physical contact with any person, not touching your face when outdoors, wearing masks all times, not to touch items, washing hands for more than 20 seconds with soap, and if displaying Covid-19 symptoms then to contact helpline numbers immediately.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-garbage-collection-trucks-to-be-fitted-with-speakers-to-disburse-info-on-coronavirus/story-YhYAo8U7hsNKvKdCOUlt9O.html
16-04-2020||Gurugram||Administration plans to issue temporary ration cards to migrant families||In its effort to streamline the food distribution process in the wake of the nationwide lockdown being extended till May 3, the district administration is chalking out a plan to provide temporary ration cards to migrant families in need. The cards will be valid for three months. According to officials, distribution of dry ration to those in need would help better utilise resources and avoid wastage of cooked meals (as they must be consumed timely in the summer). The administration, however, is facing the challenge of preparing a plan to avoid the duplicity of beneficiaries under different schemes. “The proposal is to issue temporary ration cards to those who lack proper documents and are not covered under any scheme. Issuing temporary ration cards has started at the state level. We will accept applications and government employees will scrutinise them. Based on that we will issue the ration cards to avoid any duplicity of beneficiaries,” Mahabir Prasad, additional commissioner, Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), who is also the nodal officer for food distribution, said. Earlier this week, in a meeting with chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, the administration was directed to prepare a plan for the distribution of dry ration to the larger affected population. A senior official in the district administration, privy to the matter, said, “We have seen across the state that cooked meals are going to waste. So, it is likely we will only provide cooked meals only in shelter homes where they can be consumed timely. People who live in slums and colonies will get dry ration.”According to Prasad, dry ration packets, including 5 kilograms of rice and 5 kilograms of wheat flour, are being distributed in different wards with the help of MCG councillors. “Councillors are distributing at least 100 packets of dry ration per week in their respective wards as they are aware of areas in need,” Prasad said, adding that dry ration packets can last for a week in a family of five persons.Officials say the challenge is to streamline the distribution of free ration. “It is difficult to distribute dry ration randomly as all the members in a family can claim ration packets. So, it is important to have a list of people who don’t have a BPL card or are not any other beneficiary list. We give the ration to only one person in the family. For this process to be streamlined, a house-to-house survey, started by the administration, will prove beneficial,” Prasad said.He added that the distribution of dry ration once or twice a week will reduce the burden on resources used to deliver cooked meals to six relief centres and 47 distribution centres across the city.The administration is providing cooked meals to over one lakh people and dry food to almost 12,000 people. Vivek Kalia, estate officer -II, Haryana Shahri Vikas Pradhikaran, who is also the nodal officer for food distribution, said, “When we started distributing ration and cooked meals, we immediately identified the slums where we started feeding people. We geotagged the areas where cooked meals and dry ration were being distributed. The challenge in distributing dry ration is to identify people who desperately need it. It should not reach those people who unnecessarily hoard ration.”According to him, in the initial days of the lockdown, they distributed 1,500 packets of ration a day while the overall demand was at least 20,000. “We were facing challenges in packaging. So, cooked meals were being distributed through gurudwaras and various philanthropic avenues. We started distributing 10,000 packets of cooked meals per day and today the number has reached over one lakh per day,” Kalia said. Currently, the Civil Defence NGO appointed by the administration for food is distributing dry ration packets comprising 2.5 kilograms of rice, 5 kilograms of wheat flour, 1 kilogram of pulses, 1 packet of salt, 1 kilogram of sugar, 350 grams of tea, 100 grams of red chilli, 100 grams of turmeric, 100 grams of cumin.Officials of the department of food supplies, who provide dry ration to Below Poverty Line (BPL) cardholders, Antyodaya Anna Yojana (AAY) families and Other Priority Households (OPH), said they are focusing only on authorised beneficiaries. “The temporary ration card is a recent announcement. Our focus is on the registered beneficiaries under the National Food Security Act (NFSA). In the wake of the lockdown, there is a nominal change in the ration we were providing to the beneficiaries. For example, if a family of four was getting 20 kilograms of wheat, they are now getting an additional 20 kilograms. Likewise, we will provide them with 1kilogram of pulses/lentils along with a packet of iodised salt,” Monika Malik, in-charge, district food and supplies department, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/administration-plans-to-issue-temporary-ration-cards-to-migrant-families/story-ov3CaOVVQPa5LRkbMYbdEP.html
16-04-2020||Gurugram||South City-2 residents threaten protest if water scarcity persists||Residents of South City-2 have threatened to protest persistent water shortage, which they allege has been the case since the lockdown was imposed last month, if civic authorities fail to take immediate action. Residents of Block D of the society said they have written to civic agencies, but no one is paying heed to their complaints.Around 5,000 residents in the area have been dependent on water tankers since March 22 due to a water shortage. Blocks D and F of South City-2, among others located near the Arcadia Market, are the worst hit.“The water crisis is not new to us. There is no one to hold the builder and the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) accountable. Although the MCG has taken over the area, services are still with the developer and they have been delaying it for long. They blame each other, but there is no relief for residents, who have to bear the brunt of the crisis,” Rakesh Yadav, the vice-president of South City 2 RWA, said. The area was taken over by the MCG last year but the services are still with the developer. Water is supplied by the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) to the developer, who routes it to the colony.“In South City-2, the developer had attached its properties to fund a ₹23.52 crore payment to the MCG to fix deficiencies. The handover is yet to be initiated in the colony, as the MCG found a ₹11.76-crore property to be stuck in litigation, and has been waiting for the developer to either pay the sum or attach another property of the same value,” said an MCG official, requesting anonymity.GMDA officials said they have cross-checked their supply and there is no interruption at their end. “We have checked the water pressure and supply, which is regular, but the problem lies with the developer and their pipelines. We are supplying to the developer, further responsibility is of their team,” said Ankit Sheoran, junior engineer, GMDA.Residents alleged that due to lockdown there is hardly any availability of staff at the developer’s office to resolve their issues. They have had to fall back on private tanker operators to meet their daily needs and are paying nearly ₹1,000 for a tanker, which is shared by two families every day.“Since March 24, water supply has been irregular and unreliable. Hence, I had no option but to rely on the services of a private tank operator to ensure enough supply to meet our day-to-day needs. The water is supplied by GMDA to the developer and it is routed through them,” Bhupinder Singh, a resident of Block D, South City-2, said. “Many residents are using boosting pumps and some have constructed underground tanks, due to which the water pressure is low and does not reach all houses. The builder’s ignorance about infrastructure is the major problem and they are still neglecting the issue. There are no back-up plans to deal with emergency situations,” Kuldeep Chillar, another resident said.The representative of the developer said that he is unaware of the water supply issue and refused further comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/south-city-2-residents-threaten-protest-if-water-scarcity-persists/story-qoTKGKAKdyWPmytnIJeQSO.html
16-04-2020||Gurugram||Najafgarh drain’s biochemical oxygen demand reduces 40 points during lockdown: GMDA affidavit||The Najafgarh drain’s biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) has reduced by 40 points during the 21 days of the nationwide lockdown, stated the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) affidavit submitted to the national green tribunal (NGT) on Wednesday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi ordered the lockdown to stem the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the country. It began on March 25, and the first phase ended on April 14.The BOD is an indicator of pollutants in water—the higher the level, the poorer the quality of water.The NGT said it would review the affidavit after the second phase of the lockdown is lifted in May. The NGT has been monitoring Gurugram’s sewage discharge for the past four years. It has stated its concerns from time to time about the rise of pollutants in the drain and questioned the GMDA’s treatment quality and capacity.Officials privy to the matter said that they measured the BOD level at 15 mg/litre on April 14, which is the lowest-ever measurement of the drain so far, according to Pradeep Kumar, chief engineer, GMDA. The officials measured it at 55 mg/litre on March 21. This reduction is a great improvement, which the affidavit stated began taking place soon after the closure of factories and commercial establishments because of the lockdown.There are 10,000 small and medium-scale industries in Gurugram and Manesar, which engage 18 lakh employees. The effluent is supposed to discharge towards common effluent treatment plants (CETPs) and sewage treatment plants (STPs) before being released into the Najafgarh drain.The Haryana state pollution control board (HSPCB) has issued certificates to industries, making it mandatory for them to treat effluents at the industry-level and then discharge them towards the CETP or STPs—where the GMDA further treats and discharges them into the Najafgarh drain that flows into the Yamuna river.Pradeep Kumar, GMDA chief engineer, said, “We want the HSPCB to probe whether this improvement is linked with industries. All our STPs at Behrampur and Dhanwapur and the CETP at Manesar are still functioning well. Meanwhile, we have roped in Sri Ram Institute, New Delhi, to collect samples for testing. The treatment quality of our STPs has been questioned repeatedly after the measurement of every sample from the Najafgarh drain so far, because of high BOD levels.”The NGT was to review the affidavit on April 15 but deferred it after the lockdown was extended till May 3 on Tuesday.“Domestic discharge from the city (around 355 MLD) continues, while factory discharge is nil. The CETP at Manesar gets effluent discharge measuring around 55 MLD from industries, while the Gurugram industries’ effluent goes to STPs at Behrampur and Dhanwapur for treatment. That the BOD level has gone down establishes the fact that several industries must flout rules and discharge effluent or waste directly into drains leading to the Najafgarh drain through private tankers. The HSPCB can confirm that,” Kumar said.The NGT is concerned about pollution in the Yamuna because of the continuous discharge of polluted sewage by Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi, and is monitoring the same through a committee—the River Yamuna Pollution Monitoring Committee—constituted in June last year.Shakti Singh, regional officer, HSPCB, said, “We have collected samples and will comment once we get the reports after the lockdown is relaxed. The pollution in Najafgarh drain has reduced, but we cannot link it to the closure of industries without getting a sample report. We are aware of the GMDA’s assessment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/najafgarh-drain-s-biochemical-oxygen-demand-reduces-40-points-during-lockdown-gmda-affidavit/story-6GSyjhwvrDQTu3y0b7YTsN.html
16-04-2020||Gurugram||Government doctors asks for safety gears instead of double salary||Objecting to the decision of giving double salary to doctors handling Covid-19 cases in isolation wards, intensive care units (ICUs) and those handling samples, the Haryana Civil Medical Services Association (HCMSA), on Thursday, wrote to the state’s director-general of health services, stating that instead of increasing the salary they should be provided with safety gears, such as N95 masks and personal protective equipment (PPE), along with free treatment to doctors, if detected with SARS-CoV2 virus while being on duty. The decision to increase the salary of doctors was announced by chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar last week. According to the association, they are ready to work without double salary but not without proper safety gears like N95 masks and PPE kits. Dr MP Singh, vice president, HCMSA, said, “Giving benefits to only a few demoralises other doctors of the state who are directly or indirectly handling Covid-19 cases in vulnerable situations. It includes those who are doing the screening, active field surveillance, attending people in quarantine centres, flu corners, emergency and post-mortem departments. The state government should treat us equal.”He said that doctors posted in isolation wards, ICUs and for taking samples from Covid-19 cases are using PPE kits as they know they are dealing with Covid-19 patients. But other doctors who are stationed in emergency rooms, OPDs, flu corners and surveillance are on the higher risk because they don’t know whether the patient they are attending to is Covid-19 positive or not. “In many districts, doctors have complained that they are attending patients without safety gears such as N95 masks and PPE kits,” said Singh. Resident doctors in ESIC hospital in Faridabad have been silently protesting against the lack of PPE by wearing black bands and continuing with their service. Talking to HT, one of the resident doctors said, “We have been demanding PPE kits for a long time after Covid-19 patients started coming in. Today, we are handling patients, symptomatic or asymptomatic without proper N95 mask. Still, we are doing our jobs.”Dr Suraj Bhan Kamboj, director-general of health services, said, “We all are providing safety gear to doctors. Besides, the double salary decision has been taken by the government.” He refused to comment on the issue.Till now, 214 cases have been reported in the state, of which 147 are undergoing treatment while 64 have been discharged. Maximum cases have been reported from Palwal, Nuh, Faridabad and Gurugram. On Thursday, the state government included 14 Italian tourists, who had undergone treatment in Gurugram, in the Covid-19 list from the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/government-doctors-asks-for-safety-gears-instead-of-double-salary/story-aa0I6Bio3P0y5A5StzvvEJ.html
16-04-2020||Gurugram||Unpaid for two months, KoD performers fail to strike the right pose||The ongoing lockdown has brought the lives of 100 performers at the Kingdom of Dreams (KoD) to a standstill. The performers, who enthralled audiences with their dances and musical soirees, say that non-payment of salary for two months and a lack of paid work has left them in the lurch.KoD, a popular cultural hot spot, is visited by many for its two regular shows, Zangoora and Jhumroo, for which the performers are employed. It was shut on March 16 due to the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. The dancers said that their other sources of income — teaching dance at private schools, fitness sessions at gyms and private sessions — have also dried up.To overcome the financial crisis and help the dancers meet daily expenses, Karan Achhipilya, a choreographer who leads a group of 100 dancers, has launched an online campaign to raise funds. “We have launched a crowdsourcing campaign and set a target of ₹15 lakh for April. In the last 15 days, we have managed to collect ₹1 lakh. My friends in Bollywood have also promised help,” he said.A majority of the performers relied on the monthly salaries of ₹20,000-₹22,000 and due to a lack of options, many have started selling their valuables, while others have had to borrow money, said Achhipilya. “The salaries are stuck but we have been assured by the management that these will be given soon. A small amount has also been given to us (to deal with the current circumstances), but this is not enough,” he said, adding that many performers are migrants and rent houses.Ravi Arya, of Bahadurgarh, who has been performing at KoD for the last three years, said that he has had to sell his car for sustenance. “I have a brother who works in a shop and my father stays at home. My salary has not been paid and all savings have dried up. So, I had to sell the car as we have to pay the monthly rent and meet other expenses,” said 27-year-old Arya.Even those who have their own residences in Delhi are said it is a tough time for their families. “I live with my mother and the only source of income is my salary. It has become difficult to survive as there is no other source of income to buy ration, vegetable and meet other expenses,” said Arvind Bainsla, who lives in Chattarpur of Delhi.Another performer, who preferred anonymity, said that he had to borrow money from a relative. “I will be forced to sell my motorbike if things don’t improve soon,” he said. Achhipilya said that the management of the KoD was supportive and had given money in tranches. “We spoke with the management and they have promised to make payments, but KoD itself depends on daily earnings. So, they are also in a spot, but I hope they find a solution,” he said.Pardeep Bhardwaj, general manager, administration, KoD said that they have made payments to employees whose salaries are lower than ₹15,000. “We assure the employees that all payments would be made, but this lockdown has caused a crisis situation. All efforts are being made to pay salaries at the earliest.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/unpaid-for-two-months-kod-performers-fail-to-strike-the-right-pose/story-cFbXng2qwXZE5jGrcQDdRM.html
16-04-2020||City||Woman stranded in lockdown, two men rape her on pretext of offering lift||A 30-year-old woman stranded in the lockdown was allegedly gang-raped by two men in Greater Noida on the pretext of dropping her to her home Jewar on April 14. One of the suspects is a distant relative of the victim. The woman works in a factory and lives with her husband in a rented accommodation in a Noida village. In her police complaint registered on Wednesday, she said that her husband had gone to their native village near Jewar a few days before the incident. On April 14, she got a call from her relative, a cab driver, who offered her a ride back home after she expressed her desire be with her family.“The relative and his accomplice reached my home in a cab at night. They drove me to Greater Noida. However, on the way, they stopped near Dadri container depot and took turns to rape me. They dropped me home (in Jewar) at night and fled from there,” the woman told police.On Wednesday morning, the woman filed a complaint in Surajpur police station.Pradeep Tripathi, the station house officer, said that a case was registered against the two persons under section 376 D (gang-rape) and Section 376 (2) (f) (being a relative, guardian or teacher of, or a person in a position of trust or authority towards the woman, commits rape on such woman) of the Indian Penal Code.“The police team arrested the two from their residences -- the cab driver from Noida sector 51 and his accomplice from Khatana village in Greater Noida. They were produced in court and sent to judicial custody. The vehicle use in crime has been seized,” Tripathi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-stranded-in-lockdown-two-men-rape-her-on-pretext-of-offering-lift/story-Uzs9KVhR4SfvbB5wWwIa4J.html
16-04-2020||City||Farmers in Ghaziabad to be penalised if found burning stubble||The Ghaziabad district administration on Thursday issued an advisory to farmers engaged in harvesting crops in the district to not burn any stubble in order to keep air pollution in check. The Uttar Pradesh government recently allowed farmers to harvest crops amid the lockdown while maintaining social distancing norms.The advisory issued by the district officials recommends a penalty of ₹2,500 per acre of land for every instance of stubble burning if the area under cultivation is up to 2 acres. The penalty will be ₹5,000 per acre of land for land more than 2 acres and up to 5 acres. A penalty of ₹15,000 per instance per acre is recommended in case the land under cultivation is more than 5 acres. Officials of the district agricultural department said legal action may also be taken against violators for stubble burning. “We have issued an advisory to the farmers directing them not to indulge in any form of stubble burning which may pollute the environment and affect the air quality. The harvesting season is on and about 20-25% of harvesting is already complete in over 26,302 hectare of total land under cultivation in the district,” Virendra Kumar, deputy director, agriculture department.The advisory has recommended gram panchayats in the district to ensure that the stubble is processed through the combine harvestor (a machine designed to efficiently harvest a variety of crops), and in case a gram panchayat does not require the stubble, they should ensure that the stubble is taken to the cow shelters where it can be used as fodder for cattle.Ever since the lockdown came into effect, air pollution has come down in Ghaziabad. According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the air quality index (AQI), however, remains in the ‘moderate’ category.“As a result of dusty winds coming from Rajasthan, the AQI in the NCR region is not in the ‘satisfactory’ category. The average wind speed is about 15-17kmph, and this situation will prevail for another three or four days. On April 17, there could be some light rain, but it is not likely to result in any significant improvement in the air quality,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of India Meteorological Department’s Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, New Delhi.“Since industrial units are shut, vehicles are not playing on the roads these days, and there has been no instance of stubble burning, the PM2.5 levels are still lower than before. However, the dusty winds and local dust have resulted in high PM10 levels,” he added.On April 16, the AQI of Ghaziabad was at 250 under the ‘poor’ category, while it was in the ‘moderate’ category on April 15 with the AQI at 194.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-in-ghaziabad-to-be-penalised-if-found-burning-stubble/story-U1XKC7tmpB8tlwBpw6NG2J.html
16-04-2020||City||Ghaziabad: No fresh cases, highrises want review of hotspot list||Ghaziabad: The residents of two highrises counted among hotspot areas, in a list of 14 so far in Ghaziabad, have demanded a review from the district administration and urged that the area be placed under the normal lockdown as no fresh Covid-19 cases have emerged in at least a week. The district magistrate assured that a review will be taken up soon.The list of initial 13 hotspots in Ghaziabad include those at Nandgram near a mosque; KDP Grand Savanna, Raj Nagar Extension; Savoir Park society, Mohan Nagar; B-77/G-5, Shalimar Garden Extension 2; Pasonda; Oxy Home highrise, Bhopra; Vasundhara Sector 2B; Sector 6, Vaishali; Girnar Society, Kaushambi; Naipura, Loni; Masuri; Khatu Shyam Colony, Duhai and Covid-1 level hospital, Muradnagar.Later, a highrise of Skardi Greens near NH-9 was also declared a hotspot.From the KDP Grand Savanna, a 57-year-old man who had a travel history from Tehran had tested positive for Covid-19 on March 5 and was discharged from a hospital in Delhi on March 17 after his subsequent reports came negative. Later, his 27-year-old son tested positive and was admitted to the isolation ward at the MMG District Hospital on March 12. On March 20 he too was discharged after his test reports came negative.“As of now, the highrise is still a listed hotspot area and arrangements have been made for door-to-door supply of essential items. Our highrise was sealed on the night of April 8. We had only two cases, which were from one family. Both had been sent after treatment and their 14 days’ home isolation cycle is also over. We have spoken to the district administration officials and they have told us that a declaration of hotspot area is to remain for 14 days. Besides the two cases, there have been no other positive cases in our highrise till date,” said RK Tyagi, president of the highrise’ apartment owners’ association.There are about 900 families living in the society.“If the administration still has any doubts, it should take up sampling. There has been no sampling of residents since the highrise was sealed. It was only on Tuesday that teams from the health department came here for a door-to-door survey. Even the order which has been put up at the highrise says that a review was to be taken up on April 13. Since no new cases have emerged, the administration should review our highrise and consider placing it under normal lockdown,” he added.Ever since the first case emerged from the highrise, the health department has been engaged in rigorous sanitisation and has been monitoring and taking up surveillance activities in an area of about 5km radius around the highrise.On the other hand, in the neighbouring Gautam Budh Nagar district, the authorities in a decision taken Wednesday removed four areas – two of which were under complete lockdown while two were under partial lockdown – from the list of hotspots.“These areas have been removed from the list of hotspots as no new cases were reported in the past 28 days from the date of sampling,” Suhas LY, district magistrate of Gautam Budh Nagar had said.While two localities in Gautam Budh Nagar -- Sector 41 and Lotus Espacia in Sector 100 -- were completely rid of hotspot tag, parts of sectors 30 and 78 were also removed.According to officials, a doctor from Girnar highrise in Kaushambi, Ghaziabad had arrived from France on March 13 and developed symptoms on March 18, after which his sample was taken the next day. He was admitted to hospital in Delhi on March 22 and was discharged on April 4, said the health department.The residents from Kaushambi said there has been no instance of any other case in Kaushambi Township and the administration must take a fresh review.“We had a single case in Girnar highrise and no other cases have surfaced, despite the health department taking up effective surveillance and intensive sanitization drives in and around the highrise. Still, the highrise was declared a hotspot but it should now be placed under normal lockdown. The administration should now take a review. There are about 400 people living here,” said VK Mittal, president of Kaushambi Apartment RWA.State surveillance officer Dr Vikasendu Agarwal said that declaring an area as a hotspot is under the purview of the administration.“Sampling in such areas will go on. Generally, an area can be removed from the hotspot or sealing list once it completes 28 days after the last positive sample. The days varied from 14 to 28 depending on the number of cases which emerge. But continuing it or removing it from the list is an administrative decision,” he added.Ghaziabad Chief medical officer Dr NK Gupta said that a review decision will be taken up on the basis of guidelines and the district magistrate will take a review.“In Kaushambi and KDP highrise in Raj Nagar Extension, there have been no reports of any new case. So we will review them and try to remove these from the hotspot area list. But the decision rests with the district administration. From our point of view, Masuri and Savior Park are problematic areas due to positive patients and their contacts,” he added.Ghaziabad district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey, however, assured that a review will be taken up soon.“We are considering the matter and will review the hotspot areas as well as the list. However, we are also ensuring that regular supply of essential items is maintained and residents do not face problems,” he added.The Uttar Pradesh government had on April 8 announced an intensive lockdown of affected areas and identified 104 initial hotspots across the state, including 13 in Ghaziabad. Under the measure, the hotspot areas were to be subjected to extensive sanitisation, doorstep delivery and barricading of the entire area to restrict any movement outside houses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-no-fresh-cases-highrises-want-review-of-hotspot-list/story-k3mhxxqhvs3AiU2u2qvPnL.html
16-04-2020||City||Covid 19 lockdown: Greater Noida body to provide two meals to stray dogs||The Greater Noida authority has roped in a non-government organisation (NGO)- Friendicoes-SECA that will take care of stray dogs, including treating those unwell, sterilisation and providing two meals daily.The move comes after reports that stray dogs were struggling to get food amid the nationwide lockdown.The Delhi-based NGO has deployed its animal van that will be used for the purpose. It has also set up an animal clinic in Swarn Nagri, where it will sterilise strays and release them back to their respective habitat. The NGO was roped in after residents’ welfare associations (RWAs), apartment owners associations (AOAs) and other social groups came forward to complain on the issue.“The NGO has started catching stray dogs for sterilisation. These dogs will be realised back to their respective sectors. We have started to provide them two meals daily,” said Dr Prem Chand deputy general manager with the Greater Noida authority heading the health department.The authority has not fixed any budget for this project and not made any estimate as to how many dogs are in the city. It has planned to sterilize strays in all residential as well as industrial sectors.“We have not conducted any survey to figure out how many stray dogs are there in different areas of the city. But now when the NGO will carry out sterilisation and also task of providing food to dogs it will make a database how many stray dogs are living in the city,” said Chand. The authority has also released mobile numbers at which any individual, RWA, AOA or other social groups can inform about stray dogs needing help of food. These numbers are 9599332039, 9643232803, 9810000254 and 9999382880.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-lockdown-greater-noida-body-to-provide-two-meals-to-stray-dogs/story-gE4EWi6VgWofwb2FhBDPJL.html
16-04-2020||City||Haryana: Farmers accuse commission agents of duping them on pretext of high moisture content||The mustard growers of Haryana’s Dadri district have alleged that the commission agents have been duping them on the pretext of high moisture content by paying them rates below the minimum support price (MSP) of ₹4,425 per quintal.Jai Singh, a farmer of Imlota village, said, “I had brought 8.80 quintals of mustard to the mandi for procurement. The commission agent deducted 72kg on the pretext of high moisture content. He told me that I will be paid ₹ 4,425 for 8.08 quintals.”“The commission agents have been fleecing us on the pretext of our crop’s quality and moisture content,” he added.The procurement agencies have approved of 8% moisture content in mustard and deduction will be done as per the increase in moisture content.Dayanand Punia, a farmer leader who visited many mandis in Bhiwani, said, “The farmers were facing hardships during the current mustard procurement season.”“They told me that the commission agents are not giving them any relaxation in the moisture content. This situation has arisen as the farmers are in the process of harvesting their mustard crops. The government informs them a night before that they have to bring their crops to the mandi the next morning. Due to this, the farmers don’t get time to ensure the dryness of their crop,” he added.Complaining about not being informed in advance, Charan Singh of Bhiwani’s Kalod village said, “I had received a message on my phone on Wednesday night to bring 34.2 quintals of mustard to the mandi next morning.”“I had to borrow it from another farmer as I am yet to harvest my crop. I promised him to return the same quantity when his turn comes,” said Singh.About farmers being fleeced on the pretext of moisture content, Dadri deputy commissioner (DC) Shyam Lal Punia said that he will look into the matter and seek the details from the officials concerned.“We have directed the commission agents not to deduct the price of the crop on the pretext of moisture content. The arhitiyas have been directed to provide space to the farmer for his crop in the mandi so that the wet crop can get sunshine and reach moisture level of 8%”, the DC added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-farmers-accuse-commission-agents-of-duping-them-on-pretext-of-high-moisture-content/story-ABCYJLL9RpNUcjwD4XTHvK.html
16-04-2020||City||7 of Panchkula family test positive||Seven members of the family of Sector-15 couple also tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. Panchkula civil surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur confirmed the development and said teams were in process of tracing their contacts. A post office agent, the 44-year-old woman, who is said to be the primary source of infection, had tested positive on Tuesday, while the reports of her 48-year-old husband, an architect, arrived a day after. “The family members who were found infected are the woman’s 14-year-old daughter, two brothers, sister-in-law and her son, and sister and her daughter. The reports of other their contacts are awaited,” said Dr Kaur. Panchkula DC Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said till now, 55 contacts of the woman had been traced. The woman was shifted to a private hospital in Sector 21 after she complained of respiratory distress, said Dr Kaur. He husband is also in the same hospital while her other family members have been shifted to Maharishi Markandeshwar Hospital in Mullana.Woman’s travel history tells a different taleContrary to the previous claims that the woman neither had any travel history nor contact with any infected person, it has now come to the fore that she, along with her family members, had gone to Pathankot’s Dehriwal village on March 18 to attend a relative’s funeral. “The source of her infection is yet to be ascertained, but her visit to Pathankot suggests that she picked the virus from there. Teams are working to trace the primary and secondary contacts of the woman and her family,” the DC said. It has been, meanwhile, learnt that some persons in Pathankot, where the woman had visited, have also tested positive. However, the health department is trying to gather more details. PVT DOCTOR IN DOCKThe doctor of a private clinic in Sector 11 is in dock after Haryana health minister Anil Vij on Thursday ordered registration of an FIR against him for violating the Epidemic Act by not alerting the health department about the woman. Panchkula DC Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said it was a case of complete negligence on the part of the doctor as neither did he inform about the woman, nor refer her to the civil hospital despite detecting a spot in her X-ray report. The doctor had reportedly prescribed the woman an antibiotic course. The woman’s condition had started deteriorating on April 2, but she initially chose to self-medicate. On April 6, she visited the doctor’s clinic in Sector 11 and went to the civil hospital after being referred for a CT scan on April 11. The doctor, his family and other staff members have also been quarantined. Now, there are currently 12 active cases in Panchkula as the first two patients, both women, have recovered and been discharged. HARYANA TALLY REACHES 200 MARKWith 10 more positive cases, including seven from Panchkula, two from Nuh and one from Palwal, the total number of cases in Haryana climbed to 200 on Thursday. However, after adding the cases of 14 Italian tourists, the number stands at 214.Senior officials said while two positive cases having Tablighi link were reported from Nuh, one case, also having the same connection, was detected in Palwal.51 DISCHARGED SO FARThe health department bulletin said eight patients were discharged after their treatment on Thursday — three each from Faridabad and Palwal and one each from Bhiwani and Nuh — taking the tally of the cured people to 51. With the additional 13 cured Italian tourists, the total count of such persons is 64.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/7-of-panchkula-family-test-positive/story-4028FZYypTqysWI8pa2VaM.html
16-04-2020||City||One lakh staffers not paid salaries in Punjab, private tech colleges get AICTE warning||Salaries of about one lakh faculty and non-teaching staff have been held back for March, and in some instances for February, by many private unaided technical colleges in Punjab following the nationwide lockdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic.There are 1,650 unaided colleges in Punjab with a lakh teaching and non-teaching staff.Taking cognisance of the matter, technical education regulator All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE), has also issued a circular, a copy of which was seen by Hindustan Times, directing all colleges to pay salaries or face action, which means withdrawal of college approval.College authorities in the meantime say they have no other option as they are not allowed to charge fee from the students till the lockdown continues or the Union government releases pending funds.In response, the president of the Punjab Unaided Colleges Association, Anshu Kataria says: “Around one lakh staff members have not been paid the salaries for March, some even for February.”“AICTE had directed us to not force students to pay fees during the lockdown, but is asking us to pay salaries. The colleges do not have funds now and we have requested the state and Central governments to release the post matric scholarship funds of Rs 1,850 crore that’s pending for the last four years,” he adds.For teachers and other staff, these are hard times. “I have not been paid for the last two months and now the management refuses to pay us, saying they aren’t allowed to charge fees from students. I am paying installments for my house and feel stressed as I don’t know how to manage my finances,” says a private college teacher in Kharar.In its circular issued to the colleges on April 15, the AICTE chairman asked for salaries of February and March to be paid failing which it said action would be initiated, which meant withdrawal of college approval.College managements, however, said payments could not be made as fees had not been received from students. The government would do well to release the post matric scholarship funds of Rs 1,850 crore pending for around 36 to 48 months, they added. Another teacher from a Mohali college says finding a job in these times is tough. “We don’t know what to do as till now we dug into our savings to buy essentials and. I have to pay loan installments for the car too.”The senior vice president of the Punjab Unaided Technical Institutions Association (PUTIA), Manjit Singh, adds, “Some of colleges have not paid the salaries from the past five to six months and we have been expecting at least Rs 500 crore from the Union government pertaining to scholarship grants that’s pending since the past three years, but we have not got anything.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/one-lakh-staffers-not-paid-salaries-in-punjab-private-tech-colleges-get-aicte-warning/story-ucgcId4tnn9eRvvgDbLsWI.html
16-04-2020||City||Woman, two kids die in Rohtak cylinder blast||A 35-year-old woman and her two children — a girl and a boy — were charred to death when an LPG (liquefied petroleum gas) cylinder exploded at their house in Rohtak’s Rithal village, police said on Thursday. The victims have been identified as Reena, 35, her daughter Kajal, 15, and son Karthik, 5. The incident took place around 4.15 in the evening when Kajal was making tea and her mother and brother were sitting on a bed in their one-room tenement. Rohtak deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Sajjan Singh, who rushed to the spot soon after getting information, said that they were suspecting that LPG leaked from the connecting pipe of the cylinder and diffused in the room before a fire triggered the blast. “The woman and her children died on the spot, while her husband received minor injuries as he was standing on the door of the room when the explosion took place,” he added. “Forensic teams were rushed to the spot and they have not ruled out any suspicious motive behind the tragic incident,” the DSP said. He said they have sent the victims’ bodies for postmortem examination to Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) in Rohtak, which will be conducted on Friday. Soon after the blast, panic gripped the village and people started rushing to the spot to have a glimpse of the incident. However, police cordoned off the area and dispersed the gathering.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-two-kids-die-in-rohtak-cylinder-blast/story-Y42bbFtA4jmA21v6tWZvFN.html
16-04-2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus cases in Mumbai’s Dharavi area triple in 5 days to 86; 9 deaths recorded||The number of positive coronavirus cases in Dharavi have tripled in the past five days, from 28 cases on April 11 to 86 on April 16, while the death toll during the same period has also increased from four to nine, data from the state health department revealed. On Thursday, Dharavi saw its highest spike in the number of coronavirus-positive patients, with 26 new cases. A 58-year-old man from Laxmi Chawl, who had been tested positive last week, also died on Thursday. Of the 26 cases, 11 were reported from Muslim Nagar and one each from Janata Society, Suroday Society and Shiv Shakti Nagar, while the remaining cases from the rest of the areas, civic officials said. The first case in Dharavi was reported on April 1, following which there has been a rapid surge in the number of positive cases, which may soon pose a grim challenge for civic authorities. If the pattern continues, Dharavi could see around 100 cases in the next few days. Of the total 86 cases from the area, Muslim Nagar and Mukund Nagar areas have reported the highest number of cases with 18 residents having been tested positive from each of the areas. Social Nagar and Janata Nagar have reported eight cases each, while five cases were detected from Dr Baliga Nagar localities. The remaining cases were found from other areas of Dharavi.“While screening residents in Dharavi’s red zones, we have been detecting more and more infected patients. We have targeted the high and low-risk contacts of Covid-19 patients and the new cases have been reported from these localities only,” said Kiran Dighavkar, assistant commissioner of G North ward, which comprises of Dharavi. He further said that the high-risk symptomatic patients have been institutionally quarantined, while the low-risk asymptomatic patients were home quarantined.The civic body has prepared a quarantine centre in a municipal school with 600 beds and at Rajiv Gandhi Sports Complex with 300 beds. It has also acquired Sai Hospital, which has a capacity of 51 beds, for quarantine and treatment. The hospital’s medical staff will also help the civic body with in treating patients. The slums in Dharavi are spread in an area of more than 240 hectares and house around 8.5 lakh residents. With a population density of 66,000 people per square kilometre, it is one of the most-cramped areas of the city. Activists and health workers had earlier expressed concerns over how social distancing is practically impossible in the area, where on an average, around 10-12 people stay in each of 57,000 housing units, measuring around 250 sq ft each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/coronavirus-cases-in-mumbai-s-dharavi-area-triple-in-5-days-to-86-9-deaths-recorded/story-epPc1M5JFkDA2vT2fzvmBL.html
16-04-2020||City||8 wards account for 63% coronavirus cases in Mumbai: Civic body data||With 1,225 of the 1,936 cases, 8 of the 24 administrative wards in the city account for 63% of the total Covid-19 patients. The wards have reported more than 100 cases each, according to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s data until Wednesday. The G-South ward, which covers Worli and Prabhadevi, is the worst hit, with 390 cases. It is followed by Byculla (E ward) with 162 cases, D ward (Malabar Hill, Grant Road and Chowpatty) with 135 patients. In just two days, G-North ward which covers Dharavi, Mahim and Dadar recorded 40 cases, with the total touching 123.The K-West ward, which covers Andheri West, Irla, Juhu, Oshiwara and parts of Jogeshwari, has 106 cases. The H-East ward covering Bandra and Khar areas has reported 105 cases and the M-East ward covering Govandi, Deonar dumping ground and Mankhurd has reported 103 cases. The K-East ward which covers Andheri East area has reported 101 cases. The city reported almost 1,000 cases in five days, which is the highest so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/8-wards-account-for-63-coronavirus-cases-in-mumbai-civic-body-data/story-k4xOvmpzT7S8RfUFCjf9zL.html
16-04-2020||Lucknow||Sant Kabir Nagar reports first corona case||The first corona case was reported from Sant Kabir Nagar when a 71-year-old Muslim man, who attended Tablighi Markaz congregation in Delhi last month, tested positive for the deadly virus in Chauri village of that district on Thursday, district authorities said.“The man returned from Delhi Markaz on March 24 after attending the congregation there on March 19 and 20. He was kept in isolation ward of Sant Kabir Nagar district hospital for 14 days between March 29 and April 11 on the complaint of the village head. His first sample taken on Monday tested negative but his second sample taken on Tuesday and sent for testing to Baba Raghav Das (BRD) Medical College, Gorakhpur, on Wednesday tested positive for Covid- 19,” said Sant Kabir Nagar district magistrate Raveesh Kumar.Now, the process of getting him admitted to BRD Medical College was under way, he added. The DM also appealed to people to inform the administration on their own if they had come in contact with the man who tested positive so that further spread of the virus could be checked by placing them under quarantine. Meanwhile, the village was sealed and fire brigade vehicles were pressed into service to disinfect the area by sprinkling sodium hypochlorite, also known as bleach widely used as a disinfectant. Earlier, six ‘Jamaatis’ had tested positive for Covid-19 in Maharajganj district and the areas from where these cases had been reported were sealed and two of them were declared corona hotspot. In Basti too, as many as 13 positive cases have been reported. All cases are linked to 25- year-old youth who died due to coronovirus infection on March 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/sant-kabir-nagar-reports-first-corona-case/story-ou7ECiax6pF671xsUPiNbN.html
16-04-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s civic body won’t lift lockdown restrictions from red zones||Out of the 24 administrative wards in the city, eight are likely to have red zones, where restrictions will not be lifted from April 20 onwards. Red zones will mark out areas containing a high number of Covid-19 cases. Restrictions will be lifted in orange zones, where fewer than 12 cases are reported daily. There are no green zones — areas that have not reported even one Covid-positive case — in Mumbai.According to data from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), the eight wards with red zones are likely to include G/South ward (Worli, Prabhadevi; 390 cases), E ward (Byculla, Mazgaon; 162 cases), D ward (Malabar Hill; 135 cases); G/North Ward (Dharavi, Dadar; 123 cases); K/West Ward (Andheri, Oshiwara, Jogeshwari; 106 cases), H/East ward (Bandra east; 105 cases), and M/East ward (Deonar, Chembur; 103 cases). Red zones have over 12 cases of Covid-19 reported daily.Ramesh Pawar, deputy municipal commissioner, health department, said, “We are in the process of colour coding and this will be done as per the guidelines of the Central government. In red zones, we will mark particular areas where relaxations cannot be implemented. However, the entire ward will not be marked as red zone.”Prashant Gaikwad, assistant municipal commissioner of D ward, also said that specific areas with a large number of cases would be isolated, rather than an entire ward. “We can mark a cluster of buildings, or mark a particular areas as red zone where the cases are high,” he said. While G/south, E and D wards have reported the most cases, 13 other wards have seen an increase of more than 100% in the number of Covid-positive cases reported between April 7 and April 14.The Central and the state governments had announced that some restrictions may be relaxed from April 20 to encourage economic activity. However, the implementation of the directives will depend on the discretion of local bodies. “We can have additional restrictions if we feel it is a requirement for a particular area. If we feel that buffer zones also have to be excluded from these relaxations, we can do that, but without diluting the directions of the state and Central government,” said a BMC official.Pawar said the BMC and Mumbai Police would coordinate to ensure the implementation of restrictions in red zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-civic-body-won-t-lift-lockdown-restrictions-from-red-zones/story-oivR0X8Y5x4xi07wOXJ77J.html
16-04-2020||City||Mumbai’s coronavirus cases surged from 993 to 2,073 in 6 days||The number of cases in the city doubled within six days – from 993 cases on April 10 and 1,182 on April 11 to 2,073 cases on Thursday. The number of containment zones in Mumbai, too, proportionally shot up to 438, from 381 demarcated by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on April 9.Three Covid-19 positive persons died in Mumbai on Thursday, taking the total number of deaths to 117, with a mortality of 5.6%. All three were male, with two of them senior citizens. One of the senior citizens did not have any co-morbidity. The other two had hypertension and diabetes. The BMC has so far set up 118 fever clinics, screened 4,540 persons, and found 43 of them positive. A fever clinic is operated by the BMC on the periphery of containment zones. As of April 15, the BMC has completed 31,000 tests, an average of 2,374 tests per million population. The BMC announced that close contacts of Covid-19 positive persons who are asymptomatic will be tested only after five days of quarantine, as there is a high chance of a ‘false negative’ result of a test, if it is done within the first few days for an asymptomatic person. The Worli-Koliwada in south Mumbai, part of G-South ward, saw a total of 390 cases as of Wednesday evening. Dharavi saw one death and 26 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday, taking the number of deaths to nine and total cases to 86. Two family members of a senior officer of the Mumbai Fire Brigade also tested positive on Tuesday. Another family member and the officer himself tested negative for Covid-19. The two family members were immediately admitted to a Covid-19 specialty hospital, and the officer, along with his third family member, has been quarantined. Following this, three other senior officers of the fire brigade have been quarantined along with their families. An employee of the Goregaon bus depot has tested positive for the coronavirus. The employee is asymptomatic and has been admitted. The BEST administration is yet to get his report. Another BEST employee working at the Goregaon bus depot family member has tested positive. The employee and his family have been quarantined at his residence in Mira- Bhayander.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-s-coronavirus-cases-surged-from-993-to-2-073-in-6-days/story-e3WwTMip94N3lejEWB2NOK.html
16-04-2020||Lucknow||UP: Ration seekers stage novel protest, climb water tank||At least 50 men and women, seeking ration, sent the administration into a tizzy when they climbed atop a water tank in Kakor Kala village of Baghpat district on Thursday.Officials said that many of villagers were those who had no ration cards and so were not eligible to seek free ration from the village ration shop during the lockdown.On the other hand, a few protesters, who had ration cards, accused the ration dealer of committing irregularities in the distribution of ration.Sub divisional magistrate (SDM) of Baraut area, Durgesh Mishra rushed to the spot along with cops and convinced protesters to climb down from the water tank. Mishra also asserted that many of the protesters had no ration card while they charged village ration dealer with committing irregularities in the ration distribution. He said village had over 600 ration cards and also claimed that only 25 to 30 villagers were involved in the protest. SDM further said that protesters had been assured of a fair investigation into the matter. “Those who have no ration cards cannot get ration from the dealer”, the officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-ration-seekers-stage-novel-protest-climb-water-tank/story-A8c27yjFUen2D93kE7tdPO.html
16-04-2020||Lucknow||Tipplers will have to wait, distilleries can make only sanitiser for now||An excise department order released on Thursday about distilleries and breweries beginning production led some to wrongly believe that liquor sales, which had been hit because of the extended lockdown, would resume anytime soon.However, principal secretary, excise, Sanjay Bhoosreddy made it clear that Thursday’s order was a repeat of the order of March 20 allowing distilleries to manufacture alcohol-based sanitisers in their distilleries where liquor is manufactured or brewed. The government had issued the order allowing distilleries to manufacture alcohol after the outbreak of the coronavirus led to sudden spurt in demand of hand sanitisers and major companies complaining of shortage of raw material. “We would like to make it clear that packaging, marketing and sale of liquor would stay banned until the governments at the centre and the state take a call on it after April 20,” Bhoosreddy said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in his televised address on April 14, had said the government would consider providing graded relaxations in those areas after April 20 especially those where Covid-19 cases are controlled. He had, however, added that those relaxations would be withdrawn if fresh cases were reported. “Only sanitiser manufacturing and sale is permitted by these distilleries in light of Covid-19 pandemic and the latest order too should be read in that light,” Bhoosreddy said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/tipplers-will-have-to-wait-distilleries-can-make-only-sanitiser-for-now/story-W6Vq1CDQwXdDCMxEPo1khK.html
16-04-2020||Lucknow||UP may amend policy to attract companies mulling to shift base from China||Uttar Pradesh government on Wednesday discussed measures, including amendment to the state’s industry policy to attract companies to UP that have been shifting base from China.Minister for Micro Small and Medium Enterprise Siddharth Nath Singh and minister for industry Satish Mahana held a meeting with senior officers and asked them to work out a road map including incentives and capital subsidy that could be given to companies planning to shift base from China.“Following directives from chief minister Yogi Adityanath we discussed measures to attract investment to UP from Japanese, Korean, European and American companies shifting out of China,” said Singh.Singh said the officers had been asked to get in touch with the union government to decide future course of action in this regard. He said discussions were held on making amendments to state’s industry policy to attract investment. He said major food processing, automobile and garments companies of the world were shifting their base from China and some of them have expressed willingness to shift their base to Uttar Pradesh. Singh said the state government would extend all cooperation as more investment would create more jobs avenues in the state.UP DISTRICTS GETS A NODAL OFFICER EACH TO TAKE CARE OF FOREIGNER/OTHER STATE RESIDENTSLucknow: Nodal officers, who will take care of food and other necessary needs of foreigners and residents of other states during lockdown, were appointed for each UP district on Wednesday.The district magistrates of all the 75 districts made the nodal officers’ name and contact details available to the chief secretary office here on Wednesday, a day after they were told to do so.“Now, we have asked DMs to make publicity of name and phone numbers of nodal officers in their districts so that any foreigner or a resident of any other state can contact them in an emergency,” chief secretary, Rajendra Kumar Tiwari said. Vaibhav Mishra (9415005004), ADM (F&R) is nodal officer for Lucknow, while Vinay Kumar Singh (9454417030), ADM, has been appointed nodal officer for Varanasi. Similarly, nodal officers for Prayagraj, Agra and Kanpur are Vinay Shankar Dube (9454417592), Pushpa Raj (9454417592) and Basant Agrawal (9454416409) all ADMs. Anil Kumar Singh (9454464880), CDO, has been appointed nodal officer for Gorakhpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-may-amend-policy-to-attract-companies-mulling-to-shift-base-from-china/story-Ii7ltVHsz0L86yPgbUx2fL.html
16-04-2020||Mumbai||BMC meeting on Covid-19 death rate: Patients are receiving treatment very late||At 5.6%, the city’s mortality rate is one of the highest in the country, and one of the reasons behind this is patients are reaching treatment centres in “deteriorated condition” after being referred by other hospitals. This was revealed in the minutes of a meeting between the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) health department and civic commissioner Praveen Pardeshi on April 14.According to data provided by the BMC, till Thursday, 2,043 patients were diagnosed with Covid-19, with 116 deaths in the city. The city’s date rate is higher than the national rate of 3.21%. One of the main reasons behind the high mortality rate is that by the time patients are referred to Covid-19 facilities, their health has already deteriorated, decreasing the chance of survival.In the meeting, Pardeshi raised concern over the high death rate. “He mentioned that many patients are reaching hospitals in deteriorated condition and deteriorating fast to death,” reads the report, adding that civic officials also discussed issues of comorbidities and mentioned it as one of the major factors contributing to the high death rate.While discussing Kasturba Gandhi Hospital, the main Covid-19 treatment centre, officials said that the death rate was high as many patients are turning up in very critical condition after being referred by other hospitals.Data provided by the BMC shows that almost 30% of the 116 deceased patients died within 24 hours of admission. A 30-year-old pregnant woman with Covid-19 from Nallasopara succumbed to the virus at BYL Nair Hospital in Mumbai Central on April 4, a few hours after being admitted.The All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) has now sought a report from the BMC to “verify whether symptomatic patient’s contacts are getting infected or not”. The officers have been instructed to provide all data for the study.Forensic doctors to work at fever clinicsMinutes of the meeting also stated that the assistant municipal commissioner will issue orders to post doctors from the forensic department at fever clinics, given the shortage of doctors in the city’s wards. However, a forensic expert from Lokmanya Tilak General Hospital said that they have not been informed about the update yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-meeting-on-covid-19-death-rate-patients-are-receiving-treatment-very-late/story-JPYXZj7btXDuZWIB3QkutL.html
16-04-2020||Lucknow||UP claims its strategy to ring-fence Covid-19 hotspots paying dividend||Even as the graph of coronavirus positive cases in Uttar Pradesh continues to maintain an upward trend, with overall tally of infected patients reaching 751 on Thursday, the state government claimed that its strategy to ring-fence hotspots is paying dividends.The claim is backed by the fact that maximum numbers of cases are churning out from the hotspots that have been sealed.The state government has not only sealed the hotspots but also carrying out house to house searches to trace the infected people as well as those who have come in contact with the Covid-19 positive persons, said a senior state government officer.Out of 751 Covid-19 positive cases reported in the state, 639 have been reported from the hotspots. The 80% of the cases are being reported from 173 hotspots in the 15 districts and 70 hotspots in remaining 30 districts, said additional chief secretary, Home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi.In a week-long exercise, the health and police department teams have screened over 20 lakh people residing in around 3.50 lakh households in the hotspots. The health department team is collecting samples of all the suspected people for laboratory test.Once the report is positive the infected person is admitted to the isolation ward and those who have come in contact with the positive person are quarantined. “We have already quarantined 9,274 people and sent their sample for laboratory test as well,” said Awasthi.On Thursday, 18 fresh positive cases were reported from the hotspot in Agra taking the total tally to 167.In Lucknow too, 31 fresh cases were reported from the hotspots taking the total tally of the positive cases in the district to 75. The sample report of the suspected people from the hotspots has led to surge in the positive cases in UP whereas fewer positive cases have been reported from the non-hotspots area, he said.To check the spread of coronavirus, the state government has drafted a strategy to ring-fence the hotspots by sealing the area. The central government has acknowledged the UP model and directed other states to implement the model in respective areas to check the spread of the coronavirus, he said.Principal secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said under the ring-fence strategy the health department had declared 3 km area from where the maximum Covid-19 positive cases have been reported as containment zone to carry out intensive screening of the people and sanitization. Another 2 km around has been declared as buffer zone where too the health department is maintaining close watch on the households and people residing in it, he said.The entry and exit of the people have been restricted. The health department has also called upon the people to alert the administration or health team if they find suspected people in the locality. Several people have used the helpline or called the control rooms to sound an alert about the suspected person or arrival of people from outside, he said.“We have decided to carry out 100% sampling in the hotspots. Once the sampling, isolating and quarantine exercise is completed we will be able to contain the spread of the coronavirus and control the cases too,” he said.Among the 751 positive cases, 60% are members of Tabligi Jamaat. Again, the Tabligi Jamaat members have been traced in the hotspots in 45 districts. The police teams have traced 2,717 Tabligi Jamaat members and 2,470 have been quarantined. The health department is also tracing the people who have come in contact with Jamaatis to collect samples and admit in the quarantine facilities for 14 days, he said.The 325 Jamaatis, who have come from foreign countries, have been also traced in the hotspots. They have been quarantined.“The FIR has been registered against 295 foreigners and passports of 259 persons have been confiscated,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-claims-its-strategy-to-ring-fence-covid-19-hotspots-paying-dividend/story-TWb20Nc2huvE0RJ4vrlQ5I.html
16-04-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra seeks permission for pool testing for Covid-19||As the total number of cases in the state reached 3202, the Maharashtra government has sought permission from the Centre to conduct pool testing for Covid-19. The process involves testing up to 30 samples in a single test. So far, one sample is being tested at a time, state health minister Rajesh Tope said on Thursday.“After rapid testing, we have now sought permission for conducting pool testing from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). We have also sought permission for clinical trials of plasma therapy and are yet to get the permissions,” Tope said.Pool testing algorithm involves Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) screening of a specimen pool, comprising multiple samples. In case a pool tests positive, then each sample will be individually tested.According to ICMR directives, the test is only prescribed to be used in areas with low prevalence of infection. It means it can be conducted in the areas where rate of infection is less than 2%. Tope said this will help the government to cover more people in less period of time. The state has already sought permission from the Centre for starting clinical trials of plasma therapy and BCG (Bacillus Calmette-Guérin) vaccine — given to newborns and children to prevent childhood tuberculosis — for treatment of Covid-19 patients. Once clinical trials are successful, the state can start using these to treat Covid-19 patients.The health minister also said they are getting less medical equipment supplies than required from the Centre. “We are getting supplies of medical essentials from the Centre but it is not enough. For instance, we made a demand for 3.5 lakh PPE (personal protective equipment) but received only 30,000. Similarly, we have received 1 lakh N95 masks from the Centre against the demand of 8 lakh masks,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-seeks-permission-for-pool-testing-for-covid-19/story-6x00befyVFmxrFpYN6VBQM.html
16-04-2020||City||Eight test positive in Punjab, cases double in 10 days||Punjab on Thursday reported eight new coronavirus cases, taking the total in the state to 199. Six cases have been reported from Jalandhar and one each from Patiala and Ludhiana. With this, the number of Covid-19 cases have more than doubled in the state in 10 days --- from 99 on April 7 to 19 on April 16.Jalandhar district reported six new coronavirus cases on Thursday. District nodal officer Dr TPS Sandhu said that with this, a total of 31 positive cases have been reported in the district so far, including two deaths and four patients who recovered. He said that reports of the 50 samples received on Thursday had tested negative.The patients are close contacts of those who tested positive, including the husband of Kuljit Kaur of Shahkot area, who died due to Covid-19 on April 9 and a relative of a 34-year-old Congress leader who is also a Covid-19 patient.The district administration has sealed the Basti Sheikh and Valmiki Mohalla areas to implement the containment plan and teams have started contact tracing of the positive cases. Jalandhar has reported the second highest positive cases in the state so far after Mohali, where 56 positive cases were reported till Thursday. Jalandhar is among eight districts of the state declared a hotspot (red zone) by the Union ministry of health and family welfare to intensify the fight against Covid-19. These districts are among the 170 hotspots in the country.ONE MORE TESTS POSITIVE IN PATIALAA 50-year-old man tested positive for coronavirus in Patiala on Thursday. He is among the close contacts of 50-year-old resident of Safabadi Gate, who tested positive for the virus on Tuesday. With this, Patiala district has so far recorded seven Covid-19 cases. The latest patient runs a shop in famous book market here. Patiala civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said his sample was taken on Wednesday and his report found to be positive on Thursday. “During contact tracing of the Safabadi Gate resident, it came to fore that they were in constant touch with each other and even travelled during this period,” Dr Malhotra said. He added that they have started process of shifting him to isolation ward of government medical college and the samples of his wife and two children will be taken for further testing. An official said that they both travelled to deliver supply of books at Zirakpur on April 10 on a curfew pass.LUDHIANA REVENUE OFFICIAL CONTRACTS INFECTION A 58-year-old revenue department kanungo, serving in Koom Kalan area, has tested positive. He last went to duty on March 21. The patient was currently living in Khanna and also travelled to his ancestral villages in the Payal sub-division.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said he was admitted to the isolation ward of the hospital on April 14 after he companied of cough and breathlessness. CONTACT OF LUDHIANA COVID-19 CASUILTY TESTS –VE A 72-year-old woman who was infected after coming in contact Ludhina’s first Covid-19 fatality Puja Rani, 42, has tested negative.Puja of Amarpura locality died of coronavirus on March 29, while the 72-year-old woman, who was living in the neighbourhood, tested positive. Senior medical officer Dr Ravi Dutt said that the woman tested negative in the first report and her samples will be sent again for second test. Meanwhile, samples of three relatives of ACP Anil Kohli, who tested positive for the virus, have come nagitive. The health department also said that the 17 police personnel from Focal Point police station, who had come in contact with Covid- 19 positive snatcher, were tested negative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/eight-test-positive-in-punjab-cases-double-in-10-days/story-1Ppzm464jR5hDAKlUoT4cP.html
16-04-2020||Mumbai||Dawoodi Bohra women stitch masks for essential services workers||Around 80 women from the Dawoodi Bohra community are sewing face masks from home at 20 places across the city and distributing it to essential service workers. In India, around 900 such women are working across 500 centres. Most of these women stitch burkhas or other items of clothing for the community.After masks were made compulsory, the Union health ministry has said that home-made masks can be used in areas other than quarantine or isolation zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/dawoodi-bohra-women-stitch-masks-for-essential-services-workers/story-9hiEuQ1UzWmPRSFWLkYX7H.html
16-04-2020||City||11 morning walkers booked in Bhiwandi||Eleven residents were booked for stepping out of their homes for a morning walk in Bhiwandi on Wednesday. “All were given warning and released. We registered a case against them under Section 188 of Indian Penal Code,” said the Narpoli police. The cops also caught a tempo carrying 10 people on Mumbai-Nashik highway. “We arrested the tempo driver, Suhas Gupta, 24. The 10 people were released after a warning,” said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/11-morning-walkers-booked-in-bhiwandi/story-qYxZqVCDvvbECRYhjxVC5L.html
16-04-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai police has 15 covid-19 cases, highest in maharashtra||With 15 Covid-19 positive personnel, Mumbai Police has the maximum number of cases among all state police. Five more police personnel tested positive on Wednesday, taking the total figure to 15 from Mumbai. The state police has a total of 23 positive cases ( seven officers and 16 constables). “We have given the policemen the necessary safety equipment and are using drones to monitor containment zones,” said Pranaya Ashok, DCP (operations) and confirmed the number of positive cases.Police have also sealed the buildings in police quarters across Mumbai where these infected officers were staying, like Naigaon, Borivli, Marol and Worli. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is also conducting a door-to-door survey to find out if anyone in their localities is showing any symptoms. The Mumbai Police on Wednesday continued with their focus on the two regions, central and western, having maximum Covid-19 cases in the city. Also, 152 FIRs (62% cases) are registered in these regions of the total 244 FIRs in the city. The police have made use of eight drones and five platoons of the State Reserve Police Force (SRPF). A maximum of 81 FIRs were lodged in the west region, including 73 for gathering in one place. This was followed by central region with 71 FIR with 64 of them for gathering in one place. While east recorded 38 cases, the north region registered 34 cases and south registered 20 cases. In all, 477 people were booked in these FIRs on Wednesday and 225 people were arrested. There has also been a rise in the number of hate speech cases since the lockdown. “Since the lockdown, till date 218 cases [210 FIRs and 8 non-cognisable cases] have been registered for spreading hate speech, rumours, fake news and misinformation on social media related to Covid 19 across the state. Maximum number of FIRs (115) are for hate speech against communities,” said Balsing Rajput, SP, Maharashtra Cyber. Total 45 accused were arrested and 160 were identified for these cyber crimes. In most of these cases WhatsApp (102 cases) was used.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-has-15-covid-19-cases-highest-in-maharashtra/story-I5SJ66vc3KZGeOoZJUqpdM.html
16-04-2020||Lucknow||Lockdown hits routine immunisation of expectant mothers, kids||With all efforts focused on fighting Covid-19, the routine immunisation of expectant mothers and small kids to protect children against deadly diseases like polio, measles and cholera among others have got affected in the district.The mission is affected especially in rural areas where these exercises were being undertaken through 555 health sub centres, 23 urban primary health centres (PHCs) and 20 community health centres (CHCs), claimed locals.At Dufferin Women’s Hospital, the vaccination has been limited to mere two days a week and with lack of information among the people and absence of public transport owing to lockdown means that even those aware are unable to reach the hospital, they said.The expecting mothers, normally, undergo their complete medical examination from time to time besides getting two shots of Tetanus toxoid vaccine to provide protection against tetanus.The universal immunisation programme also necessitates that an infant also receives BCG or Calmette-Guerin vaccine to protect them from tubercular meningitis and disseminated TB, Oral Polio Vaccine to protects children from poliomyelitis besides Measles/ MR vaccine and Japanese encephalitis vaccine as well as DPT, a combined vaccine to protect children from Diphtheria, Tetanus and Pertussis, Chickenpox among others. The vaccinations are basically aimed at protecting 12 dangerous life threatening and debilitating diseases.The vaccinations are administered at the district women’s hospital besides 23 urban PHCs and 20 CHCs of the district all through the year. Besides this, specially trained Auxiliary nurse midwives (ANMs) also administer vaccinations to expecting mother and children by visiting the villages itself at 555 health sub centres.However, locals claim that vaccination exercise has virtually come to a standstill across the district putting lives of countless expecting mothers and infants at risk, especially in the villages.“Immunisation used to be done at all 24 AMN centres (health sub cenbtres) besides three PHCs besides the one CHC. However following the lockdown, immunisation exercise was stopped here. All ANMs and Asha health workers were deputed in locating out-station arrivals and making people aware of protective steps as part of the offensive against COVOID-19 outbreak,” said village head of Manda Khas Bholanath Kushwaha.In-charge of CHC-Manda Dr Santosh Pandey conceded that the immunisation exercise was at a standstill in his area.“It was stopped as per orders of the CMO in wake of instructions from the state government with effect from March 18,” he said.At Pratappur development block also all 28 ANM centres including those at Pure Miya, Sarai Mamrez, Basnehta, Bibipur VILLAGES etc are sporting a lock. In-charge of CHC-Pratappur Dr Ravendra Singh said that the immunisation work had been stopped to ensure social distancing as part of steps to keep COVID-19 spread in check.District programme manager (health) Vinod Kumar Singh said the work of immunisation had got affected in the district. “However orders have been given to ensure that immunisation work continues at all urban PHCs. If it is found that the work is not being carried out there, we will initiate proper action,” he said. Singh said that now that lockdown has been extended and new guidelines issued in this regard, efforts would be made to comply accordingly and ensure that immunisation work resumes fully if allowed under it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/lockdown-hits-routine-immunisation-of-expectant-mothers-kids/story-QShJN4qWvW85T57xusl5UP.html
16-04-2020||Mumbai||3 hospitals to turn into facilities for Covid-19 positive pregnant women||A day after it was reported that a Covid-positive, pregnant woman was refused admission by seven hospitals, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said it will turn three hospitals into facilities for pregnant women who have tested positive for Covid-19. Meanwhile, another pregnant woman with Covid-19 has been trying to get admitted to a hospital, only to be turned away. Assistant municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said, “We have zoned in on two maternity hospitals in Dadar and Mumbai Central to provide treatment to pregnant women with Covid-19 infections. They can be quarantined and kept under isolation at the facility. There will be proper facility for their deliveries.” Each maternity hospital will have 30 beds in its facility. The BMC also has plans to start one facility in Rajawadi Hospital in Ghatkopar.The BMC’s decision comes a day after HT reported how a 27-year-old pregnant, Covid-positive woman was refused admission by seven hospitals in the city. Thirty hours after being diagnosed with Covid-19, with the help of local politicians, she was admitted to BYL Nair Hospital on Wednesday evening and is now receiving treatment. In a similar case, another pregnant, Covid-positive woman has been trying to get admitted to a hospital. Local politician Rais Sheikh, who is assisting the woman, said, “She has been quarantined in a hotel, but she needs treatment in an isolation ward. I am trying to get her admitted to King Edward Memorial Hospital for the past three days, but the hospital is refusing to do so.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/3-hospitals-to-turn-into-facilities-for-covid-19-positive-pregnant-women/story-QHbfsAgS7ilKIjtf0BJaRO.html
16-04-2020||Mumbai||Hoteliers angry over move on licence fee||The state government’s move to not charge the 15% hiked licence fee for restaurants and bars, if the current fee is paid by April 30, has angered the hoteliers. The state had hiked the license fee to Rs 7.96 lakh from Rs 6.93 lakh in March but it notified on April 13 that it will not charge the hiked fee if hoteliers pay Rs 6.93 lakh by April 30. However, hoteliers said that they can’t pay even Rs 6.93 lakh in the present scenario and they will be forced to shut shop.The Hotel and Restaurant Association of Western India (HRAWI) has called it an insensitive decision. “We are the worst hit sector and instead of giving us some stimulus, the state government hiked the licence fees. How can the State Government even ask for full amount from April 30 when we are closed from almost two months,” rued Gurbaxish Singh Kohli, President, HRAWI.The Indian Hotels and Restaurant Association (AHAR) has warned that this move will have ramifications on both the unemployment and state revenue. “We will be forced to shut down our restaurants if such a hike is carried out. This will only make our labour jobless and even the state will lose its revenue,” said Shivanand Shetty, President, AHAR.He said that the hoteliers are facing hard times. “We are still paying salaries to the staff despite having zero revenue and the state expects us to pay such a huge amount as license fees,” he added.For years, the hoteliers have been complaining of exorbitant license fees saying it was only encouraging the illegal traders to thrive.Excise officials however defend their stance. “The state is in bad financial state and we are exploring all avenues to raise money. This is an annual hike and in fact seeing the market conditions, we offered them the option to pay in instalments,” said a senior state excise official, who did not want to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hoteliers-angry-over-move-on-licence-fee/story-gjjQlSb7lQZbJdnllcr5CI.html
16-04-2020||City||36-year-old man hangs self to death in Panchkula park||A 36-year-old man reportedly committed suicide on Thursday by hanging himself from an iron bar of a hutment in a park at Industrial Area, Phase 2, near Sector 19.Police said the deceased, a native of Yamunanagar, was currently residing at Buddanpur village, Sector 16, and was unemployed. The Sector 19 police post in-charge, assistant sub-inspector Gulab Singh said they received information from a passerby, following which a team reached the spot.As per initial investigation, the man had used a cloth to commit suicide. “No suicide note was recovered from his possession and we have initiated inquest proceedings in the matter,” Singh said, adding that the body has been kept at the civil hospital’s mortuary for postmortem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/36-year-old-man-hangs-self-to-death-in-panchkula-park/story-pT6ts054uY4mIwJEYuuwNN.html
16-04-2020||City||Thane records 9 new Covid cases, Badlapur 8||Nine new Covid-19 positive cases were recorded in Thane on Thursday, taking the city’s total count to 110. Around 12 patients have been discharged.Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner of TMC said, “Out of nine new cases, two police officers have also tested positive.”Eight new Covid-19 positive cases were reported from Badlapur on Thursday; the total number of positive cases in the town is 11. “After three cases were reported last week, we had quarantined 14 close contacts at a quarantine centre. Among them, eight have tested positive and will be taken to Central hospital on Friday,” said Prakash Borse, chief officer, Kulgaon Badlapur Municipal Council. Two people tested positive for Covid-19 in Kalyan-Dombivli on Thursday, taking the total number of cases in the twin city to 60. Twenty coronavirus patients have been discharged from hospitals, said Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) officials.Covid-19 positive cases in Navi Mumbai rose to 54, with two new cases reported on Thursday. A nurse and ward assistant have tested positive. Panvel did not have any positive case for the second consecutive day.Navi Mumbai municipal commissioner Annasaheb Misal said, “A 36-year-old resident of Karave gaon in Belapur, who works as a ward assistant at TB hospital in Sewri, has tested positive. She has been admitted to KEM Hospital in Mumbai. A 22-year-old nurse of Apollo hospital in Belapur has also tested positive.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-records-9-new-covid-cases-badlapur-8/story-vqSKVbQPXjO2uGXyNzSbxL.html
16-04-2020||Lucknow||UP’s Covid-19 death toll 13, tally of infected patients 773||Uttar Pradesh reported 43 fresh coronavirus cases and one death on Thursday, taking the total number of Covid-19 patients to 773 and the death toll in the state to 13, an official said.“The number of coronavirus positive cases in the state are 773 in 48 districts. Thirteen deaths have been reported due to the virus while 69 patients have been treated and discharged,” principal secretary, Health, Amit Mohan Prasad told reporters here.Among the 13 deaths, the maximum five are from Agra, two from Moradabad and one each from Lucknow, Kanpur, Basti, Meerut, Bulanshahr and Varanasi.The number of patients discharged in various districts were: Agra (10), Ghaziabad (7), Gautam Buddha Nagar (24), Lucknow (06), Kanpur (01), Shamli (02), Pilibhit (2), Lakhimpur Kheri (2), Moradabad (1), Bareilly (2) and Meerut (14)Besides, 2,615 samples were tested across the state on Wednesday and another 3,000 samples were sent to various laboratories for test.The increase in the samples will assist the health department in checking spread of the infection, he said.Under the surveillance programme launched by the health department in various districts, 14.74 lakh houses and 72 lakh people were surveyed. The infected people were admitted in hospitals and those with symptoms were quarantined, he said.The death audit of patients who died due to coronavirus was launched by the Medical Education Department on Thursday.“The health department has called upon the people to contact the nearest hospital or alert the state government helplines if any symptom of Covid-19 appears in them,” he said. NO FRESH CASE IN AGRA’S BUFFER ZONENo fresh case was reported from the buffer zone or the area around the hotspots in Agra on Thursday, the health department said.On Wednesday, 150 samples were taken and tested from the buffer zone around the Agra hotspots from where the maximum cases were reported. All the samples were found negative in the laboratory test.“We conducted tests from people outside the containment zone of Agra and all of them were negative. The number of tests will be increased in future,” principal secretary, Health, Amit Mohan Prasad said.It indicated coronavirus had not spread to the area outside the hotspots, he said.Otherwise, Agra reported 19 fresh coronavirus cases in the day, all in hotspots, taking the tally to 167 even as the Taj city witnessed fifth death due to Covid-19 infection on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-s-covid-19-death-toll-13-tally-of-infected-patients-773/story-4vH2DKKP7fRwaBNzPn2XiP.html
16-04-2020||Mumbai||HC directs state to protect medical staff, look into migrants’ concerns||The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court (HC) has directed the state to provide adequate security arrangements for doctors, medical and paramedical staff involved in the testing and treatment of coronavirus-infected persons. The court also directed the collectors of all the districts to undertake a survey of migrant workers and provide data of facilities extended to them within two weeks.The order was passed in a suo moto public interest litigation (PIL), wherein the court took a note of media reports of medical staffers being threatened and abused, and not being allowed to enter their homes by their neighbours, owing to the fear that the staff would be carrying the virus and would infect the other residents in the premises. Taking cognisance of the news reports of doctors, medical and paramedical staff facing opposition by their neighbours, the court accepted the submissions of the state which said that doctors, medical and paramedical staff involved in the battle against the Covid-19 outbreak would be adequately protected, and the local administration would be instructed to ensure sufficient security, not on a personal leave but in general, to ensure that such staff are not subjected to any such threats or demands for vacating their residential premises.A single bench of justice Ravindra Ghuge was hearing the suo moto PIL, which was initiated after the court took note of news reports which stated that migrant labourers kept in temporary camps set up by local authorities were suffering due to lack of proper facilities. In its earlier order of April 8, the court had directed the state and local authorities to ensure that proper food, water, sanitisation, medical aid and other requirements of the migrants were taken care of.On Wednesday, when the matter was heard on compliance, the court was informed that the principal seat of the HC at Mumbai was seized of a similar PIL and had issued directions to the local authorities to conduct a survey of migrants.Justice Ghuge, while directing the court administration to add all district collectors in Aurangabad as a party, asked the collectors to conduct a survey as well as submit a report on the counselling of the migrants who were getting agitated and creating problems as they were unable to go back to their native homes owing to their travel restrictions.The court posted the PIL for further hearing in the first week of May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-directs-state-to-protect-medical-staff-look-into-migrants-concerns/story-8e8BNUN4mk2xYZCStN8UPK.html
16-04-2020||Mumbai||Students point discrepancies in PG med course seat allotment||Even as the Union ministry of human resource development (MHRD) and respective state governments have delayed entrance exams and admissions process for higher education courses for the time being, the state common entrance test (CET) cell late on Wednesday published a seat matrix for post graduate (PG) medical courses. While admission dates are yet to be released, students and parents have pointed at discrepancies in the quota seats again. Despite an overall increase of 150 seats in PG courses this year, many have pointed that most popular courses have got fewer than three new seats across medical institutes. Parents also argued that even after a Supreme Court order clarified that quota for economically weaker section (EWS) should only be implemented after increasing seats by at least 10%, the order is being flouted.Students are now planning to approach the Supreme Court despite the ongoing lockdown.“Maximum seat increase in government-run medical institutes (GMCs) is in non-clinical branches and yet, EWS is applicable on all branches. Due to this, students from open category are left with fewer seats compared to last year despite increase in seats,” said Sudha Shenoy, activist and parent of a medical student.In January this year, the Medical Council of India (MCI) approved new seats in medical institutes across the country, including 150 new seats in institutes in Maharashtra. Experts, however, have pointed that distribution of news seats gives very little advantage to students as all seats in clinical courses (surgery, paediatrics, and medicine), which are more in demand, have been allotted to private medical institutes whereas government-run institutes got non-clinical seats (microbiology, physiology, social and preventive medicine) that attract very few takers.“Private institutes tend to charge more fees which students can’t afford and GMCs are giving no respite to students. With the lockdown in place, we are not even sure if the court will accept our petition now,” said a PG medical aspirant. Students had finished the online registration process in February but due to the lockdown, rest of the admissions process has been stuck.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/students-point-discrepancies-in-pg-med-course-seat-allotment/story-cUDfRff4ko3smWkyADWOkI.html
16-04-2020||Mumbai||TISS defers convocation ceremony||The annual convocation of Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS), Mumbai, is likely to be deferred owing to the lockdown, according to officials. Every year TISS holds its convocation ceremony in the second week of May. However, this year the date will depend on the lockdown, said a senior official.“The administration is yet to decide on a date. We will gauge the situation after May 3 and take a call. If the lockdown is extended, we may have to defer the convocation,” said the official.While all academic and research activities have been suspended by the institute in accordance with lockdown rules, parts of the institute’s Mumbai campus have been turned into quarantine zones for asymptomatic travellers from international destinations.In the last week of March, the institute announced a rescheduling of its academic activities for March to June. While several academic landmarks were extended, the institute did not mention anything about the convocation. According to the renewed schedule, the examinations for second semester will begin on May 25. However, this, too, may be deferred if lockdown continues, said sources.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/tiss-defers-convocation-ceremony/story-CrneiwhHPVY9O1oGhZ4gCP.html
16-04-2020||Mumbai||Constable attached with Khar police station tested positive, had no coronavirus symptoms||A 28-year-old constable, who showed no visible symptoms of coronavirus, was tested positive for the infection on Wednesday late at night. The constable, attached with Khar police station, is undergoing treatment at a hospital. “The constable was in the detection team. As a precautionary measure, we have home quarantined 16 police officers, including two sub-inspectors,” Gajanan Kabdule, senior inspector at Khar police station said.Though the constable was fit and had no symptoms of the virus, he decided to get himself tested as a precautionary measure. “He on this own decided to get himself checked. After he tested positive, we traced his contacts and also alerted the members of the building in Mahim where he was staying. All the residents have been quarantined at home,” said a police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/constable-attached-with-khar-police-station-tested-positive-had-no-coronavirus-symptoms/story-wKpRWBqF3JVZhp0qllstSP.html
16-04-2020||Gurugram||Seven more test positive in Nuh, district has highest cases in Haryana||Seven more people tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday in Nuh, which already has the highest number of cases in Haryana. A total of 55 cases have been recorded from the district so far—the highest among all 22 districts in the state.“Out of the seven, three had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Nizamuddin in Delhi last month. Two came in contact with the jamaat members in village Akhnak. the two others from Jakh and Pingwan villages had travelled to Latur in Maharasthra and come in contact with people who had attended the Jamaat congregation there,” said Virender Yadav, chief medical officer (CMO), Nuh. He said that two patients were discharged on Thursday after their repeated tests came negative. According to the CMO, at least 1,655 people have been put under surveillance till date, of which 84 people have history of foreign travel. They were traced inside different mosques in Nuh villages. “We had sent the samples of 1,033 people, of which 55 have tested positive, 887 have tested negative and the results of 91 are awaited. Fifty-five people are currently hospitalised,” said Yadav.At least 1,923 people are currently under home quarantine in Nuh, said the police.The infected people have been admitted in Nalhar Medical College, while the remaining are under quarantine at a polytechnic college.Pankaj (known by his first name), deputy commissioner, said they have declared 36 villages as containment zones and 112 others as buffer zones — banning the entry and exit of people . “Police teams are deployed at all entry and exit locations of these villages that fall under the containment zones. Regular food is being supplied and community lunch is being prepared in each village, apart from distribution of dry ration,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/seven-more-test-positive-in-nuh-district-has-highest-cases-in-haryana/story-SKYntog5Yk6ZbiVDRgixZI.html
16-04-2020||Mumbai||HC allows MPID inmates to give bail request to high power body||The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court has allowed two inmates of Arsul jail in Aurangabad, booked in Maharashtra Protection of Interest of Depositors Act(MPID) cases, to make a representation to the high power committee to consider releasing them and persons jailed for financial frauds as per the Supreme Court directions to decongest jails. The committee, through a decision in March, had decided that persons accused of financial frauds would not be released. However, the inmates challenged the decision stating that the SC had not made any differentiation between persons jailed for cases under MPID and IPC and hence the committee’s decision should be set aside.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-allows-mpid-inmates-to-give-bail-request-to-high-power-body/story-glKXJJAslxbVNaVZWO2mfN.html
16-04-2020||City||26 FIRs registered for curfew violation in Mohali||Police registered 26 FIRs for curfew violation in the district on Thursday.While patrolling on the Patiala chowk, police found that a Mahindra Pickup vehicle was being loaded with iron rods outside a shop. As the shopkeeper, Karan Mittal of Silver City in Zirakpur could not produce a pass or a permit to operate, a case was registered against him and Rakesh Paswan of Bishanpura, who was loading the iron rods.Police also booked those who were roaming across the district aimlessly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/26-firs-registered-for-curfew-violation-in-mohali/story-Rf0yfkc30AOH4W4EfOZpIK.html
16-04-2020||City||No fresh Covid-19 case in Mohali for the second day, count remains 56||The district reported no fresh case of Covid-19 for the second consecutive day on Thursday. At present, the number of coronavirus cases in the district is 56, of which 38 patients are from Jawaharpur village in Dera Bassi. Six patients have been discharged and two have died. Over 800 people have been tested so far.The health department on Thursday took eight samples. The reports will come on Friday. The health department also screened around 400 persons at Jawaharpur village and Kharar with the help of rapid testing kits, which were launched on April 15.The kits are used to test people with coronavirus symptoms, using a single prick to take a blood sample, and the result is available in 15 minutes. Similar testing will be done for all patients, having symptoms for more than seven days, at flu corners at various government health centres. Samples of those found positive will be sent for further testing.Civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said all patients admitted in various hospitals of Mohali were responding well to treatment, adding that a couple of patients will be discharged in the next few days as their latest reports were negative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-fresh-case-in-mohali-for-the-second-day-count-remains-56/story-boKUbQBLYE0k5sRIcPIbZO.html
16-04-2020||City||Pass system of wheat procurement has failed: Chandumajra||Former Anandpur Sahib MP Prem Singh Chandumajra has alleged that the pass system adopted by the authorities for procurement of wheat in the grain markets had failed.After visiting grain markets of Rupnagar, Chandumajra said the grain markets were empty and farmers were forced to keep heaps of wheat in their fields due to non-issuance of passes for the procurement by the authorities concerned.The SAD leader said he had spoken to the deputy commissioner and other officials concerned regarding problems being faced by the farmers and commission agents in the procurement process and urged them to redress their problems.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pass-system-of-wheat-procurement-has-failed-chandumajra/story-55pv39NZo3d8WBZGsypclK.html
16-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab set to start pool testing from districts with less + cases||With the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) allowing states to carry out pool testing for coronavirus, the Punjab government is likely to start the process on Friday from districts with low number of positive cases.According to a senior official of health and family welfare department, pool testing will be done in the districts where the number of positive cases is less than 3% of the total tests done.“A comprehensive plan is being chalked out for pool testing, which is likely to start tomorrow. We have districts such as Rupnagar, Sangrur, Kapurthala, Moga, Muktsar and Fatehgarh Sahib where pool testing can be started to increase number of tests. In these districts, only 20 to 100 tests have been done till date,” the official said, seeking anonymity.WHAT IS POOL TESTING?Pool testing is the process in which multiple samples from a particular community are taken in a single PCR (polymerase chain reaction) test in the laboratory.“If the result of the test comes negative, it means all samples in the group are negative. If the result comes positive, sampling of every person in the pool is done individually using PCR tests,” as per the ICMR guidelines sent to states recently.WHERE WILL BE POOL TESTING DONE IN PUNJAB?Principal secretary, medical education and research, DK Tiwari, said the trials of the pool testing have already been conducted at two laboratories in government medical colleges in Amritsar and Patiala.“We are in the process of conducting the trial in the laboratory of Baba Farid University of Health Sciences in Faridkot.”He added that pool testing has been effective in checking the community transmission in Italy and Germany.WHAT IS THE OBJECTIVE OF POOL TESTING?The ICMR guidelines say the pool testing can increase the capacity of the testing multifold. “If there is apprehension of a community spread in a particular area, multiple pool sampling from that area can bring you the factual position about the situation,” a health official said. Testing is so far being done individually using PCR screening. HOW MANY SAMPLES CAN BE TESTED IN ONE POOL?As per ICMR guidelines, not more than five samples should be taken together in pool testing. In India, Andaman and Nicobar administration has so far conducted pool testing for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-set-to-start-pool-testing-from-districts-with-less-cases/story-pD0AbfNYruEtl2VyoZLeCJ.html
16-04-2020||City||Lockdown, labour blues ail vegetable farmers in Punjab||Vegetable farmers in Punjab, especially those growing cucumber, cabbage, bell peppers, mushrooms and strawberries, are grappling with lockdown blues. With marriage palaces, restaurants, dhabas and supermarkets closed, these farmers, flag-bearers of crop diversification in the state, are struggling to make ends meet.Besides, farmers say lack of government aid, stringent guidelines, shortage of labour, erratic power supply and delay in lifting of the produce from mandis have compounded the problem.According to polyhouse farmer Davinder Singh Mushkabad in Machhiwara town of Ludhiana, the lockdown has completely ruined the sector. “I have been farming for nearly 30 years, but have never witnessed such a massive loss. While the vegetable crop is ready, we do not have labourers to harvest it. If we manage to harvest with each other’s help, the supply chain also has problems. These products were meant for niche markets. With marriage palaces, hotels, restaurants and shopping malls closed, our produce is perishing,” said Davinder.Pointing out discrepancies in the new system of lifting the vegetables, Davinder said, “Only a select few people purchase the vegetables from the arhtiyas and these are further sold to the vendors, some of whom are auto drivers or daily wagers with no previous experience of the trade.”He added that the farmers were not getting the price of the seed let alone the labour and transportation cost of vegetables.“Moreover, the power supply is available between 10pm and 2pm. After returning from the market, we hardly get time to rest and run straight to the field to water our crop,” said Davinder.MOUNTING LOSSESMohd Gafoor, who cultivates vegetables is carrying out vegetable farming in 63 acres of land in Patiala district, said that he has suffered a loss of nearly ₹30 lakh as the mushrooms, cucumber, baby corns and pumpkins which used to sell like hot cakes were perishing in his field due labour shortage.“Like flowers, these vegetables used to remain in huge demand during the wedding season. However, due to the lockdown, weddings have been put off. There is a set time for the vegetables to ripen and market window is also limited. Further we do not have mechanisms for proper refrigeration and storage of the crops. We are helplessly watching our produce rot and are trying to sell them in villages nearby,” said Gafoor.Jaskaran Singh, a strawberry grower in Muktsar, who had grown the crops in four acres of land, said, “I sold strawberries in the mandis of Ludhiana, Bathinda, Ferozepur, Faridkot and Barnala till the second week of March. With the lockdown extended, the fruit could not be transported. I had to distribute nearly eight quintals of strawberries among the people living in villages nearby with the help of a local politician, store two quintals in refrigerator and watch the remaining rot in the field,” said Jaskaran.MATTER OF CONCERNShailender Kaur, director horticulture, Punjab, is concerned about these farmers. “While marriage places, hotels and dhabas, a huge market for vegetables, are closed, the domestic buyers are finding these items pricy. However, we are doing our best to balance the loss. We also hope that with the opening of restaurants and dhabas on the highway, the demand of cucumber will pick up again,” said Kaur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lockdown-labour-blues-ail-vegetable-farmers-in-punjab/story-G74ldZZYPr24DDPdv4zEKK.html
16-04-2020||Chandigarh||Relief for farmers as arhtiyas call off strike||Hundreds of farmers who sell their produce at the grain market nearby Jalandhar bypass heaved a sigh of relief after the arhtiyas (commission agents) called off their strike on Thursday.The wheat procurement at the grain market near Jalandhar bypass was hit for the last two days as a section of arhtiyas were on a strike demanding clearance of their pending payments of last paddy season.The state government on Wednesday started the wheat procurement process in Punjab.The market committees have issued passes to the arhtiyas, who further have to provide tokens to the farmers for transporting their produce in grain markets.“After the state government assured release of pending payments, the statewide strike of the arhtiyas has been called off on Thursday. Now, the passes have been issued to arhtiyas, who would further issue tokens to the farmers through which they can transport their crop to mandis,” said Manjit Singh Dhillon, president of Arhtiyas’ Association (near Jalandhar bypass).It is a relief for the farmers as harvesting has been started and they were facing shortage of space to store the harvested grains, president of Kisan Union (Kadiyan), Harmeet Singh said, adding that the farmers were struggling for the last two days due to the tussle between the state government and arhtiyas.Over 400 farmers from different villages, including Noorpur Bet, Laddowal, Kadiyan, Kasabad, Jamalpur and nearby villages, sell their produce in the grain market near Jalandhar bypass. “Now the produce is expected to reach at both the markets in the city — near Jalandhar bypass and Gill Road— on Friday,” Harmeet said.Chairman of the market committee, Darshan Lal Baweja, said that all the necessary arrangements have been made and marking has also been done to ensure social distancing at the market. It might take few more days to complete the procurement process due to the lockdown, but the committee would ensure that the farmers do not face any trouble in selling their produce. A farmer is allowed to bring 50 quintals of crop at a time. Farmer visits mandi without pass, sent backMeanwhile, a farmer, who reached the grain market on Gill road without pass and unloaded his crop in the market area, was sent back by the police and officials of market committee on Wednesday. He was asked to visit the market only after getting the pass through an arhtiya..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/relief-for-farmers-as-arhtiyas-call-off-strike/story-C92rbUqq3Xx1pxFkWqFfnK.html
16-04-2020||Chandigarh||Time for syllabus completion will be given after lockdown: PU vice-chancellor||Panjab University(PU) vice-chancellor Raj Kumar on Thursday told the chairpersons of various departments to assure students that offline classes will be held and time will be given for exam preparation after the lockdown.The V-C announced his decision during an online interaction with 38 chairpersons, directors and coordinators of different departments, institutes and centres, including regional centres of PU at Ludhiana, Hoshiarpur, Muktsar and Kauni.This comes days after the V-C had directed the teaching departments and affiliated colleges to complete the syllabus by May 9, using online modes of teaching. The direction had drawn flak from students and teachers of the university as well as affiliated colleges.“The V-C told us to assure students that offline classes will be held to complete the syllabus after the lockdown,” said a chairperson of a department, on condition of anonymity.“Most of the syllabus was completed before the varsity suspended the class work. The V-C has assured that time will be given to students to complete the syllabus,” confirmed another member who attended the meeting.The PU had suspended class work on March 15.Raj Kumar also urged all to ensure that the faculty stays connected with the students for confidence-building. He shared that six project proposals on COVID-19 had been submitted to different ministries of the government and six more were in pipeline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/time-for-syllabus-completion-will-be-given-after-lockdown-pu-vice-chancellor/story-VJClKmLG8wajeQoKclJyDJ.html
16-04-2020||City||19 held for gambling in Ambala, Rs 1.4L recovered||Police raided two gambling dens, nabbed 19 people and recovered Rs 1.41 lakh from them in Ambala on Wednesday night. In the first case, acting on a tip-off, police reached the area near Kali Mata temple in Naraingarh and they found people playing cards. A total of 18 people were held and Rs 1,39,500 was recovered, police said. An FIR was registered under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 13 of the Public Gambling Act at the Naraingarh police station. In another case, the CIA-2 staff of the police arrested accused Amit Kumar from Ambala Cantonment’s Topkhana with Rs 1,280. Police said the accused was inviting people to spend money in gambling. He was booked under Section 188 of the IPC and Section 13A of the Public Gambling Act at Ambala Cantonment police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/19-held-for-gambling-in-ambala-rs-1-4l-recovered/story-NpiQevRFmFGfQq9JkxlyMI.html
16-04-2020||City||Two more hospitals in Thane dedicated for Covid patients||Thane Municipal Corporation has dedicated two more hospitals in the city for Covid-19 patients only. Kaushalya Medical Foundation at Panchpakhadi and 125-bed Vedant Hospital along Ghodbunder Road will now be Covid hospitals. Thane civil hospital and Horizon Prime are Covid hospitals, while Bethany Hospital is dedicated for people with symptoms of coronavirus. With the number of Covid-19 positive patients in the city crossing 100 in Thane, the municipal corporation said it will need more hospitals to treat patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-more-hospitals-in-thane-dedicated-for-covid-patients/story-HmYRboEePYTtnnRQXyAV5H.html
16-04-2020||City||Wheat procurement: No produce arrives in 3 Majha districts||Farmers did not bring their produce to the grain markets of three districts of the Majha region — Tarn Taran, Gurdaspur and Pathankot — on Thursday even as procurement started in Punjab a day before.Even mandis in Amritsar, the fourth district of the region, barely managed to open the account with just 32 tonnes. Amritsar district mandi officer Jaswinder Singh Dhaliwal said the Gehri grain market received the 32 tonnes of wheat, while others grain markets in the district wore a deserted look. The arrival of produce will pick up after April 20 as the moisture in the grain delayed the harvesting, he added. Negligible arrival in Doaba mandis A negligible amount of wheat arrived in the grain markets of the Doaba region on the second consecutive day on Thursday with a majority of farmers yet to start harvesting due to high moisture content in their crop.In Kapurthala district, of the 965 tonnes of produce that arrived at the mandis in the last two days, the government agencies lifted 725 tonnes. In Jalandhar, few farmers arrived at the Phillaur and Mehatpur mandis and agencies purchased 475 tonnes. Most farmers are likely to start harvesting from the next week. Also, due to the ongoing curfew in Punjab, farmers are facing problems in arranging labour to carry their produce to the mandis.In Hoshiarpur district, procurement will start on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/wheat-procurement-no-produce-arrives-in-3-majha-districts/story-v4laydDk7dNyXWV5uv1NxO.html
16-04-2020||Chandigarh||‘Punjab colleges, varsities will need 15 days to prepare for exams after lockdown’||After the Covid-19 lockdown is lifted, the educational institutes of Punjab should be given at least 15 days to prepare for examinations, representatives of various varsities suggested during a meet held by the department of higher education on Thursday.A videoconference was held on Thursday wherein vice-chancellors of Punjabi University, Patiala, and Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar, and controller of examinations, Panjab University, along with other state government officials discussed policies regarding examinations and admissions for the next session in the universities and colleges of the state.“It was suggested that at least 15 days of classes should be held to enable the students to complete practical projects, internal exams and other internal assessments before the schedule of exams is notified,” said an official who attended the meet.The department of higher education and languages of Punjab government had earlier written a letter to Panjab University, Punjabi University, Patiala, and Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar, seeking their suggestions regarding the examinations.Rahul Bhandari, secretary of higher education and languages, Punjab government, said, “Since we have students in rural areas too, it was discussed that in addition to online classes, 15 days will be given to the institutes to hold classes.”“However, we are waiting for the decision of the University Grants Commission (UGC) as the body too constituted a panel to discuss the matter,” said Bhandari.“It was also discussed that timely examination and declaration of results of outgoing classes should be the priority,” said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-colleges-varsities-will-need-15-days-to-prepare-for-exams-after-lockdown/story-RvM0GZMLnDz9cmQiioSneK.html
16-04-2020||City||Procurement an uphill task in SBS Nagar containment zone||Banga (SBS Nagar): With wheat arrival expected to pick up in the state’s first containment zone for covid-19, comprising 15 villages, from April 22, it is going to be an uphill task for the administration to ensure procurement. The zone was created after preacher Baldev Singh, of Pathlawa village, tested positive after his death on March 18. To date, SBS Nagar has reported 19 cases and there has been no positive case in the district since March 26. The administration has designated three grain markets at Pathlawa, Ucha Ladhana and Maalgill villages for wheat procurement in this containment zone, where wheat is grown in over 3,800 hectare. Banga SDM Gautam Jain said, “Procurement is a greater challenge in containment zones. We will regulate it strictly. Labourers attached to commission agents will stay in the grain market itself for the entire procurement season and will not be allowed to go out. Ten trucks and combines will be allocated to the zone permanently.” Nawanshahr SDM Jagdish Singh Johal said no farmer from these 15 villages will be allowed to go to other grain markets in the district. Medical teams will also be stationed outside the grain markets with infrared thermometers. Sandeep Singh of Pathlawa village, who has sown wheat on 35 acre, said, “Farmers in this area prefer to use combines for harvesting. Procurement should be expedited for the benefit of farmers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/procurement-an-uphill-task-in-sbs-nagar-containment-zone/story-Gz60XbR6GpCnVeK5zkIIXM.html
16-04-2020||City||Consumers make Rs 35-crore advancepayments to PSPCL to earn 12% interest||PATIALA Amid reduced interest rate on saving accounts and fixed deposits in banks, consumers have deposited over Rs 35 crore to the Punjab State Power Corporation Ltd (PSPCL) in a week as advance payment of estimated electricity bills, upon which the PSPCL will give them 12% interest per annum.Of this amount, Rs 31 crore has been deposited by half-a- dozen cash-rich industrial housesThe banks recently reduced the interest rates on fixed deposits (around 6% pa) and on savings accounts (around 3.5%).The PSPCL recently launched a scheme offering its consumers 1% monthly interest if they make advance payment towards their estimated electricity bills up to March 2021 through digital modes. Thus, consumers will earn 12% interest per annum, almost double the rate of interest on fixed deposits. A PSPCL spokesman said the corporation has received a “resonating response” from consumers as the corporation has received advance payment of Rs 35 crore.Among the major contributors are M/s Oasis Enterprises (Rs 10 crore), M/s Stelco Industries Pvt. Ltd. (Rs 7 crore), M/s Veekay Concast (Rs 5 crore), M/s Arishudan Industries Ltd (Rs 4 crore) M/s Vardhman Adarash Ispat Pvt. Ltd. (Rs 3 crore) and M/s Waryam Steels (Rs 2 crore).PSPCL chairman-cum-managing director (CMD) Baldev Singh Sran said the corporation is grateful to its consumers who have come forward to deposit advance payments. “This will provide much-needed liquidity to PSPCL in this crisis of scarce financial resources and also help consumers to earn handsome returns on their deposit.”Sran appealed to other consumers to help PSPCL sustain through these difficult times by availing this “golden opportunity to earn extra money by making advance payments.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/power-billsconsumers-make-rs-35-crore-advancepayments-to-pspcl-to-earn-12-interest/story-vyiuQBQJyoVE02quBdIswM.html
16-04-2020||Delhi||Hindu Rao doctor’s services terminated for ‘bringing disrepute’||The North Delhi Municipal Corporation on Thursday terminated the services of a doctor at its Hindu Rao Hospital in Malka Ganj for “bringing disrepute to the institution.” Hindu Rao is a coronavirus disease (Covid-19) screening centre as designated by the Delhi government.The DNB (Diplomate of National Board) student concerned, Piyush Pushkar Singh, was serving in the hospital’s orthopaedics department. Amid concern over the lack of quality Personal Protective Equipments (PPEs) for doctors here, Singh said that he had “recently procured face shields for his colleagues from an NGO and distributed them, but the authorities took offence.”“The hospital’s medical superintendent told me to return them. I even tried getting them back but the other doctors refused to return them, and now this has cost me my job,” Singh said.The north body commissioner, Varsha Joshi, however, said that “Singh diverted donated materials, which were to be entered into the stock of Hindu Rao Hospital, by directly entering into correspondence with the donor agency. This agency was already in communication with the hospital medical superintendent (MS).”“Singh then proceeded to distribute the materials himself to whomever he pleased. He jumped in out of nowhere…wanting a slice of the glory. All donated material is monitored by me personally. The stocks are maintained meticulously. As can be seen, we thank every donor individually on our official Twitter handle. I can’t allow misappropriation over and above defiance and misbehaviour,” Joshi said.“Thus, he not only misled the donor, defied the MS, and diverted the material, but also gave it away to people who didn’t need it to the loss of those who needed it more, taking decisions which were nowhere in his purview,” Joshi added in her Twitter posts on the controversy.Singh had also been served a “show cause notice” on March 16 by the hospital authorities for putting up a video of the hospital ceiling leaking water on the beds of patients, on his social media accounts. The notice had asked him “to explain in 24 hours why he bypassed official channels to air his grievances/complaints”.Commissioner Joshi, however, denied that there was any link between the earlier notice served to Singh, or the video he circulated, and his termination on Thursday. Singh said, “I had then written various apology letters and also explained myself before each authority that I did not post the video, but had just shared someone else’s post on my timeline. I was told that the matter had concluded and I continued to go to the office.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/hindu-rao-doctor-s-services-terminated-for-bringing-disrepute/story-GSxwtYUV1FiJ5jNRHuTCZN.html
16-04-2020||Chandigarh||Pandemic shadow on procurement: Punjab to cap daily lifting of wheat at 3 lakh tonne||The Punjab Mandi Board and the state food and civil supplies department have decided to cap daily lifting of wheat in grain markets and purchase centres at 3 lakh tonne, keeping in view the infrastructural constraints and limited availability of manpower and machinery with the procurement agencies in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The operations will be carried out in line with the medical protocol that mandates social distancing and avoiding crowding to contain the spread of the coronavirus.As planned by the two state government entities, weighing, packing and loading of the produce for storage will take place within 48 hours of the arrival in the mandis. With this, the authorities are aiming at winding up wheat procurement in 45 days by the first week of June, as maize arrival is expected to begin in the mandis by then.State agencies have pegged the total wheat arrival at 135 lakh tonne. “We have decided to limit the daily issuance of passes to farmers to 60,000- 65,000 to limit the arrival,” said HS Brar, additional secretary of the mandi board, a subsidiary of the state agriculture department.The state government on Tuesday started the wheat procurement, which was postponed by a fortnight owing to slow maturing of the crop due to rainfall and fall in temperatures at the ripening stage and the coronavirus outbreak.“We have done lots of groundwork in the last 15 days but still there are many problems. Earlier, the produce (wheat and paddy) was brought for procurement directly from the farms immediately after the harvest. But this time, we want the farmers to bring dried produce with moisture content within the permissible limit of 12%,” Brar added.Besides the 1,864 existing mandis, 1,927 temporary procurement stations have been created to stagger the operations.Also, no cleaning support will be given to farmers in the mandis to avoid crowding.“We will invite 15-18 farmers to each mandi so that there is no rush or glut. The procurement operation would take place gradually but the farmers and the mandi staff will be saved from any infection. In the past, there have been instances when 8-10 lakh tonne wheat was procured on a single day. Farmers are finding it difficult to adjust to the new system, but the operations will get streamlined by April 20,” said director (food and civil supplies) Anindita Mitra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pandemic-shadow-on-procurement-punjab-to-cap-daily-lifting-of-wheat-at-3-lakh-tonne/story-5l9sKv5InLraf4o11jKSkJ.html
16-04-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Three more containment zones in Delhi, total now 60||The Delhi government Thursday declared three new containment zones, taking the count of such movement-restricted areas in the national capital to 60. A lane in south-east Delhi’s Shaheen Bagh, which was until a month ago the epicentre of the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act protest, is one of the three new containment zones. The other two are a lane in south Delhi’s Hauz Rani and three lanes of Ram Nagar in Shahdara district. In Shaheen Bagh, Gali No. 6 has been declared a containment zone after three persons had tested positive for Covid-19 a few days ago. The government has previously declared E and H block of Abu Fazal Enclave a containment zone after two cases were reported from these places. Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageDCP, south-east, RP Meena said parts of Abul Fazal Enclave were declared containment zones around four days ago. No new case was reported from there on Thursday.In Hauz Rani, an entire lane was cordoned off by the district administration after one person tested positive for Covid-19. According to a senior district official, one lane near Gandhi Park in Malviya Nagar is already a containment zone. “The person who tested positive in Hauz Rani was in contact with the person who had tested positive in Malviya Nagar. The two localities are nearby to each other,” the official said. In Shahdara’s Ram Nagar area, three lanes have been declared as containment zones on Thursday after the test reports of an elderly man, who had died on April 12, came positive for coronavirus.At least nine persons of his family have been asked to remain in home quarantine and the area surrounding their house in Ram Nagar was declared a containment zone. Senior police officers said the man was a heart patient and was suspected to have died of an heart ailment until his medical reports Thursday revealed that he was Covid-19 positive. Another man, who tested positive from this area has been admitted to a hospital in Haryana, police said. Deputy commissioner of police (Shahadra) Dinesh Gupta said the man worked at a general store. He had complained of illness a few days ago and was taken to Ram Manohar Lohia hospital, from where he died.“The doctors had collected his samples for testing, but because he had a history of heart problems, they didn’t suspect any other reason for his death. The body was later cremated. On Thursday, when reports came, the RML hospital stated that he had been infected by the coronavirus. We immediately asked nine of his family members to quarantine themselves at home and lane numbers 3, 4 and 5 of Ramnagar were declared a containment zone,” Gupta said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/three-more-containment-zones-in-delhi-total-now-60/story-EPm5oCtA9LdjKyn28ILeNK.html
16-04-2020||Mumbai||Swine flu, malaria and HIV drugs: Mumbai doctors’ Covid-19 treatment formula||While there is no vaccine or specific treatment for Covid-19, doctors in Mumbai said they have successfully cured patients with a combination of drugs used for swine flu, malaria and HIV. However, doctors have cautioned against the use of drugs without medical supervision.HT had reported earlier that the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) in March approved the use of Tamiflu (oseltamivir or Fluvir), an antiviral used in treatment of swine flu; hydroxychloroquine, a medicine used to prevent and treat malaria and anti-HIV drug Lopinavir for treatment of Covid-19 patients. Doctors said the treatment protocol of a few cured patients shows the combination works.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageOne cured patient is a 45-year-old resident of Madanpura with a travel history from Delhi, who was admitted to Kasturba Hospital with complaints of fever, cold, dry cough and bodyache on March 21. The patient had hypertension. He was treated with hydroxychloroquine. Along with that, he was given multivitamin tablets and antibiotics like azithromycin and cetirizine. The patient responded to the medicines and tested negative for the virus in two consecutive swab test reports. He was discharged from the hospital on March 31. Another combination was tried for a 69-year-old Andheri resident, who along with her husband, was among the first patients in Mumbai to be diagnosed with Covid-19 on March 11. The woman was admitted with her 70-year-old husband in Kasturba Hospital on March 10. She had cough, fever, mild breathlessness and loss of appetite. The couple had a travel history to Dubai. She was a patient of diabetes and hypertension. She was given tablet omez for acidity for 10 days, antibiotic levoflox (500mg), along with medicines for her preexisting conditions. For her breathing problem, she was given Duolin neb as her airways were congested because of the infection. However, her husband who had developed fluid in his right lung due to pneumonia needed more time to recover. He was administered with the same three-drug combination his wife received, but for his pneumonia, he was given 4.45gm of Piptaz injections (antibiotics) with a diabetes diet. Eventually, he also recovered and the couple was discharged from the hospital on March 24. “They were the first patients to be treated with a drug combination of hydroxychloroquine, Tamiflu and Lopinavir. Although there is no specific evidence about the effectiveness of the drugs, we used the drugs as an experiment which actually worked,” said a doctor from the hospital who was involved in her treatment. Talking to HT, her husband said, “For the initial two days, she was very weak and her legs would shiver. But now, she is absolutely fine and is able to do house chores without any breathlessness.”However, according to doctors, he still needs time to overcome the weakness. “On the 10th day of my admission to the hospital, I kept vomiting. I thought, I won’t survive, but I did. Although sometimes I still feel dizzy if I stand for long,” he said. The HIV medicines were earlier used for treatment of patients during the outbreak of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) in 2002, also a fatal respiratory illness caused by the coronavirus.However, doctors caution people with symptoms and Covid-19 positive patients from trying the drugs on their own. “Every patient has different health issues and depending on it we prescribe the medicines. Some patients may need Lopinavir, others may need hydroxychloroquine. So, it will be risky and can even prove fatal if consumed over the counter without the supervision of doctors,” said Dr Daksha Shah, deputy health officer, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/swine-flu-malaria-and-hiv-drugs-city-doctors-covid-19-treatment-formula/story-QcUGAW9PbtuEAHbzBO7bsK.html
16-04-2020||Chandigarh||‘Hunger killed more people than the diseases did’: Centenarians of Chandigarh recall epidemics that rocked the nation||“The total deaths in the country have not even crossed 500 as of now, whereas during the plague epidemic of the 1920s, in a single village more than 500 people died,” recalls, 104-year-old Surender Kumar Bhalla, who was born in 1916 in Lahore.“Even treatable diseases like malaria killed thousands in the region, so if we compare Covid-19 with other pandemics, it’s nothing,” he adds.Between the 1850s and 1940s, Punjab was the worst affected in India by outbreaks of several diseases like malaria, smallpox, cholera and plague, in which millions died while many were displaced. However, compared to the current health crisis in India, many centenarians in the region say they are more hopeful now.Born in 1921, Manoj Kumar, 99, says, “Hunger killed more people than the diseases did. My brother who was in his twenties during the malaria outbreak in Punjab told me that the fields were overripe with ‘fasal’, but there was no one to harvest them. At least now the government is taking care of the poor, giving them food and helping them out. During that time, the British government couldn’t be more neglectful.”Tara Devi, 101, born in 1919, says she was from a well-off family that is why she could survive, “otherwise cholera killed many people.”CURFEW VIOLATORS WERE THROWN IN JAIL BY BRITISHComparing the curfew of today with that of during British India, 98-year-old Ajeet Singh, born in 1922, says, “During a curfew in Patiala in the 1930s, my brother was struck there. Whoever was seen outside was thrown in the jail.”Bhalla recalls, “There was no relaxation in curfew, no food, no milk, no water was provided, one had to sit at home and stay with whatever they had at hand. I was in Lahore in the 1930s when the curfew was imposed.”“The most dangerous disease was the plague. I have seen it twice in my life in 1937 and 1939,” he adds.Comparing the precautionary measures mandated by the government now and then, Bhalla says, “It was not mandated by the government, but people used to take precautions during such outbreaks. At most, the British would provide one doctor per village.”“Our mothers at home were the only doctors we had,” he says, adding, “Many families stopped eating at each other’s places out of fear of contamination.”Ajeet Singh says, “There is a huge difference in outbreaks then and now.”‘WE WILL DEFEAT THE VIRUS’Born in 1923, Ramlata, 97, says, “I am hopeful that the kind of social cooperation we are showing, the way the government is helping everyone, we will defeat the virus.”Professor Rajiv Lochan at Panjab University, Chandigarh, said, “Trauma of the past and trauma of today are not the same. For example, walking back to villages on foot was considered normal till the 1960s, whereas now, it is considered a crisis.”He adds, “Plague and cholera epidemics hit the region severely during the 1930s and 1940s. People were removed from their villages, many ran away. Those times were comprehensively more traumatic, medical facilities were scarce and the political situation was such. But today we are better prepared.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hunger-killed-more-people-than-the-diseases-did-centenarians-of-chandigarh-recall-epidemics-that-rocked-the-nation/story-SLZDr6kxCDujN2Fpc2UuxJ.html
16-04-2020||Mumbai||False report by journalist played a role in Bandra chaos: Cop||Rahul Kulkarni, a journalist from a Marathi news channel, who was arrested on Wednesday for allegedly spreading rumours that led to a large gathering of migrants outside Bandra railway station on Tuesday evening, was released on bail of ₹15,000 by a magistrate’s court in Bandra on Thursday. A senior Indian Police Service (IPS) officer claimed that the arrest was not carried out under government pressure.“Their news on a train service may not be involved directly with spreading the rumour, but it certainly contributed to the environment,” the officer said. Several fake news reports and rumours were happening spread on social media about the resumption of railway services. The arrested journalist’s news was among those which added to the rumours, the officer said but denied the incident to be a planned conspiracy.“Migrants and labourers were frustrated, hungry, and wanted to go home at any cost. They were hoping that on the last day of the first lockdown (April 14), the government would announce some relaxation of rules to help stranded labourers,” said the officer.Kulkarni’s lawyer Subodh Desai informed the court, “Kulkarni’s arrest is illegal. Our story was based on a Railways document and it was not a false report. It would be wrong to say that because of our story, people gathered there.”Explaining the incident, the officer added that the crowd thought that the government would arrange some transportation to send them back home, so to ensure the same, they gathered in large numbers.Police initially tried to resolve the migrant workers’ issues with talks and offered them food. However, some of the frustrated migrants were adamant and demanded passage back to their home towns. As the crowd started protesting aggressively, police had to resort to a mild lathi-charge, said the officer.“We realised that the migrants were frustrated over not getting food or government aide, and they had no money as their employers (small scale contractors, construction labour contractors) too are facing financial problems due to the lockdown. We conveyed this to the government and are now ensuring that all stranded labourers and migrants get sufficient food,” said the IPS officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/false-report-by-journalist-played-a-role-in-bandra-chaos-cop/story-Le9Q40Y8oHPzlnXTN2JPvJ.html
16-04-2020||City||Action taken against 3 Delhi cops for harassing Ludhiana piggery farmer||The Delhi Police have taken action against the police officials, who had harassed a Ludhiana-based piggery farmer and forced him to pay a bribe of Rs 15,000 a few days ago.The accused inspector and Paharganj SHO Nishar Khan, sub-inspector Sandeep Yadav and a constable have been sent to the Police Lines and a vigilance inquiry has been initiated against them.Dr Inderjit Singh, director, animal husbandry department, Punjab, said Surinder Singh, who wanted to sell pigs in Delhi, was facilitated to carry pigs in a truck on April 14 with e-pass no. (E4573981).The director said when Surinder reached Delhi on April 15, his vehicle was stopped at Paharganj by the SHO, SI and the constable and was harassed for no reason and was allowed to go after he was made to pay Rs 15,000 from him. After the matter was brought to the notice of the Punjab State Sub-Committee for Monitoring Movement of Essential Commodities, formed by the department, the sub-committee, acted swiftly and the matter was taken up with the Union home ministry and the Delhi Police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/action-taken-against-3-delhi-cops-for-harassing-ludhiana-piggery-farmer/story-YJAuQt1xRqtCN2pFHgkv3J.html
16-04-2020||Mumbai||Bandra gathering: 1 more held; journalist out on bail||A 35-year-old tailor from Shashtri Nagar who shot and uploaded a video on social media which led to migrants gathering outside Bandra railway station on Tuesday, was arrested by the Mumbai Police on Thursday. Rauf Shaikh, was produced in court along 10 other accused, including journalist Rahul Kulkarni. “The court granted bail to Kulkarni, a journalist from a Marathi news channel, on a personal bond of ₹15,000. However, the remaining 10, including Shaikh, were remanded in the custody of Bandra police station till April 19,” said Abhishek Trimukhe, deputy commissioner of police, zone 9.Shaikh shared a video in instructing people to gather at Bandra and demand passage back to their home towns. Vijayalaxmi Hiremath, senior inspector at Bandra police station, said, “We identified him through the video and arrested him.”On Wednesday evening, nine accused — Mohammad Amruddin, 35; Saif Hussein Shaikh, 36; Alam Mohammad Salim Shaikh, 28; Shamsher Ali Amir Ali Malik, 36; Helal Hakimuddin Ali, 32; Mohammad Shahid Ibrahim Shaikh, 29; Mohammad Arshad Mohammad Anvar Shaikh, 26; Altabash Chhotu Shaikh,28, and Firoz Sailchul Shaikh, 20 — were arrested from Shastri Nagar in Bandra (West) for spreading rumours about the special train.Bandra police said that during the investigation, it came to light that the arrested accused were all migrants. They contacted between 50 to 100 each people from their respective home towns and urged them to gather near Bandra station. On Tuesday evening, around 1,000 migrant workers had gathered outside the Bandra railway station asking the state to send them home. Considering the crowd was defying the nationwide lockdown, the Mumbai Police were forced to resort to lathi-charge to disperse the them. The event occurred hours after Prime Minister Narendra Modi extended the nationwide lockdown to May 3.An FIR was registered on Tuesday against 700 unidentified people at Bandra police station. Two separate FIRs against Navi Mumbai resident Vinay Dubey for posting an instigating video through his social media account, and Kulkarni, were registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bandra-gathering-1-more-held-journalist-out-on-bail/story-Bx9SuhfWvBjuMfsze0yJiO.html
16-04-2020||Mumbai||Living in lockdown: It’s time to document birds from your balcony||Mornings during the lockdown are busy for architect Neeraj Chawla. Every day, for two to three hours, Chawla photo-documents the birds he can see from his fifth-floor apartment in Rail Mitra Cooperative Housing Society, Charkop. In the first three weeks, he’s spotted 18 different species. Chawla is among those in the city who have discovered an interest in birdwatching while staying at home.“The activity not only keeps me occupied, but also helps to document the behaviour of avian species. Most birds are nesting since it’s breeding season,” said Chawla. Apart from common birds like house crows, rock pigeons and house sparrows, Chawla has seen black-crowned night herons making nests and spotted the Asian koel as it waited to drop her eggs in crows’ nests. Coppersmith barbet. golden oriole, rose-ringed parakeets and fan-tails are regular visitors. As summer approaches and flower nectar is available, the purple sunbird, common tailorbird, red-ventured bulbul, and white-throated hingfisher have made an appearance.For Chetan Divekar, who works for a travel company, birdwatching is an activity that he can do with his children. Recently, he participated in a balcony-based birding workshop that had almost 180 participants from all over the world, and was conducted via a mobile app.“Now is the right time to introduce your children to these things, because otherwise they have school. Now that they are locked in, they can spare time to look around and understand the beauty of nature,” Divekar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/living-in-lockdown-it-s-time-to-document-birds-from-your-balcony/story-NDZpYJkhH2XPqxF8EDMiyJ.html
16-04-2020||Mumbai||MU to conduct exams after lockdown||The University of Mumbai (MU) on Thursday clarified that the interim summer vacation for affiliated colleges has been extended until May 3. “The university plans to conduct exams once the lockdown is lifted, and the final call on this will be taken based on directions from the state and the Centre. For the time being, the interim summer break is being extended till May 3,” stated a circular released on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mu-to-conduct-exams-after-lockdown/story-HaK9XkPTZMJH4YUEKzDYFP.html
16-04-2020||Mumbai||After 2 doctors test positive for Covid-19, KEM hostel with 55 docs inside is sealed||Days after two resident doctors from King Edward Memorial (KEM) Hospital, Parel, got diagnosed with Covid-19, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Thursday sealed one of the four hostels of the medical college at Prabhadevi where the doctors stayed. As many as 55 resident doctors have been confined to the sealed Anand Niketan hostel. On April 12, two resident doctors from the hospital tested positive for the coronavirus. One of the doctors from the community medicine department was stationed at Kasturba Gandhi Hospital. Ten doctors from the hostel who were in close contact with the duo have also been quarantined. The other Covid-19-positive doctor from the pathology department was working in the casualty ward of KEM Hospital. The dean of the hospital did not comment on the delay in sealing the hostel.The letter of the order available with HT, read, “Resident medical officers from various departments staying in the building will not be able to attend their duties till the building remains sealed.” The letter dated April 15 was issued by Dr Gajanan D Velhal, head of KEM Hospital’s community medicine department. Resident medical students at the hostel have raised concerns about it. “There is a need for doctors during the ongoing pandemic, so the authority cannot just lockdown 55 doctors,” said a doctor from the hostel. The doctors also alleged that there are inadequate disinfection facilities at the hostels and the hospital.In Mumbai, the number of cross-transmissions of the infection among hospital staffers has reached almost 150 cases. Talking to HT, Dr Hemant Deshmukh, dean of KEM Hospital said, “This is according to the rules of the state government and we have to follow the 14 days of home quarantine. We can’t risk other doctors and patients.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/after-2-doctors-test-positive-for-covid-19-kem-hostel-with-55-docs-inside-is-sealed/story-47JOyt5aO4K5rNtMP3fUEO.html
16-04-2020||City||Delhi Bar Association asks CM, police to allow lawyers to commute||The Delhi Bar Association (DBA) has written to the chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and the city police commissioner to allow lawyers to commute from their homes to their offices, while maintaining strict social distancing norms. In a letter through the DBA president Sanjeev Nasiar, the association said that the Union ministry of home affairs in its detailed guidelines has said that self-employed persons such as electricians, plumbers, etc., can be allowed to do their work. It said that the advocates should also be allowed to go to their offices since they are covered under the relaxed guidelines and the same should be permitted. It said that the chamber activities can be allowed and hence the advocates should be permitted to move.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-bar-association-asks-cm-police-to-allow-lawyers-to-commute/story-G4SfZmbn2BPdLeJO53k7zN.html
16-04-2020||Delhi||Duo held for smuggling liquor from Haryana in private ambulance||Two men who were using a private ambulance to allegedly smuggle illicit liquor bottles into Delhi from Haryana were arrested in South West Delhi’s Chhawla and the vehicle seized on Thursday, the police said. A total of 913 smuggled illicit liquor bottles were found from in the ambulance. The police said that the driver of the ambulance had hired the duo to smuggle the consignment of liquor, in order to make a quick buck. The police are on the lookout for the driver, identified as Jai Singh. The arrested were identified as Harish Lohia, 34, who was driving the vehicle, and Devender,40.The deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka), Anto Alphonse, said that they were tipped off about the consignment of illicit liquor being transported in a private ambulance bearing Haryana registration number. “Our team laid a trap near the local crematorium. Around 9.30am, the ambulance, a Force jeep, was spotted and stopped. Its driver and another occupant tried to flee but were caught,” Alphonse said.The police found a cold storage unit in the ambulance filled with liquor bottles and retrieved more bottles from other parts of the vehicle. A total of 25 cartons, containing 913 bottles of illicit liquor, were recovered, he said. According to the police, the duo told them that the driver had hired them and paid them ₹2,000 for reach trip from Bahadurgarh to Delhi. “Singh had directed them to supply the liquor bottles to bootleggers in west Delhi. We questioned the ambulance owner, who said that Singh was hired two months ago,” said Alphonse. As liquor and wine shops across the country are shut because of the lockdown, bootleggers are using various tricks to procure and supply liquor bottles at higher prices. People associated with other professions have also entered this illegal business during the lockdown, a police officer said.Recently, a Delhi Police officer and a milkman, in separate incidents, were caught smuggling illicit liquor in their vehicle and milk containers, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/duo-held-for-smuggling-liquor-from-haryana-in-private-ambulance/story-uE6ZdtqspyzmtStiEg75pO.html
16-04-2020||City||17 Ludhiana cops who came in contact with Covid positive criminal test negative||The district health department on Thursday stated that the 17 cops from the Focal Point police station here, who had come in contact with a coronavirus infected theft accused, Saurav Sehgal, have tested negative. Saurav’s mother and brother and seven tenants living in his house have also tested negative.On the other hand, three relatives of assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Anil Kohli, have tested negative for the disease, while the report of 15 cops whose samples were sent on Sunday is awaited.The three gunmen and driver of the ACP, whose samples were sent for testing, have been sent to their respective residences in Khanna, Moga, Ferozepur and Sangrur following objection by neighbouring residents, and asked to remain under home quarantine.CONTACT OF FIRST CASUALTY TEST NEGATIVE IN FIRST REPORTMeanwhile, eighteen days after a 42-year-old woman died of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Amarpura here, her 72-year-old neighbour Surinder Kaur, 72, has tested negative in the first report. Kaur was isolated after coming in contact with the victim, Puja Rani, a domestic help who had died of the infection on March 29. Confirming this, senior medical officer (SMO) Dr Ravi Dutt said, “After a few days, the second sampling will be done. If the report is negative again, Kaur will be sent home.”NO NEW CASEMeanwhile, deputy commissioner Pradeep Agrawal said no new positive case was reported in the district on Thursday. He said to date, 895 sample have been sent for testing, of which report of 757 has been received. “Of these, 722 turned out to be negative, while 22 samples were rejected,” Agrawal said.“Door-to-door survey of both the hotspots of district, Chowkimann and Gurre villages, is being carried out, under which 2,172 persons in 420 households of Chowkimann and 2,202 in 475 households of Gurre have been found asymptomatic. A similar survey is already going on in Amarpura, wherein 2,867 persons were surveyed, of which four persons, who were symptomatic, have been sent to the civil hospital, and their samples have been sent for testing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/17-ludhiana-cops-who-came-in-contact-with-covid-positive-criminal-test-negative/story-GZHRh4XxtOALGz4nWAkHcL.html
16-04-2020||Lucknow||Man booked for defying lockdown, hosting son’s birthday party in Gorakhpur||The Gorakhpur police on Thursday registered a case against a local man who defied Covid-19 lockdown norms and put dozens of lives at risk by hosting a birthday party for his 10-year-old son at his apartment in Betiahata locality of Gorakhpur on Wednesday night, a police officer said.An unnamed FIR against 50 others who joined the event was also lodged after a video of the birthday party was widely circulated on the social media, the police said.Circle officer (CO), Cantonment, Sumit Shukla said, “The video of the birthday party was examined and found true during investigation, following which an FIR was registered against the accused who had invited residents of his apartment (building) to attend the party, defying the lockdown.”Varun Aggarwal, a trader who resides in Sarrafa Residency apartment, was booked under the Epidemic Disease Act, Disaster Management Act, Indian Penal Code sections 188 (disobedience of order duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (negligence leading to spread of infectious diseases ), the police said.The police also filed an unnamed FIR against 50 others, who joined the event. The police also seized some chairs used in the event held in the posh Betiahata locality.Aggarwal said, “We realised that we committed a mistake and we are deeply regretful about it. Our intention was not to breach the lockdown. The party was planned suddenly on the idea of some apartment (building) residents who wanted a get-together for some time to overcome the boredom caused by staying indoors during the lockdown. But, unfortunately, the invitees did not adhere to social distancing.”“Here, I want to make it clear that all those who joined the party were apartment (building) residents with no one displaying symptoms and no outsider attended it. The residents of the apartment are already so alert that they keep information on the health of everyone living in the apartment (building). They do not allow entry to outsiders and have even placed a bottle of sanitiser at the gate so that everyone entering or exiting has to wash his hands. No formal invitation was given for the party,” he said.However, some others alleged that Aggarwal went ahead with his plan to host the party despite stiff resistance by some residents, who made a video of the event from their balcony and circulated it on the social media.The aerial view of the video shows around 50 invitees breaching social distancing norms, mingling together and eating food served to them from stalls set up outside the apartment building located in a posh area of the city .“Despite opposition from residents of the apartment, he went out to arrange a cook for the party and requested all to attend the event. But most of the alert residents stayed away. Of the 500 people in the apartment (building), just 50- 60 joined the event. Jewellers, big traders and other well-off families live in the multi-storeyed apartment building,” said a resident who did not wish to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/man-booked-for-defying-lockdown-hosting-son-s-birthday-party-in-gorakhpur/story-23OFWyvbp1TOgS2lKgXGfK.html
16-04-2020||City||Country liquor stolen from Bhiwandi bar||A case has been registered against an unknown person for breaking into a bar at Kalher in Bhiwandi, and stealing country liquor worth Rs47,000 and Rs2,000 cash.“The incident took place on April 7. But, bar owner Jayendra Naik, 32, registered a case on April 15. The accused broke the wall and entered the shop,” said a police officer, Narpoli police station, Bhiwandi. “A case has been registered against the unknown accused under sections 445, 447, 380 of Indian Penal Code,” said a police officer from Narpoli police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/country-liquor-stolen-from-bhiwandi-bar/story-TWjU178XGdWBCZED3nsNdK.html
16-04-2020||Mumbai||In a first, leucistic sloth bear spotted in Maharashtra: Forest department||The first record of a rare leucistic sloth bear has been documented from Melghat Tiger Reserve (MTR) in Maharashtra, the forest department said on Thursday. The observation comes while the country is under lockdown due to the Covid-19 outbreak.Leucism is a condition in which there is partial loss of pigmentation in animals causing white, pale or patchy colouration of skin, hair, feathers or scales, but pigment cells in eyes are not affected.“We have no previous record of luecistic sloth bears from the state. Hence, this is an important find which needs to be studied further,” said Nitin Kakodkar, principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife). Over the past five years, a sloth bear with a rusty-brown coat was recorded from forests of Dahod, Gujarat in 2016, the forest department said.Sloth bears are protected under schedule I of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972 and are considered ‘vulnerable’ by International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN). There are over a thousand sloth bears in the state, mainly across Chandrapur, Melghat, Gondia and Buldhana districts and in some isolated patches along the west coast.According to MTR field director MS Reddy, an adult female sloth bear was photographed in a camera trap last week with another of black coat (possibly a male) was sighted at Sipna Wildlife Division of MTR. “While going through our images over the past two days, we stumbled upon this rare find. In this case, the fur of the bear was beige while the colour of head was similar to that of other bears. The snout was also pale,” he said. Camera traps had been setup under the tiger monitoring study being carried out across Vidarbha landscape by the Wildlife Institute of India (WII) and Maharashtra Forest Department. “This is an interesting record showing the presence of animals of varied colours from the central Indian landscape,” said Bilal Habib, WII scientist.There are around 350 sloth bears recorded across the mountainous terrain and dense forests of MTR, said Reddy. “This is based on our last waterhole census,” he said adding, “There is no threat to the animal in Sipna zone as it is well-protected with regular foot patrolling of our officers and hardly any villagers.”While the forest department said such animals had low chances of survival as their colour makes them more susceptible to predation, Nishith Dharaiya, co-chair, IUCN sloth bear expert team said there was no threat to their health due to this condition. “This is a rare genetic condition but different from albinism seen in white tigers, snakes or squirrels in India, and white lions and giraffes in Africa. Leucism is partial loss of pigmentation of the fur. Nonetheless, a genetic examination and behavioural study is necessary to find out the changes in gene mutation,” said Dhairya.IUCN researchers estimate that there are 20,000 sloth bears across the Indian subcontinent and Sri Lanka. “Maharashtra has massive sloth bear population but they are being protected as secondary animal under the shadow of tiger conservation. Their protection needs to be amplified by the department,” said Dhairya. Reddy added, “Once the lockdown is called off, we will invite researchers to study and understand the behaviour of this female bear.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/in-a-first-leucistic-sloth-bear-spotted-in-maharashtra-forest-department/story-EwfH9gvj5rxW4mG8n3PuhL.html
16-04-2020||City||80 hostels to be converted into temporary Covid-19 hospitals||PUNE Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has identified 80 hostels where the civic body has started making arrangements to convert them into temporary hospitals. We can treat at least 17,000 Covid-19 (coronavirus) patients at these hospitals, said deputy commissioner Rajendra Muthe.Shekar Gaikwad, municipal commissioner and additional municipal commissioners Rubal Agarwal and Shantanu Goyal took a review meeting with the PMC officials on the preparedness of Covid-19 in the city on Thursday.Muthe said, “PMC has identified 80 hostels, mainly of educational institutes in the city and is in a process of converting them into hospitals. At least 17,000 patients can be treated in these temporary hospitals.”Muthe said, “If necessary, PMC is also planning to acquire the marriage halls in the city which can be used to quarantine patients.”The PMC officers said the tenders will also be prepared to provide food for all the Covid-19 patients at these 80 hostels.Additional municipal commissioner Goyal said, “We may use marriage halls and PMC-owned buildings to quarantine patients if the number increase.”Additional municipal commissioner Rubal Agarwal said, “PMC has started 74 clinics across the city. Residents who have flu-like symptoms can visit these clinics and get themselves tested. After the necessary examination, the PMC staff will suggest if the patient has to undergo Covid-19 test.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/80-hostels-to-be-converted-into-temporary-covid-19-hospitals/story-xjAhglvUkymvDoMnM5LTqM.html
16-04-2020||Lucknow||UP: 11-yr-old girl with corona symptoms dies; parents put on quarantine||The health department staff carried out the last rites of a 11-year-old girl, suspected to be a Covid-19 patient in Amroha on Wednesday night.The family members of the deceased have been placed under quarantine and her sample sent for testing.The girl, a resident of Kanshiram Colony of Gajraula town in Amroha, was suffering from fever and sore throat.Daughter of a vendor, she was taken to a community health centre in Gajraula on Wednesday morning by her mother.However, she was referred to district hospital in Amroha.Dr Megh Singh, chief medical officer (CMO), Amroha said she was admitted for treatment in the district hospital after screening. She was transferred to the emergency ward where she died in the evening. Dr Singh said that on the basis of symptoms all precautions were taken before taking her body for last rites.“It was packed in a bag and staff of health department and a few others did her last rites instead of family members and relatives,” said the CMO.Her sample had been sent for testing and as precautionary measure family members have been placed under quarantine, said the CMO.He said that testing reports take time because department sent samples to three different Covid-19 labs of Lucknow, Meerut and Aligarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-11-yr-old-girl-with-corona-symptoms-dies-parents-put-on-quarantine/story-MAJFj2wTnIa5EkLouOurOP.html
16-04-2020||City||Ration shop owner in Kalyan warned after complaints||Around 20 ration card holders at Sanglewadi in Kalyan had complained against a shop for not giving the allocated food grains during lockdown.Ration card holders are supposed to get 3kg wheat, 2kg rice and a kilo of tur dal and chana dal (lentils). They have complained that they get less than what they are supposed to get. Some social organisations had forwarded the complaint to the rationing office.“The state and central governments have expanded the benefits given to ration card holders under the public distribution system (PDS). But, many shops in Kalyan refuse people their allocated quota of food grains. Some are turning people away without giving them ration,” said Ahmed Qazi, president, Students Islamic Organisation of India, Kalyan.On Thursday, ration officers inspected a shop at Sanglewadi and interacted with beneficiaries.Ration officer from Kalyan Eknath Pawar said, “We had met the ration dealer and warned him of action if they does not give beneficiaries food grains as allotted by the government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ration-shop-owner-in-kalyan-warned-after-complaints/story-bUAWalMjFIqNc1aAoX8OQN.html
16-04-2020||India||Delhi-based cop pens poetry to spread awareness on corona||Those of us stuck in self isolation or just following the rules of the lockdown and glued on social media must have come across a spate of passions that people have evolved while in quarantine. But, a Delhi-based cop, Suhaib Farooqui, has given wings to his love for poetry while on duty in the time of Covid-19 lockdown. Farooqui, Station House Officer (SHO) at South Avenue Police Station, has penned his poetry on the struggle with coronavirus. He posted it on his social media accounts, and since then the poetry has gone viral.  The poetry is composed into a song by Mumbai-based music director Sudhakar Sneh. The lyrics of the poetry go like this: “Hai waqt’e inqelab, Corona se jung hai... Muh par rakho nakab, Corona se Jung hai... Denge use jawab, Corona se Jung hai... Lena hai use hisab, Ab corona se jung hai...” Farooqui, who is on duty during coronavirus lockdown, dedicates this to corona warriors in his Facebook post, and shares with us, “I have been reading and writing poems since childhood. I have read about almost all popular poets, and their works. And this is not the first time I have written something. People are talking and sharing my work at this time because they can relate to it more now.” Read: Farah Khan’s son Czar Kunder records rap song on coronavirus, gets a thumbs up from Abhishek Bachchan, Sania Mirza. WatchThis Delhi Police inspector generally writes in Urdu, but in order to reach more people and spread awareness about coronavirus, this time he chose Hindi as his medium. Farooqui, who is a self-confessed admirer of popular ghazal-singer Pankaj Udhas, adds, “I have been working on the field since the first day of lockdown, and it’s so difficult to make people understand that it’s not a law and order situation but more about maintaining self-discipline. Social distancing and self isolation are the only ways to fight against corona, and my poem is one of the many ways to spread awareness about it.” Author tweets @ruchikagarg271 Follow @htTweets for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/delhi-based-cop-pens-poetry-to-spread-awareness-on-corona/story-1JaZEa3iDJ0j8xoxQ69O0K.html
16-04-2020||Patna||Covid-19 spreads to Buxar, Vaishali; Bihar tally up to 80||Coronavirus spread its tentacles to Vaishali and Buxar, covering 13 of Bihar’s 38 districts, after 10 new cases were reported during the last 24 hours.The cases included six of a family from Munger who tested positive on Wednesday, two from Buxar and one each from Patna and Vaishali, pushing the state tally up to 80 as the government Thursday launched a massive door-to-door active screening exercise, targeting over 4 lakh households in four endemic districts of Siwan, Begusarai, Nawada and Nalanda.The active screening exercise would also cover nearly 8,000 villages/wards of international travellers who returned to the state last month. Nearly 22,000 international travellers came to the state between March 1 and 23, as per data from the Bureau of Immigration. “Bihar reported its oldest Covid-19 patient, when a 67-year-old from Buxar tested positive on Thursday. Another 35-year-old, also from Buxar, both having travel history of Asansol in West Bengal, also tested positive for the virus,” said Sanjay Kumar, Bihar’s principal secretary, health.Patna, which did not have any active case, after five patients were discharged from hospitals on recovery, reported a positive case Wednesday when a 60 year old male came in contact with a positive patient from Dubai.A 37-year-old patient from Vaishali, found positive for the virus and undergoing treatment at AIIMS-Patna, was reported to be critical.“The patient was brought to us in an unconscious condition late on April 14 with typhoid fever and respiratory difficulty. He tested positive for the virus the next day. He is critical and has been put on ventilator support,” said Dr Neeraj Aggarwal, dean of AIIMS-Patna and nodal officer for Covid-19.“The contact tracing of the patient from Vaishali, with neurological condition, is yet to be established,,” said a health official. “He did not go anywhere during the last three months. We believe he may have contracted the infection from any of the two health facilities he visited before reaching AIIMS or the Max Life Diagnostics at Kankerbagh he went for tests or the collection agent of Sona Diagnostics at Mithapur who went to take his blood sample,” the official added.Meanwhile, the Patna district magistrate Kumar Ravi had sealed the Central Hospital at Khusrupur, Popular Hospital on New Bypass Road where the Covid-19 patient from Vaishali had initially gone before being taken to the AIIMS.“We have directed the civil surgeon and the Patna Municipal Corporation to undertake door-to-door active screening and sanitisation of the 3 km area within the radius of the two facilities, while also putting an embargo on admission of new patients at the two hospitals,” said Ravi.Sixty-seven people at the health facilities who came in contact with the Covid-19 patient from Vaishali had been identified and efforts were on to collect their nasopharyngeal samples and put them into facility quarantine. Besides, samples of six other patients had also been taken for test.Of the 74 cases, Siwan accounted for 29, Munger (14), Begusari, (8), Patna, Nalanda (6 each), Gaya (5), Gopalganj, Nawada (3 each), Buxar (2), Saran, Lakhisarai, Bhagalpur and Vaishali (1 each).The state has 42 active cases after 37 patients had recovered and one death on March 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/4-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-bihar-total-rises-to-74/story-QNatoWm9aeC1bRevIZD6FL.html
16-04-2020||City||Arhtiyas unwilling to support procurement, oppose opening of new bank accounts||With only four days left for wheat procurement to begin in all grain markets of the state, commission agents are unwilling to support the move as they want the government to clear their pending dues.The arhtiyas also objected to the government’s notification issued to the private banks to open a new current bank account of all the commission agents to receive the payments for wheat procured by government agencies and for easy transfer of money to the farmers.“The government has accepted only some of our demands. It did not give any clarification over the pending payments of ₹150 crore. Moreover, the commission agents are not ready to open fresh bank accounts for the online payment of wheat,” said Vikas Singhal, secretary of Haryana State Anaj Mandi Arhtiya Association.A letter issued on April 13 by the deputy director (procurement) of director food, civil supplies and consumer affairs department to the general managers of seven private banks read that the state finance department has issued standing instructions to all the empanelled banks for opening new bank accounts of arhtiyas. “You are, therefore, requested to open new current accounts of all the arhtiyas, who are not having bank accounts in the above mentioned banks, so that the payments to the farmers may be routed through these accounts via the e-kharid portal,” read the letter.Singhal said that most of the arhtiyas in the state are unwilling to support the government as they already have bank accounts and there is no need to open new ones a week before the procurement.Talking to Hindustan Times, additional chief secretary (ACS) food, civil supplies and consumer affairs, PK Das, said, “Yes, they have been told to open new accounts for the easy transfer of payments to farmers without any delay.”“We don’t know why they were objecting to it as opening a new bank account takes only 20 minutes.The procurement will begin from April 20 and they have enough time to open it as we have already instructed the banks to open these accounts without any further delay”, he added.However, the government has already accepted the demand of the commission agents allowing them to make deductions from the payments of the farmers who had taken an advance from them.On the pending payments, Das said, “As of now, I cannot provide the exact figure, but the amount is not ₹150 crore. Also, efforts were made to clear it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/arhtiyas-unwilling-to-support-procurement-oppose-opening-of-new-bank-accounts/story-aucBJonUYhv5ZAh3mq0MAI.html
16-04-2020||City||Petrol pump owner, employee held for drug peddling in Ludhiana||The Dehlon police have arrested a petrol pump owner and his employee for drug peddling on Wednesday. The police have recovered 15 kg poppy husk, 250 gm opium, ₹10,000 drug money and 108 bottles of illicit liquor during a raid at a petrol pump in Khanpur village and recovered contrabands from a Ford Endeavour SUV, parked near the petrol pump. The police have also seized the vehicle.The arrested accused has been identified as Rajvir Singh alias Raju of Palm Enclave at Bulara village and his employee Suraj Yadav of Khanpur village in Dehlon. The police have also booked their accomplice Satinder Singh alias Kala of Village Gill. Satinder supplied the contrabands to the accused.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP city 2) Jaskiranjit Singh Teja said Dehlon station house officer (SHO) Inspector Sukhdev Singh arrested the accused following a tip-off.A case under sections 15, 61, 85 of NDPS act and section 61,1, 14 of the Excise Act has been registered against the accused at Dehlon police station.The accused were produced before a court on Thursday. The court remanded the accused for three days in police custody for questioning. A hunt is on to arrest Satinder Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/petrol-pump-owner-employee-held-for-drug-peddling/story-UzGSCrvVA6K7bPdbQuQ3qN.html
16-04-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana: OPDs to start from April 20||Haryana will start general OPDs (out patient departments) from April 20, chief secretary Keshni Anand Arora on Thursday said and advised the authorities to maintain social distancing norms in the hospitals.The chief secretary has directed that OPDs should be made functional outside the hospital premises and marking should be done outside the OPDs to avoid crowding. She directed that the intimation of the visit of mobile OPDs should also be given in advance to every district, block, and village so that the maximum number of people can avail the services. Presiding over a meeting of crisis coordination committee, the chief secretary asked deputy commissioners to prepare and plan for the permitted operations, including auction of fishery ponds, construction work, opening of dhabas and common service centres. Apart from these activities, forest watering, irrigation and mining operations should also be carried out in a phased manner ensuring proper health protocols, she said.She further directed that as the MNREGA workers were allowed for activities, especially irrigation operations and water conservation, officers concerned should strictly ensure and closely monitor issuing of e-passes. Meanwhile, during the meeting, additional chief secretary health and family welfare department, Rajeev Arora, said mobile teams have been constituted and sent to cover every block, village and district to conduct health checkups of people apart from Covid patients. He said teams have been asked to take on-the-spot samples of those showing any flu-like symptoms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-opds-to-start-from-april-20/story-a0tQBi5gw9YsfMT2GITnbL.html
16-04-2020||City||Covid-19: Ludhiana gears up for rapid testing||The district health department is all set to start rapid testing in the city.Confirming this during a question and answer session organised by the district administration and the police on social media platform on Thursday, civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said, “We are in the process of receiving rapid testing kits and hopefully in a day or two, we will start the process.” The medical bulletin received considerable viewership and nearly 400 residents watched the interaction session live. Residents also posted their queries during the session. Though the doctors from various private hospitals of the city answered the queries pertaining to Covid-19, but remained mum on closure of OPD services in private hospitals across the city.Ayush doctors stressed of immunity booster drinks and yoga to keep the virus at bay.Commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal and deputy commissioner Pradeep Agrawal moderated medical bulletin.Excerpt from Q&A session Dr Seema Singhal from SPS Hospital shared the details about coronavirus.“Actually the word coronavirus is not new. The only thing which sets this flu apart from the rest of the flues is that its severity is much higher. That is why it is called novel coronavirus. The symptoms of Covid-19 infected persons could be observed in 2 to 14 days,” she said. Dr Lydia from Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMC&H) stated that it is a respiratory pathogen and spreads through droplets.“As per the latest findings, the virus could sustain on steel and plastic for three days,” said Dr Lydia.Dr Rajesh Mahajan from Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMC&H) stressed on testing, quarantine and social distancing measures and cautioned against venturing out without protective gears.“There is no literature available yet that could suggest that it spreads through excrement (urine or stool). However, its presence was available in the excrement,” said Dr Mahajan.He said asthma patient could be at higher risk if they come in contact of the virus.He recommended food and supplement that are rich in zinc and vitamin-C. He also said that there is no harm in eating non-vegetarian and poultry products if it is evenly cooked.Dr Vikas Sikri of SPS Hospital and Dr Mahajan advised people not to take medicines, such as hydroxychloroquine (HCQ), azithromycin, augmentin without advice of a physician.“It is because these are anti-bacterial drugs and what we are fighting against is a virus. In some cases, it has been also observed that hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) and azithromycin could lead to increase in heart beat and cardiac issues. It is highly recommended that these drugs should be taken under medical supervision and following a check-up from a physician,” said Dr Sikri.Civil surgeon Dr Bagga busted the myth that a newspaper could be a carrier of Covid-19.“It is a myth. There is no problem in reading papers. If there is still some suspicion, one should read it outside the house and wash his/her hands afterwards,” said Dr Bagga.Dr Mohandeep Kaur from the department of Ayush suggested people to take cardamom, black pepper, tulsi, turmeric, cinnamon, mulathi and oregano (ajwain), giloy (tinospora cordifolia)-based hot drinks.She also stressed on having amala candy and tulsi extracts. Besides, she recommended pranayam and other yogasnas.Dr Bagga stressed on following a routine of waking up early, yoga social interactions though micro blogging applications such as WhatsApp, Facebook and Hangouts to remain mentally fit and active during the lockdown period.Dr Vivek Sikri of SPS Hospital said that the virus does not spread through mosquitoes. However, he stressed on maintaining cleanliness and hygiene.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-ludhiana-gears-up-for-rapid-testing/story-2TgBXiAznmnd243jct2CEI.html
16-04-2020||City||‘Nihang’ attack on police team: 4 of 11 booked released||PATIALA: Four days after 11 ‘Nihangs’ were booked for assaulting a police team and chopping off the hand of an ASI on curfew duty, four of them, including a woman, have been released on ‘humanitarian’ grounds, after police told court there was no evidence against them. Those released are Sukhpreet Kaur, Jaswant Singh, Darshan Singh and Nanna. They had been taken in police custody for ten days. Balwinder Singh, head of Dera Khichri Sahib, Karhali village in Patiala, is the main accused and continues to be in police remand. “The individual role of all the accused persons was thoroughly verified and it was found that these four had very little active role in the incident at the Sabzi Mandi, Sanaur Road, Patiala. There is lack of evidence against these persons as well. We moved an application in court on these grounds on Thursday,” said Patiala SSP Mandeep Singh Sidhu, adding that the court took a lenient and sympathetic view and allowed the release. The other accused still in police remand are Jagmeet Singh; Bant Singh, alias Kala; Gurdeep Singh; Jangir Singh; Maninder Singh. An accused, Nirbhai Singh, is in judicial custody. All of them have been booked for attempt to murder, grievous hurt, rioting, assaulting a public servant and under provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005. “Further investigation is on,” the SSP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nihang-attack-on-police-team-4-of-11-booked-released/story-s0FgkpMAi7puZpvjkN4nCL.html
16-04-2020||Jaipur||Centre, State assure Rajasthan HC of security of medical professionals||The Central and state government on Thursday assured Rajasthan High Court that appropriate arrangements will be made for the safety and security of medical professionals, who are “facing misbehaviour” from patients during screening and treatment of coronavirus.A division bench of Justice Sangeet Lodha and Justice Rameshwar Vyas, which was hearing public interest litigation (PIL) filed by one Vivek Shrimali, has slated the matter for further hearing on April 20.The PIL said that the lockdown was being violated, patients were misbehaving with medical professionals during their screening and treatment, and alleged negligence on part of the police and state government.“Due to the failure of local police to reign in these elements; direct the administration to deploy the personnel from RAC or CRPC and BSF who can work fearlessly in areas under operation,” the petition prayed.It said that Jodhpur District Collector “virtually reiterated” the demands made in the petition.“It is evident in these sickening set of circumstances that still the administrative authorities are living in their ivory towers and are recklessly lethargic towards the imminent threat to the life of not just the petitioner and his neighbours but towards the entire city of Jodhpur,” it added.Advocate solicitor general RD Rastogi and advocate general MS Singhvi, appearing for the centre and state respectively through video conferencing, assure the court of appropriate action on the ground.A request was also made to implead the Central government on the petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/centre-state-assure-rajasthan-hc-of-security-of-medical-professionals/story-QanYE00MLk63qCwnbuVgmI.html
16-04-2020||Chandigarh||8,620 cops deployed to ensure smooth harvesting, procurement||The Punjab government has deployed 8,620 police personnel and 6,483 volunteers for round-the-clock vigil at mandis and villages to ensure smooth procurement amid the Covid-19 crisis, with stringent guidelines for their own protection and strict enforcement of health and sanitation protocols. Director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta said as part of the two-pronged strategy, the frontline police personnel on duty at the mandis have been equipped to protect the farmers and others coming to these centres, while also ensuring their own safety. “The police personnel have been provided with face masks, gloves, hand sanitisers etc and also briefed about their proper usage,” he said in a statement. The cops deployed in various mandis have been asked to ensure checking at all entry/exit points, traffic flow and de-congestion of roads leading up to the mandis/sub-yards/purchase centres, besides ensuring law and order and proper flow of people and vehicular movement. Gupta said police personnel have also been directed to ensure that combine harvesters do not operate at night after 7pm, and to allow only one trolley with one person having a valid coupon at the entry point of the village to go to the mandi.The maximum of 992 police personnel and 1,919 volunteers are deployed in Sangrur district, followed by 676 and 69 in Patiala, 635 and 358 in Bathinda, 517 and 110 in Moga, 496 and 490 in Jalandhar rural, 449 and 458 in Barnala, with the remaining on duty in other districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/8-620-cops-deployed-to-ensure-smooth-harvesting-procurement/story-ZP2wrC5gwiF6Kq8dqRc6QL.html
16-04-2020||City||Electricity charges: Hoteliers seek relief at par with manufacturing industry||Reeling under losses due to the lockdown, the Hotel and Restaurant Association of Northern India has sought relief at par with that for the manufacturing industry in terms of electricity bills.In a representation sent to the government, the association members said the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has kept the hotel industry under commercial category and the relief has been announced for manufacturing industry only, even when the hotel and tourism industry is also facing losses.“As announced for the manufacturing industry, the state government and PSPCL should also announce relief for the hotel industry and waive off fixed charges for two months. The last date for submitting electricity bills must also be extended from March 20 to April 20 without any penalty,” the association members said. Honorary secretary of the association, Amarvir Singh, said the hotel industry is in deep financial crisis due to lockdown in the wake of coronavirus outbreak since March 22. “If the government fails to announce any relief, then the hotel industry will not be able to survive. We want the state government to consider the hotel industry at par with the manufacturing industry and the MSME sector. Relief must be announced as soon as possible”, said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/electricity-charges-hoteliers-seek-relief-at-par-with-manufacturing-industry/story-lLJENfu1o35xU0FI0K1hQP.html
16-04-2020||Noida||Covid-19: 12 new cases reported in Noida; total climbs to 92||Twelve more coronavirus patients were detected across Noida and Greater Noida on Thursday, taking the total number of cases in Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Buddh Nagar district to 92, officials said. The latest batch of positive cases includes a three-year-old child who got infected from his parents, who are already under treatment for COVID-19, and a 26-year-old nurse working at a quarantine facility, the officials said. “One hundred and fifty test reports have been received here in the last 24 hours. Of them, 138 have tested negative while others were found COVID-19 positive,” District Surveillance Officer Sunil Dohare said. Of the 12 positive cases, 11 were tested in a government lab, while one in a private lab, the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/covid-19-12-new-cases-reported-in-noida-total-climbs-to-92/story-6pIIF5Bbf1bl9d812xMW1J.html
16-04-2020||City||Thane residents consult doctor through video call||More than 100 people have consulted doctors through video calls in Thane through Thane Municipal Corporation’s (TMC) DigiThane app since it was launched on Monday.The Indian Medical Association, Thane branch, has prepared a list of doctors who will be available for video calls. Around 40 doctors are available for this service.TMC chief Vijay Singhal said, “We had started doctors-on-call facility and got a huge response. So, we decided to start the video call facility. We have prepared a list of doctors -- general practitioners, diabetologists, neuro surgeons and gynecologists. People will not have to venture out and will get treated at their homes.”This is a free service and residents have to log on to www.touchbase.live from their phone or laptop. This service will be available online till June 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-residents-consult-doctor-through-video-call/story-HiKr9ZKR3tPwACb1AN7fnL.html
16-04-2020||Pune||Two persons succumb to COVID-19 in Pune, district death toll reaches 46||Two more persons succumbed to coronavirus infection in Pune on Thursday, taking the total death count due to the virus to 46, said health officials said.Of the deceased Covid-19 patients, one was suffering from diabetic ketoacidosis while the other was suffering from diabetic nephropathy.“With two new deaths, the total death in Pune rises to 46,” they said.According to the State Health Department, 165 people tested positive for Covid-19 and the tally of Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra has climbed to 3081.Maharashtra’s first Covid-19 patient was detected on March 9 when a couple from Pune tested positive for Corona. They were treated successfully and discharged after 14 days’ treatment on March 23.A total of 259 patients have recovered till now in Maharashtra and discharged from hospitals, the State Health Department added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/two-persons-succumb-to-covid-19-in-pune-district-death-toll-reaches-46/story-eDMIx9tXNjsal4guDL4NNP.html
16-04-2020||Chandigarh||Amid curfew in Chandigarh, veteran badminton coach turns to online training||In early March, badminton coach Surinder Mahajan was busy preparing schedule for his 250 odd trainees at the Sector 38 sports complex. But little did he know that the coronavirus threat will force him to abandon all his plans and become innovative in helping his wards stay in touch, fit and ready for the game once the lockdown got over.Social messaging apps are coming in handy as the coach, with 35 years of experience, is trying to keep his top and intermediate groups ready and as fit as possible within the confines of their homes. The beginners group were also given specific tasks and exercises to stay in touch with the game.“We went into lockdown on March 22. And that very day, I decided to make full use of the WhatsApp group we have to keep everyone updated about training schedule on routinely basis before lockdown,” Mahajan said. All the players, who are in tournament group consisting of top and intermediate players, were given specific schedules to follow and update their task completion on the WhatsApp group. “We have 50-60 players in this group and they have been told to do sets of squats, burpees and do jogging at one place. Additionally, they have been told to do wall practice hitting an old shuttle on the wall. Standing agility is something which is very important in this game and the players have been told to keep working on that too. Alternate days are devoted to strength training also,” the coach explained. Mahajan was named manager of the Indian junior team that participated in the Junior Asian Badminton Championship held in Suzhou, China, in July last year. The 65-year-old coach is also general secretary of the Chandigarh Badminton Association and has served in various capacities with Indian teams in Asian, Commonwealth, World Games and Championships.“They have been asked to give feedback and the winner or the player who does best will be awarded too at the end of his lockdown. The prize is just for the motivation. I receive 40-50 messages per day with players following schedule which they show by sending images and videos. Sunday is off day for them,” Mahajan added.Mahajan said the idea behind this is to not only keep the players engaged in the times of lockdown but also keep them fit enough so that when they are back on court they don’t have to start from scratch. “The idea is to keep them ready and fit so that the comeback is easy. See, if a player follows this routine then I am sure it’s possible that the adoption stage wherein they gain peak fitness level can be done in 10-15 days. Once that is done, the game can also improve. The game is bound to suffer and players may need 1-2 months to get back to their peak forms and it might take longer in some cases. At least with fitness they can improve faster,” Mahajan added.Additionally the trainees have also been told to do yoga and meditation. Mahajan’a biggest fear is that in case the lockdown extends to longer periods some of the players might be pushed back by a year.“It will be difficult to make a comeback then,” added the coach, who himself follows a strict regimen at home to stay fit.“Once the lockdown gets over, players will need at least 1 to 2 months before they can participate in tournaments. It’s not going to be easy to make a comeback and normal sport to resume. Players will need weeks of practice before they take part in an event. Let’s hope we are able to fight this off successfully and India gets back to normal after that,” Mahajan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/amid-curfew-in-chandigarh-veteran-badminton-coach-turns-to-online-training/story-WNbGwuTdj1ZvWeng59xTGP.html
16-04-2020||Chandigarh||ASI Harjeet Singh promoted for showing exemplary courage||Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Harjeet Singh, whose hand was chopped off in an attack by a group of ‘Nihangs’ when he was enforcing curfew at Patiala Sabzi Mandi, has been promoted to the rank of sub inspector (SI) in recognition of his exemplary courage. Three other police personnel involved in the incident have been awarded the Director General’s commendation disc. DGP Dinkar Gupta took the decision after consulting chief minister Amarinder Singh on Thursday. Inspector Bikkar Singh, SHO of Patiala Sadar Police Station, ASI Raghbir Singh, and ASI Raj Singh are the three police officials awarded for display of exemplary courage and devotion to duty during the enforcement of curfew, access control and social distancing measures at Sabzi Mandi, Patiala, on April 12, a government release said. Making an exception from the laid-down norms, Gupta has also conferred the DGP’s commendation disc on Yadwinder Singh, a non-uniformed official of the mandi board, who is posted in Market Committee, Patiala, recognising that he was part of the joint party of the police and the mandi board.The DGP said the promotion/awards were in recognition of the display of outstanding devotion to duty, patience in the face of provocation, courage and presence of mind of all these men, and to motivate other police officers to continue performing their duties without any fear. “Besides promoting ASI Harjeet Singh to the local rank of SI, his name has also been approved for inclusion in List D-II, which is a fast track route for promotion to the substantive rank of ASI (his substantive rank is head constable), as laid down in the Punjab Police Rules for recognition of police officials of exceptional merit,” said Gupta.All four police officers and Yadwinder Singh were seriously injured in the incident. Harjeet, whose left hand was reattached by doctors after a seven-and-a-half hour long operation, is still admitted in PGI, Chandigarh, and is under close medical supervision, said a police spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/asi-harjeet-singh-promoted-for-showing-exemplary-courage/story-ix03y4vQ9LEjmYMvohdrdM.html
16-04-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh University feeds stray animals amid lockdown||Chandigarh University(CU) has launched a drive to feed stray animals amid the lockdown.The varsity is already offering cooked meals to 2,000 needy persons in Chandigarh and Mohali.CU volunteers reached cow shelters at Kharar and Morinda with 80 quintals of green fodder to feed the cows, buffalos and goats. They also fed stray dogs in Mohali and Chandigarh.CU chancellor Satnam Sandhu said, “The lockdown has had a big impact on stray animals and birds as they have no means of feeding themselves. It is our duty to take care of animals which are dependent on us.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cu-feeds-stray-animals-amid-lockdown/story-rQghS5LDmLiUplxgoOnTvM.html
16-04-2020||City||Ludhiana admn orders closure of restaurants delivering food through apps||Hours after a pizza delivery boy in Delhi tested positive for Covid-19, leaving 72 families under quarantine, the Ludhiana administration ordered the closure of restaurants delivering food through delivery apps—Swiggy, Zomato and others etc.Last week, the administration had allowed these restaurants to resume operations on experimental basis. “The administration has rolled back the orders wherein a few restaurants and sweet shops were allowed to operate and deliver food between 7.30pm and 10pm,” an order issued by deputy commissioner Pradeep Agrawal on Thursday read.The move has been welcomed by the residents and hotel and restaurants’ association, which had been mounting pressure on the administration to shut operations of these food units.Association president Amarvir Singh said, “It is a good decision amid the rapid increase in the number of cases. The recent case of Delhi where a delivery boy has been found positive for Covid-19 is a matter of great concern.”Ravi Arora, a resident of BRS Nagar area, said the administration should not have allowed the restaurants to operate in the first place as it increases the chances of spreading the disease. “Several delivery boys are seen on city roads throughout the day and often, they are seen flouting the social distancing norms at halt points. The administration should not allow restaurants to operate until the lockdown is lifted.”Opposing the decision of allowing a few restaurants to operate during curfew, Congress councillor Parvinder Lapran had asked, “Who would be held responsible if any delivery boy contracts the virus and spreads it further while delivering food. This does not even fall under essential services category.” On Wednesday, a resident of Sudhar had served a legal notice to the administration over the decision to allow a restaurant to deliver food and ice cream in the city. The Council of Engineers has also written to Punjab chief secretary and the district administration demanding that the permission given to over 400 industrial units to operate amid lockdown should also be cancelled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-admn-orders-closure-of-restaurants-delivering-food-through-apps/story-yvDjlPyLF1JmTBWKSWb9hM.html
16-04-2020||City||Booked for curfew violation: Man attempts suicide at police station in Bathinda||A day after being booked for curfew violation at Bhagta Bhai Ka town, a man and his aides created ruckus at the local police station. The man even attempted to commit suicide by consuming poison.Accused Baljit Singh, of Surjitpura village, was booked for curfew violations on April 14. He was travelling in an Innova car and police had intercepted him.He allegedly threatened a cop with transfer and falsely claimed to be the sarpanch of his village. He was booked under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).On Wednesday, Baljit entered the police station with a bottle of pesticide with a motive to commit suicide. He snatched the rifle of a cop when a cop stopped him.Other accused are his brothers Chamkaur Singh and Tarsem Singh, sons Sukhyad Singh and Dilawar Singh, a friend Baljit Singh and an unknown person.They entered the police station and got into a scuffle with the cops. A suicide note was recovered from Tarsem’s pocket. Cops recovered two revolvers from Baljit and two weapon licences, one of which he had allegedly got using forged documents.All accused have now been booked under Sections 309 (attempt to commit suicide), 188, 269 and 506 of the IPC and under the Disaster Management Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/booked-for-curfew-violation-man-creates-ruckus-at-police-station/story-V9auJDxTJgihFVKitR0YvN.html
16-04-2020||Mumbai||Two arrested from Navi Mumbai for posting fake messages||Two men were arrested from Kamothe for posting fake messages on social media that they are stranded without food. One of the men had stocked up his house with ration, said the police.“The men were getting grocery on time. However, they uploaded fake news on the social media. They have been remanded in five-day police custody,” said Ashok Dudhe, deputy commissioner of police, zone 2.The police said that the two Sajid Ansari, 45, and Kamlesh Dubey, 26, have been booked under various sections of Indian Penal Code for rumour mongering and public mischief along with violations of the lockdown.Ansari is a daily wage earner. Dubey claims to work for a social organisation.“When we visited their houses at a chawl in Kamothe, we found they had stocked up food and groceries,” said Babasaheb Tupe, senior inspector at Kamothe police station.The police seized Dubey’s phone and found photos of him posing with the needy while distributing food grains and food packets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-arrested-from-navi-mumbai-for-posting-fake-messages/story-foHd0UgWDyITDfoLxNWv7L.html
16-04-2020||City||Health workers protest for salaries in Bathinda||Multi-purpose health workers (female) protested outside the civil hospital on Thursday, claiming that they had not been paid salary for six months, even as they have been tasked with tracing covid-19 suspects. Multi-Purpose Health Workers Union state president Harjinder Kaur said, “Over 40 of us, who work with the department of health and family welfare on contract have been going without salary for six months. We have not even been regularised since our recruitment over nine years ago.” She added, “We have been deployed to trace NRIs who arrived in Punjab, according to a list provided to us and report anyone found symptomatic of covid-19. We are also tracing those who arrived in the district from other districts.” She claimed that the state government had failed to provide them PPEs and they had managed to arrange masks and sanitisers on their own expense. “For field work too, we are managing fuel for vehicles on our own,” she added. Bathinda civil surgeon Dr Amrik Singh said orders to release the salaries of these workers had been received and it would be paid in a day or two.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/health-workers-protest-for-salaries-in-bathinda/story-KVstpqHtXOecyZLQjqhK6H.html
16-04-2020||City||Fit India Mission: Expert session on healthy eating a hit among CBSE students||The 41-minute YouTube talk on healthy eating by dietician and nutritionist, Pooja Makhija, was a big hit with over 62,000 students from Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) schools tuning in on Thursday for the session.The board started holding such sessions under the  Fit India Mission from Wednesday to help students remain physically, mentally and emotionally fit during the lockdown. Referring to the Greek physician, Hippocrates, Makhija said, “Our food should be our medicine and our medicine should be our food.” She added that this practice will help students fight any disease.The expert also told the students to follow the five-finger rule of nutrition: Every child must eat food enriched with carbohydrates, proteins, fats, vitamins and minerals. She further advised them to follow five habits for good health -- have breakfast on time, drinking adequate amount of water, sleep well, exercise for 60 minutes everyday and reduce the intake of junk food and sugar.Most students agreed with the suggestions and prepared tables for a healthy diet. Ashish Verma, 16, a Class 12 student of Nankana Sahib Public School, Gill Road, said, “Due to pressure of studies, I did not take a balanced diet during the exams. But after this session, I feel motivated to make a healthy change. I will have a proper breakfast daily and drink water after every 60 minutes.”“For the last two months, I have not worked on my fitness. But now, I will exercise daily and avoid consuming junk food,” he added.Srishti Verma, a Class 12 student of BCM Senior Secondary School, Basant Avenue, Dugri, said, “The session proved to be informative as the expert advised the students to consume food items that boost the immunity. She also told us to take a diet which has adequate amounts of carbohydrates, fats, proteins, vitamins and minerals. Her suggestion to have breakfast daily is right as it boosts our metabolism, helps burn calories, and gives us the energy to remain active throughout the day. I will also increase my water intake as suggested by the dietician.”A Class 9 student of Nankana Sahib Public School, Gill Road, Simran Verma, said, “It is essential to take a balanced diet and work out daily to stay healthy. This will enhance our mood and energy. Everyone must sleep for about nine hours every day to improve their concentration and productivity.”NEXT SESSION ON EMOTIONAL WELLNESSThe next live session on emotional wellness will be given at 9.30am by Dr Jitendra Nagpal on Friday. Students can access the link https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCQtxCmXhApXDBfV59_JNagA?view_as=subscriber to attend the session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fit-india-mission-expert-session-on-healthy-eating-a-hit-among-cbse-students/story-7owTPg1PQIqR9rXFa6FyIO.html
16-04-2020||Chandigarh||SCD College invites entries for its annual magazine ‘Satluj’ again||With an aim to keep the students engaged during the lockdown period, the Satish Chander Dhawan (SCD) Government College, Civil Lines, has once again invited entries for its annual college magazine ‘Satluj’.Though the last date for submitting the entries was March 31, but in view of the current situation, the college has decided to extend the deadline for submitting the entries till further notice, college authorities said.“We had received very few entries till March end, now that the students are home and have enough time for their creative pursuits, we have decided to invite the entries again. We have asked the students to use this lockdown period productively by engaging in various creative activities,” college principal Dharam Sandhu said.The magazine, launched in 1930, is released in the month of May every year. It includes writings in the form of poems, essays on various topics, current events and personal experiences of the students, in any of the three languages— English, Punjab and Hindi.“Usually 20% of the total students send their entries for the magazine. Every year we receive around 800 to 1,000 entries. However, this year till March end the response was poor,” said Ashwani Bhalla, professor, department of commerce and business innovation. As the college, established in 1920, has started its centenary celebrations with various cultural events, the theme of most of the writings will be based on college’s journey so far, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/scd-college-invites-entries-for-its-annual-magazine-satluj-again/story-HCge5vQ4ITeOAwAHZjrkON.html
16-04-2020||City||Told to store wheat at home, claim Sangrur village farmers||Farmers of Gaggarpur village, around 10km from the district headquarters, which reported the first covid-case in the district on April 9 have claimed that the government had not allowed to store wheat at the grain market and forced them to store it at home. The district has reported three cases to date, with Gaggarpur village also being sealed for some time. “All family members and other contacts of the coronavirus victim have tested negative. Farmers are not being allowed to take their wheat to the grain market. We have cut our crop and want to sell as soon as possible,” Jasveer Singh, a member of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan) told HT, adding, “Rich farmers can afford to store wheat at their home. Small and poor farmers cannot afford labour and space for storage.”Hari Singh, another BKU leader, said, “I have stored my crop at my residence but the arrival of wheat should be allowed immediately, so that farmers can be able to manage their wheat husk (Tudi) for their cattle.” Sangrur sub-division magistrate (SDM) Bahandeep Singh said, “Special precautions are being taken for this village. Overall, the arrival and purchase of wheat is smooth in Sangrur.” Sealed village to be declared a yard to ensure containment At other places in the district, Ahmedgarh SDM Vikramjeet Singh Panthey has written to the deputy commissioner and and the Punjab Mandi Board to declare Dehliz Kalan village, which reported the second case in the district on April 10, as a yard for wheat procurement. The village is currently sealed and this move is expected to ensure containment, as farmers can sell produce within the village itself. “We have identified land in the village for the yard, where commission agents and farmers can coordinate for sale and purchase of wheat. Usually, farmers sell their crops outside the village,” the SDM told HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/told-to-store-wheat-at-home-claim-sangrur-village-farmers/story-4itgLtHozOVguAfRpOaJoL.html
16-04-2020||Chandigarh||Double the salaries of cops, sweepers: Hooda||Leader of opposition in Haryana assembly, Bhupinder Singh Hooda, on Thursday said salaries of police personnel, sweepers and contractual employees deployed for control of coronavirus should be doubled. Appreciating the state government’s decision to double the salary of health department employees, Hooda in a statement said all these employees were working round the clock without taking a break. “We cannot do enough to acknowledge their work. They are saving lives by putting their own at stake,” he added.The former chief minister also appreciated the work of mediapersons. He said mediapersons, like government employees, must also be recognised as corona warriors. Hooda appealed to newspapers and channel owners to provide incentives to mediapersons on the lines of the state government’s decision to double the salary of those leading the fight.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/double-the-salaries-of-cops-sweepers-hooda/story-KKSn1X04ygD9cJUpqCTISK.html
16-04-2020||Bangalore||Starving monkeys find saviour in Ramanagara BJP president||A BJP functionary has taken up the task of feeding starving monkeys at a few prominent temples in Ramanagara district of Karnataka ever since the lockdown was clamped across the country to check the spread of coronavirus.With loads of edibles such as buns, bananas, groundnuts and other stuff and packaged drinking water, M Rudresh, party district president, marches out with a team of his party volunteers to feed these monkeys.Videos of his feeding the simians have gone viral.He has befriended them and they too accept food from him without hesitation and without hurting him.According to Rudresh, he hit upon the idea when he went to one of the temples four days after the lockdown was clamped on March 24 and noticed that the monkeys were sitting right in the middle of the road.“ I stopped my car and came out.Soon, the monkeys stormed inside the car and took away whatever edible they could find.They even took away the packaged water bottles,” Rudresh told PTI.The BJP leader realised that due to the lockdown, devotees have stopped visiting the temples and as a result monkeys surviving on the food offered by them were starving.Moved by the plight of the primates, Rudresh decided to visit the religious places where the monkeys are in plenty and depend solely on the food offered by the devotees.“Every alternative day I visit Savandurga, Kengal Anjaneya Swami Temple, Revan Siddheshwara Hill, Muthathi, Sangam and Shivagange and give them whatever I could,” Rudresh said.While the BJP leader has earmarked Rs 25,000 for this purpose, the other party cadres too joined his campaign and contribute whatever they can.“These days I take huge quantity of buns, bananas provided by our party workers, four cases of half-litre water bottles.I remove the caps of the water bottle and they pick up from me,” Rudresh said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/starving-monkeys-find-saviour-in-ramanagara-bjp-president/story-CHJwsBw2eJAew72UfLdYDN.html
16-04-2020||Chandigarh||ISB donates medical equipment, Mohali DC lauds efforts||Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan on Thursday lauded the efforts of philanthropists for contributing to society in time of need. The DC expressed his views during his meeting with a team from the Indian School of Business (ISB), which donated medical equipment including 1,200 N-95 masks, 150 personal protective equipment(PPE), and 12,000 personal examination gloves for the civil hospital.Dayalan lauded the efforts of the institution in coming forward and contributing to the society during a national crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/isb-donates-medical-equipment-mohali-dc-lauds-efforts/story-DeLeq1ZECLmSfhDI7Po7hO.html
16-04-2020||Kolkata||3 more die of Covid-19 in West Bengal, total fatalities rise to 10||The novel coronavirus claimed three more lives in West Bengal in the past 24 hours, raising the total number of fatalities to 10, Chief Secretary Rajiva Sinha said on Thursday.Twenty four new cases of COVID-19 were reported from the state during the period, he said.The total number of cases in West Bengal now stands at 188, while the Union Health Ministry has put the figure at 231.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/3-more-die-of-covid-19-in-west-bengal-total-fatalities-rise-to-10/story-i1ocAWGvpBd5ir78qktBnN.html
16-04-2020||Mumbai||HC takes suo motu note of leopard’s death due to negligence of forest staff||Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court on Thursday took suo motu cognisance of news reports revealing that a leopard died in Paithan because of purported negligence and lack of sensitivity on part of the forest department personnel.According to the news reports published on Wednesday, forest department staff was called in after the leopard was spotted near Thergaon village in Paithan tehsil. The news reports indicated that the leopard could not be tranquillised by darts and was physically captured by using nets.After the leopard was captured, there was no necessity to tranquillise him, though this was subsequently done. The leopard was then carried by employees of the forest department to Gautala forest area along the Aurangabad-Kannad road. However, the leopard died even before he was released in its natural surroundings and was, therefore, subjected to postmortem.The veterinary expert Dr Vijay Rahate, who conducted the postmortem, noticed that some of the employees of the forest department had stepped on the neck of the leopard in their attempt to immobilize the big cat and this caused asphyxiation (suffocation) leading to the death of the animal.“This incident cannot be taken lightly,” said justice Ravindra Ghuge while taking suo motu cognisance of the alleged callousness on part of the forest department staff.The court has appointed advocate Chaitanya Dharurkar as amicus curiae and requested him to draft a proper public interest litigation petition and file it on or before April 27. The suo motu PIL will come up for hearing on April 30.Apart from the forest department, Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) will also be a party to the PIL and the civic chief has been asked to collect all original documents related to the capturing of the ill-fated leopard from the forest department. Besides, the court said, it will require the assistance of the veterinary doctors available at its Siddharth Udyan zoo run by the civic body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-takes-suo-motu-note-of-leopard-s-death-due-to-negligence-of-forest-staff/story-AZeGuqYGlQI1IZwwPVL52M.html
16-04-2020||City||Punjab farmers stuck in Nanded worried over fate of wheat crop||As most of Punjab pilgrims who are stuck at Takht Hazur Sahib, Nanded, in Maharashtra due to lockdown are farmers, they are deeply worried over the fate of their wheat crop which is ready for harvesting.With all the passenger trains and flights remaining suspended amid nationwide lockdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic, around 2,500 pilgrims are not able to return, despite several attempts made by the management board of the Takht Hazur Sahib, one of the five Sikh temporal seats.Talking to HT over phone from Nanded, Kulwant Singh, 66, of Awan village of Amritsar district, said that he has sown wheat crop over 10 acres. “My entire family of 10 members came here on pilgrimage by train on March 17, but could not return due to cancellation of all trains. Now, we are worried about the crop,” he said.He added that 10 more farmer families of nearby Pasian village were accompanying them on the pilgrimage.Rajwinder, a farmer from Ramdas village of Amritsar, said, “Harvesting has started in Punjab, but we are helpless and stranded here. We fear our crop would be ruined if we don’t return to our village in time. The government must make arrangements to ensure our timely return.” He has also grown up wheat on 10 acres.Meanwhile, Bhupinder Singh Minhas, president of Takht Sri Hazur Sahib Management Board, said, “We are making efforts on our end to send all pilgrims back to their homes, but getting no response from the governments. We sent some of the pilgrims by road on private vehicles, but the governments of Madhya Pardesh and Rajasthan did not allow them to pass through their states and they had to return to the gurdwara”.On March 25, Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh had written to Union home minister Amit Shah and Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray to help evacuate devotees who are stranded at the historic Gurdwara.Gurdaspur BJP MP Sunny Deol and Congress MP from Khadoor Sahib Jasbir Singh Dimpa had also written letters to Thackeray and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, respectively, seeking help for the pilgrims’ return.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-farmers-stuck-in-nanded-worried-over-fate-of-wheat-crop/story-reffV2L9qOBdgFxVwoDtTP.html
16-04-2020||Mumbai||Man held for stealing cash from Navi Mumbai shops||A 24-year-old history-sheeter was arrested for breaking into 12 medical stores and grocery shops in Navi Mumbai last week.The accused, with his accomplice, stole Rs 9 lakh even as the city remains under lockdown with stringent police checks on the road.The accused, Mahendra Patil, and his accomplice rode to different shops on a two-wheeler on Saturday and Sunday night. They broke into a medical store in Kopar Khairane, a medical store and two grocery shops in Rabale and eight medical and grocery stores in Kharghar.The accused stole Rs8.8 lakh from Kharghar alone.“They only targeted shops which did not have a central locking system. We have on the lookout for his accomplice. We have recovered Rs81,000 from him and seized his two-wheeler,” said Suryakant Jagdale, senior inspector at Kopar Khairane police station.Patil was released from Taloja jail in 2016 after he was arrested in a theft case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-held-for-stealing-cash-from-navi-mumbai-shops/story-Tu1NIXstshqAUgg159plzN.html
16-04-2020||Pune||Congested houses, lack of hygiene and alcoholism in three wards adding to Pune’s Covid-19 positive cases tally||Sarika Gaikwad, a vegetable vendor, lives in two 10x12 sq ft room along with her husband, in-laws and two children at the Kashewadi slums in the Bhavani peth ward. For her social distancing is a privilege given the size of her house and the vicinity in which she lives is densely populated. So, when the Pune Municipal Corporation appeals to the residents to maintain distance to prevent the spread of Covid-19, she laughs and says, “It may be possible for them, not for us.” If Mumbai’s Dharavi or Worli Koliwada are major contributors to the Covid-19 positive cases in the state capital, three wards in Pune - Bhavani peth, Kasba-Vishrambaug wada and Dhole Patil road – have emerged as the city’s hotspots. These three wards, according to statistics provided by PMC till April 15, account for 50 per cent of city’s total covid-19 positive tally. Of the 388 cases till Wednesday evening, these three wards reported 189 cases with most coming from slums and densely populated areas, according to PMC assistant medical officer Vaishali Jadhav.According to PMC, Bhavani peth has 96 cases, Kasba-vishrambaug wada 45 cases and Dhole Patil road has 48 cases. The PMC records show more than 70 per cent of overall cases in each ward have come from pockets such as Kashewadi and Tadiwala road, which are slums from Bhavani peth and Dhole Patil road respectively.“Lack of social distancing along with lack of hygiene are some of the reasons that these areas have seen maximum cases. Alcoholism, which brings down immunity, has also been a major contributing factor,” said Jadhav.High concentration of population in small geographical area has now prompted PMC to send family members and neighbours of every positive case to facilities set up by the PMC for institutional quarantine. “We have turned maximum focus on some of the hotspots in the city with our health teams conducting house surveys in every locality having positive cases. Since it is increasingly becoming difficult to ensure that social distancing norms are followed in these slums, we have asked people living in pockets to shift to the institutional quarantine as it is difficult for them to follow social distancing norms at home,” said PMC commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad. The spread of Sars-Cov-2 virus in these areas can also be witnessed from another PMC report which shows that of the 37 deaths in city till April 14, 11 deaths have come from Bhavani peth ward alone. The city has till Thursday witnessed 43 deaths of Covid-29 positive patients, most of whom also had pre-existing ailments such as diabetes, hypertension along with alcohol driven liver failure, said Jadhav. Aggressive screening has also been initiated with a special test centre started in Bhavani peth area by PMC.“PMC took the first step to seal these areas and made it mandatory for residents to use masks when stepping out of their homes to purchase essential commodities. Now, the police is ensuring that there are few people on the roads,” added Gaikwad.PMC issued a press statement on Thursday and said that they have started flu clinics in these areas which are mobile units. People with symptoms of flu can approach these mobile clinics for inspection.A health worker, Sushma Pawar, raises her concern. “Police has sealed the areas and there is control on vehicle movement, but people who are living in crowded areas and mainly in slums or chawls are coming out on the streets, which is a concern for us as it can lead to the spread of the virus.”Ramesh Bagwe of the city unit of the Congress who represents Bhavani peth area, on Thursday went to the slums to appeal to residents to stay at home.Steps taken by PMC and police- Quick response teams formed which are led by regional ward officer and medical officer.- Contact tracing sped up and more survey teams deputed in these localities.- Administration is ensuring that there is enough supply of essential commodities at the doorstep.- PMC staff is visiting homes which have reported positive cases and sending the family members to a quarantine facility after a test. They are also sanitising the zone immediately. -PMC is taking help of NGOs and political personalities to convince the citizens to stay home.- Thermal scanning of all the people residing in Bhavani peth area has started.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/congested-houses-lack-of-hygiene-and-alcoholism-in-three-wards-adding-to-pune-s-covid-19-positive-cases-tally/story-gMOpWdDxkNa6v0XJ48vMAL.html
16-04-2020||City||Ludhiana cops use mild force to disperse protesters amid curfew||Police had to use mild force as labourers in large numbers thronged the Sherpur area on the second consecutive day, demanding grocery and other essential items. They alleged that though the administration had distributed ration, they had ignored those who had nothing to eat. Police assured them that they will be provided all essentials, however, when they did not pay heed, cops had to resort to cane charge. Following the incident, heavy police force was deployed in the area to ensure people stayed inside their houses. Moti Nagar station house office (SHO) inspector Varunjit Singh, however, refuted allegations of using force against protestors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-cops-use-mild-force-to-disperse-protesters-amid-curfew/story-UmyZ7CJoln4AhJMup9avNM.html
16-04-2020||Chandigarh||Ex-deputy advocate-general demands FIR against Mandi MP for violating lockdown||Former deputy advocate-general Vinay Sharma on Thursday wrote to the state director-general of police (DGP) SR Mardi seeking registration of an FIR against Mandi MP Ramswaroop Sharma, for violating the lockdown.Sharma arrived at his hometown Jogindernagar from Delhi a few days ago despite a nationwide lockdown.In a letter to the DGP, Sharma alleged that a few days ago Mandi MP along with three other persons entered the state without informing the authorities even as there is a nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus.He said that as per the guidelines issued by the Union health ministry and the state government, the borders were sealed and no one was allowed to enter the state.“If anyone enters the state with permission he must undergo 28-day quarantine at the facilities at border areas and FIRs are registered if someone enters without informing authorities,” said Sharma.If the Mandi MP has entered the state without permission an FIR must be registered against him,” he added.This issue was first raised by Aashray Sharma, who contested the 2019 parliamentary election against Ramswaroop Sharma. Aashray is the grandson of Congress veteran Sukh Ram and son of former minister Anil Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ex-deputy-advocate-general-demands-fir-against-mandi-mp-for-violating-lockdown/story-jaNWzvmS3jEquCZb2sAC6L.html
16-04-2020||City||Haryana police constable held for killing wife in Hisar||A Haryana police constable was arrested for allegedly murdering his wife in the Housing Board Colony of Hisar city on Thursday.The deceased has been identified as Rinku Devi, 29. Investigating officer, Vinod Kumar of the Anaj Mandi police station, said the accused, Vikram Singh, a head constable with Haryana police serving in Jind, had killed his wife after a verbal on Wednesday. He had allegedly attacked her with a stick and killed her on the spot. As soon as the police got information about the crime from neighbours, they reached the spot and arrested Singh. He has been arrested under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-police-constable-held-for-killing-wife-in-hisar/story-gg6YD89YH7GLX0edPo4ZZL.html
16-04-2020||Chandigarh||After Covid-19 lockdown losses, HP faces extensive crop damage due to rain, hail||Wednesday’s rain and hailstorms caused widespread damage to crops, especially fruit trees in Kotgarh valley in Shimla district, it has been learnt.Rohan Thakur, an orchardist from Kotgarh, said fruit and vegetable growers, already reeling under the impact of the lockdown in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, had suffered huge losses.Appealing to the government for relief, Thakur said, “many orchardists could not cover their trees with nets for protection against hail because of unavailability of migrant labourers and the statewide curfew.“Heavy rainfall, thunder, hail and gusty winds will continue for the next few days in the state with the meteorological department issuing an orange warning (very severe weather) for Chamba, Kangra, Kullu, Mandi Shimla and Solan districts and yellow warning (severe weather) for Una, Bilaspur, Hamirpur, and Sirmaur districts for April 17.Another yellow warning has been issued for Kangra, Kullu, Mandi and Shimla districts for April 18.Dr Manmohan Singh, who heads the state’s met department, said due to fresh western disturbance, snowfall at higher reaches and rainfall in lower and middle hills were likely to continue up to April 21 after which the weather will remain dry.Shimla recorded a minimum temperature of 14.2 degrees Celsius while Kufri, 14 kilometres away, recorded 10.7 degrees C.Minimum temperatures in Manali, Dharamshala and Dalhousie were recorded at 6.0, 12.6 and 13.6 degrees C, respectively.Keylong in Lahaul-Spiti district, at 1.1 degrees C minimum temperature, remained the coldest in the state with Una recording a high of 38.6 degrees C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/after-covid-19-lockdown-losses-hp-faces-extensive-crop-damage-due-to-rain-hail/story-Qdwoy22fp1GZ6rAH9ufi7M.html
16-04-2020||Pune||In Pune, police round up morning walkers make them do Yoga for violating lockdown||For morning walkers here who violated the coronavirus lockdown guidelines, the Pune Police has come up with a suitable healthy reprimand in Yoga and exercises.Police rounded up people who ventured out for a morning walk in the Bibvewadi area and made them perform yoga and exercises on the road.In a video shared by the police over 50 people are seen standing in rows and made to perform Surya Namaskars and jumping exercises. Of course they ensured that the exercises were done with adequate social distancing.In another video, Kondhwa police made about 100 people who were found violating the lockdown orders do sit ups and exercises.This is not the only time the police were seen experimenting with innovative initiatives in order to send the message of staying indoors to the public.Earlier today, the Amritsar police made the defaulters flouting restrictions stand with their hands up in the air on the roadside. They were also asked to shout that they will not step outdoors again.The Srikalahasti police inAndhra Pradesh, through a series of drawings on roads in front of the temple, urged people to stay home in wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. The drawings depict a house and a lock with a message that read: “Stay Home--Stay Safe. Let us break and beat coronavirus.”The Centre on Tuesday decided to extend lockdown till May 3. While addressing the nation, Prime Minister Narendra Modi stated that the stakeholders including states and people have favoured the extension of lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/in-pune-police-round-up-morning-walkers-make-them-do-yoga-for-violating-lockdown/story-eRjSsWbEFTsf9xdWl5dtSL.html
16-04-2020||Gurugram||MCG takes steps to ensure quick resumption of work after lockdown||To ensure that all on-ground civic work, including cleaning of stormwater and sewage drains, can start after the lockdown to contain Covid-19 ends, the Municipal Corporation of Gurguram (MCG) has decided to initiate allocation of e-tenders to contractors. A decision in this regard was taken during a two-hour video conference of senior MCG officials and 35 councillors on Tuesday evening. MCG officials said that they want to be in a position where on-ground civic and infrastructure work can be resumed on an expedited basis immediately after the lockdown is lifted. In the interim, all formalities for the allocation of tenders, a time-consuming process, can be finished, said officials. “We want to ensure there is no time wasted in restarting civic amenities. Hence, we are looking to allot the maximum amount of tenders in this lockdown phase so that work can immediately start whenever the lockdown is lifted,” said Vinay Pratap Singh, commissioner, MCG. An MCG official privy to the development said that if the Central government lifts the lockdown after May 3, they will have less than two months to clean stormwater and sewerage drains before the arrival of monsoon and hence, want to take up all related works on a priority. The MCG has a 501-kilometre network of sewerage and 350-km network of stormwater drains in the city. Cleaning of drains has been a major problem in the past.Last May, the MCG and the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) took a last-minute decision to jointly clean stormwater drains across the city after realising that tenders for doing so in many areas had not been floated and there may not be enough time to de-silt them.Eventually, the two public bodies prioritised cleaning stormwater drains in areas where waterlogging was previously reported, as a result of which 109 kilometres of the stormwater drains could not be de-silted.On March 21, the MCG commissioner had directed all officials to solely focus on ensuring that essential municipal services, such as sanitation, water, sewage and streetlights continue to operate uninterrupted during the lockdown.During Tuesday’s meeting, the same directions were reiterated, and instructions were issued to ensure that food supply and medical services remain continuous for migrant workers, homeless and others living at the MCG’s relief centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mcg-takes-steps-to-ensure-quick-resumption-of-work-after-lockdown/story-VJYWpyOGTthpJN1IOZKpGJ.html
16-04-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan Covid-19 tally reaches 1104, Jaipur among worst-affected cities||With 28 people testing positive for Covid-19 in Rajasthan till 2 pm on Thursday, the state’s tally of coronavirus cases climbed to 1104, as per the State Health Department. The highest number of cases are from Jodhpur and Tonk (11 each), followed by Kota and Jhunjhunu (2 each) and Ajmer and Bikaner (1 each).Out of 1104 patients, 483 are from Jaipur, 116 from Jodhpur and 86 from Kota. Moreover, samples of 5938 people are under process for Covid-19 testing.As per the State Health Department, 82 people have been cured and discharged in Rajasthan.According to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, India’s coronavirus tally reached 12,380 cases on Thursday.941 cases were reported in the country in the last 24 hours.Out of the total tally, 10,477 are active cases while 1,489 patients have been cured and discharged or migrated.With 37 more deaths reported in the last 24 hours, the death toll has risen to 414.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-covid-19-tally-reaches-1104-jaipur-among-worst-affected-cities/story-0cPuVXzS0CpccQQDQXVPsJ.html
16-04-2020||Chandigarh||5,000 tribal farmers desperate to return to Lahaul and Spiti||Around 5,000 farmers from tribal Lahaul and Spiti stranded in different parts of the state are desperate to return to the district as they fear agricultural activities will suffer in their absence.Farmers often migrate to warmer regions of the state during the harsh winter months and return in spring but this year due to the lockdown imposed to contain the spread of novel coronavirus they will be unable to resume agricultural activities.Peas and potatoes are the two cash crops grown in the region. Apples are also grown in the district.Around 760 people in Kullu have sought permission from the government for helicopter sorties. When roads leading to Lahaul and Spiti remain snowbound, the tribals mostly depend on chopper flights to move in and out of the tribal district.Some of the tribals stranded in Kullu say they are willing to walk through the snowbound Rohtang pass, which is still receiving intermittent snow spells. The Border Road Organisation has started clearing the Rohtang Pass. The district remains cut of from rest of the state for six month a year due to snowfall at the 13, 050 feet high Rohtang Pass which was officially closed for vehicular traffic on November 15.The pass will now open at the end of the month.“We have taken up the matter with administration in Kullu . However, we haven’t been granted permission so far due to the Covid-19 outbreak,” said Tribal Development and Agriculture Minister Ram Lal Marakanda, who is also a legislator from Lahaul and Spiti .“Those wanting to return will be medically examined before starting the journey and also upon reaching Keylong. While the Rohtang Pass remains blocked, those wanting to return will have to trek 10km from Raninullah to Rohtang, from where they will be ferried in buses. Around 1,000 monks from Spiti who had moved to different monasteries in Rwealsar, Mandi, Tashigong, Gyuoto and Buddhist monasteries in Battu, close to Joginder Nagar too want to return and tend to farming.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/5-000-tribal-farmers-desperate-to-return-to-lahaul-and-spiti/story-mi3HfIy5sYzreUrpYFvD7I.html
16-04-2020||City||Two new cases of coronavirus reported in Jalandhar, taking district count to 27||JALANDHAR: Two new coronavirus cases were reported from Jalandhar district on Thursday.District nodal officer Dr TPS Sandhu said that with this, a total of 27 positive cases have been reported so far in the district, including two deaths and four patients who recovered. He said that reports of the 50 samples received on Thursday had tested negative.The patients are close contacts of those who tested positive, including the husband of Kuljit Kaur of Shahkot area who died due to Covid-19 on April 9 and a relative of a 34-year-old Congress leader who is also a Covid-19 patient.SECOND ONLY TO MOHALIJalandhar has reported the second highest positive cases in the state so far after Mohali, where 56 positive cases were reported till Wednesday.In Punjab’s Doaba region, which lies between the Beas and Sutlej rivers, 55 Covid-19 positive cases, including two deaths, have been reported so far, including 27 in Jalandhar, 19 in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, seven in Hoshiarpur and two in Kapurthala.Jalandhar is among eight districts of the state declared a hotspot (red zone) by the Union ministry of health and family welfare to intensify the fight against Covid-19. These districts, are among the 170 hotspots in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-new-cases-of-coronavirus-reported-in-jalandhar-taking-district-count-to-27/story-TGDI5XxBFjANQyeHySBUwM.html
16-04-2020||Education||Bihar board 10th results likely to be declared early next month||The Bihar School Examination Board (BSEB) is likely to announce matriculation results in the first or second week of May. BSEB chairman Anand Kishor, said, “The board will announce the matric results soon after the lockdown is over. We may require three-four days to wind up the evaluation process, as almost 75% work is done.” “If the lockdown is not extended further, the board may declare results by May 10 or so,” added Kishor.Earlier, the board had planned to declare matriculation result on March 30 but could not meet the target due to coronavirus outbreak.Fate of the students hanged in a balance after the state board suspended evaluation of the answer-sheets third time on Wednesday and extended the status quo till May 3. “Marks feeding on software was done parallel with copy checking before announcement of nationwide lockdown,” said an official.However, the BSEB chairman refrained from stipulating any final date for results, stating that the board would notify once evaluation work was complete and physical verification of toppers’ copies and their interviews through video call by experts were accomplished.The BSEB examination controller on Wednesday issued a letter to all district education officers for suspension of the evaluation process with effect from April 15 till May 3 to ensure rigorous adherence to the lockdown regime.More than 20,000 teachers were deployed for assessment of matriculation answer-sheets across 100 evaluation centres in the state.The examination and result process suffered this year in comparison of last year as lakhs of contractual teachers went on indefinite strike boycotting invigilation and evaluation duty. Coronavirus triggered lockdown is yet another challenge before the board to complete evaluation work.More than 15 lakh students appeared in matriculation exam held across 1368 exam centres, which was conducted from February 17 to February 24. Last year, matric results were declared on April 6 with overall pass percentage 80.73%.BSEB declared result of intermediate examination on March 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/bihar-board-10th-results-likely-to-be-declared-early-next-month/story-MhPuGiAu3xT8E21zoo4pWO.html
16-04-2020||Chandigarh||As tourists stay away, homestay owners renew focus on orchards in Himachal||With no tourists flocking to picturesque Kotgarh after the Covid-19 lockdown, orchardists diversifying to homestays earlier are now banking on fruit crops for sustaining their livelihood.People had found an alternative revenue earner in homestays, apart from horticulture, after tourists sought peace and quiet in the town, many choosing boarding and lodging options in and around orchards.However, now with tourists staying away, people here are renewing focus on apple farming.“My family has owned apple orchards for more than 50 years and I have been looking after my orchards for the last eight years. Like others here, I was planning to start a homestay this year but have put plans on hold because of the Covid-19 pandemic. It might take more than a year for things to normalise so I am now concentrating on my orchards, though the apple produce too is likely to suffer,” says Raman Thakur, an orchardist from Kumarsain.All bookings have been cancelled for the year, says Sumit Singha, a local homestay owner. “Business has suffered, but we believe in health and safety first. It might take 12 to 18 months to get business started as most of our tourists come in from Maharashtra, Gujarat, Delhi, Punjab, West Bengal and other states,” he adds.Pranav Vij, a Chandigarh resident who visited Kotgarh in 2019, said he preferred orchard tourism as it was a new experience for him and a perfect option for him and his friends as it was less crowded and peaceful.Himachal Pradesh has as many as 1,340 homestays with bedding capacity of 7,702.Apart from Shimla, spots such as Narkanda, Kotgarh, Tanijubbar, amongst others, attract a number of people from around the country.Stakeholders in the tourism industry hit hard by the Covid-19 pandemic have demanded a special financial package from the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/as-tourists-stay-away-homestay-owners-renew-focus-on-orchards-in-himachal/story-0jy2fWci3WOUK4ARATXraK.html
16-04-2020||City||Stranded in India for a month, 41 Pak nationals finally return home||As many as 41 Pakistani nationals, who had been stranded in India for last one month, returned to their country through the Attari-Wagah border on Thursday.The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) granted them permission to cross over to their country on the request of Pakistan high commissioner in New Delhi. “The 41 people were handed over to the Pakistani Rangers by Border Security Force (BSF) men between 1pm and 3pm,” said a senior official of the Land Port Authority of India (LPAI) posted at the integrated check post (ICP), Attari. According to information, the Pakistan high commissioner had requested for assistance in facilitating the return of these 41 people, who had been stuck at various parts of India, including Delhi, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Punjab, to Pakistan. Special vehicles were arranged for bringing the Pakistani nationals at the ICP. A team of health department was deployed at Attari border for the screening of these Pakistani nationals. After the screening, their customs and immigration clearances were done at the ICP. “No one was found to be symptomatic for Covid-19 and all were allowed to return,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, civil surgeon, Amritsar. “My relatives live in Mumbai and I, along with my wife, had come to take part in a function. We crossed over to India on March 8 and had a two-week Visa. Before the Visa expired, the lockdown was imposed and we got stuck. Now, we are thankful to the government of India and Pakistan for facilitating our return home,” said Muhammad Hussain, a resident of Karachi in Pakistan.“I, along with my younger sister, had crossed over to India on February 18 to meet our elder brother, who was in coma, in Gurdaspur. On March 13, my brother died. We were scheduled to return to Pakistan on March 21, but the border was closed,” said Amtul Basit, another Pakistani national. Meanwhile, Raja Singh, a Pakistani national, appealed to the government of his country to facilitate the return of around 200 Indian nationals, including Kashmiri students, who are stranded there. On March 14, India had suspended cross-border trade and movement of passengers through the Attari-Wagah border as a precautionary measure to check the spread of the novel coronavirus (Covid-19). But diplomats, officials of the United Nations (UN) and other international organisations, and employment and project visa-holders were excluded from the ban. Subsequently, on March 19, Pakistan too closed its borders. Since then, hundreds of Pakistani nationals have been stranded in India and Indians in Pakistan.Earlier on March 30, MEA had granted a special permission to five Pakistani nationals, who were on medical visas and had been stranded in India, for their return.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/stranded-in-india-for-a-month-41-pak-nationals-finally-return-home/story-EYl6SQZoGJ2mXMeiIUgWbK.html
16-04-2020||Pune||On the frontline: Supply of food to labour camps needs to increase, says Anant Waghmare, transport manager, PMPML||Anant Waghmare, transport manager of Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) has been running the emergency bus service for medical staff, policemen and other essential services staff on duty. Waghmare spoke of his work during the period of the lockdown.What exactly is your role in this crisis?My role is to work with the team and plan and provide the public transport bus service to employees on emergency services like nurses and doctors in private and government hospitals, water supply, cleaning staff, electricity supply workers, police, security and others.How does your day begin and roll out?Every day I have to attend many calls from private hospitals for service extension, inconvenient timing , frequency and other issues. I also visit various bus depots to ensure good condition of the buses and attend to things that may be needed for the emergency services during the lockdown.What precautions are you taking?We are observing social distancing, wearing face mask, using sanitiser and taking all the necessary precautions. All the drivers and conductors have been provided with masks. In-house sanitisation units have been made in all the depots. Daily buses are being disinfected with sodium hypochlorite solution in all depots and special safety kits have been provided to drivers of ambulances. The ambulances and Pushpak vehicles are being cleaned with jet machines. What is your view of the Covid-19 crisis in Pune?I find that in most parts of the city, people are following social distancing, but some are being careless and not following it strictly. Especially at the vegetable markets, I found that people are not cooperating with the police to the extent they need to. But I must say that the Pune and Pimri Chinchwad municipal corporations, along with the other government agencies, are working tirelessly to fight against this disease.What gaps do you see in healthcare and relief work?I feel that some people have not yet taken the lockdown seriously and are violating the rules. This can bring pressure on healthcare workers. The relief work is being done effectively by various organisations and citizens groups around the city. However, the supply of food for the poor and to those in labour camps needs to increase.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/on-the-frontline-supply-of-food-to-labour-camps-needs-to-increase-says-anant-waghmare-transport-manager-pmpml/story-690ZNXaFJlAetAry6JPiMK.html
16-04-2020||Chandigarh||Nine members of family test positive for coronavirus in Panchkula||With nine members of a family from Panchkula testing positive for coronavirus, the total number of cases in Haryana rose to 213 on Thursday, officials said.A 44-year-old woman, her husband and seven other members of their family, who reside in two houses in Panchkula’s Sector 15, have tested positive, officials said.Panchkula Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja told reporters that some of the family members had visited Pathankot on March 18.The woman developed some symptoms on April 6, he said, adding later she went to a private hospital in Panchkula where he doctor took an X-ray and found a spot on her lung and administered some antibiotics.However, the woman reported to Panchkula civil hospital on April 12 after which her samples were collected which came positive. Subsequently, the samples of other members of her family were also taken and eight more were found positive, he said.Samples of some more people with whom the family is believed to have come into contact have been taken, he said.The containment of the residential area where the family resides in two houses has been done. Health department teams have screened the area, regular sanitization was being done there while entry or exit of people in the area has been stopped.Authorities were supplying essentials to the people in the residential locality Ahuja appealed to all the people who know they might have come into contact with this family to report to health authorities and get themselves checked. Those who cannot visit the civil hospital at Panchkula can request for a visit by a mobile medical team, which will reach their house, he said.With these nine cases, the total number of coronavirus cases in Panchkula has reached 14.Out of total positive cases, the total number of active cases in the state is 149, the state health department’s daily bulletin said, adding 61 patients have been discharged. The state has recorded two COVID-19 related deaths.As many as 7,547 samples have been tested so far, out of which 5,940 have tested negative. However, report of 1,408 samples is awaited.The total cumulative cases are 213 which include 24 foreign nationals. Among the foreign nationals, 14 were Italian tourists who had tested positive and later 13 of them were discharged while one elderly woman in the group had passed away a few days ago even though she had recovered from Covid infection.The other ten foreign nationals found positive are from countries including Sri Lanka, Nepal, Thailand, South Africa and Indonesia while 64 are from other states, as per the bulletin.The worst affected districts of the state are Nuh (48), Gurugram (32), Faridabad (33) and  Palwal (30).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/nine-members-of-family-test-positive-for-coronavirus-in-panchkula/story-Uh7nVT9wGv5F4DwgbzD1CK.html
16-04-2020||Kolkata||5 cr families who depend on roadside vending awaiting ‘financial epidemic’: NHF||The 40-day country-wide lockdown may prevent the spread of coronavirus, but the measure would bring a “financial epidemic” on five crore families of hawkers and those who supply them with products, an official of the national hawkers’ body said.The lockdown was imposed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 25 to break the chain of coronavirus transmission and it was scheduled to be lifted on April 15.The 21-day measure was on Tuesday extended for 19 more days - till May 3.“There are four crore hawkers across the country and at least one crore families run tiny and small industrial units that feed these vendors. They dont know how to make both ends meet as their businesses have come to a complete halt,” National Hawker Federation general secretary Shaktiman Ghosh told PTI on Thursday.The economy revolving around street vending is estimated at Rs 8,000 crore a day.“Financial epidemic is knocking at the door. Business capital is like a child to hawkers and they protect it at any cost. But they are now surviving on this capital, they live hand to mouth,” he said.“Unless they are supported, the situation could lead them to anti-social activities to feed their families or suicide,” Ghosh said.More people will die due to financial constraints than the coronavirus infection unless state governments and the Centre take some steps quickly to keep them afloat for the next few months, the National Hawker Federation official said.A total of 1,188 unions and 11 central trade unions in 28 states are affiliated to the National Hawker Federation.The Federation has demanded that the government recognise street vending as an essential service.The Centre must ensure Rs 50,000 under Mudra loan scheme to each hawker and Rs 5 lakh to the manufacturers, Ghosh said.Pradhan Mantri MUDRA Yojana (PMMY) is a scheme launched in 2015 for providing loans up to Rs 10 lakh to non- corporate, non-farm small/micro enterprises.“Even after the lockdown is lifted, I would not have any money left to restart the business. We are nothing more than daily wage earners. If the situation prevails, we will face starvation. Now, we are totally dependent on the state governments ration and aids given by hawkers’ unions,” a hawker in Kolkata said.Ghosh claimed that the West Bengal government is yet to provide its 16 lakh hawker community with any direct financial support, whereas Odisha has offered Rs 3,000, while Rajasthan, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu have given to these people Rs 1,000 each.Identifying hawkers would not pose a challenge if the government decides to offer financial support to them, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/5-cr-families-who-depend-on-roadside-vending-awaiting-financial-epidemic-nhf/story-UU341RRvwEVi9u2hztIb7H.html
16-04-2020||City||Man with Tablighi Jamaat link escapes from Hoshiarpur civil hospital, caught||A 40-year-old man, who was brought to the civil hospital here for the coronavirus test due to his alleged link to the Tablighi Jamaat, escaped after breaking the window of the isolation ward.Identified as Yousuf Khan of Nagrota Bagwan, Himachal Pradesh, the man had been brought from Dasuya railway station where he was stuck due to the lockdown. After an alert had been sounded in the area, the police in Mahilpur arrested the man from near Chabbewal village on Thursday evening and handed him over to the health authorities.Senior medical officer (SMO) Jaswinder Singh said Yousuf Khan was quarantined following a complaint that he may have attended the Tablighi congregation in Delhi. Although he had no symptoms of the virus apart from mild fever, his swab samples were collected and sent for investigation as a measure of precaution, he said.“He will remain at the hospital till his report arrives,” the SMO said, adding that the man had given a false identification to the security guards to flee from the hospital on Wednesday.“He identified himself as the man who had been recently discharged on being tested negative,” the SMO said.He said the man seemed to be a “slightly unstable” .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-with-tablighi-jamaat-link-escapes-from-hoshiarpur-civil-hospital-caught/story-Hue48TKouw06QsOP3bSRRM.html
16-04-2020||Chandigarh||Italian tourist died of bacterial infection, not Covid-19, says Haryana govt||The Haryana government on Thursday said that one of the 14 Italian tourists who had been admitted at a private hospital in Gurugram last month, did not die of the novel coronavirus (Covid-19), as was assumed earlier.The deceased and 13 others of a tourist group had been admitted at Gurugram’s Medanta hospital after they tested positive for Covid-19. Additional chief secretary VS Kundu, who is the nodal officer for Gurugram’s Covid-19 team, had confirmed the death earlier and said, “As she was infected with Covid-19, we assume she died due to it. But the government is awaiting a detailed report from the hospital.”On Thursday, however, the state government said that the patient had recovered from Covid-19 and died due to some other bacterial infection.STATE’S TOTAL TALLY TOUCHES 213Meanwhile, with eight more positive cases, including seven from Panchkula, the total number of cases in Haryana climbed to 199 on Thursday. The total figure, including the 14 Italian tourists, is 213.Senior officials said while one more positive case having Tablighi link was reported in Palwal, besides seven in Panchkula, where all family members of the woman tested positive earlier this week, have been found infected.61 DISCHARGED SO FARThe health department bulletin said while three patients were discharged after treatment in Palwal, one each were discharged from Nuh and Bhiwani, taking the tally of the cured people to 48. With the additional 13 cured Italian tourists, the total number of treated persons is 61.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/italian-tourist-died-of-bacterial-infection-not-covid-19-says-haryana-govt/story-0sHQ40A9lA9w6F7K7b23UM.html
16-04-2020||City||Depressed over wife’s death, LIC agent kills son before committing suicide in Kanpur||A 40-year-old LIC agent allegedly killed his eight-year-old son and then committed suicide on Thursday in Harbansh Mohal area here, police said. The deceased, identified as Hemant Kanodia, first hanged his son, Anay Kanodia, and then hanged himself from the ceiling hook at his house located in ‘Milan Building’, said Circle Officer (Collectorganj) Shweta Yadav. Preliminary probe suggests that Hemnat was upset over his wife’s sudden demise last month, the CO added. “The bodies have been sent for a post-mortem,” Yadav said. Police have started contacting the family members and neighbours to ascertain the exact reason that led Hemant to take the extreme step, the CO added. The victim’s elder brother, Vinay Kanodia, a resident of Patkapur, who had been trying to reach his phone since Wednesday night, found the bodies after he went there along with other family members on Thursday morning,” said Station House Officer (Harbansh Mohal) Satish Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/depressed-over-wife-s-death-lic-agent-kills-son-before-committing-suicide-in-kanpur/story-4XbwA6IbXFDhZBpViumKpN.html
16-04-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: In Dharavi, 11 more test positive for coronavirus, tally rises to 71||After 11 more people tested positive for coronavirus on Thursday, Mumbai’s slum area Dharavi’s tally rose to 71, with 8 deaths reported so far.According to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), the 11 new cases were reported from Mukund Nagar, two each from Social Nagar and Rajiv Nagar, and one each from Sai Raj Nagar, Transit camp and Ramji Chawl localities of Dharavi.Dharavi, house to nearly 15 lakh people in shanties, is one of the largest slum areas in Asia.Providing a slim glimmer of hope, Maharashtra did not record new deaths till Thursday afternoon.  Maharashtra’s number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) infections crossed 3,000 on Thursday after 165 new cases were recorded since Wednesday night.The total number of cases in the state touched 3,081 four days after it crossed the 2,000-mark on April 13. The state has recorded 187 deaths so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-in-dharavi-11-more-test-positive-for-coronavirus-tally-rises-to-71/story-AFad2FKI50nS4qYAd2tVaM.html
16-04-2020||Chandigarh||At 6.98%, Punjab’s Covid death rate double the national average||The Covid-19 mortality rate --- the probability of dying if infected by the virus ---in Punjab is double the national average. With 13 deaths out of 186 positive cases, the state’s fatality rate stands at 6.98%. The national average is 3.28% (392 deaths out of 11,933 cases). The figures are based on the analysis of the statewide data available on the Union ministry of health and family welfare website (updated till 5pm on Wednesday). Also, Punjab has the highest death rate among the states (15) with more than 100 positive cases. Maharashtra is second, followed by Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Delhi (see graphic). Punjab’s mortality rate figured in the video-conference of experts, including adviser on health issues and former PGIMER director Dr KK Talwar, and vice-chancellor of Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS), Dr Raj Bahadur, on Wednesday. Soon after the conference, a team of experts was constituted to study the reason behind more deaths, it is learnt. “It’s a matter of concern. The high death rate could be because of late testing of the patients. It means that the patient was confirmed positive when the severity of the disease had already increased,” says Dr Raj Bahadur said. “Out of 13 patients who succumbed to the virus, four were declared positive after their death,” he added. “Figures reveal that aged population has been hit more by the virus in Punjab as compared to other states. This could be one of the reasons behind high mortality rate,” said a senior health department official, pleading anonymity. “Many patients who died due to the virus were affected by comorbid conditions such as hypertension and diabetes,” he added. Officials said civil surgeons have been told to discuss serious cases with the newly-formed panel of experts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/at-6-98-punjab-s-covid-death-rate-double-the-national-average/story-ICNoaZc6y7Wge26YEZ2gFK.html
16-04-2020||Bangalore||Bengaluru civic agency designates 32 municipal wards as Covid-19 hotspots||With 71 positive coronavirus cases being reported in Bengaluru apart from three deaths, the city’s civic agency has declared 32 municipal wards as COVID- 19 hotspots, Municipal officials said.Bengaluru tops the list with 71 positive cases so far, followed by Mysuru where 58 cases have been reported.Kalaburagi district is also among the hotspots with 17 positive cases including three deaths.These 32 wards of Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) have been completely sealed and an extensive health check-up campaign has been taken up in these areas, Bengaluru Mayor M Gautham Kumar told P T I on Thursday.“We are carrying out door-to-door check-up in three kilometres radius where the patients have been found. We have made elaborate arrangements for the supply of essential commodities at the doorsteps of people residing there,” Kumar said.“We are not letting people to venture out in groups in these 32 wards. Elaborate security arrangements have been made to prevent people from flouting the regulations,” he added.According to a Palike official, out of 11 BBMP zones, positive cases have been reported in 10 zones.Among them the highest positive case has been reported in BBMP South Zone with 17 cases, followed by East Zone with 16 cases and West zone with 11 cases.The medical facilities in Bengaluru have been upgraded to an unprecedented level, the official said, adding that this has resulted in complete recovery of 35 patients so far.“We are still asking the fully recovered patients to stay home quarantined so that there should not be any remotest chance of COVID-19 virus present in their body and they transmit it to their family members,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/bengaluru-civic-agency-designates-32-municipal-wards-as-covid-19-hotspots/story-CAjLKX4exQYpy80LnSQ5bO.html
16-04-2020||City||1,053 people with Jamaat links traced, placed under quarantine in HP so far||As many as 1,053 people with Tablighi Jamaat links have been identified and placed under quarantine in Himachal Pradesh so far, director general of police (DGP) Sita Ram Mardi said on Thursday.Of these, 256 had attended the congregation at Nizamuddin in Delhi while the rest are their primary contacts.At 291, the maximum number of people with Jamaat links are in Baddi in Solan district, following by Una (259) and Sirmaur (255). Eighty each have been quarantined in Kangra and Chamba district; 27 in Shimla, 24 in Mandi; 23 in Bilaspur and 14 in Hamirpur.Una is the worst-affected district in the state as 15 people with Jamaat history have tested positive for Covid-19. 110 BOOKED FOR HIDING TRAVEL HISTORYThe DGP also said that 110 Jamaat followers were booked for hiding their travel history. The government has identified 10 hotspots in the state, of which seven are where Tablighi followers have tested positive for the virus.CURFEW VIOLATIONSThe DGP further revealed that since March 24, when the curfew was imposed in the state, a total of 868 FIRs for curfew violations have been registered and 745 people arrested.Besides, 668 vehicles have been impounded and a cumulative fine amounting to ₹8,41,300 has been realised from the offenders.Kangra district tops the tally with a total of 161 FIRs followed by Mandi with 139 FIRs. In Mandi, the fine amount stands at ₹2.26 lakh while in Chamba, it is ₹1.79 lakhs.Himachal Pradesh has so far reported 35 Covid-19 cases in five districts, of which 23 were either Jamaat workers or their close relatives.Till April 1, the state had only three cases. Since then the number rose sharply as cases of Jamaat followers emerged from Una, Solan and Chamba, Kangra and Sirmaur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/1-053-person-with-jamaat-links-traced-placed-under-quarantine-in-hp-so-far/story-G7yaRX2Mhxua2LSMrN9vvI.html
16-04-2020||Chandigarh||IMTECH to carry out genome sequencing of SARS-Cov-2||Chandigarh-based CSIR-Institute of Microbial Technology (IMTECH) has initiated whole genome sequencing of the novel coronavirus (SARS-Cov-2) in order to understand its evolution and mutation pattern.Whole genome sequencing is used to determine the complete DNA/RNA sequence of an organism’s genome. IMTECH with other sister CSIR laboratories, with specialisation in genomics, medicine and cell biology, will carry out large-scale genome sequencing of SARS-Cov-2 strains across the length and breadth of the country.The institute will perform sequencing of the SARS-Cov-2 RNA genome isolated from the clinical samples it will receive as a testing facility. The testing facility at the institute was launched on April 3.Director Dr Sanjeev Khosla said, “We have already started clinical testing of samples and now by sequencing viral strains, we will be better equipped to understand the nature of the virus.”Portable, real-time and direct genome sequencing will be used to study the chemical modification in SARS-Cov-2 strains in India.Viruses have higher mutation rate than other microbes and their genetic material keeps on changing quickly as they replicate rapidly. Genome sequencing will give researchers an insight into the origin of the virus, the different strains circulating in India and how it spread across the length and breadth of our country. The genomic resource obtained from the sequencing will also allow identification of new targets for diagnosis of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/imtech-to-carry-out-genome-sequencing-of-sars-cov-2/story-cl9ek5plhZfBLthO3SDZWP.html
16-04-2020||Bhopal||Muslims cremate Hindu neighbour during Covid-19 lockdown||The COVID-19 curfew broke down religious barriers in Madhya Pradesh’s Bhopal city, after Muslims helped perform the last rites of their Hindu neighbour, whose relatives were unable to make it to the funeral.In a display of harmony during this unprecedented crisis, Muslim residents of Teela Jamalpura locality in the old city, carried the body of their 50-year-old neighbour, who succumbed to a liver ailment on Wednesday.“The woman died while undergoing treatment for a liver ailment in the early hours of Wednesday. And since none of her close relatives were around because of the lockdown, we took her body to the cremation ground at Chhola Vishraghat,” Shahid Khan, who made all the funeral arrangements, told PTI. The deceased woman’s husband Mohan Namdeo is a small-time vendor and the couple has two sons, he said.“The family is poor and the woman was ailing for a long time and died at government-run Hamidia Hospital,” he said.People were mindful that only 20 persons could participate in the funeral as per lockdown norms, or else the entire community would have shown up for the last rites, he said.Videos of Muslim men, wearing masks and skull caps, carrying the woman’s body on their shoulders to the cremation ground, were shared on social media. A similar initiative was taken by Muslim men in Indore earlier this month. Former Chief Minister Kamal Nath praised members of the Muslim community, saying such acts of humanity strengthen communal harmony, love and brotherhood.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/muslims-cremate-hindu-neighbour-during-covid-19-lockdown/story-KiIqS49Biy5Z4Kpz4QPM5L.html
16-04-2020||Patna||Two more test positive for Covid-19 in Bihar, number rises to 72||Two more persons have tested positive for Covid-19 in Bihar, raising the total number of cases in the state to 72, a top official said on Thursday. The fresh cases were reported from Patna and Vaishali districts, he said. Reports of a 60-year-old man from Patna and 35-year-old man from Vaishali, which came in late Wednesday night, were positive, according to Principal Secretary, Health, Sanjay Kumar. The Patna patient had come in contact with a Dubai-returnee who had tested positive last month and discharged after recovery more than a week ago, the official said.Contact tracing was on for the patient from Vaishali, which has reported its first coronavirus case, Kumar added.Close to 8,500 samples have been tested at five centres across the state so far, he said. AIIMS-Patna, which has been approved as a testing centre by the ICMR, will start conducting tests from Thursday, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/two-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-bihar-number-rises-to-72/story-qjNapRmavLsCWrzbnoOFXL.html
16-04-2020||Chandigarh||Air India lifts Garuda drones, operators to sanitise Chandigarh, Varanasi||The national air carrier Air India on Thursday airlifted two Garuda Aerospace drones and two operators from Chennai for sanitisation operations in Chandigarh and Varanasi in view of the coronavirus outbreak.“Two drones and two operators were air lifted by an Air India cargo flight. After landing at the Delhi airport, one team will go to Chandigarh and the other to Varanasi by road,” Agnishwar Jayaprakash, managing director of Garuda Aerospace, said. “This is the first time that a drone company has received permission to fly in an Air India cargo flight to serve India in its fight against Covid-19,” he said. “With the precedent set, it will be easy for all players to carry drones to places where they are needed during a disaster,” said Jayaprakash. “We expect the plane to reach Delhi around 6pm. One of our teams is already in Chandigarh carrying out sanitisation operations and one team is en route to Varanasi,” Jayaprakash said. Garuda Aerospace has bagged sanitisation orders from smart cities such as Varanasi, Raipur, Chennai and Hyderabad. Apart from arranging the logistics, Garuda Aerospace had to convince drone operators to travel to Chandigarh and Varanasi. “Fortunately, the operators volunteered to serve during this national crisis,” Jayaprakash said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/air-india-lifts-garuda-drones-operators-to-sanitise-chandigarh-varanasi/story-KK6rNdtpD4Ns3Qm9knXnfI.html
16-04-2020||Delhi||IAF Chetak on Covid duty to Chandigarh makes emergency landing on Delhi highway||An Indian Air Force Chetak helicopter headed to Chandigarh with samples to be tested for coronavirus made an emergency landing on Outer Ring Road here due to a technical snag on Thursday. The chopper was flying from Hindon, Ghaziabad, to Chandigarh and was carrying test samples collected from Leh. Approximately, three nautical miles out of Hindon, the aircraft developed technical snag and carried out a safe precautionary landing on Outer Ring Road highway, an official statement said.“The actions taken by the pilots were prompt and correct. No damage to any property has been reported. Recovery aircraft was launched immediately from Hindon. The aircraft was rectified and recovered promptly and safely at Hindon,” the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/iaf-chetak-on-covid-duty-to-chandigarh-makes-emergency-landing-on-delhi-highway/story-qCGLtEZ0ENrNSDwB0CwIyL.html
16-04-2020||City||CRPF man with rare blood group saves elderly’s life in Jammu||In 2003 when Ashok Kumar was going through the recruitment process for Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), he got to know that he had the rarest blood group -- AB negative.Almost 17 years later, he received a call from his commandant, asking him to donate blood for a 69-year-old resident of Poonch, who was suffering from a chronic kidney problem.As soon as the Kashmir-based CRPF ‘madadgaar’ helpline received a distress call from the family of Nazir Hussain, they quickly went through the database to find if any of its Jammu-based units had a person with the rare blood group.The search led to 39-year-old head constable and radio operator Ashok Kumar, who is the only personnel in the 72nd battalion of the paramilitary force based in Sunderbani, Jammu, to have the AB negative blood group.“When my commandant asked me to volunteer, I felt happy to help,” Kumar told PTI over phone.Hussain’s grandson Adalat Khan, who along with family members, was eagerly waiting for some help to arrive, said Kumar’s donating blood came as a blessing.“I salute and shall be indebted to the 72nd battalion of the CRPF forever and especially to brother Ashok Kumar who came as an angel and saved a life by donating his precious and invaluable blood timely in this hard time and proved that humanity never dies,” Khan wrote in his note of thanks to the force.As AB negative is a very rare blood group, it was almost impossible to get it for donation, he said.Khan said no units of the blood group were available in the blood bank and no one in their family had it too.That was when we decided to seek the help of CRPF’s ‘madadgaar’, he said.Kumar said he only got to know that he had such a rare blood group when it was told to him during his recruitment in the force in 2003.“I had then also donated blood to a colleague when I just entered the force. Why should one hesitate to help when the god has bestowed such a rare blessing?,” the trooper from Bihar’s Arwal district said.“It is the motto of my force to help and serve the people and that was all I did,” Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/crpf-man-with-rare-blood-group-saves-elderly-s-life-in-jammu/story-vIvzqBypQyuyXbk4vLFscJ.html
16-04-2020||Chandigarh||Panchkula’s Covid-19 count reaches 14, seven test positive||After a 44-year-old woman and her 48-year-old husband, residents of Sector 15, reportedly not having any travel history, tested positive for Covid-19; seven of their family members also tested positive, taking the district’s count to 14 on Thursday. Confirming the same, Panchkula civil surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur said the reports of seven family members of the couple have come out positive and teams are tracing their contacts. “The seven family members that tested positive include the woman’s 14-year-old daughter, brother-in-law, his wife, sister-in-law, and her daughter, who had recently returned from Delhi.The reports of other contacts are awaited,” said Dr Kaur.The woman, a post office employee, had tested positive on Tuesday while her husband, an architect, tested positive on Wednesday.The health department till Wednesday had traced 26 contacts of the woman, including her relatives and 12 family members. Their samples have been sent for testing.WOMAN WENT TO PRIVATE CLINIC FOR CHECK UP The woman’s condition had deteriorated on April 2 and she had visited a private clinic in Sector 11 on April 6. She only visited the Civil Hospital when she was asked to get a CT scan done. The private doctor and his family have also been quarantined.Panchkula DC Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said it was a ‘serious’ case and the health department was trying to trace more people who had come in contact with her and her family, as the source of her infection was yet to be ascertained. With this, there are currently 12 active cases in Panchkula as the first two patients, both women, had recovered and were discharged from the hospital on April 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panchkula-s-covid-19-count-reaches-14-seven-test-positive/story-8ttgkXhtH1qCdo8S1yJXdM.html
16-04-2020||Bangalore||Covid-19: One more death in Karnataka, toll rises to 13||A 66-year old man from the city, became the thirteenth Covid-19 related fatality in Karnataka, Health Department officials said on Thursday.The elderly patient from Bengaluru, who was coronavirus positive died on April 15 at Victoria Hospital in the city, officials said.“He was referred from a private hospital and was admitted in Victoria Hospital and was on ventilator support since April 10,” they added.A 80-year old woman in Belagavi and a 65-year old man from Chikkaballapura had also died on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/covid-19-one-more-death-in-karnataka-toll-rises-to-13/story-O1vRW4u0cH2RqGKgOC4NxM.html
16-04-2020||Delhi||Food delivery agent tests Covid-19 +ve in Delhi, 72 families quarantined||Authorities have home-quarantined residents in 72 houses in south Delhi after a man who delivered them pizza was tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), officials said on Thursday.Additionally, 17 people who worked with the delivery person have been sent to the Delhi government’s quarantine facility in Chattarpur, according to South Delhi district magistrate BM Mishra.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Mishra said the delivery person had a cough, which was suspected to be caused by a common flu. As he did not show any signs of recovery, he was sent to the RML Hospital in central Delhi, which is one of the two nodal centres designated to quarantine and treat persons suspected to have Covid-19.ALSO WATCH | Medical staff allege assault by patient at Delhi hospital, case registered“...he tested positive for Covid-19. In the last 15 days, he delivered pizza at 72 locations. We have placed all the people in home quarantine. There are 17 people who used to work with him and they all have been taken to the institutional quarantine facility at Chattarpur,” Mishra said.The delivery person associated with a popular pizza restaurant is now undergoing treatment at a hospital, while others who came in his contact are being monitored on a daily basis.Mishra said he has instructed all delivery boys to use masks and follow the safety measures while executing a delivery. Though dine-in at restaurants is prohibited in view of the ongoing lockdown, delivery services are allowed. As of Thursday morning, Delhi has recorded 1,578 coronavirus infections and 32 deaths, according to the Union health ministry website.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/pizza-delivery-boy-tests-covid-19-positive-in-delhi-residents-of-72-houses-nearby-told-to-quarantine/story-U3qjGNZgZHaxi0pipHKiVO.html
16-04-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai airport facilitates evacuation of 3,700 foreigners in 21 days||The Mumbai airport on Wednesday said it has helped in the evacuation of over 3700 foreign nationals with 20 repatriation flights during the first phase of nationwide lockdown to stem coronavirus spread. Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) in a statement said it has facilitated the operation of flights carrying stranded passengers from Mumbai to London, Atlanta, Frankfurt, Singapore, Paris and Tokyo among other international destinations.“GVK-MIAL managing Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) evacuated over 3700 passengers with 20 repatriation flights between 25th March - 14th April 2020,” the statement read.Besides this, CSMIA has maintained seamless cargo operations and has managed close to 240 cargo flight movements over the lockdown period that commenced on March 25. The cargo operations at CSMIA have recorded the highest number of exports and import delivery of cargo in a single day in India.In the purview of the recent outbreak, the airport said that it has taken all the precautionary measures to ensure passenger safety while boarding and arriving at the airport.The airport has put up a stringent screening process right from the time passengers enter the airport to the time they board their flight, and the same process has been implemented for the arriving passengers as well.(This story has been published from a wire agency feed without modifications to the text. Only the headline has been changed.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-airport-facilitates-evacuation-of-3-700-foreigners-in-21-days/story-Ght84vYhg9ygU4H9n7oXAP.html
16-04-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai Covid-19 infections near 2,000, 5 new cases in Dharavi||The number of Covid-19 cases in Mumbai nudged 2,000 on Wednesday with the city’s civic body saying the growing numbers are a result of extensive testing even as the risk of infection in the crowded slum of Dharavi worried authorities.Mumbai’s total case and death toll stood at 1,896 and 114. Five of those cases and one death were recorded from Dharavi, home to roughly 800,000 people. The man who died was 55 years old and had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in New Delhi last month, said officials. The event has emerged as the biggest hot spot of the disease in India.Maharashtra, the worst hit by the outbreak in India, recorded 232 new cases to reach a total of 2916. One hundred and eighty seven people have died in the state.An analysis by Hindustan Times showed that the number of cases in the city jumped up by 750 (from 1,146 cases on April 11 to 1,896 on April 15), within five days, according to state health department data. In the same period, the death toll also rose from 76 to 114.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) claimed the rise was the result of more testing. According to the BMC’s data, between April 1 and April 12, the civic body tested 1,000-1,500 samples daily. The numbers of samples tested was 7,712 on April 1, which went up to 24,279 tests by April 12. Across the state, the number of tests rose to 46,588 on April 14 from 6,331 on April 1.Dr Sanjay Mukherjee, secretary, Maharashtra Medical Education and Drugs Department, said, “Maharashtra now has 17 government and 15 private labs, making our testing capacity the highest in the country.”A Brihanmumbai Electricity Supply and Transport (BEST) employee was declared dead late Tuesday night. He had tested positive on April 1, and had no international travel history. Five close contacts of the employee were tested and found negative.Ten more medical staff of Bhatia Hospital tested positive on Wednesday, taking the count to 35, a spokesperson for the hospital confirmed. “All staff members are being treated at Bhatia Hospital and they are doing well,” the spokesperson said.After four doctors from Bombay Hospital tested positive, Bombay Hospital conducted tests on 120 staff members. Gautam Bhansali, consultant physician, Bombay Hospital, said, “We had tested around 36 doctors on Tuesday, after one tested positive on Monday. Three have tested positive. We have tested 120 more staff members.”Municipal commissioner Praveen Pardeshi on Wednesday issued an advisory for protection of senior citizens. The advisory asked medical officers to visit the homes of senior citizens and advise them to avoid going out even to buy essentials and rely on their neighbours, if they stay alone.Meanwhile, a 29-year-old woman from Worli, who had tested positive, killed herself in the hospital. The G/South Ward, which includes Worli and Prabhadevi, also has the highest number of positive cases in the city, 360.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-covid-19-infections-near-2-000-5-new-cases-in-dharavi/story-KVW4kKnfKkIECV36qquSPK.html
16-04-2020||City||Migrant labourers camping in Haryana not keen to return to work||Hundreds of migrant labourers staying at relief camps are not interested in the state government’s offer to work and earn during the lockdown period as they want to go back to their homes. As per the reports collected from different districts, the local administrations have allowed them to work, but most of them are unforthcoming. Yamunanagar district has 2,300 such workers camping in shelter homes, but none of them agreed to return to work. “We offered them opportunity to work and earn during the lockdown period, but as of now, we have not got any positive response from them,” said an official of Yamunanagar administration. The labourers can opt to work, but they have to provide the details of their employers to the local administration and have to return to their base by the evening. In Panipat, of 700 migrant labourers staying in the camps for past two weeks, not a single labourer came forward. “They are not showing any interest and just want to go back to their homes. Let see if they come forward to work as the lockdown has been extended,” said Panipat deputy commissioner Hema Sharma. Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Yadav said, “We have 786 such workers in our camps, who are being given all facilities like food and shelter. Now, we have also allowed them to work if they want to earn as there is a huge demand of labourers during this harvesting season and we are waiting for their response.”However, out of 566 labourers staying in Kurukshetra district, few of them have expressed their interest in working. “We had asked them if they wanted to work, but only few from Shahbad approached the officials. We are working on it,” said Kurukshetra deputy commissioner Dheerender Kadgat. As per the information, total 15,200 migrant labourers had been staying in the temporary shelters homes set up in the state since last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/migrant-labourers-camping-in-haryana-not-keen-to-return-to-work/story-uAumWZazZiau66rJXLAkvK.html
16-04-2020||Mumbai||Migrants crowd at Bandra: 11, including journalist, arrested||Eleven people, including a journalist of a Marathi television news channel, were on Wednesday arrested for allegedly spreading rumours that the state was running a special train for migrant workers, which led to around 1,000 of them gathering at the Bandra railway station on Tuesday, defying the nationwide lockdown.The large gathering eventually forced the Mumbai Police to resort to lathi-charge to disperse the migrants — most of them from Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal — who were demanding the state help them return home. This was hours after Prime Minister Narendra Modi extended the coronavirus-enforced nationwide lockdown to May 3. An FIR was registered on Tuesday against 700 people at Bandra police station, under which nine people were arrested, and another two FIRs were filed on Wednesday. Vijayalaxmi Hiremath, senior police inspector at Bandra police station, confirmed the arrests.On Wednesday, an FIR was filed against Vinay Dubey, a resident of Navi Mumbai, who uploaded a video on social media, telling migrant workers from north India to gather at Kurla Terminus on April 18 to demand that they be sent back to their homes. Dubey, booked under sections 117, 153(a), 188, 269, 270, 505(2) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act, was detained from Navi Mumbai late on Tuesday. Another FIR was against Rahul Kulkarni, a journalist with ABP Majha, for allegedly running a report stating that a special train will run for migrant workers, said Bandra police officers. Kulkarni was arrested in the afternoon. “He will be produced in court tomorrow,” said Hiremath.ABP Majha, however, defended its journalist, saying its news reports were “entirely misconceived” and they were on the “basis of valid documents” . The channel said there was no conceivable way the crowds that gathered at Bandra can be linked to their stories.The channel, in a statement, said, “There are several reports purporting to draw a connection between the gathering at Mumbai’s Bandra West station and a news story run on ABP Majha. The reports are entirely misconceived and are being circulated with the sole intention of baselessly maligning ABP Majha. Our news story was broadcast in public interest and on the basis of valid documents and information. Subsequent to the Hon’ble Prime Minister’s announcement at 10 am of the continuation of the lockdown and announcements thereafter from the Ministry of Railways with regard to cancellation of trains and refunds till May 3, 2020, we ran multiple stories, starting from shortly after the Railway Ministry’s announcement starting from12:30 pm to 1.30 pm, on our channel clearly announcing that no trains will be running. There is no conceivable way in which the crowds that gathered at the Bandra West Station from around 3:45 pm can be linked to our stories. To insinuate that our running of the story and the updates thereafter amount to a criminal act is outrageous. We are shocked and dismayed that our reporter Mr. Rahul Kulkarni has been arrested in connection with the story. We will be taking necessary and immediate steps in law. We can say with full confidence that we have not deviated from practices of responsible journalism. Journalism and media are essential services. There is no denial of the Railway Ministry’s letter of 13.4.2020 recommending running of trains to return migrant labourers to their hometowns. We are a responsible and respectable channel running an essential service in providing information and news to society and community at large. We make every possible good faith endeavor to ensure the accuracy of our information and news from credible sources before broadcasting the same. Consequently, despite the morning news before the PM’s speech, shortly after the Railway Ministry announcement that no trains will run till 3rd May, 2020, we immediately started running the story on our channels as a responsible media institution. We would like to say that before journalists are arrested there should be due verification of all facts and circumstances.”Later in the day, nine people —Mohammad Amruddin, 35; Saif Hussein Shaikh, 36; Alam Mohammad Salim Shaikh, 28; Shamsher Ali Amir Ali Malik, 36; Helal Hakimuddin Ali, 32; Mohammad Shahid Ibrahim Shaikh, 29; Mohammad Arshad Mohammad Anvar Shaikh, 26; Altabash Chhotu Shaikh,28 and Firoz Sailchul Shaikh, 20 — were arrested from Shastri Nagar in Bandra (West). All the accused were arrested as per the FIR lodged on Tuesday.Kulkarni has been booked under sections 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) 505 (b) (with intent to cause, or which is likely to cause, fear or alarm to the public, or to any section of the public whereby any person may be induced to commit an offence against the state or against the public tranquillity), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) 117 (abetting commission of offence by the public or by more than ten persons) of the IPC, along with section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act.Bandra police officers also revealed that they have narrowed down a list of other suspects responsible for the gathering. The police are questioning at least seven people from Bandra (West).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/migrants-crowd-at-bandra-11-including-journalist-arrested/story-KkXZac8HUN2PfPHj4f5WoI.html
16-04-2020||Mumbai||29-year-old virus patient kills herself in Mumbai hospital||A 29-year-old coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patient, who was undergoing treatment in a city hospital, allegedly killed herself in a bathroom early on Wednesday. A case of accidental death has been registered at Agripada police station. “No suicide note was found from the spot. We suspect the patient was depressed after testing positive. We are investigating the case,” said S Agawane, senior police inspector, Agripada station.A senior doctor of the hospital said, “The patient was brought to the hospital on Monday. On Wednesday morning, her body was found in the bathroom. Police officers are investigating the case.”Dr Daksha Shah, deputy director, health department, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), said, “According to initial information, the woman, a resident of Worli, killed herself. We have informed police. (With inputs from Shrinivas Deshpande)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/29-year-old-virus-patient-kills-herself-in-mumbai-hospital/story-Ijt46Ln9gctBRDCELLMvMJ.html
16-04-2020||Mumbai||3 feared drowned after boat capsizes off Madh; 4 saved||Three labourers were feared drowned after a boat capsized near Madh late on Tuesday. The victims, who were stranded in Madh for the past three days, wanted to go back to their homes in Versova, for which they arranged for a small fishing boat. Four others, including the owner and driver, were rescued, according to the police.According to the fire brigade, the incident happened around 9 pm. The small boat could hold only four persons, but owing to crowding it capsized, said a police officer. The ones who knew swimming managed to be saved.Mohankumar Dahikar, deputy commissioner or police, zone XI, said, “Four persons (two fishermen and two labourers) were rescued and three labourers are still missing. All seven people on board were from Versova.” The three men who are missing were identified as Nazir Ahmad,59, Yousuf Usman, 44, and Sadiq Qasmani, 56.The boat was owned by Naresh Kohli and driven by Nagraj Sindhale. The two were on the boat and along with two others who survived have been booked by Malwani police under relevant sections of IPC and other laws for violating the lockdown order. Jagdeo Kalapad, senior inspector of Malwani police station, confirmed the development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/3-feared-drowned-after-boat-capsizes-off-madh-4-saved/story-ABw3Vp6QN0MPxmj4mNCEkN.html
16-04-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra’s coronavirus case count nears 3K||Maharashtra’s coronavirus case count inched closer to 3,000 with 232 new cases on Wednesday, taking the tally to 2,916. The state had crossed the 2,000 mark just three days ago on April 13, six days after it touched 1,000. The current surge can be attributed to the past two days, which saw 352 and 350 cases respectively.The state also recorded nine deaths in a day, taking the toll to 187. Of them, six are in Pune, two in Mumbai and one in Akola. The number of people recovered rose to 295, as 36 more recovered and were discharged from various hospitals on Wednesday. Of the total cases, over one-third of them — 2,228 cases — are in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). Mumbai’s count rose to 1,896 as 140 new cases were recorded in the city on Tuesday. The death toll of the city is 114.The state government has tested 52,000 samples so far, of which, 48,198 have tested negative. A total of 5,617 suspected patients are quarantined at government facilities, while 69,738 are home quarantined, stated the state health department.“It is true that the rise is exponential, but we still believe that it is manageable and we will be able to control the situation. We are now focussing on Mumbai and Pune regions as most of the cases are from there. If the spread in these areas is contained, then the rise of new cases will automatically start declining,” said a senior official from the state health department.Meanwhile, the state government officially extended the lockdown period till May 3, following the announcement made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday. Earlier, the state government had extended the lockdown period till April 30. Orders to this effect were issued on Wednesday.Lockdown in the state was imposed from midnight of March 23.“In exercise of the powers conferred under section 2 of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, the state government directs that the lockdown orders shall now be extended up to and inclusive of May 3, 2020,” stated the notification issued by chief secretary Ajoy Mehta on Wednesday.The state government is planning to give further relaxations in the lockdown. “Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has directed district authorities to prioritise infrastructure development works that can be taken up in this period. By this way, jobs to migrant workers can also be made available,” said a senior official, wishing not to be named. The decision on the same is likely to come by April 20.The mortality rate of the state continued to be twice the national rate at 6.61% on Tuesday. Of the 178 deaths recorded till Tuesday, 81% of them (144 cases) were related to comorbidities and only 19% patients (34 cases) did not have comorbid conditions, stated a data shared by the state medical education department. The national mortality rate of Covid-19 is 3.29%, with 377 deaths and 11,442 cases as on Tuesday.Also, of the total 1,966 patients, 64% (1,277 cases) are asymptomatic. It means they are showing no symptoms. While 13% (266 cases) are symptomatic, 2% (34 cases) are in critical condition, 8% (160 cases) have succumbed and 13% (259 cases) recovered, stated the data.In a bid to reduce the mortality rate of Covid-19 patients in the Mumbai and Pune region, Thackeray held a meeting with leading doctors of private hospitals in Mumbai. Thackeray, during the meeting, said that providing proper medical care for coronavirus patients and reducing the mortality rate is a “challenge” before the state government and the medical fraternity.Earlier this week, Thackeray set up a task force to prepare a line of treatment for patients and to reduce the fatality rate in the state. Thackeray interacted with doctors of Saifee Hospital, Fortis Hospital, Wockhardt Hospital, Hinduja Hospital, Hiranandani Hospital, Kokilaben Hospital, Nanavati Hospital and SevenHills hospital, along with Dr Sanjay Oak, under whom the task force is set up.The chief minister held a detailed discussion on laying out a standardised procedure to treat Covid-19 patients, and on medical care to the affected patients. He also took stock of the availability of intensive care unit (ICUs) in the city. Thackeray also stressed on coordination and planning between three types of hospitals decided to treat Covid-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-s-coronavirus-case-count-nears-3k/story-uwUjDOmWNxiIYc1VRQO7JO.html
16-04-2020||Chandigarh||Patiala woman gets 3-month bail in drugs case after she pleads for child’s safety amid Covid-19 pandemic||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Wednesday granted bail to a Patiala woman accused in a drug seizure case after she pleaded for her newborn’s safety amid the Covid-19 outbreak.The woman was given bail even as the Patiala civil surgeon had suggested that she be kept in a crèche with her newborn and two other women inmates. However, the court observed that the women inmates were not health experts and could not guarantee the petitioner’s safety amid the pandemic outbreak. It was on April 9 that the HC had sought an opinion from the civil surgeon on a place that would be safer for the newborn — the jail or her village.The bench of justice Arvind Singh Sangwan granted the woman three-month bail, while directing Patiala central jail superintendent to release her forthwith after obtaining an undertaking from one of her blood relatives that she would appear before the trial court within a period of 14 days to furnish bail bonds.The petitioner, who has been in judicial custody for more than eight months, gave birth on April 1 in a Patiala hospital. She was pregnant when the police had booked her on July 10, 2019, in Rajpura. Charges were framed against her on December 20, 2019.It was alleged that a police party had spotted her carrying a polythene bag which she threw into a canal upon seeing them. Later, the police had allegedly found 80 injections of buprenorphine and 80 injections of avil phineramine maleate in the bag.In her plea, she had argued that she had no previous history of involvement in any drug-related operations and had accused the cops of shoddy probe in the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/patiala-woman-gets-3-month-bail-in-drugs-case/story-UnSptPMjAQ0nkQhic2d19M.html
16-04-2020||City||No more space for seized vehicles, but won’t spare violators, say Karnal cops||Currently, almost all police stations in the district are flooded with the vehicles that were impounded during the lockdown and there’s no space to accommodate more.As per information, the district police impounded 920 vehicles, including two-wheelers, and imposed fines worth ₹1.81 crore on 2,770 vehicles during the 21-day lockdown period.The district police have registered 93 FIRs and arrested 130 people for the violating the lockdown and roaming without a valid reason. “We are likely to face space crunch in the future as the lockdown has been extended for 19 more days and the police will continue to take strict action against the violators,” said a senior police officer. “As the police stations are full to capacity, we will have to create a temporary parking in the Mangal Sen Auditorium to accommodate more impounded vehicles. But the lockdown violators will not be spared,” he added.Karnal superintendent of police Surender Singh Bhoria told HT, “There is no space in our police stations as we have impounded 920 vehicles during the lockdown. Now, we are urging the people of Karnal to stay home and help the police to containing the virus.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-more-space-for-seized-vehicles-but-won-t-spare-violators-say-karnal-cops/story-HExguZXlZ7hk3tP4VxX9SO.html
16-04-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana sees 6 new cases, tally now 191||With six more persons testing positive for Covid-19, the total number of cases in Haryana climbed to 191 on Wednesday.Senior officials said while all three persons found positive in Nuh have Tablighi link, one patient each from Sonepat and Panipat are relatives of Covid-19 patients. The sixth case was reported from Panchkula, where the 48-year-old husband of woman from Sector 15 tested positive for the infection. Panchkula civil surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur confirmed the development. The man was admitted to the civil hospital’s isolation ward on Tuesday night after his wife tested positive. Panchkula DC Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said till now, 26 contacts of the woman have been traced, including family members, relatives and a private doctor who examined her, along with his family. The woman had got her health checkup done at a private clinic in Sector 11 on April 6. It has been learnt that some relatives of the couple had visited them from Delhi in the last week of March; however it is yet to be ascertained how she got infected. 43 DISCHARGED SO FARThe health department bulletin said two more patients from Gurugram and Fatehabad were discharged on Wednesday, taking the tally of the cured people to 43.There are now 145 active cases in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-sees-6-new-cases-tally-now-191/story-EzwXxmXvoVRuuxQievPqmK.html
16-04-2020||Chandigarh||How ‘thikri pehras’ worked wonders in Jhajjar||The coronavirus disease (Covid-19), thus far, has spared the people of Haryana’s Jhajjar district. Even as the district shares its boundaries with Delhi and Gurugram, where the infection has been rising steadily, Jhajjar has remained safe from the threat of the virus at least during the first spell of the lockdown. So what may have helped in stopping the virus spread. “One of the reasons behind Jhajjar evading the virus is the age-old practice of ‘thikri pehra’ that the administration started soon after the initial cases of outbreak emerged in its neighbourhood,” said a Haryana government spokesperson. The government also appreciates the ‘discipline’ of people during the lockdown, coupled with effective arrangements made by the district administration. Even before the ‘Janata Curfew’ on March 22, the ‘thikri pehra’ was in place in the district. “Thikri pehra and the efforts of local administration acted as a shield which prevented the spread of the pandemic in Jhajjar,” the spokesperson said. All grocery stores, vegetable shops, hawkers and milk distributors were identified and registered well in time, he said. Grocery and vegetable vendors of the entire district were classified into 306 groups and collective passes issued to them for their work-related movement. A survey of about 75,000 labourers and 6,500 brick kiln workers was also conducted by the district administration, which facilitated it to keep tabs on them. As many as 1,200 migrant workers, including children and women, have taken shelter in 24 relief camps in Jhajjar, Beri, Bahadurgarh and Badli. “All boundaries of Jhajjar district were sealed to prevent the movement of people and 75 nakas were put in the urban and rural areas,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/how-thikri-pehras-worked-wonders-in-jhajjar/story-E7mEjqdueUOqvy99XonsUK.html
16-04-2020||Chandigarh||Early identification, isolation key to containing Covid-19 cases in Haryana||It is the early identification and isolation of suspected Covid-19 persons as well as increased sampling that seems to be working for Haryana.Till Wednesday, 190 positive cases including two deaths were reported, while 43 patients recovered and were discharged in the state.This figure is besides the positive cases of 14 Italian tourists brought by the central government to a private hospital in Gurugram, 13 of whom had been cured and discharged, while one of them died of the disease.The challenge, but, has been humongous. It was on March 16 when Haryana’s first Covid-19 positive case was reported from Gurugram. In the next fortnight, this number climbed to 29 and all of them had a travel history to Covid-19 affected countries. On March 31 when the state government launched a massive exercise to identify persons with Tablighi Jamaat links and have quarantined about 1,600 of them in their respective areas, mainly in Nuh, Palwal, Gurugram and Faridabad. By April 13, the number of positive cases in the state was 182.From a few hundreds of persons under surveillance in the first few weeks in March, the government agencies now have over 15,000 under surveillance.Impetus on testingThe pointed approach to give a boost to the sampling of the suspected persons also increased rapidly. While only 817 samples had been taken before April 1, more than 3,600 samples have been taken since. While containment zones plan has already been put in place in Nuh, Palwal, Sonepat, Karnal, Faridabad, Bhiwani, Charkhi Dadri, Gurugram, Jind, Fatehabad, Panipat, Kaithal, Jhajjar, Panchkula and Sirsa, 11 full or partial Covid-19 hospitals or medical colleges have also been set up. The state has also declared Nuh, Faridabad, Gurugram and Palwal as red zones.In what was seen as a respite for Haryana, the number of positive cases has since recently shown a downward trend. The state had seen a spate of cases in recent days, especially last Sunday when as many as 16 new cases were reported in a day, 24 cases on April 8, 33 on April 7 and 20 on April 6. Most of these infected persons were linked to Tablighi Jamaat. They had either attended the event at Delhi’s Nizamuddin last month or were in contact with the attendees. Monday’s case was reported from Sirsa wherein a 33-year-old woman, who worked as a cook at a Rori village mosque.Tablighi linkOf all the 1,648 Tablighis, including 107 foreign nationals, who have so far been traced and whose samples have been tested, 121 have been found to be positive, while the result of 200 is awaited and remaining have been found to be negative. About 20 of Tablighi workers have, however, also been booked under Section 307 (attempt to murder) of the IPC for allegedly hiding travel history from local administration till April 8, the deadline given by the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/early-identification-isolation-key-to-containing-covid-19-cases-in-haryana/story-MvmgXgcXCmReLsWJCJAhQM.html
16-04-2020||Chandigarh||Names of ‘VIPs’ stepping out for walk to be published: UT adviser||UT adviser Manoj Parida took to Twitter on Wednesday and said the administration and police will start naming and shaming those found violating the curfew orders by stepping out of their houses for morning/evening walks.“From tomorrow we will publish name and designation of VIPs violating curfew orders and going for morning and evening walk.Be warned.” (sic), the tweet read, accompanied by a smile emoji.Since April 10, the police have arrested 156 walkers in 40 cases, and more than 800 persons have been let off after a warning including bureaucrats from Punjab and Haryana.“We are facing issues when we come across VIPs during special drives to nab violators. Most of them indulge in name-calling and threats, so we have no other option but to leave them be. Even in these times, they are keeping their selfish interests on top,” said a senior police official, on the condition of anonymity.The police top brass have taken up the matter with the adviser and the administrator. On Wednesday alone, six persons were arrested for stepping out of their house and 347 were rounded up. Station house officers (SHOs) at police stations have been directed to click pictures of such VIPs violating curfew orders. However, the police officials have expressed inhibitions in going against senior bureaucrats and judges, who they claim can go use it against them, later. In a separate tweet from his official account, Parida mocked the VIPs by elaborating on the abbreviation as “Very Idiotic Person.”Apart from morning walkers, the police have also turned their attention toward people loitering about gated societies. On Tuesday, 356 people were rounded up for roaming inside societies and coming out for chats with neighbours. Similarly, a total of 120 people have been arrested for not wearing masks in 95 cases across the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/names-of-vips-stepping-out-for-walk-to-be-published-ut-adviser/story-p3w3C7auWbCkZKu6eUTUGK.html
16-04-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana sets the ball rolling for industrial activity in ‘safe’ zones||Economic activity in Haryana, including industrial operations, will be set in motion after April 20 in areas declared safe from the coronavirus outbreak. The state government is keen to start industrial activity to tide over the financial crunch due to dwindling revenue receipts affecting day-to-day governance and forcing it to look for borrowing options. Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Wednesday said due to a shortfall in tax collections, the state government will have to make arrangements to raise ₹4,600 crore in April to meet their committed expenditure of ₹6,200 crore — including salaries, pensions, social security pensions, power subsidy and debt servicing. Centre classifies Haryana’s safe zonesThe central government on Wednesday designated the safe and unsafe zones based on the number of Covid-19 cases. The Centre has classified areas reporting large outbreaks (about 80%) as hotspots (red zones), non-hotspots, where cases are reported in lesser number (orange zones), and districts which did not report positive cases (green zones). A red district can be moved to green category if there is no new case in 28 days. Also, a red district can be moved to the orange zone if no case is reported for 14 days, officials said.Nuh, Palwal, Gurugram and Faridabad districts, the four hotspot districts in the NCR, where 80% active coronavirus cases were detected, have been marked in the red zone. Ambala and Karnal have been classified as hotspot districts with clusters on the basis of number of cases being reported. Panchkula, Panipat, Sirsa, Sonepat, Bhiwani, Kaithal, Charkhi Dadri, Fatehabad, Hisar, Jind, Rohtak, Yamunanagar and Kurukshetra have been categorised as non-hotspot districts. Only Rewari, Mahendergarh and Jhajjar districts are in the green category, officials said. Officials said they were in the process of delineating areas declared safe for economic activity as per the Central government’s directive.State also did preliminary classificationBased on the number of confirmed cases and those under surveillance, the state government had done a preliminary exercise to categorise 69 towns and blocks as red zones, 50 as orange zones and 66 as green zones. “It was a preparatory exercise before the central government issued the criteria. However, we will go with what the Centre has prescribed,” said an official. “The state government is allowed to resume industries in rural areas outside the municipal limits, open manufacturing and industrial establishments with access control in special economic zones and export-oriented units, food processing industries in rural areas, production units, which require continuous process and their supply chain, industrial estates and industrial townships. These establishments will make arrangements for the stay of workers within their premises or adjacent buildings and implement standard operating protocol for safety, said an industry department official. The transportation of workers to workplace will also be arranged by the employers while ensuring social distancing, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-sets-the-ball-rolling-for-industrial-activity-in-safe-zones/story-i4LTlbVb4fcsREcQ3prdeK.html
16-04-2020||Lucknow||BHU postpones entrance exams, to remain closed till May 3||The Banaras Hindu University administration, on Wednesday, postponed the undergraduate and postgraduate entrance examinations, to be held on April 26 and May 10, given the union government’s decision to extend the lockdown till May 3.“New dates for the postponed entrance examinations will be announced later,” BHU public relation officer, Dr Rajesh Singh said. The university will remain closed till May 3, he stated.Besides, the school entrance examination, which was scheduled between May 1- 6, has also been postponed and the fresh dates these examinations will also be announced later.PRO said the university administration advises all the candidates to check the university entrance examination portal (www.bhuonline.in) regularly for any information. Notification issued by the administration in this regard is uploaded on the website.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/bhu-postpones-entrance-exams-to-remain-closed-till-may-3/story-aZcSpbPu1pyWfeHgbdXvxJ.html
16-04-2020||City||Conditional relaxations from April 20 hinge on micro data in Delhi||Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday said the relaxation of the certain restrictions in Delhi will depend on the “sources of the virus” and locality specific Covid-19 data, hours after the Union government issued detailed guidelines that allowed certain commercial activities to resume from April 20 in areas that are not disease hot spots.The 21-day national lockdown to contain the spread of the pathogen, imposed on March 25 by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, was on Tuesday extended till May 3.“We are keeping an eye on the sources of the virus in Delhi. It (the resumption of permitted commercial activities) will depend on the data of the next few days,” Sisodia told HT.Delhi had 17 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday and two deaths related to the virus. The state administration has designated 56 “containment zones” in the city where the curbs are stricter, and which are unlikely to get any relaxations as long as they retain that status.Taking the guidelines issued by the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) as a reference document, several senior officials in the Delhi government said on condition of anonymity that “conditional relaxations” could be provided “in a phased manner” from April 20 to IT companies, industrial estates such as the ones in Narela and Bawana, construction activities in projects which accommodate labour in the work sites, and self-employed service providers such as plumbers and electricians.“We will come out with detailed order for Delhi before April 20 in compliance with the MHA orders,” Delhi chief secretary Vijay Dev said. On Wednesday, Dev held a review meeting in which he asked all the 11 district magistrates (DMs) to submit reports on their respective areas based on which a further decision could be taken. During the meeting, the chief secretary is learnt to have emphasised on point 21 of the Union home ministry’s guidelines, which said: “Additional activities permitted in these guidelines shall be implemented in a phased manner, after making all arrangements necessary for strict implementation of the guidelines. This will come into force with effect from 20th April 2020.”The “additional activities”, said one of the DMs who was part of the meeting, appear to be commercial activities in the industrial areas where the employer provides accommodation for the employees while maintaining social distancing and safety standards; manufacturing units of information technology hardware; packaging materials; and the production and supply of goods that demand continuous processing.“The period beyond April 20 can also witness relaxation of staggered timings in grocery shops and a stretch in the functional hours for shops dealing with essentials goods and services in the localities, provided social distancing norms are maintained and the transmission of the virus is under control in those localities,” said a government official who did not wish to be identified.What are the staggered timing rules?As per the Union government’s guidelines, hospitals, clinics, veterinary hospitals, and pharmacies will continue to functioning. On Wednesday, the Delhi government also tied up with a mobile application through which residents can consult doctors for free from their homes.“We are glad to collaborate with the CallDoc application to bring a 24x7 online medical consultation facility for free to the people of Delhi. This will save them the trouble of physical travel for regular OPD visits. More than 100 qualified medical professionals are part of the initiative,” said Delhi’s health minister Satyendar Jain.Schools, colleges and coaching centres will remain closed and institutes will depend exclusively on online teaching programmes. Agricultural markets will operate but from the new locations where several of them have been moved in the past week, and they have to follow staggered timings. “Relaxations with regard to staggering timings in the mandis can be difficult keeping in view the footfall they witness on a daily basis,” said a district official.There will be no public transport till May 3, including metro rail, taxis, auto-rickshaws, and e-rickshaws.But goods transport will remain operational and some highway eateries will be allowed to function after April 20 for the convenience of truckers .Jugal Kishore, head of community medicines department in Safdarjung Hospital said: “Phased relaxation is a good strategy to ensure that people get used to the norms of social distancing and normalcy that follow the lockdown. Wuhan (in China) had experimented with this model and, so far, it has apparently worked well. Also, it is crucial for people to remember what they have learnt in the first phase of the lockdown and implement such discipline after the lockdown is lifted. That would contribute in containing a possible outbreak.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/conditional-relaxations-from-april-20-hinge-on-micro-data-in-delhi/story-LsC7GC72uimt6Us6kAgscL.html
16-04-2020||Noida||Covid-19 hotspots down to 27 from 29 in Gautam Buddh Nagar||The total number of Covid-19 hot spots in Gautam Budh Nagar came down to 27 from 29 on Wednesday after two complete and two partial areas were removed from the list by the district administration. While two localities, Sector 41 and Lotus Espacia in Sector 100, have been completely rid of hot spot tag, parts of sectors 30 and 78 have also been removed.A 26-year-old man, who had returned from Indonesia, was found positive for coronavirus in Sector 41 and a 22-year-old medical student from France, who is a native of Jharkhand, was found positive in Sector 100 of Noida. Both the patients have been discharged from the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in Greater Noida, officials said.According to the officials, the removed sectors have completed 28 days as per the protocol and no new case has been reported there since then. “These areas have been removed from the list of hotspots because no new case has been reported in the past 28 days from the date of sampling,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate, Gautam Budh Nagar.The DM also said that the clampdown in areas where there are no residents’ welfare associations will become stricter with only required essential services being allowed. These areas include JJ Colony in sectors 5 and 8, and villages Patwari, Ghodi Bichola, Chaura Sadatpur, Kulsera, Vishnoli and Wazidpur. The officials are surveying these areas to avoid community spread of the deadly disease. Around 586 people from various areas of the district are under quarantine at the government centres, the officials said.“In these areas, it is difficult to maintain social distancing due to high density of population. The clampdown is going to become much stricter as part of the cluster containment procedure. Only essential services will be allowed in these areas. Strict action will be taken against people do not follow the lockdown norms as per the orders of the government,” said the DM.There are 413 cluster containment teams in the district who have visited 310,540 houses, while 991,839 persons have been screened so far.By Wednesday night, the health department have put 1,369 people under surveillance. A total of 1,595 samples have been collected, including 157 taken and on Wednesday. The district has recorded a total of 80 Covid-19 cases, while 25 patients have been discharged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/hot-spots-down-to-27-from-29-in-gb-nagar/story-pVrXXtLezgCLB6MmGKefEJ.html
16-04-2020||Noida||UP-Rera gives more time to realtors to finish stuck projects||The Uttar Pradesh Real Estate Regulatory Authority (UP-Rera)has decided to postpone hearings of complaints till the nationwide lockdown ends and also to extend validity of registration of housing and other projects till December 2020 in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. However, the UP-Rera has not cancelled the coercive orders issued against builders in the past.Noida builders had urged UP-Rera to issue a notification postponing the implementation of old orders, including those related to compliance and registrations of housing projects.UP-Rera members took meetings via video conferencing on Monday and Tuesday to decide on builders’ demands for exemptions in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Developers welcomed the order extending registration of projects and postponing cases pending against developers till the end of the lockdown period.“We are happy that UP-Rera has allowed the extension of registration of projects and also given additional time for completion of projects. But it is yet to cancel the coercive orders issued in the past. We will communicate this matter again because due to a liquidity crisis, developers cannot honour refund orders during this time of crisis when everything is shut,” RK Arora, president, Uttar Pradesh chapter of National Real Estate Development council (NAREDCO), a builders’ group. Developers had sought relief after the government on March 22 shut construction to contain spread of Covid-19.“The authority has decided to extend by three months the date of completion of projects with earlier had a date of completion between March 15, 2020, and December 31, 2020. The revised registration certificate of such projects will be issued separately and send to the promoters concerned. It also decided to defer the hearings of all complaints listed till May 3, 2020, to suitably date to be communicated to the parties later on. It will conduct hearings of complaints through video conferencing after May 3 or whenever the lockdown conditions are relaxed. We will keep addressing other issues via video conferencing ahead,” Abrar Ahmed, secretary, UP-Rera, said.Developers in Noida and Greater Noida Wednesday said they will not be able to resume construction at their respective housing projects because the government is yet to allow operations of manufacturing units, which fall in the municipal limits. The government of India has allowed construction work to resume if the daily wage earners are staying at the site itself and also maintaining social distancing.“The government is yet to order that manufacturing units, which make construction-related material such as plywood, dust, steel and cement, located in rural areas, become operational. Therefore, developers cannot get required material to resume construction. For example, a company that makes plywood in Noida is not allowed to operate as it is located in a municipal area. Also, the staff required to monitor construction, who do not stay at site, cannot visit the site. So construction cannot resume in the given conditions,” Arora said. Experts said resuming construction in non-hot spot zones with restrictions will not help much.“The move to start at least some of the construction activity on project sites, even with a limited workforce, is certainly welcome. That said, since many migrant workers had left for their villages after the lockdown announcement, we will have to wait and see how many are actually left to resume work. Migrant workers comprise at least 80% of the total 44 million workforce in the construction sector. As far as construction activity in non-hot spots is concerned, developers will need to focus on resuming construction on projects that are already nearing completion and have a completion deadline within 2020,” Anuj Puri, chairman, ANAROCK Property Consultants said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/up-rera-gives-more-time-to-realtors-to-finish-stuck-projects/story-epRVDbSyV1dBrGVuVtta7O.html
16-04-2020||Noida||Won’t be able to pay April’s salary to workers, apparel industries tell GB Nagar officials||The garment manufacturing and exporting companies in Gautam Budh Nagar district have informed the district administration and the state government that due to absolute paucity of funds, they will not be able pay salaries to their workers for the month of April. Their decision is likely to impact at least 10 lakh workers -- both skilled and semi-skilled.Lalit Thukral, the president of Noida Apparel Exports Cluster (NAEC), said the apparel and textile industry in the district, like in other places, is already plagued by the global crisis caused by Covid-19 outbreak. “The recent advisory of the government that wages must be paid by employers even during the lockdown period will push the apparel industry deeper into the crisis. The garment exporters somehow managed to pay full wages in March, but we can’t afford to pay the wages for the month of April. It is the high time that the government came up with a special relief package for this industry,” he said.About the arrangement of wages to workers, the NAEC president said instead of pressuring the exporters, the government should look to other ways of making their payments regularly. “The apparel industry of Noida alone deposits around ₹10 crore per month in the Employees’ State Insurance (ESI). Since it is a self-financing social security and health insurance scheme for Indian workers, and the fund there is managed by the Employees’ State Insurance Corporation, according to rules and regulations stipulated in the ESI Act, 1948, the government must order this organisation, to make regular monthly payments to workers associated with the apparel and textile industry,” he said.Stating that in Noida region, around 10 lakh people are getting employment through the apparel sector --- the region exports garments worth over ₹18,000 crore annually -- Thukral further said this lockdown has affected around 3,000 export units in the district. “Under the export sector, there are only two peak seasons for manufacturing. The apparels made in October to December are exported in February and March for the summer season. Due to outbreak of the Covid-19, most of the export orders have either been cancelled or put on hold, besides the consignments already shipped have also been stuck. Even the apparel manufactured against the order are also lying in the factories because of the ban on movement/transport. The situation has become grave as we have yet not got any receipt of payment from the buyers,” he said.Alleging that the government has yet not announced any relief or scheme for the apparel sector, another apparel exporter Roshan Vaid said in other leading apparel exporting countries such as Bangladesh and Thailand, the government has undertaken unprecedented steps to rescue their industries. “But in India, nothing tangible has taken place so far. Banks are not ready to extend credit due to cancellation of orders, which has also put the apparel exporters in peril. The government must come up with some scheme to save this industry,” he said.District magistrate Suhas LY, who attended a meeting with industrialists from different sectors on Monday, to discuss problems faced during the lockdown, said around 90% of the industries have been closed in the district. “They have apprised me of their problems. A detailed report will soon be sent to government. I hope that very soon, we will have some concrete solutions,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/won-t-be-able-to-pay-april-s-salary-to-workers-apparel-industries-tell-gb-nagar-officials/story-hZ7xPknUoyctpnCFeKz4WP.html
16-04-2020||Noida||Covid effect: Man coughs while playing ludo, shot at by neighbour||Amid growing fears over the spread of Covid-19, a 27-year-old man was allegedly shot at by a neighbour after he coughed while playing ludo with his friends at Daya Nagar village in Jarcha, Greater Noida, on Tuesday night. The victim, Prashant, received a bullet injury in his right thigh and was admitted to Kailash Hospital Greater Noida, the police said. The suspect, Jaiveer alias Gullu, who allegedly fired at the victim after an argument triggered by his coughing, managed to escape after the incident, which took place at 10pm, they said, adding that Prashant’s friends escaped narrowly during the firing.Prashant said that the incident took place when he was playing ludo with his three friends at a neighbouring temple.“We were playing ludo when my neighbour Gullu reached the spot. He was watching us . Suddenly I coughed and this irked Gullu. He said that I had coughed at him deliberately and that I was spreading coronavirus. I pleaded that the coughing was spontaneous, but he did not listen to me. He took out a countrymade gun and opened fire. I received a bullet injury in my thigh and collapsed on the ground,” the victim said. Prashant’s father Karan Singh filed a complaint against Gullu and his two brothers Manveer and Bhoora. However, the police said that the suspect’s brothers were not present at the spot at the time of firing, and they are investigating the matter from all angles.Rajesh Kumar Singh, deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said a team from Jarcha police station reached the spot after receiving a call about the incident. “The victim was admitted to Kailash Hospital Greater Noida. The police have registered a case of attempt to murder under Section 307 of IPC against the suspect and launched a search operation for his arrest,” Singh said. The police said it appears the suspect was drunk at the time of the incident.Kailash Hospital spokesperson said that the victim is in the intensive care unit (ICU). “The patient was brought to the hospital at 11pm. He is responding to the medical treatment and he is out of danger. We are stabilizing his blood pressure and then we will conduct the operation and remove the bullet from his body,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-effect-man-coughs-while-playing-ludo-shot-at/story-ncNsWPWSZyxQrcJUK6z5pJ.html
16-04-2020||Gurugram||Man booked for tearing ‘do not visit’ tag pasted by MCG outside his house||A New Colony resident was booked on Tuesday for allegedly tearing the ‘do not visit home’ tag pasted by the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) outside his house at Ram Nagar. The police said the man and his family were recently quarantined in the house after one of the family members was suspected to have the Sars-Cov-2. According to the police, the family was asked to remain quarantined inside their home from April 7 to April 21. The authorities took step after one of the family members had recently visited a private hospital in Gurugram where a Covid-19 patient was being treated. The man and his family members were quarantined as a precautionary measure. In the police complaint, Rajesh Kumar, head constable (HC), alleged that on Tuesday he received a tip-off that the man had allegedly torn the tag put up by the authorities outside his house. “When I reached the spot, I saw that the tag was torn and some pieces of it were still stuck to the wall. I clicked a picture of the tag and sent it to the officials and concerned authorities,” he added. The police said that when officials questioned the family members, they were informed that the man had gone somewhere after the incident and was not at home.A police officer privy to the investigation said, “The man is yet to be arrested. We are investigating the matter.”A case was registered under sections 188, 269 and 270 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 51 (b) of the Disaster Management Act at New Colony police station on Tuesday.In another incident, a Gurugram-based businessman was arrested on Tuesday for allegedly spreading rumours on Coronavirus on social media at Om Nagar in Sector 11. The police said that he had allegedly recorded a video of a man, purportedly suffering from a mental illness, and posted it online, claiming that he was a Covid-19 patient.According to the police, the arrested man was identified as one Anup Singh, a resident of Om Nagar. He was arrested from his house.According to the police, on Tuesday, officials received information that a man, purportedly suffering from a mental illness, had reached the area from Jaipur. The residents then called for an ambulance and the man was taken to a shelter home in Gurugram. Meanwhile, Singh allegedly recorded the whole incident on his mobile phone and posted it online, claiming that a “Coronavirus patient in his area was taken to a hospital”.Balraj, assistant sub-inspector (ASI), Shivaji Nagar police station, said: “The man who was taken to the shelter home was not a Covid-19 patient. He was suffering from a mental illness. We arrested Singh immediately when we got to know about the rumour.”In a similar incident, an unidentified man was booked for spreading rumours by sending text messages on an instant messaging application in Aliyar village, IMT Manesar, on Tuesday. The police said the suspect allegedly wrote that he and his friends would get together and stage a protest in the village amid the lockdown as he was not being allowed to return to his hometown. The police said that the man is yet to be identified and arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/man-booked-for-tearing-do-not-visit-tag-pasted-by-mcg-outside-his-house/story-rGvFFM36KnQhalk6Z5je3J.html
16-04-2020||Gurugram||Hero Honda Chowk flyover reopened||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) opened the Jaipur-Delhi carriageway of the Hero Honda Chowk Flyover on Wednesday evening, five months after it was closed for repair. A deck slab had fallen off the flyover in both 2018 and 2019. Rakesh Mathur, deputy manager of Valecha Engineering Limited, the contractor for the project, said, “We were told by the NHAI to open the flyover by April 15 and we have done so. The jersey barriers were removed.” On October 31 last year, the traffic police had closed the road from Subhash Chowk towards Sector 10, above the underpass, and from Sector 10 towards Subhash Chowk. Officer Azad Singh of Traffic Police Station-1, said, “With the opening of the flyover, all curbs below the flyover will be removed in the next few days. The right turn above the underpass which allows commuters to drive towards Delhi will also become operational soon.”The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) had put new traffic lights at the Hero Honda Chowk in February in a bid to ease vehicular flow at the junction. The traffic signals have not been used since they were installed. “Now the flyover has become operational, we will request GMDA to start operating the traffic lights below the Hero Honda Chowk flyover so that there is no traffic congestion,” Mathur added. Two U-turns that were closed for commuters when the repair works started in October will be made operational again, the Gurugram traffic police said. The two U-turns were constructed for commuters travelling from Gurugram to Manesar and from Manesar to Gurugram. They were built to ease traffic congestion at Hero Honda Chowk. “The two U-turns will be made operational so that trucks and other vehicles can easily take a U-turn below the flyover. These U-turns will ease vehicular movement near the Kherki-Daula toll plaza as many motorists have to go till the toll plaza to take a U-turn,” Singh added. Hero Honda Chowk is the only flyover which has four U-turns, of which only one was operational when the flyover was being repaired. The NHAI had asked its contractor to make two U-turns operational for trucks to move underneath the flyover last year. “The first U-turn (Delhi-Jaipur) is closed. When it was being made, the contractor realised that trucks might collide with the flyover’s ceiling as it was then 100m high. So, a new U-turn was made (which is functional at this junction) on the Delhi-Jaipur side,” an official of the Valecha Engineering Ltd (the NHAI’s contractor) said on condition of anonymity. The third U-turn was made for commuters to take a turn from the Jaipur-Delhi side. Few metres away is another U-turn meant only for cars, which has also been barricaded. “There are four U-turns and now, with the opening of the flyover two U-turns, the roads on both Jaipur-Delhi side and Delhi-Jaipur side will be operational,” Mathur said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/hero-honda-chowk-flyover-reopened/story-78MqK2bFko9m5Mb0n5NllN.html
16-04-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram likely to get relaxation in economic activities after April 20||Despite the possibility that Gurugram may be labelled a ‘red zone’, the administration on Wednesday said the district may get relaxations in resuming certain economic activities from April 20, after the Union ministry of home affairs issued guidelines concerning the same on Wednesday.“It is likely Gurugram will be notified under the red zone, being a Covid-19 hotspot. But considering the plateau in the number of cases and recovery rates of patients, it is likely that certain areas of Gurugram and industrial units will get relaxation. We are already running essential industries, and exemptions may be given to others. The clarity can be given only on April 19,” said VS Kundu, CEO of the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA), also the monitoring officer for Covid-19 in Gurugram. On Wednesday, the cabinet secretary held a high-level review meeting with all chief secretaries, deputy commissioners, municipal commissioners across the country. Kundu, who was a part of the meeting said, “Before April 20, districts will be placed under three zones — red, orange and green — based on which they will get exemptions in operating industries. These districts will be reviewed every week. It will be a dynamic process managing different zones. ”The districts, as per the revised guideline by the Union ministry of home affairs, can give exemption to industries and manufacturing units in Special Economic Zones and Export Oriented Units. However, they will have to make arrangements for workers to stay within their premises or an adjacent building. The transportation of workers to their workplaces will also be arranged by the employers, ensuring social distancing. Construction work can also start on project sites. Realtors in Gurugram said that given the low spread of the coronavirus in the city, they should also be given the opportunity to start construction work at their projects as the labour forces have been living on the sites and being given provisions, since the lockdown began.As per a survey conducted by the town and country planning department, there are at least 21,000 construction workers spread across 85 project sites. The department had mandated the developers to take care of these workers so that they don’t leave the city. A large number of construction workers are also staying outside the project sites, in nearby villages. STATE’S PLANEarlier this week, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had said that to restart industrial activities amid the ongoing nationwide lockdown, the government will divide the state into three zones, and that it was not possible for the country to continue under the present circumstances of the lockdown.“We are aware the micro, small and medium enterprises are the backbone of the economy, as they also hire the most daily wage and migrant workers. An exit strategy for such operations is in the works, but industry owners need to be prepared for the fact that social distancing is here to stay,” Kundu said in a session of HT Dialogues on Tuesday.He said shop floors will need to be reconfigured to ensure a social distance between workers, who will have to be tested and screened for symptoms on a daily basis. Industries will have to submit their own sanitisation plans for review before they are allowed to resume operations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-likely-to-get-relaxation-in-economic-activities-after-april-20/story-tPJuIsdo6d7OJVjzRTRQKL.html
16-04-2020||Gurugram||Containment zones reduced to 6 in Ggm, more police deployment on district borders||A day after the Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement to extend the lockdown till May 3, the Gurugram police on Wednesday increased the deployment of security personnel on borders with Nuh and Faridabad, as well as outside the six containment zones in the district to keep a check on the non-essential movement of people from areas with Covid-19 cases.On Wednesday, the number of containment zones in the Gurugram district was reduced from nine to six.The new strategy can help prevent the transmission of the coronavirus disease to the other parts of the city, said police commissioner Muhammad Akil.Areas that will now be under containment zones are Devi Lal Colony, Sun City (Sector 54), Sector 39, Fazilpur Jharsa village, Pataudi ward number 11, and Raipur village in Sohna, said an order issued by the deputy commissioner on Wednesday. Areas such as Nirvana Country, Sector 9, Palam Vihar, Emar Palm Gardens (Sector 83) and Laburnum Society have been rid of the containment tag, the order said, adding that the decision was taken “upon the recommendation” of the District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) Committee.The deputy commissioner, in his order, also said that the Containment Review Committee has been constituted for “combating the situation”.According to the previous order (issued on April 10) on containment zones, much wider areas were made Covid-19 hot spots, such as Sector 54 instead of Sun City, and Sector 9 in lieu of Devi Lal Colony. However, the Wednesday’s order has narrowed down these areas. The police said borders connecting to Nuh are most sensitive zones due to 45 positive cases reported from that district only. Besides, the security has been increased along intra-city borders with Pataudi and Sohna from where 15 Covid-19 cases have been reported, the police said. Gurugram has reported 32 positive cases so far and 16 of them have recovered. Around 400 more home guards and special police officers (SPOs) have been deployed in nine containment zones, the police said. Earlier, about 4,800 police personnel were deployed across the city, including 11 borders connecting to Delhi. An area spread over five kilometres is cordoned off in the identified containment zone and an additional area of three kilometres is earmarked as a buffer zone as a precautionary measure, said the police.Akil said strict action will be taken against people misusing passes and crossing police pickets without any valid reason.He said that the police have set up 15 more police pickets, adding to 64 which were set up outside containment zones where a total of 1,742 personnel are deployed. “We have increased deployment in residential areas also as many people are stepping out without wearing masks and are making excuses of buying essential items from nearby markets,” he said.The police said they have advised all the residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) to ask residents not to step out of their apartment or houses without masks and to maintain social distancing. “All morning and evening walks are prohibited as people had started moving out in groups,” Akil said.After the extension of lockdown, the police changed the locations of the police post and pickets across the city. “I had called a meeting of all 41 station house officers to discuss the new plan of action and to ensure no one enters the city from these areas unless for any medical emergency,” said Akil.The Gurugram police have a total of 6,500 police personnel and around 2,500 home guards and SPOs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/containment-zones-reduced-to-6-in-ggm-more-police-deployment-on-district-borders/story-30v1gJiLcvn4qgXN5qVIeP.html
16-04-2020||Delhi||700 migrant workers gather on Yamuna floodplains, Delhi govt to provide shelter||With no place else to go to, nearly 700 migrant workers and daily wager earners gathered on the Yamuna floodplains in search shelter on Wednesday afternoon. With the summer temperature slowly rising, migrants took refuge under a bridge on the banks of the river at Yamuna Pushta in Kashmere Gate. The large gathering were a repeat of scenes witnessed in Bandra, Mumbai, on Tuesday and gave rise to fears of the Covid-19 virus spreading. The government and police sprung into action after images of the gathering made it to the social media, and mobilised buses to move them to temporary shelters set up in different schools.According to officials of the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB), the nodal agency for arranging shelter for the homeless in the city, many of them live near the floodplains while many others had arrived there after the central government on Tuesday extended the nationwide lockdown till May 3. “Around 650 to 700 people had taken shelter under the bridge. At least 250 of them are those who live near the floodplain itself. They go to government facilities for food and then return to the floodplains. The others had reached there after the lockdown was extended. They were looking for shelter as the days have become hotter,” Bipin Rai, member, DUSIB, said. He said all of them were taken to different shelters in Rohini, Savda Ghevra and Ghazipur, among others. “The schools still have the capacity to house more people and there are arrangements there for food and medicines as well. On Tuesday, too, about 300 to 350 people had gathered on the Yamuna banks. We are working to shift these people to proper facilities so that they don’t leave the city,” Rai said. The agencies swung into action after a media person posted a tweet of the workers gathered on the Yamuna floodplains. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal also tweeted, “Migrant workers have gathered at the Yamuna floodplains. We have made arrangements for their food and shelter. Also, instructions have been given to shift them immediately. …There is no shortage of food or shelter. If anyone comes across people who are homeless or hungry, please do inform us.” Meanwhile, a senior police officer, not wishing to be named, said the homeless people from Kashmere Gate and Chandni Chowk area were being shifted to night shelters across the city on Wednesday evening. “Police assisted the state administration in the process. There was no movement of any migrant labourers,” the officer claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/nearly-700-migrant-workers-gather-on-yamuna-floodplains-looking-for-shelter-tweet-prompts-govt-to-act/story-Zr40ccngOxP4A7iGUslBeM.html
16-04-2020||Delhi||State, central govts come down on schools, colleges flouting fee norms during lockdown||The Delhi government has taken a strong view against private schools in the city hiking fees without permission and violating provisions of the Disaster Management Act presently enforced in the city in view of the Covid-19 outbreak. The Directorate of Education (DoE) last week issued an order to a south Delhi private school over the matter.The move came even as the higher education sector regulator the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) informed colleges under its purview not to pressure students into paying fees till the lockdown continues.In an order issued on Wednesday, AICTE Member Rajive Kumar said that it had come to the notice of the regulator that some institutions were insisting that students should pay the fees including admission fees.Significantly, the Union ministry of human resource development has received a series of requests and demands from different quarters to address the issue of institutions demanding fees both in school and higher education sector.Parents of students enrolled in private schools across the city have complained of fees being hiked and institutions also quarterly fees instead of monthly, pulling on their already tight purse strings amid the lockdown. Many parents have asked the DoE to intervene.In an order issued to the south Delhi school on April 11, the DoE said, “It has been brought to our notice that Apeejay School, Saket, a private unaided school has increased the fee illegally without taking cognisance of the prevailing situation in view of the announcement of lockdown by the central government and despite the enforcement of Disaster Management Act, 2005, and Delhi Epidemic Diseases, COVID-19 regulations, 2020, under the Epidemic Diseases Act 1897, for prevention and containment of COVID-19 and also without compliance of the mandatory provisions of Delhi Education Act, 1973.”DoE director Binay Bhushan said the order was issued after the body received multiple complaints against the school. Parents of students in Apeejay School alleged that the school had hiked the fees by 15-20% in April this year. “The school is constantly calling us and pressuring us to submit the hiked fees. Many of us are not in a position to pay even the normal fee amid the lockdown,” said a parent who is member of Naya Samaj Parents Association of the School, the school’s official parents’ body. The DoE also ordered the school to not increase any fee or compel students to pay increased fees or arrears till further orders. “The school shall, in no case, deny access to online education to students who are unable to pay the fee due to financial crises out of the closure of business activities in the ongoing lockdown condition,” the order stated, adding, that the failure to comply with the instruction can also invite action under the Disaster Management Act, 2005. School principal Smita Amit refused to comment on the matter. However, in a e-mail statement sent to Hindustan Times, school authorities said “It’s working in compliance of the order issued by the DoE.”Parents whose children are enrolled in Adarsh Public School in Vikaspuri and Guru Harkrishan Public School in Kailash Colony also alleged that the schools have increased the fee by 10% without taking prior approval from the DoE. The mother of a class 6 student at Adarsh School said, “The school has increased the fee by 10%. We have no idea why the fee was revised when the government has ordered against it.”Pooja Sehgal, principal of the school, said they had sent a letter to the DoE for approval for the fee hike “We have not revised the fee structure in the last four years, which is why the revision was needed,” she said. Officials in the DoE, however, said they have not yet granted permission to the school. The principal of Guru Harkrishan Public School, Gurpreet Singh, however, said that while the school management had decided to increase the fee by 10%, it is yet to implement the decision. “Immediately after the decision was taken, the lockdown was announced. The parents were informed about it but we are not yet charging the revised fee,” she said.Advocate Khagesh Jha of Social Jurist, an NGO, said the Delhi government should issue an order to all schools asking them not to hike fees, and avoid action against students unable to pay the prevailing fees in the current situation.“Instead of waiting for individual complaints, the DoE should immediately direct all schools against harassing the parents in the time of the pandemic. We have also sent multiple complaints of fee hike by schools to the DoE. They should also issue a helpline for such complaint in the time of the lockdown,” he said.The AICTE also said it had been made aware that some institutions had either terminated staff members or had not paid their faculty.“It is clarified that salary and other dues to the faculty/staff members will be released for the duration of lockdown and terminations, if any, made during the lockdown will be withdrawn,” the AICTE communiqué said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/state-central-govts-come-down-on-schools-colleges-flouting-fee-norms-during-lockdown/story-LCP4SLmLyKKaB1YkrXVbUN.html
16-04-2020||Delhi||Tablighi Jamaat chief charged with culpable homicide||The Delhi Police crime branch has added the Indian Penal Code’s (IPC) stringent Section 304 to the list of laws used against Maulana Saad, booking the head of the Tablighi Jamaat for “culpable homicide not amounting to murder” in connection with the coronavirus disease outbreak at the Muslim missionary group’s headquarters in Nizamuddin Basti, which has emerged as the biggest Covid-19 hot spot in India.The police filed a criminal case against Saad and six other top officials on March 31 for defying a series of government directives, which curbed religious and large gatherings, issued to contain the spread of the disease in the capital. Of the 1,578 cases reported in the city till Wednesday, 1,080 were linked to gatherings at the Jamaat’s Markaz building in Nizamuddin in mid-March. Senior police officers said they will soon summon Saad because his 14-day period of self-quarantine (for being in contact with people who later tested positive) is over. The Tablighi Jamaat management said earlier this month that Saad was in isolation on his doctor’s advice. A senior police officer said that the first information report (FIR), filed on March 31, was first registered under sections of Disaster Management Act and the sections of the IPC including criminal conspiracy (120 B), a negligent act likely to spread disease (269), malignant act likely to spread infection (270), disobedience of quarantine rule (271) and defying prohibitory orders (188). The maximum punishment, if convicted, under those sections is a two-year prison term with a fine or both. “Section 304 has now been added against Saad,” the officer said. The maximum punishment under this law is a 10-year prison term. Last month, police officers and state government officials evacuated more than 2,300 people from inside the Markaz building, where they had gathered for a religious congregation of indeterminate length. The meetings continued despite orders by the Delhi government banning all religious events (March 13), restricting gatherings to 200 people (March 16), and then putting a five-person limit on March 21 on all gatherings.The gathering inside the Markaz — where people from several other countries including Malaysia, Indonesia, Saudi Arabia and Kyrgyzstan were also present — has been linked to at least 1,445 infections, spread across 17 states, including Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Jammu & Kashmir, Rajasthan, Telangana, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Arunachal Pradesh, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Kerala, Maharashtra, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh.Explaining why the police added the stringent section, a mid-level officer said the Tablighi Jamaat management had defied the police’s order urging them not to gather inside the Markaz. “There is an audio clip, in which Saad is heard telling his followers that the Covid-19 scare is a conspiracy. This audio tape is also mentioned in the FIR. He knew about the consequences of the disease but ignored it deliberately. Police had informed him before the lockdown to disperse the gathering but despite that they continued to live in the building. We also have a video recording of the local police telling the management to disperse the gathering but despite that the thousands of persons continued to stay inside. They had to be evacuated by police and government.” “His 14-day quarantine period is over. He was not there during the evacuation process. His interrogation is important to get more details about the gathering. Our officers are in touch with the Tablighi Jamaat management. We are yet to get a nod from our seniors on summoning him to join the investigation,” said a second senior officer familiar with the investigation who asked not to be named. Advocate LN Rao, who worked with the Delhi Police for over three decades till he retired in 2014, said that the police are within their rights to add another section to an existing FIR. “Across the world, people were dying of Covid-19. The government had issued the directions to stop such deaths and the spread of the disease. Despite knowing this, if the head of the Tablighi Jamaat continued with the gathering knowing fully well that it could result in deaths, then using Section 304 is a sound thing to do for an investigator. Police will now have to find evidence suggesting that the Maulana knew his action was likely to kill someone. Police are legally allowed to add the section and prima facie, it may seem to be the right thing to do. But if they are unable to find evidence against Saad under 304 then the court will not allow trial to proceed under that section. In some cases, police also do not file a charge sheet under that section, if they know that it will not pass the court’s scrutiny.” A third officer aware of the matter said that the police know about Saad’s whereabouts and will ensure that he does not leave the city, which is in any case under a lockdown.“The crime branch has seized the computers and attendance registers from inside the Markaz, where the details of all the visitors and the gathering were noted. In reply to the questionnaire, they have also sent us some documents. The investigating officer will quiz Saad about the records,” the third officer said on condition of anonymity. On the police’s move to add the stringent section to the FIR against Saad, his counsel, Fuzail Ayyubi, said, “ We have only heard from the media about the case update and the summoning of 18 persons. We won’t comment until police inform us about it.”Earlier this month, police sent two questionnaires to Saad with 29 questions related to the Tablighi Jamaat and the gatherings between March 10 and 15. In the first notice, which had 26 questions, sent on April 1, the investigating officer sought details of CCTV cameras inside the building and asked Saad to preserve the footage. The police asked for details of all people, including foreigners, present in the building last month. There was also a question about the steps taken by the management to disperse the gathering after the government’s prohibitory orders were issued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tablighi-jamaat-chief-charged-with-culpable-homicide/story-XIJHvzhoHkN5yBSwjBSLjJ.html
16-04-2020||Delhi||Govt agencies gear up to restart construction work in Delhi||Construction work on several major infrastructure projects in the capital may resume next week, after the Centre on Wednesday granted conditional approval for such activity in areas where there were no coronavirus disease (Covid-19) containment zones and if labourers were available on-site.The decision to allow “in-situ” construction (where the workers stay on the premises) has come as a relief to several Delhi government agencies because several infrastructure projects have been stuck since last November, when construction activity was banned due to high air pollution levels in the city. That ban was lifted on February 14, only to be reimposed when the national lockdown was imposed on March 25 to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Prime Minister Narendra Modi has extended the lockdown till May 3, but some activities have been permitted to kick-start the economy and provide job opportunities to daily-wage labourers.Though the availability of workers may be a challenge because several thousand migrant workers left the city for their towns and villages after the lockdown was announced, and work may proceed at a slow pace, several big projects are set to resume, according to multiple officials aware of the developments.“The available labour is not enough to move the projects at the desired pace. So it is likely that initially the work will be slow. Plus, we will also have to see how to get material as the factories are also shut,” said a senior Public Works Department (PWD) official who asked not to be named.But, the official added, enough labour is available to kick-start some key projects -- the tunnel that is a part of the Pragati Maidan redevelopment plan, the Barapullah-3 elevated road near Sarai Kale Khan, the Yamuna basin near Mayur Vihar-1, the Shashtri Park and Seelampur flyovers in north-east Delhi, and the Benito Juarez Road underpass near South Campus of the Delhi University.Government agencies on Wednesday began assessing the inventory of construction material and labour availability, a second PWD official said. NBCC (India) Limited, which is carrying out construction work at Pragati Maidan and other central government projects, said it will start the work with whatever is available. Its chairman and managing director, PK Gupta said: “We have projects ongoing at several locations in Delhi. We are assessing the situation and will be able to start work from April 20 at a number of places, as we have labour force available on our construction sites. We shall start work with construction material available at site and should be able to get required construction material from other places also as per the guidelines issued by government.”Workers on the Pragati Maidan project are staying at a camp near the site. The project, which started in July 2017, is scheduled to be completed at the end of the year. The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) said the availability of workers was not an issue because it was taking care of more than 3,500 stranded labourers at various locations across Delhi-NCR.“DMRC can resume construction activities after April 20 if the [Delhi] government allow it. We have the workforce available. Limited construction material/machinery are available at the sites for immediate resumption of work. However, adequate availability of all these materials in the long run may depend on the relaxation of lockdown guidelines post May 3, 2020,” said Anuj Dayal, executive director, corporate communication, DMRC.DMRC started the construction work on its Phase-IV network in Haiderpur Badli Mor on December 31. The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) said that it is assessing the situation and is likely to resume work at 10 of its housing sites. “We will start the work with whatever material is available on the site,” said Tarun Kapoor, DDA vice-chairperson.There were a total of 1,578 Covid-19 cases in the Capital on Wednesday, and 56 areas in the city have so far been declared “containment zones”, where the curbs are more stringent, all movement in banned, and essential supplies are home-delivered by the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/govt-agencies-gear-up-to-restart-construction-work-in-delhi/story-PYxc80TGasHZyYvKtgkiEM.html
16-04-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt looking to ramp up services at hospitals, clinics after April 20||The Delhi government is looking at ways to scale up services at hospitals and clinics across the city after April 20, when the Central government is likely to relax certain norms in areas that fall outside the containment zones and hotspots.A countrywide lockdown till April 14 was put in place by Prime Minister Narendra Modi last month to contain the spread of Covid-19. The lockdown was on Tuesday extended till May 3. Till Wednesday, Delhi had witnessed 1578 Covid-19 positive cases with 32 deaths.A set of guidelines released by the Union home ministry on Wednesday states that all hospitals, nursing homes, and clinics, even those providing AYUSH services, will keep running during the extended lockdown period.The health ministry on March 20 had advised all hospitals – both government and private – to postpone their non-emergency planned surgeries and to maintain social distancing norms in the out-patient clinics. The guidelines had also said that patients with flu-like symptoms should be treated in a separate section. Big hospitals like All India Institute of Medical Sciences and Lok Nayak, which are treating several suspected and positive Covid-19 cases, have completely shut down their out-patient clinics. Others, have maintained a curtailed service, like Safdarjung hospital that allows patient registration for only two hours instead of four. A number of private clinics and nursing homes in the city have shut their services completely.“Healthcare is an essential service and nobody was asked to shut OPDs, only elective surgeries were to be postponed. Healthcare services other than Covid-19 are also very important and we cannot keep the patients waiting for eternity,” said a senior official from Delhi government’s health department.Authorised private institutions providing home care services, diagnostics, or those involved in the supply chains of hospitals will be allowed to function even inside containment areas, the guidelines said. “The Delhi-specific guidelines will have to be framed by the government on what services to start when and in which areas. This is likely to come by April 20 after the government has assessed all the hotspots in the city,” said Dr Girish Tyagi, president elect of Delhi Medical Association.“Many hospitals in Delhi have had to shut their services because healthcare workers are not coming in. The government has directed that their salaries be paid anyway. Just like Rajasthan and Chattisgarh, the Delhi government should give out orders to mandatorily keep OPD services running and scale up other services at least outside the containment areas,” said Dr Girdhar Gyani, director-general of Association of Healthcare Providers (India) or AHPI.The All India Institute of Medical Sciences, however, says it might not be able to open up OPDs immediately.“What would be the use of opening up OPDs if we are not able to provide any other services. And, we cannot start surgeries at the moment because we have moved patients from the AIIMS trauma centre, which has been converted into a dedicated Covid-19 treatment facility. We do not really have space to do much else,” said Dr DK Sharma, medical superintendent of the hospital. For the time being, the Delhi government also launched an app for teleconsultation. The CallDoc app can be used for 24x7 online medical consultations with general physicians and specialists for free by residents. A user can connect to a doctor on Video /Audio/Chat and can even upload their test reports for review. The doctors can upload prescriptions after consultation. Around 100 doctors have been empanelled for the service.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-looking-to-ramp-up-services-at-hospitals-clinics-after-april-20/story-jST1QxHUYYAsvl4R0gwDOO.html
16-04-2020||Pune||490 litres of hooch seized by Pune police||After two seizures of domestically made alcohol, the Pune police collectively seized oer 490 litres of the hooch on Tuesday. While one seizure was made from a car in Pathare vasti, the other was made from a woman in Khulewadi, Logeaon, by officials of the Vimantal police station.The Pune police intercepted a Maruti 800 in Lohegaon on Tuesday with 13 blue plastic cans containing a total of 455 litres alcohol meant for sale.The cost of the seized alcohol was estimated to Rs 27,300.Two arrested were identified as Ganesh Namdev Rakhparse, a resident of Kumbhar vasti, and Santosh Dnyaneshwar Irale, a resident of Rakhparse vasti in Lohegaon, according to police officials.The car was loaded up in Wadgaon Shinde and heading towards Lohegaon, according to information received by police sub-inspector Hanumant Giri of Vimantal police station.A case under Sections 188 and 269 of Indian Penal Code along with Section 51(b) of National Disaster Management Act 2005, and Section 65(e) of Maharashtra COVID-19 Regulations, 2020, was registered at Vimantal police station.In the other seizure, a woman was booked for being in possession of two cans collectively carrying 35 litres of domestically made alcohol.The woman was identified as Shobha Satyavan Khule, according to police.A case under Section 65(e) of Maharashtra Prohibition Act was registered against the woman at the Vimantal police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/490-litres-of-hooch-seized-by-pune-police/story-kIjB2UaiK4QLRGiaoJsHGJ.html
16-04-2020||Pune||‘Told no need to eat twice a day to live’: Woman at Pune camp for migrant workers||Every evening, a voluntary group comes and distributes boxes of cooked rice to a camp of about 100 migrant labourers living in six tin sheds at Ambegaon Budruk, on the outskirts of Pune city.This is the only food that this camp of labourers gets in the day.On Wednesday evening, Fatima Begum, a woman in her 30s, walked down the hill to collect food provided by the officials of Pune police who had found her while trying to walk from Pune to Madhya Pradesh along with around 150 others in the morning hours of Wednesday. Grateful for the food that the camp was receiving once a day, Fatima said with despair,“If we ask for more food, we are told that we do not need to eat twice to live. Once a day is enough for you, they tell us.”Residing at a remote settlement near Sachhai Mata temple in the hill-area of Shaninagar area in Ambegaon Budrukh, the cluster of tin sheds which are home to these labourers from Madhya Pradesh, does not permit movement of two adults at once.On Tuesday, these labourers and their children had made a failed attempt at walking to Madhya Pradesh from Ambegaon in Katraj, Pune.Reason? The message of lockdown extension had not reached their remote settlement according to Sapna Vinod, a 20-something woman who was cradling a 2-year-old in her arms while her elder was leaning against her leg.The extension of the 21-day lockdown was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday morning through a live telecast.While on their way to Madhya Pradesh on foot, the labourers- some of who wore masks- were intercepted at a check post at Khadi Machine chowk in Kondhwa around 4am, said senior inspector Vinayak Gaikwad of Kondhwa police station.“A few people came first. They were stopped and one by one around 50-60 families arrived at the check post. There were four policemen at the check post. Then the night patrol and beat marshalls joined them and took all of them to the shelter set up at Darekar School. But they chose to go back home,” said Gaikwad.Gyansingh Thakur, 34, who lives with his wife and two children, said they were unaware that the lockdown had been extended.“How will we know? The only communication we had last was from the contractor who told us on a Saturday that we cannot come the next day due to something called as Janta Curfew. We got to know about the first extension from the people around like in shops. Once the money ran out, we stopped going to the shop. Now we’re told that we must stay like this until May begins,” he said. Jamna Bai, who is among the few older women in the colony, said they were trying to go to their hometown in Madhya Pradesh. “We have families there. We thought now that the lockdown is over, we will find a way to reach our state. Even if there are no vehicles, we were ready to walk the distance,” she said.The labourers pay anywhere between Rs 1,300 to Rs 2,000 in rent for the tin shed and the cost of electricity usage is in addition to the cost of the water tanker that has to be paid for twice in every month.The police who had intercepted them made food available for them. Cooked rice was also provided around 6pm on Wednesday. Until it arrived, the labourers who walked 16-18km from their houses and back, were awaiting the arrival of their next meal.While some had been in Pune anywhere between 2-6 months, few others had arrived two days before the Janta Curfew was announced.A young man who spat angrily and then stormed off in a huff said some time should have been given to migrant labourers to go back home to their families, rather than forced to live without income. They would most likely die of starvation if not disease, he said angrily.While the police has now assured them supply of food it remains to be seen whether the Pune Municipal Corporation will make some temporary arrangements for these labourers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/you-don-t-need-to-eat-twice-to-live-migrant-labourers-told-at-a-pune-camp/story-HuekKDsaza1JWyaZyWqZyK.html
16-04-2020||Delhi||EDMC to partially replace sodium hypochlorite with hydrogen peroxide as disinfectant||The East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) is going to partially replace the use of sodium hypochlorite as a disinfectant spray with hydrogen peroxide.Even though sodium hypochlorite, a liquid bleach agent, is being used worldwide for sanitisation of airports, railway stations, bus stands and other public places since the Covid-19 outbreak, some of its unsavoury side effects have come to the fore.Recommended only for use on “non-living surfaces,” after sodium hypochlorite began to be used in disinfection tunnels to “mist spray” on people passing through them, the World Health Organisation (WHO) brought out an advisory against it.The WHO statement read: “Spraying such substances can be harmful to clothes and mucous membranes (i.e, eyes, mouth). Spraying alcohol or chlorine all over your body will not kill the virus that has already entered your body.”The spokesperson of East Delhi Municipal Corporation, Arun Kumar, said, “We were using only 1% sodium hypochlorite in water, but a few complaints were coming in about the bitter smell of the chemical and the stain it left on cars and other surfaces.”“This chemical would also not fully dissolve in water and choke our spray pipe nozzles. The problem was actually due to the presence of chlorine in it, so we started looking for a chlorine-free disinfectant agent,” he said.The corporation later learnt that a company in Kalyan, Maharashtra, National Peroxide Limited of the Wadia Group, had provided the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) with hydrogen peroxide for use as a disinfectant. Also, the EPA (Environment Protection Agency) and CDC (Centres for Disease Control) of the United States say that a 3% hydrogen peroxide mixture is an effective disinfectant against Covid-19, municipal officials said. “That’s when we approached the group and on Tuesday, received the first consignment of 20,000 litres from Kalyan. It is currently stored at our Nand Nagri Central Drugs Store and we will soon put it to use in containment zones,” EDMC commissioner Dilraj Kaur said. “We will use it in the backpack spray tanks used to disinfect houses of positive and suspected patients and in school complexes where food is being distributed to the needy. We will not replace sodium hypochlorite with hydrogen peroxide completely. For example, we will continue to use the bleach agent to spray roadsides,” she said . An EDMC public health official said, “Hydrogen peroxide is safer than sodium hypochlorite when used as per the recommendations.” “This chemical is used to treat wood pulp and turn it into newsprint, which is why it is said that newspapers cannot carry Covid-19 viruses; that shows it’s effective. Also, hydrogen peroxide is a part of antibacterial mouthwashes and antifungal ear drops, making it safer for humans. However, we are not going to mist spray it on people right now,” Dr Somashekhar, municipal health Officer, EDMC, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/edmc-to-partially-replace-sodium-hypochlorite-with-hydrogen-peroxide-as-disinfectant/story-1ZuN7sMGsOWsZHlyljAhSK.html
16-04-2020||Delhi||Patients in Lok Nayak’s Covid-19 ward abuse, threaten doctors||A group of patients admitted to a coronavirus (Covid-19) isolation ward at the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash (LNJP) Narayan Hospital allegedly abused on-duty doctors on Tuesday evening, following an altercation between a patient and a doctor earlier in the day, according to the resident doctors’ association (RDA) of the hospital.Tensions flared after a male patient allegedly made sexist remarks to a female doctor, according to the RDA. When the doctor’s colleagues objected, the patient instigated others to join in and they threatened the doctors, the RDA members said.There are 780 suspected and confirmed cases of Covid-19 undergoing treatment at the hospital.An incident report filed by the on-duty doctors stated, “The patient threatened to jump off the roof along with some other restless patients.”He wanted to be discharged from the hospital at the earliest, according to the incident report. Although the patient tested Covid-19 negative initially, the doctors were awaiting another report, as per the government policy, before discharging him.The doctors hid in their rooms after the situation escalated and the patients tried to break in, according to a letter written by the members of the RDA to the hospital administration, citing several security lapses.Although doctors reportedly asked security guards for assistance, a lack of personal protective equipment (PPE) kits meant they could not immediately enter the isolation ward. The guards got a handle on the situation after doctors arranged PPE kits for them.“This situation could have been avoided had there been PPE kits for the security staff, standard operating protocols regarding handling of violence and provision of psychologists or counsellors to periodically counsel the patients,” the RDA report stated.RDA members alleged that repeated calls to the hospital’s chief medical officer went unanswered, while the floor in-charge only communicated through a messaging service, advising them doctors to call the security in-charge or then call the police if they did not get a response.They have asked the hospital to file an institutional first information report (FIR). They have also asked the hospital for the deployment of security at the isolation ward and sought action against those who failed to respond during the crisis.On Wednesday, the hospital administration held talks with the RDA. After the meeting with the resident doctors, the medical director, Dr JC Passey, said, “An FIR against the culprits is being filed. The security guard on duty and the supervisor have been suspended. Police protection in the hospital is being strengthened. And, explanations are being sought from the senior doctors, who the RDA has alleged did not take timely action.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/patients-in-lok-nayak-s-covid-19-ward-abuse-threaten-doctors/story-M2ikvMSfoHfMLR1A9pAcFO.html
16-04-2020||Pune||Pune’s Naidu hospital maids serve patients hope and cheer||The ayahs or maids at Naidu Infectious Diseases Hospital, where many Covid-19 patients are undergoing treatment, are serving beyond their job profile since the first case was reported in the city in March.Mallika Chikka, Sujata More, Farzana Shaikh, Roopa Dharmoj, Deena Dharmoj and Madhu Chavan have been working at the hospital since long and took care of patients when the city handled the swine flu spread in the past.Chikka is employed at the hospital since 1999. Recalling her experience with Covid patients, Chikka said, “Four positive persons were admitted in the hospital on March 9 and discharged on March 25 on the occasion of Gudi Padwa. We serve hot water, tea, breakfast and lunch to patients as per the advice of doctors. We serve tea twice in the morning and once in the evening. Underage patients are served milk. We try to meet the demands of patients. We are six who look after the daily needs of admitted patients. While serving food and interacting with them, we wear the special protective uniform.”The ayahs also share positive and uplifting messages with the patients. “We keep the patients in good cheer. Many of them are discharged after completing their quarantine treatment. Those with diabetes and blood pressure are at high risk,” she said. When quizzed about fears of contracting the disease, Chikka said, “We were on the job when the city was in the grip of swine flu. We want to serve the patients as they need us the most,” she said.Sujata, working at the hospital for the last twenty years, said, “We interact with patients on a daily basis and follow precautions. We have been provided with protective kit. As most patients complain of throat pain, we regularly provide them hot water. We feel happy when a positive patient gets cured and is discharged.”One of the discharged patients shared fond memories of ayah. “They take care of us and always remain positive. Their human connect is strong. I will always remember the smile on their faces when I got discharged. I am indebted to them for their commitment and selfless service,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ayahs-at-naidu-hospital-serve-patients-hope-and-cheer/story-QWLV75umb9udBw63E8VWUK.html
16-04-2020||Pune||Pune district administration acquires services of 18 hotels to accommodate hospital staff||The Pune district administration has acquired the use of 18 hotels in the city to accommodate medical and non-medical staff involved in the treatment for Covid-19 (coronavirus) positive patients in hospitals.Most of these 18 hotels are located on Bund Garden road, Narpatgiri chowk and Pune railway station, said officials of the district administration.According to sub-divisional officer Santoshkumar Deshmukh, many of the medical and non-medical staff involved in treating Covid-19 patients belong to neighbouring towns. “Arrangements for doctors and paramedical staff has been made at 18 hotels. This arrangement is mainly for the staff serving at the Sassoon hospital as some of the staff here come from outstation,” said Deshmukh.According to the administration, “Hotel owners have responded positively . Nothing had been decided about rent yet. We will request the state government to give a certain amount to these hotels owners as rent, but the final decision is yet to be taken.”“Even hotel owners have not demanded money and they had handed over the keys,” the officials of the district administration said.Arvind Shinde, owner, Samrat hotel, who has offered to accommodate some of the medical staff, said, “The district administration approached us and requested our hotel services for the medical staff who are tirelessly serving the Covid-19 patients. After the lockdown was announced out hotel was already shut. We have handed over 10 rooms to the district administration, but if they need more space we will hand them over more rooms.”According to the district administration, the medical and para-medical staff involved in the treatment of the Covid-19 patients who reside in the city have also requested for the arrangements as they do not wish to return home after service and risk the lives of their family members. The medical personnel use the hotel rooms to rest after their duty hours, and accommodate the rooms on a rotational basis as per their shifts during the day and night, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/administration-acquires-services-of-18-hotels-to-accommodate-hospital-staff/story-UEnolyYfj8tvTgpz7VOQzH.html
16-04-2020||Pune||Pune district admin forms task force to keep track of critically ill Covid-19 patients||The Pune district administration has formed a special task force to design a standard protocol for critically ill patients who test positive for Covid-19 (coronavirus) caused by Sars-Cov-2-virus. The orders for the same were issued by Deepak Mhaisekar, divisional commissioner on Tuesday.The task force will be formed along the lines of the task force in Mumbai, which includes specialist doctors, to minimize the death rate and suggest measures for clinical management of Covid-19 patients, according to the orders.Mhaisekar said, “The task force will focus on forming a standard protocol for the city along with the expert group who will provide advice. This task force is formed on the lines of the task force formed for Mumbai.” The task force will especially focus on hospitals treating critical Covid-19 patients like Sassoon General Hospital, Bharti Vidyapeeth Hospital, Symbiosis Hospital, Naidu Hospital and YCM hospital in Pimpri-Chincwad. The task force includes doctors who specialise in infection control, intensivist, chest specialist, cardiologist, nephrologist, paediatric and gastroenterologist. “In addition to designing management protocol for serious and critically ill Covid-19 patients, it will also recommend the requirement of specialist health staff including doctors, specific drug protocol to maintain uniformity in treating critically ill patients, recommend criteria and logistics requirement,” he said.Mahisekar also said, that special care needs to be taken for those who show initial flu-related symptoms like cough, fever, cold, runny nose and they must immediately visit the nearest civic body Covid-19 centre. He said, “We have noticed that often senior citizens or people with comorbid conditions like diabetes, hypertension, or any diseases which affect the kidney or liver, go for preliminary treatment and take medicines off the counter which may lead to suppressing the symptoms for a few days which then comes back again and worsen the situation.”“We have issued an advisory to all private doctors and through the food and drugs administration to all the nearby medical shops to direct such patients to Covid-19 centres. The civic doctors will then analyse the patient and suggest if they have to undergo test or no,” said Mahisekar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-district-admin-forms-task-force-to-keep-track-of-critically-ill-covid-19-patients/story-29z8TxQOkyYVdgWvVNNTjK.html
16-04-2020||Chandigarh||Dialysis patients have a tough time amid Covid-19 curfew in Chandigarh||Dilkhush Yadav, 30, a kidney patient from Bihar is facing a trial by fire due to the lockdown. Suffering from end stage kidney disease, Yadav walks for over 2 hours to cover a 4-km stretch from Sarai in PGIMER to a private centre in Sector-38 A for dialysis. The distance can be covered in 8 minutes if he could pay rickshaw pullers ₹300 for the trip, to and fro.Yadav is undergoing treatment at the nephrology department of Chandigarh’s Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) from the last one year. He said, “I leave the shelter home at 6:30 am to reach the dialysis centre by 8.30 am. Rickshaw pullers who earlier charged up to ₹20 are now asking ₹600 for a round trip. How can a poor man pay so much?”Dialysis is a treatment that filters and purifies blood using a machine, which helps keep ones fluids and electrolytes in balance when kidneys can’t do their job. After the treatment at noon, he waited two hours, but when he could not find conveyance, he walked the way back home. He is advised dialysis thrice a week, but he is planning to reduce it to two times a week.“I walk a little, then sit to catch my breath. I have no energy to walk all the way, especially in the heat. I have no choice, ” Yadav said, adding, “I once requested cops for a lift, but they left saying it wasn’t their job.”In a similar case, Suresh Kumar, 28, from Bihar is undergoing treatment since 2014. He sold his land and spent about ₹25 lakh on his treatment. Six years on, he can barely afford his dialysis which costs ₹6,000 per week. So, when a rickshaw puller asked ₹200 for a 5 km stretch, he chose to walk, which took him three and a half hours to reach the centre.“At 2pm, I started walking back to my sarai, but when I reached Sector 17, my blood pressure shot up. A rickshaw puller asked for ₹200, so I chose to walk,” said Kumar, who could barely speak.Chandan Kumar, 29, shared a similar experience. Amid the curfew, he cant avail the ‘poor patient’ slip issued by PGIMER, because of which he has to spend double the money. His 5-year-old accompanies him to the centre, but now-a-days he walks alone as it takes 4 hours and is hot at noon. One day he had to plead with his brother to bring a vehicle or a wheelchair else he would have fainted on the road.The curfew is a cause of misery not only to the poor but also for senior citizens. The former information commisioner of Punjab (RTI), Surinder Awasthi, said that reaching the hospital for dialysis itself was an uphill task. “If I get a driver, he is questioned by police. If I call an ambulance it never arrives. If we are suffering, I wonder at the plight of the poor,” the 70-year-old Mohali resident said.Dr HS Kohli, head of nephrology department, PGIMER, said: “In Chandigarh, more than 230 kidney patients undergo dialysis everyday. The number is higher in Mohali.” He also said the Indian Society of Nephrology is compiling a report with regard to the discomfort causes to kidney patients because of the lockdown. The city has 107 dialysis machines—75 in the private sector and 32 at government hospitals. He said a patient must undergo dialysis as advised, or they land up in emergency. “Some centres in the periphery are closed, but since they are not regulated, they cannot be compelled to stay open. This is also why so many patients are left harassed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/kidney-patients-seeking-dialysis-have-a-tough-time-amid-covid-19-curfew-in-chandigarh/story-7C55dh16UL1SadLg9s88YM.html
16-04-2020||Pune||Foreigners, including key Osho trustees leave Pune commune||All foreigners, including key trustees of Osho International Foundation (OIF) who were residing inside the Osho International Meditation Resort at Koregaon Park, have left the Commune on account of the Covid-19 pandemic. Pune is one of the hotspots with 40 deaths due to this disease as of Wednesday- among the highest in the country. The Osho commune’s spokesperson Amrit Sadhana said the foreigners who were residing at the commune were asked to return to their respective countries by the end of March. When asked, she confirmed that key trustees of OIF such as John Andrews (Swami George Meredith), who had served as the personal physician of Osho and OIF chairman, Michael O’Byrne (Swami Anand Jayesh), had also left the commune. Jayesh’s brother Darcy O’Byrne, another trustee of OIF was also a resident of the Pune commune. “We had many foreigners who had come to meditate but everyone was sent back by their respective countries by end of March,” Sadhana said. She said that the Osho Commune, renamed as the Osho International Meditation Resort, had a series of events planned throughout April. Apart from the foreigners, the Indian visitors had also returned to their respective places, she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/foreigners-including-key-osho-trustees-leave-pune-commune/story-WLuIki1lzz003D2eUUaZ1I.html
16-04-2020||Pune||Urban poor in Pune fight hunger and heat during lockdown||The lockdown has brought in many restrictions for residents of the city, including not stepping out of their houses. However, those living in tin sheds, which they call their home, are finding it difficult to stay indoors in the swealtering heat.With temperatures touching 38.2 degrees Celsius on Wednesday, slum dwellers living in 10x10 rooms made of tin sheets have to battle the heat apart from their hunger. Residents mainly from the lower economic category claim that the lockdown has been tough for them, with no earnings to purchase daily needs and dealing with problems which arise due to the rising mercury.Sachin Waghmare, a resident of Kashewadi in Bhavani peth, said, “I used to work as a delivery boy with a local shop. With the shop closed, I have no money now. I have eight family members to feed and took help from certain social and political organisations, but it isn’t enough. The soaring temperature makes it difficult for us to stay indoors during the daytime. When people step out to get some relief from the sun, police officials force us to go back indoors due to the lockdown.”Corporator from Kashewadi area Avinash Bagwe, said, “For the middle class and higher income groups, it is easy to stay at home, but those living in slums are facing a really tough time. It is very difficult to stay in a small tin room with no fans in this heat. On one hand, there is not enough food and on the other, people can’t go to work.”Radha Patole, a domestic help, said, “I got help from people where I used to work and got enough food, but now, the problem is the swealtering heat. Before the lockdown, I used to work in the afternoon and come home by evening, thus avoiding the summer heat inside our tin homes. Now, we just have one fan and six family members all cramped inside a 10x10 room.”Husain Shaikh who lives in the same area said, “I work as a car mechanic, but I have not had any income coming in since the past month. The queue at fair price shops are unending and only those with yellow cards get free foodgrains. Others do not get wheat and rice from the fair price shops. Our homes are small in size and there are six members in the family. In the heat, it is difficult to manage them in such a small space.”Raju Pardeshi, who is involved in paint jobs and a resident of Taljai slum, said, “I have no money to manage my domestic expenses for the next two weeks. I have a yellow card and so I get free food from the fair price shop. However, with summer approaching, children get irritable due to the heat and hunger adds to the problem.”Sonali Nangade, a resident of Padmavati, said, “The temperature is soaring, but we are used to living in such conditions now. Earlier, we moved to our villages for sometime in the summers to beat the heat, but now we cannot move also.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/with-temperature-tempers-soar-too-as-urban-poor-in-pune-fight-hunger-and-heat-during-lockdown/story-etjdbZVnGVVILaaVDLbemM.html
16-04-2020||Pune||4 nurses at Pune’s Sassoon hospital Covid-19 ward test positive for virus||PUNE Four nurses working in wards dedicated to treatment of Covid-19 patients at the Sassoon General hospital have tested positive for the Sars-Cov-2 virus, which causes the Covid-19 infection, health department officials said on Wednesday. The test results came back positive on Tuesday nightDr Ajay Chandanwale, dean of Sassoon hospital, said, “Four nurses have tested positive for the virus infection and we are now contact tracing. Also, they do not have any other illnesses. They have been isolated in the Covid-19 ward and, we have also home isolated their family members.” The district administration has denied any lapse in providing safety equipment, or the hospital staff not maintaining social distancing, as a cause for the infections. District collector Naval Kishore Ram said, “Nurses are the ones who take care of the patients and they are directly exposed to the patients who are infected. Every staffer in the hospital, be it nurses, doctors and even the sanitation staff, is being provided with PPE kits, masks and the necessary safety kits. They are also maintaining distancing within themselves, so it cannot be said that there is any safety lapse. The hospital administration is now contact tracing all those people who came in close contact with those nurses and only those people will be isolated.”Ram said the administration cannot isolate the entire hospital staff, as they are crucial for the treatment of other patients at Sassoon.Sassoon hospital, along with Naidu hospital, houses the maximum number of Covid-19 patients in Pune.Sassoon hospital has admitted 68 patients of the 425 in the district, and has 51 positive cases of the 296 positive cases, as of April 14. The hospital is also treating six of the seven Covid-19 patients who are critical, and has reported 28 of the 38 Covid-19-related deaths in the district.Ram added that all doctors at the hospital will be isolated at hotels near the hospital to minimise exposure to their family members or people outside the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/4-nurses-at-sassoon-s-covid-19-ward-test-positive-for-virus/story-WjUPREEYg47cEN99irgtdO.html
16-04-2020||Pune||For Pune shuttler Arya Bhivpathaki acing academics is the gamepoint this lockdown season||Arya Bhivpathaki City-based shuttler Arya Bhivpathaki, who is currently ranked no. 59 in the Badminton Association of India senior ranking is keen on balancing fitness and study during the lockdown. Bhivpathaki, 21, stays in Mukundnagar, Swargate and is focussing on his educational duties.Morning session I continue to wake up at 5:20am and focus in the morning is on fitness as I have some gym equipment like bars, dumbbells available at home. Before the lockdown, my original routine was to exercise from 5:45am to 7am at Deccan Gymkhana gym followed by ground training at Law College (7.15 to 8.30am).Afternoon session I relax in the afternoon and spend time with my family. I play chess with my father and discuss the current affairs with my parents.Evening session (starts at 4pm)I am in the third year of BTech and we have assignments to be completed. Our professors conduct online lectures and these are compulsory. We use an online app which allows 10 friends to hold a video conference and discuss our assignments and case studies.I am also busy with an online internship programme at a Mumbai-based company for five months. Since, I secured the highest rank in the VIT computer engineering branch, my college has recommended me to the Singapore-based NTU international university for their internship research project which has different topics of current development in the field of computer hacking, artificial intelligence and hospital management programmes. I am taking full advantage of this spare time for educational purposes without compromising with my fitness training.HobbyI like to follow current development of computer engineering and technology and read different articles on all types of sports. I also like to watch animal planet and national geographic television channels and action movies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/for-pune-shuttler-arya-bhivpathaki-acing-academics-is-the-gamepoint-this-lockdown-season/story-eDmr4nZcJIVKR1mjRU0N7H.html
