17-04-2020||Chandigarh||Number of mandis increased to 28 in Mohali||The number of mandis has been increased from 11 to 28 this time to facilitate decongestion and ensure adherence to social distancing norms.Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said that in the wake of spread of novel coronavirus, adequate measures for ensuring the safety of farmers and labourers were being taken.He added that a token system had also been introduced in order to make sure that farmers do not clamour for spaces. Masks and gloves are being distributed among farmers and labourers.Besides, sanitisation is being done and regular inspections are being carried out to ensure that the government’s guidelines are strictly followed.Drinking water is also being made available in each mandi. He also assured that the district administration was committed to the welfare of farmers and labourers. He further added that the wheat procurement season had entered its third day on Friday and till date the district had seen arrival of 11,191 metric tonnes of wheat in the 28 mandis throughout and out of this, 10,954 metric tonnes had been purchased. He stated that till date the PUNGRAIN had procured 2,107 metric tonnes, MARKFED 1,710 metric tonnes, PUNSUP 1,967 metric tonnes and Punjab State Warehousing Corporation 1,656 metric tonnes of wheat, respectively. The Central government agency FCI had procured 1,288 metric tonnes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/number-of-mandis-increased-to-28-in-mohali/story-QYUDIhGeBMvpWk7hl2g8YO.html
17-04-2020||City||Mohali couple held with 220 grams of heroin, ₹70K||A couple was arrested with 220 grams of heroin and Rs 70,000 on Friday. The accused Arun Kumar alias Anu and his wife Taranjit Kaur alias Tanu are residents of Baltana in Zirakpur. The accused were arrested by the Special Task Force team from Airport Road when they were on their way to supply drugs to customers. The couple claimed to own a cloth business. A case under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act was registered against the couple in Phase 4, Mohali, police station. They will be produced before court on Saturday. “Arun is habitual offender and was arrested last year along with four other accused with 370 grams of heroin,” said Surinder Singh, station house officer, STF police station, Phase 4, Mohali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-couple-held-with-220-grams-of-heroin-70k/story-fo31Wn1OOoSbRzWiCBWfEJ.html
17-04-2020||City||APMC grain trader, nurse among 5 new Covid patients in Navi Mumbai||Navi Mumbai and Panvel each recorded five new cases of Covid-19 on Friday.One positive case was recorded in Raigad rural.A 62-year-old grain trader from APMC and a 21-year-old nurse from DY Patil Hospital are among those tested positive in Navi Mumbai.Navi Mumbai municipal commissioner Annasaheb Misal said, “One woman and two men, who had come in contact with a Covid positive patient in Diva gaon have tested positive. The area has already been declared a containment zone.”The total count of Covid positive cases in Navi Mumbai is 59. After two days of zero cases, Panvel City Municipal Corporation has reported five new cases, taking the total to 31.Panvel municipal commissioner Ganesh Deshmukh said, “Those who have tested positive include shopkeepers and drivers. Residents need to be careful when going out even for essentials.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/apmc-grain-trader-nurse-among-5-new-covid-patients-in-navi-mumbai/story-AgcTo5AukFj18HTyF7jwFM.html
17-04-2020||City||67 new cases in Delhi, 8 new containment zones added on Friday||New Delhi: Delhi recorded 67 new cases of Covid-19 on Friday, taking the total number of cases in the city to 1,707. Four persons died of the infection, taking the death toll to 42, according to data released by the Delhi government. On the same day, the city added eight new containment zones to its list, taken the total to 68 in the Capital.Of the new cases, 11 are those who have a history of contact with other Covid-19 patients. Currently, 11,905 people who had a history of contact with the positive cases are under home quarantine. The source of the infection is yet to be traced for 56 others.Currently, 911 people are admitted to various hospitals in the city. Of them, 27 are in the intensive care unit, with six on ventilator. Delhi is in the process of scaling up testing, with 2,625 samples being collected on Friday. So far, 21,409 samples have been collected since testing began in January.The 25-year-old woman, suspected to have Covid-19, who died at Bhagwan Mahavir Hospital on Wednesday night has tested negative for the infection. Around 68 staff members who had been asked to go into quarantine after coming in contact with her have been asked to return to duty.At Lok Nayak hospital, the city’s biggest Covid-19 facility, treating 477 positive patients, 62 people from the gathering at Nizamuddin Markaz were discharged over Thursday and Friday, after they tested negative for the infection twice, as per government policy.“The hospital has discharged 62 patients who had been evacuated from the Nizamuddin Markaz in two batches. They will now remain at quarantine centres for another two weeks,” said Dr JC Passey, medical director, Lok Nayak hospital.Containment zones Eight more lanes and blocks in separate localities of Delhi were sealed and notified as containment zones on Friday, taking the total number of such areas in the city to 68.The eight new containment zones are in L Block of Sangam Vihar in South Delhi, two lanes of Tughlakabad Extension in South East Delhi, B and C blocks of West Delhi’s Hari Nagar, K Block in North Delhi’s Jahangirpuri, a House in Savitri Nagar in Malviya Nagar, K2 Block of Nihal Vihar and a lane in C block of Nangloi in West Delhi, the government said in a statement.Containment zones are areas that are sealed and subjected to stricter quarantine, isolation, sanitisation, tests and door-to-door health checks to prevent the spread of coronavirus. Containment zones in the Capital range from apartments and plots to lanes and entire blocks within localities. There are areas from where cases of Covid-19 are recorded (usually three or more) and the chance of transmission is assessed as high.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/67-new-cases-in-delhi-8-new-containment-zones-added-on-friday/story-1JG5h2zsQTX8Hhyo1YY30I.html
17-04-2020||City||Congress seeks power, water charges waiver in Delhi; slams Kejriwal government over school fee||New Delhi: The Congress on Friday urged Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to waive fixed power charges and water bills for all establishments that have been shut during the lockdown.In a 10-point charter of demands, the party also demanded that the Delhi government not charge students school fees and pay salaries to teachers in aided schools as well as workers in MSMEs (micro, small, and medium enterprises).Senior Congress leader Ajay Maken insisted that migrants and daily wage workers be incentivised, and that the state government should proactively take steps to help those in distress in Delhi due to the Covid-19 outbreak.Addressing a news conference through video-conferencing, Maken sought Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) to be notified as regulations for delivery boys in the national capital to help stop the spread of the deadly virus through them.Maken also demanded that the 89 quarantined people who came in contact with a pizza delivery person infected with Covid-19, be tested immediately.The Congress leader pointed out that the delivery person was sent away by various hospitals without being tested.Maken said testing should be ramped up in the national capital, even as he asked if Delhi had entered the community transmission stage given that 135 people have been kept under investigation.He also said migrants were the backbone of any city, and that they should be given Rs 7,500 per month immediately to help them cope with the crisis and make them feel safe in Delhi and other towns, he added.The Congress leader also demanded payment of two months of free ration to the poor and vulnerable, advance payments of pension to senior citizens and widows, and risk allowance to sanitation and frontline health workers.Maken also asked for an unemployment allowance of Rs 5,000 to all unemployed in the national capital. He attacked the Delhi government for giving a go-ahead to private schools to charge one-month tuition fee and said the state should bear a major part of the expenses on salaries of their teachers.“It is wrong to ask private schools to take a month’s fee. How will the parents pay the fee when there is a lockdown? The Delhi government should pay 75% of expenses borne on teachers’ salaries so that these schools get relief and waive three-month fees,” added Maken.Earlier in the day, Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia announced that no private school in the national capital could hike fee or charge anything from the parents other than one-month tuition fee.Maken also claimed that 55 health workers in Delhi have so far tested positive for coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/congress-seeks-power-water-charges-waiver-in-delhi-slams-kejriwal-government-over-school-fee/story-fmsIsEjyGAQuPCIpXgke9H.html
17-04-2020||Delhi||Pvt schools should rethink fee hike, quarterly payments: HRD minister||Faced with requests from troubled parents from across the country, Union minister of human resources development (HRD), Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, on Friday appealed to private schools to not hike fees or demand quarterly payments due to the ongoing pandemic.In social media posts, the HRD minister said he had been receiving complaints from various parts of the country that schools were not only hiking fees, but also asking parents to pay three months’ fee in one go.Nishank appreciated that some states had already taken steps in this regard and said that he was sure that others too would follow suit.Following the minister’s appeal the CBSE also wrote a letter to states seeking that the issue of fees be addressed to the satisfaction of stakeholders.He, however, also added that schools should provide salaries to their teachers and staff. “Our Prime Minister, Narendra Modi, also has in this time of pandemic emphasised on giving priority to human values. In this context, I hope that all schools would be concerned about providing proper salaries to their teachers and other staff,” the HRD minister said.“I hope all state education departments will find a balanced solution, keeping the interests of the students’ parents as well as the interests of the schools,” he saidHRD officials said that while they understood the parents’ concerns, schools have to pay their staff.So far, Delhi, Uttarakhand and Punjab, among other states, have curbed fee hikes and asked schools to not insist on immediate payments.In the higher education sector, the All India Council for Higher Education (AICTE) has told colleges under its purview not to pressure students into paying fees till the lockdown ends.In an order issued on Wednesday, AICTE member Rajive Kumar said that it had come to the notice of the regulator that some institutions were insisting that students pay the fee, including admission charges. “Institutions should not insist on payment of fees till the ongoing lockdown is lifted and normalcy is restored,” the AICTE directive said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/pvt-schools-should-rethink-fee-hike-quarterly-payments-hrd-minister/story-Zv8HnfgmDZmDPrSePa0L1N.html
17-04-2020||Chandigarh||Managing Covid patients needs multidisciplinary approach: PGI study||An article published in the Asian Journal of Psychiatry by the faculty members of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research states that healthcare providers need to be equipped to deal with the stigma attached with the coronavirus disease, which in all likelihood will affect patients who have recovered and may face difficulty in reintegration with families and communities.Based on interviews of healthcare providers, the article explores the perceived motivations influencing morale among those working in a multi-specialty tertiary hospital.The article states that patients in isolation have many needs beyond medical management. “This includes psychological, social and rehabilitative needs. All these cannot be looked after by the treating doctor alone. The treating doctor becomes a one-stop shop. This can be draining and exhausting,” reads the article.Treating doctors do not have solutions to manage the safety and welfare of the family of the patient that may be quarantined, for which the study suggests possible solutions.A background multi-disciplinary team can be helpful. Similarly, development of tools and screening questionnaires to rapidly identify problem areas and getting on board local administration are other ways.Among personal fears and annoyances experienced by doctors and nurses are isolation and worries about going back home and possibly being sources of infection to their families. Possible solutions for the same are employing more manpower, acknowledgment of work beyond call of duty, respite, and projection of healthcare providers as role models.Also, people in the community stigmatise and worry that healthcare providers themselves may transmit infection for which colleagues need to be better informed and made conscious of not saying anything or behaving in a way that may be construed as stigmatising.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/managing-covid-patients-needs-multidisciplinary-approach-pgi-study/story-x59eUAQZq2JRB2T2fxx2AK.html
17-04-2020||Delhi||Union health minister intervenes in feud between doctors & north body commissioner||Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Friday intervened in the ongoing argument between groups of doctors and the North Delhi Municipal Corporation commissioner, Varsha Joshi, over termination of services of a doctor at Hindu Rao Hospital on Thursday.Joshi had accused Piyush Pushkar Singh, a DNB (Diplomate of National Board) student in the hospital’s orthopaedic department, of misappropriation of personal protective equipment (PPE) donated by NGOs.Harsh Vardhan, on Friday, tweeted, “I have spoken to Varsha Joshi ji on phone and asked her to call the aggrieved doctor and resolve the issue. Please wait for her action. I am sure she will take appropriate redressal steps.”Commissioner Joshi told HT: “I will meet him and work out the appropriate way ahead, as instructed by the honourable minister.”On Thursday, Joshi had posted a string of tweets: “He (Dr. Singh) not only misled the donor, defied the Medical Superintendent of the hospital, and diverted the material, but also gave it away to people who didn’t need it to the loss of those who needed it more, taking decisions which were nowhere in his purview.” Hindu Rao Hospital in Malka Ganj is a designated “COVID-19 screening centre” in the city.The Delhi Medical Association (DMA) had also demanded that the doctor be reinstated. A letter from DMA President, Girish Tyagi, on Friday, said, “We condemn the termination of Dr. Piyush Singh at the time of COVID-19 pandemic emergency with allegations of bringing disrepute to the hospital. The commissioner accused him of theft (but) he has produced the bill (for purchase of PPEs) which is in the name of Dr. Piyush Singh.”The Joint Director of the National Board of Examinations, Dinesh Chand, also wrote to the hospital’s medical superintendent on Friday: “The available documents have not been taken up before the Grievance Redressal Committee… which is an essential requirement for the NBE to address such issues. We therefore direct to cancel his termination…”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/union-health-minister-intervenes-in-feud-between-doctors-north-body-commissioner/story-7oUVHC04iBegiMLElA9gjP.html
17-04-2020||City||56-year-old fish vendor in Thane tests positive||Five new cases were reported from Thane on Friday, taking the total number of Covid-19 positive cases in the city to 115. A 56-year-old fish vendor from Sawarkar Nagar in Thane tested positive. He had his stall at Lokmanya Nagar market and sold fish till April 14, although the markets had shut, said the residents.An official of Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) said, “The fish vendor used to open his stall from 3am to 5am. The locals said there was a lot of crowd in the market. How was the market operational despite orders? Moreover, it is a herculean task to trace the people who came in contact with the fish vendor.”Apart from the fish vendor, two new cases were found in Mumbra, one in Koknipada and Panchpakhadi each.Kopri was a green zone but got a first positive case. A policeman, who works in Mumbra and lives in Kopri, tested positive. The borders of Kopri have been sealed.The official added, “The policeman from Mumbra police station had come in contact with a senior official who had tested positive.”Earlier on Friday, Maharashtra housing minister Jitendra Awhad tweeted that 36 of his workers had tested negative. So far, 16 of his party workers and staff have been tested positive for the virus. A 26-year-old man from Dombivli (East) was tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday, taking the total count in Kalyan-Dombivli to 61. Civic officials said four patients were discharged on Friday. Two new cases of Covid-19 were reported from Bhiwandi -- a 53-year-old man who came from Malegaon for work and a 23-year-old tailor who works in Bandra, Mumbai. In total, there are four positive cases in Bhiwandi, out of which, one is from Bhiwandi rural. The civic body has quarantined 114 people.(Inputs from Sajana Nambiar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/56-year-old-fish-vendor-in-thane-tests-positive/story-kOKF7iCnEzaQ64ZYP2zNhN.html
17-04-2020||Mumbai||Kalyan residents can buy veggies from farmers||Kalyan residents can buy a packet of assorted vegetables for Rs60 from Nashik farmers. Every day, more than 1,500 families get the vegetables at their door step.The packet has around 12 types of vegetables, including onion, tomato, carrot, beetroot, coriander leaves and cauliflower.Prashant Kale, a resident of Kalyan (East), tied up with the farmers to supply vegetables to around 40,000 families.“I managed to convince some farmers from Sinnar taluka in Nashik to supply vegetables during lockdown. At least six trucks of vegetables come here daily,” said Kale.Most residential complexes order in bulk which is around 75 packets. Kalyan residents can call 9821838852 to order fresh vegetables.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/kalyan-residents-can-buy-veggies-from-farmers/story-aT5OZmg4omWvy30GL51YeK.html
17-04-2020||Noida||Ghaziabad: Another resident doctor from Max Hospital-Vaishali tests positive for Coronavirus||Another oncologist of Max Hospital, Vaishali, has tested positive for the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease, after his colleague from the same department had tested positive on April 14, said officials of the health department. The tally of Covid-19 cases in Ghaziabad is now 29.“After the first oncologist had tested positive on April 14, we had ordered comprehensive sanitisation of the hospital. We had also asked the hospital authorities to provide us with a list of patients which had been attended by the first doctor during the past 14 days in the department. The help of electronic surveillance will also be taken to trace the contacts,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer of Ghaziabad district.“The test report of the second resident doctor was received Friday. He probably came in contact with the first oncologist. We are trying to trace his contacts as well. The 90 samples of the probable contacts of the first doctor were also received and they were all negative. The tests were conducted by the hospital and reports were sent to us. The test reports of seven of his primary contacts are awaited. The source of infection of the first doctor is yet to be ascertained,” the CMO added.District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey did not take calls despite repeated attempts.Till Thursday, at least 15 areas in Ghaziabad were listed as hot spots which included one of the residential pockets of Gyan Khand in Indirapuram where the first doctor lives. “Since the second doctor has tested positive and he lives in Vaishali Sector 1, the area will now be sealed. We are waiting for written formalities from the health department. The hospital will not be sealed. We are issuing directions to hospital authorities to take up extensive sanitisation and also conduct tests of their staff members. The area where doctors used to sit for duty will also be asked to shut down for three days and extensive sanitisation of the department where the doctors were working will be taken up. The renewed directions will be sent soon,” said Aditya Prajapati, sub divisional magistrate.Meanwhile, a company spokesperson said that Max Healthcare has recently commenced testing all of its 24,000 healthcare workers, in-patients and new admissions for Covid-19 in all network hospitals.“A second resident doctor working at Max Hospital, Vaishali has tested Covid-19 positive today (April 17). He was in close contact with the resident doctor who had tested positive on April 14, working at the hospital. Both our doctors have been shifted to Max Hospital, Saket, east-wing, and are stable and asymptomatic. Local authorities have been informed as per protocols to conduct contact tracing,” the spokesperson added.“Meanwhile, the 90 samples collected from patients this week at the hospital have so far tested negative. Health care workers who were contact traced have been asked to home quarantine,” the spokesperson added.They added that all routine precautions such as disinfection, as per internal statements of purposes, are being taken up in all the areas of the hospital.“The primary area of movement of the resident doctor (who tested positive on April 14th) was the operation theatre (OT). The OT complex has been disinfected and closed for 72 hours. All close contacts have been asked to do home quarantine and their samples have been collected today (April 17). They have been asked to report to the flu clinic of the hospital in case of any symptoms to them or their family members,” the spokesperson added.Out of the total of 29 in Ghaziabad till Friday evening, seven patients have already been discharged from different hospitals. However, 672 reports are yet to arrive, according to the health department officials.The state health department officials said that the total number of positive cases in the state stood at 846, reported from 46 districts. Out of these, 74 patients were discharged from different hospitals.They added that the number of hot spots in Uttar Pradesh have also risen to 279 till Friday evening, which have a total population of about 24 lakh.“At least 58 samples from different districts like Lucknow, Gonda, Bareilly, Hardoi, Shahjahanpur, Agra and Pilibhit were taken for pool testing on Thursday. Three pool samples came out positive while 55 other pool samples were found negative. We will soon be introducing the pool sampling in other districts as well,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, UP’s principal secretary (health).In connection with the violation of lockdown norms, officials said that Uttar Pradesh police have so far registered 20,453 first information reports in which 1,62,811 persons were booked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/ghaziabad-another-resident-doctor-from-max-hospital-vaishali-tests-positive-for-coronavirus/story-Twa3C8PyvJWKas5cCKOewN.html
17-04-2020||City||Cured Sirsa woman gets a round of applause upon discharge||After getting cured of Covid-19, 33-year-old woman was discharged amid a round of applause from the doctors and chief medical officer (CMO) at the civil hospital here on Friday.The woman, who lives in Rori village close to Punjab border, cooks at a mosque where she had come in contact with some Tablighi Jamaat attendees and was admitted to the isolation ward at the civil hospital last Monday.With her recovery, all four Covid-19 cases in the district have been cured. On April 14, two children had been discharged from the hospital after testing negative for the infection. They were also given a cheerful farewell.CMO Dr Surender Nain said, “It’s an achievement for the health department and local administration that all four patients battling with Covid-19 have been cured and sent home. These patients have also been told to stay in home quarantine and improve their health.”He added that the Rori woman came out of the isolation ward with her three-month-old child and the entire staff bade them a cheerful farewell.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cured-sirsa-woman-gets-a-round-of-applause-upon-discharge/story-uXq43xa7yY1EdkD78RgiEM.html
17-04-2020||Lucknow||Priyanka suggests task force for UP’s economic reconstruction||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has urged chief minister Yogi Adityanath to set up a task force for economic reconstruction of Uttar Pradesh in the backdrop of adverse impact of the lockdown due to Covid-19 pandemic on the state’s economy.Priyanka, in a letter to CM written on April 16, said the task force with experts in economics and planning should work out a roadmap for state’s economic reconstruction to face the ‘economic tsunami’ following the Covid-19 pandemic.Priyanka said the Covid-19 pandemic was adversely affecting the condition of handloom weavers, labourers and small industry. She said the state’s glass, brassware, carpet, furniture, handloom, leather, pottery, fishery, poultry and many other sectors were in bad shape and facing a serious impact of the economic slowdown following the pandemic.On farmers, Priyanka said the state government had allowed use of combine harvester machines for harvesting wheat crop but there was a need to give permits to harvester machines as they come to UP from other states. She said dues of cane growers should be cleared and compensation should be distributed to farmers whose crops were damaged by hailstorm.She said families of labourers had been facing shortage of food and cash due to the lockdown.“As a considerable number of workers have not been registered with the government they fail to get benefits of government schemes. The state government should ensure that benefit of government schemes reached unregistered workers/labourers,” she said while insisting that the food grains should be distributed even to those who do not have a ration card.She appreciated the move to provide free ration to MNREGA and said no financial relief was, however, being given to them. She said the amount of Rs 611 crore disbursed to them was payment of their due wages and the state government should announce a package for them as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/priyanka-suggests-task-force-for-up-s-economic-reconstruction/story-IbZSVa4XazyWAip3RX4nML.html
17-04-2020||Chandigarh||Day after testing +ve for Covid-19, kanungo dies in Ludhiana||A day after kanungo Gurmail Singh, 58, was tested positive of Covid-19, he died of cardiac arrest on Friday afternoon. The revenue department official was rushed to Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) on April 14 with fever, cough and breathing difficulty.It is not yet clear how Gurmail, who has no travel history, contracted the virus.His test came positive on Thursday night. According to him health department, Gurmail, a resident of Khanna, last went to office on March 21.He was suffering from influenza-like symptoms since April 10. The health department is preparing a list of his primary and secondary contacts. As per the health department, Gurmail was living at Payal village along with his wife, son, daughter and parents. His mother-in-law was also living with him.After Gurmail was tested positive, the health department sent all his family members, three of them are aged above 70, to civil hospital as a precautionary measure.Meanwhile, another pandemic-related death was reported in Kashmir’s Sopore. The 75-year-old patient from had tested positive for Covid-19 and died at a Srinagar hospital on Friday, taking the death toll to five in the Union Territory. Also, 14 fresh cases were reported in Jammu and Kashmir, taking the total number of patients to 328.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/day-after-testing-ve-for-covid-19-kanungo-dies-in-ludhiana/story-oCXTndx3fj1uJEkWSaucRL.html
17-04-2020||Noida||Ghaziabad: Lockdown-hit daily wage workers turn vegetable vendors||Twenty-four-year-old Rajendra Kumar has found a new job during the lockdown. Like many other daily wagers in the unorganised sector, Kumar earlier took up daily welding jobs with small firms in Loha Mandi area of Ghaziabad. However, with the lockdown putting paid to that vocation, he and many others like him have now turned into vegetable and fruit vendors.The state government has stressed on doorstep delivery of essential items during lockdown and vegetable vendors are playing a vital role in this delivery system. Kumar said he has taken a cart and weighing machine on a daily rent of ₹100 and have been selling fruits and vegetables for the past one week.“This is a most beneficial job and several of my friends are also doing this. People need daily supplies and our movement is also not restricted by the police. I now have a means to feed my family. I go late night to the market in Dadri to purchase vegetables and sell these in residential areas of Ghaziabad,” he said.“However, the work fetches me less than my work as a welder -- I earn about ₹200 a day. I used to earn about ₹15,000 a month (about ₹500 a day) doing contractual welding job. Once the lockdown is lifted, I will return to my welding job,” Kumar said.Ashok Kumar, who hails from Gorakhpur and lives in Panchvati Colony, used to work as a tent and venue decorator before the lockdown. He, too, has now taken a cart on rent to sell vegetables.Sixty-two-year-old Saleem Ahmad from Usman Colony in Dasna sold biryani near Dasna jail and earned about ₹300-500 a day. Ahmad is also selling vegetables after fetching them from the Hapur market.“Initially, I waited for about 10 days in the hopes that the lockdown will be lifted and I can resume my work. Since the lockdown was extended till May 3, I decided to sell vegetables. Although I earn daily, it is not a profitable proposition. Sometimes, the vegetables remain unsold and have to be thrown away,” he said.“In some areas, people have barricaded the lanes and don’t allow vendors inside. They get suspicious of new vendors and ask for names and even Aadhaar cards, etc. If they are reassured, they purchase from us,” he said.Vishvendra Kumar, secretary of Mandi Samiti, said the number of new retailers/vendors has increased at the Sahibabad vegetable market by about 25%-30% since the lockdown.“We have issued 3,680 passes to vendors for purchase of stocks from Sahibabad vegetable market. This includes about 2,000 vendors who earlier used to sell vegetables inside the market. The remaining are new vendors/retailers. They arrive at specific timings and collect their stock,” he said.According to the industries department officials, Ghaziabad has about 32,000 different category of industrial units.“About 600 units are presently operational and these are the ones engaged in providing essential items. From April 20, we expect another 1,500 units to open. This will help contractual workers to get back their jobs,” Virendra Kumar, deputy commissioner (industries), said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/ghaziabad-lockdown-hit-daily-wage-workers-turn-vegetable-vendors/story-lXP4Dj7aFXAxCO6wSwgyFO.html
17-04-2020||Noida||22-year-old woman ends life in Dadri||A 22-year-old woman allegedly hanged herself to death in Dadri after her husband left home for his in-laws’ place in Palwal Friday morning. The woman wanted to accompany her husband, but he did let her come with him because of the lockdown, police said.Dinesh Singh, station house officer, Dadri police station, said the woman lived with her husband in Brahampuri Mohalla in Dadri. “The couple had married last year, and the husband works as an electrician. Our preliminary investigation shows the couple had some marital discord in the past. Around 10 am on Friday, the man left home for his in-laws place in Palwal,” he said.Police said that the woman also wanted to accompany him. “They had a heated argument in the morning. Her husband did not allow her to accompany him due to the lockdown. He left the house saying he would return soon,” Singh said.Police said after her husband left, the woman got angry and locked herself in a room. “The woman hanged herself with a ceiling fan and died. The woman’s neighbours later reached the spot and knocked on the door but they did not get a response. They then informed her husband. Local people had broken the door open, and had found her hanging,” said the SHO. The husband informed the police and a team from Dadri police soon reached the spot and sent the body for an autopsy, police said.“The woman’s husband was on the way when he received a call that his wife has ended her life. Police have not found any suicide note from the spot. We have not received a complaint from the woman’s family,” the SHO said. The autopsy report is awaited, he added.Gautam Budh Nagar does not have a dedicated helpline to deal with such situations. A few major suicide prevention helpline numbers in India are +914066202000 from ‘Roshni’ (Hyderabad-based) and +914424640050 from Sneha India Foundation (Delhi-based).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/22-year-old-woman-ends-life-in-dadri/story-beTNy94QbfkiNfJnxFsrlL.html
17-04-2020||Noida||No fresh case in Noida, district records 35% recovery rate||While no fresh case of Covid-19 was reported in Gautam Budh Nagar on Friday, nine people who were being treated for the virus at isolation wards in different hospitals in the district were discharged.A total of 33 patients of the 92 coronavirus confirmed cases in the district have recovered and have been discharged.District surveillance officer Dr Sunil Dohare said out of 46 reports received in the last 24 hours, no one was tested positive. “Till Friday evening, the number of positive cases reported in the district is 92, of which 33 people have been cured. We have so far collected samples of 1,925 persons,” he said.Meanwhile, the 35 percent recovery rate of Covid-19 patients in Gautam Budh Nagar has brought some cheer to the district administration. Expressing satisfaction over the recovery rate, district magistrate Suhas LY said with observing precautionary measures such as social distancing and restricted movement, the spread of the coronavirus disease can be checked. “It is really encouraging that nine more patients have been cured and discharged today. Now, there are only 59 active cases in the district,” he said.The recovery rate so far is better than the national and state recovery rates which are around 13% and 9% respectively. The Union health ministry on Friday morning said there are 13,387 positive cases in the country, and 1,748 people have been cured. After the coronavirus outbreak, Gautam Budh Nagar emerged as the district with the highest number of Covid-19 in Uttar Pradesh. Dr Dohare said as 1,222 people are under the health department’s surveillance in the district. “ We have screened a total of 12,46,769 people until now. Altogether 4,036 teams have been deployed for surveys and they have visited 3,90,898 houses in the district so far. We have also identified 1,030 travellers, who have been put under surveillance,” he said.In another development, state chief secretary RK Tiwari, on Friday issued a detailed advisory for offices and industries that are likely to be allowed to start operations in the state from April 20 using e-passes.According to the advisory, manufacturing and industrial units of industries like steel, refineries, cement, chemicals, fertilisers, garments, foundries, paper, and sugar mills, will be allowed to work after getting required permissions from the competent authorities. All services relating to health, petrol pumps, gas agencies, and LPG outlets will also be allowed to function, the advisory said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/no-fresh-case-in-noida-district-records-35-recovery-rate/story-VzP5K0vWq3EEedm45T3WJL.html
17-04-2020||Chandigarh||Khattar nod for purchase of additional items worth ₹72 cr||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar has given his nod for immediate procurement of additional logistic items, medicines, consumables and equipment like thermal scanners and ventilators worth over ₹72.32 crore to fight Covid-19.An official spokesman said on Friday that the essentials include about 11 lakh N-95 masks, 54.5 lakh triple layer mask, 14.8 lakh sterile PPE kits, 38.59 lakh gloves, 11.6 lakh hydroxychloroquine tablets (400mg), 3.12 lakh hand sanitisers (500ml), 85,000 rapid test kits, 7,000 real-time PCR kits, 1.1 lakh disposable bedsheets, 77 lakh levocetirizine, 22 lakh azithromycin (500mg), 11 lakh zinc tablets and 4,400 disposable body bags among others. The spokesman said that equipment and other items to be purchased include 2,200 hand-held thermal scanners (100 each for all districts), one digital flat panel detector system for X-ray and one ultrasound machine with convex, sector (cardiac) and linear (vascular) probes for Covid-19 patients for radiology department, civil hospital, Panchkula and 46 ventilators (adults) — Panchkula (2), Ambala (3), Yamunanagar (3), Kurukshetra (3), Kaithal (3), Jind (3), Panipat (2), Palwal (3), Nuh (3), Rewari (3), Hisar (3), Bhiwani (1), Narnaul (3), Fatehabad (3), Sirsa (2), Charkhi Dadri (3) and Jhajjar (3).Apart from this, 35 ventilators (paediatric) would also be purchased — two each for Panchkula, Ambala, Karnal, Kurukshetra, Kaithal, Jind, Panipat, Faridabad, Palwal, Nuh, Rewari, Bhiwani, Narnaul, Fatehabad, Charkhi Dadri and Jhajjjar and one each for Rohtak, Sirsa and Yamunanagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/khattar-nod-for-purchase-of-additional-items-worth-72-cr/story-8kfdT4HvMjOgMNpSxZlFEL.html
17-04-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana extends suspension of toll collection till May 3||The Haryana government has decided to further extend the temporary suspension of fee collection at 15 toll points in the state being run on build-operate-transfer (BOT) basis till May 3, 2020.An official spokesman said on Friday that during the temporary closure of these tolls, all goods traffic would be allowed to operate.The state government had earlier given approval for temporary closure for collection of toll tax on all these toll points with effect from March 30 to April 14. These 15 toll points and roads where temporary closure for collection of toll tax has been extended include Gurugram-Faridabad road, crusher zone, Ballabhgarh-Sohna road, BS I Plaza, Ballabhgarh-Sohna road, BS 2 Plaza and Firozpur-Jhirka-Biwan road in Nuh district.He said these include toll plaza (TP) -18, Narnaul-Nizampur road near Rajasthan border; TP-24, Kaithal-Patiala road near Punjab border; TP-25, Pehowa-Patiala road, Teokar village near Punjab border; TP-27, Rohtak-Kharkhauda-Delhi Border road near Delhi border; TP-39, Hodal-Nuh-Pataudi-Patauda road and TP-42, Punhana-Jurhera road up to Rajasthan border; TP-23, Kaithal-Khanauri road near Punjab border; TP-40, Rai-Nahra-Bahadurgarh road; TP-51, Hodal-Nuh-Pataudi-Pataudi road after Jatauli and TP-52, Punhana to Lahanpur Sri Singalheri, Thenkri, Jamalgarh, Ranota Manota to Dondal road up to Rajasthan border in Nuh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-extends-suspension-of-toll-collection-till-may-3/story-qJAer56JofnDu8uktLlW4J.html
17-04-2020||City||1,250 cases registered in Thane for violating lockdown orders||The Thane police have registered 1,250 cases against people for violating section 188 in the past 25 days. A total of 250 people have been arrested. A police officer said, “We have arrested those who crowd an area and ignore our warnings. We have also taken action some for spreading false information.”The police have also got complaints against those who have been quarantined but have been found roaming outside. A senior police officer from Thane said, “We have registered 1,250 cases till now. People come out to buy every day. Some have been out for their morning and evening walks.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/1-250-cases-registered-in-thane-for-violating-lockdown-orders/story-SnZgRw8M9HmXTGEY9YMRrM.html
17-04-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana gears up to start manufacturing operations from Monday||Financially starved due to a sharp revenue dip amid the lockdown, the Haryana government on Friday inched closer to resuming commercial and manufacturing activity in the state from April 20, the Centre-designated day to operationalise the enterprise.The industries and commerce department and labour department held consultations with the industry representatives on resuming manufacturing operations on Friday evening.Industries and commerce additional chief secretary TVSN Prasad said they would come up with the state implementation guidelines for resumption of manufacturing operations on Saturday.“We have constituted district and block level committees to process approvals and monitor containment requirements including social distancing,”’ Prasad said. These committees will evaluate which factories or industries can be permitted to carry out operations.As per the central government’s guidelines, industrial activities cannot be permitted in the containment zones of hotspots.Chief minister M L Khattar on Friday said the state government was planning to resume manufacturing activity in the hotspots of Gurgaon and Faridabad also. There are nine containment zones in Gurugram and 13 in Faridabad where no industrial or commercial activity can be started presently.“However, we do have scope of resuming operations in other areas within the hotspots. Also, a large number of industrial estates of Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC) are outside the municipal limits and qualify for resumption of operations,” said a top official.4,000 TRANSIT PERMITS ISSUED TO FIRMSChief secretary Keshni Anand Arora told HT that for facilitating smooth movement of goods and supplies, the state government has issued around 4,000 transit permits to more than 120 companies in the last 48 hours. Prominent among them are Dabur, Procter and Gamble, Lenskart, Shopclues and Amazon.The chief secretary said that movement of over 2,000 trucks carrying medicines and groceries have been facilitated through these permits. Some of the companies sought less than three transit permits while bigger businesses like Amazon sought 400 permits. These measures are aimed at restoring the supply chain and manufacturing activity in the coming days,” she said.The transit permits were issued using COPASS software, a trust-based application where a designated authority of the company is allowed to generate bulk passes for company employees without burdening the district administration.While truck operators like Rivigo have been provided permits for 100% of its workforce, pharmaceutical and research organisations were allocated 35-40% quota of their employees. Since the Union government has identified pharmaceutical research and development organisations as essential services, the state government has allowed transit permit to Gurugram-based Sun Pharma.Industries and commerce department officials said that they have initiated the process to seek an undertaking from the manufacturers and service providers that they will comply with the conditions imposed by the central government for resuming operations. These included adhering to standard operating protocols, making arrangements for stay of workers within premises or adjacent buildings and arranging transportation of workers in dedicated transport by ensuring social distancing, officials said.Which industries are allowed?Industries in rural areas outside municipal limits manufacturing units with access control.Food processing industries in rural areas.Production units requiring continuous process and industrial estates and townships.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-gears-up-to-start-manufacturing-operations-from-monday/story-UiuspuWQfUl5rgMGMTkNGN.html
17-04-2020||City||Tardy wheat procurement leaves Ludhiana farmers jittery||Even as the wheat procurement exercise commenced at the two local grain markets - near Jalandhar Bypass and Gill Road - on Friday, farmers complained that due to sheer mismanagement at the markets, their troubles had only begun. Slow procurement process was not only putting their crop at risk of getting damaged by rain, but they also had no option but to spend the night at the market to guard their produce. Others highlighted that the lack of adequate workers in the grain markets was delaying the procurement process and will make their coupons issued for a certain day invalid.The government is issuing the farmers coupons, which will act as a curfew pass for unhindered movement of their loaded tractor-trolleys. To limit crowding and ensure social distancing, the farmers are being invited in batches through the coupons, with permission to sell up to 50 quintals of wheat.Gurdeep Singh from Jamalpur village said he was issued a coupon for Friday, but after he reached the market, the commission agent asked him to wait till Saturday as the procurement was held up. “The government should procure the crops the same day, otherwise issuing passes for different days serves no purpose,” he added.Another farmer, Kuljeet Singh said while migrant labourers had left for their hometowns, the local labbourers were not as efficient, which was slowing down the procurement process. “Farmers are allowed to bring in only a single truck or trolley on one pass. What will farmers with bigger landholdings do? This process is putting their remaining yield at risk of being damaged by rain or fire,” said Singh. Manohar Gill, president of the Ahrtiya Association at the grain market near Gill Road, said the farmers were being issued coupons, and a few also arrived in the markets on Friday. “The procurement will be done as per the guidelines issued by the administration to avoid rush,” he added.Darshan Lal (Laddoo) Baweja, chairman of the market committee, said he had been apprised of the farmers’ concerns regarding slow procurement. “I have scheduled a meeting with officials of the market committee and commission agents on Saturday to fix this at the earliest, he added. Deputy commissioner Pradeep Agrawal said passes were being issued in phases to avoid crowding at the markets. The market committee and administration were also keeping a check on cleanliness and disinfection of markets, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tardy-wheat-procurement-leaves-ludhiana-farmers-jittery/story-Sy2Wa8GG9pbbMHzTYs8oYO.html
17-04-2020||Lucknow||Three ‘Jamaatis’ among five new corona cases detected in Kashi||With five more persons, including three Jamaatis, testing positive for Covid-19 in temple town, the number of corona patients in the district rose to 14 of which five recovered, one died and eight were in the isolation ward. Giving this information, district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said their report was received from viral research and diagnostic laboratory, department of microbiology, IMS-BHU, on Friday. Among those tested positive included a 55-year-old resident of Madanpura, 70-year-old resident of Nakkhi Ghat, and 40-year-old person of Hyderabad. They had attended the Tablighi event in Delhi last month returned to Varanasi thereafter. Their presence in the city came to light in the first week of April, he added. As many as 27 ‘Jamaatis’, including these three who were put under quarantine at a health training centre in Shivpur area, were found negative in the fist test. However in their second test the three were found positive, hence they were shifted to the isolation ward of DDU district hospital. The remaining 24 have tested negative. Besides, a 19-year-old boy and a 21-year-old woman of a family, residents of Pandey Haweli area, also tested corona positive. They tested positive in their first report on Thursday as well. Five women of Telangana had stayed at their house in third week of March for two days after attending Jamaat in Delhi.They were also shifted to the isolation ward of DDU district hospital. As on Friday, there were five corona hotspot in Varanasi. They are Madanpura, Bazardiha, Lohta and Gangapur and now Nakkhi Ghat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/three-jamaatis-among-five-new-corona-cases-detected-in-kashi/story-vcZrmdkyL9dXWcu8ucjvsJ.html
17-04-2020||Mumbai||Bhiwandi residents shower respect on cops||When a squad of policemen conducted a flag march on the streets of Bhiwandi on Friday, residents came to the windows, balconies and roads to shower them with flower petals.There was a loud clapping as the police personnel marched on the streets at Shivaji Chowk, Ajay Nagar, Gokul Nagar and Kombdapada in Bhiwandi. Deputy commissioner of police, Bhiwandi, Rajkumar Shinde led the march.Some residents were waiting on streets, maintaining distance with each other, and cheering for the cops. Even the city’s mayor Pratibha Patil and local politicians lined up on roads clapping for the police force.“This is the least we can do for the cops who are on guard day and night without a break,” said Sunil Patil, 45, a resident of Anand Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bhiwandi-residents-shower-respect-on-cops/story-UYpwnsmJBGIG575npO05iM.html
17-04-2020||Gurugram||Haryana receives 10,000 rapid antibody testing kits; Gurugram, Palwal and Nuh to benefit||Haryana received 10,000 rapid antibody testing kits from the central government on Friday. The state health department said they were likely to begin testing blood samples of suspected cases in Gurugram from Sunday. State officials said that as per their plans, the kits will be deployed in hotspots as a useful surveillance tool. Rajeev Arora, additional chief secretary, health department, said, “Gurugram, Nuh, Hathin (Palwal) are the affected Covid-19 districts where the kits will be distributed in the first place. We will be testing frontline workers in healthcare, sanitation and police department on priority.”The test will involve collecting blood samples to check whether the body has antibodies to fight the Sars-CoV-2 virus that causes Covid-19. If the antibody is present, it means the person was infected and that they have developed immunity. The whole process -- from collection of sample to results -- with the antibody test is expected to take only around 20 minutes. The other test -- Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) -- takes around five to six hours.As of Friday, the state recorded a total of 223 Covid-19 positive cases and two deaths. Gurugram had 32 cases.According to the detailed plan prepared by the doctors in PGIMS, Rohtak, for rapid testing in hotspot areas, those whose report is positive in the antibody test, their nasal/throat swabs will be taken for the RT-PCR for confirmation. Even if the antibody test is negative and the medical officer feels that there is a need to confirm the result, then throat and nasal swabs for the RT-PCR test. Also, suspected cases will be required to be in a quarantine facility for 10 days and then tested. If positive, an RT-PCR would be done.The antibody test will be useful to check if the person had the virus but did not show any symptoms, and thus could pass on the infection to others. “There is a possibility that the patient was only recently infected too [The virus has an incubation period of two to five days during which the person will not show any symptoms]. For them, a quarantine for 10 days will be suggested, thereafter the rapid antibody test will be done again. If positive and symptomatic, the patient will get a PCR test and admitted to the hospital for treatment,” said Dr Jaswant Singh Punia, chief medical officer.On April 4, the Indian Council of Medical Research issued a letter to the states on starting the rapid antibody-based blood test for Covid-19 in clusters with containment zones and large migration gathering or evacuees.Earlier this week, the district health said the rapid test would be conducted in a 3-kilometre radius of the containment zone where a Covid-19 positive case is reported. A team of health workers and doctors would do tests of all occupants in 50 houses, chosen randomly, in each of the four directions of the containment zone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/haryana-receives-10-000-rapid-antibody-testing-kits-gurugram-palwal-and-nuh-to-benefit/story-zwq36nPNEm2upTULb4CtQO.html
17-04-2020||Gurugram||Use labour welfare funds to help pay salaries: Industry owners write to Haryana govt||In its letter to the state and the Union governments on Friday, the Industrial Development Association of Gurugram(IDAG) reiterated that the government should use labour-related welfare funds to help them pay salaries for the month of April to their employees. The industry body also demanded a financial relief package to help them tide over the crisis brought by the outbreak of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Industries are shut, production has been halted, and the industry owners have already paid the salaries for March, including their provident funds, said the association pursuant to the order of the government.Labour-related welfare funds, include employees’ state insurance (ESI), labour welfare fund, building and other construction workers’ welfare cess, etc. Industry owners want government to use these welfare funds for paying the salaries of the employees.Dushyant Chautala, deputy chief minister of Haryana, said the guidelines of labour welfare fund do not allow government to use it for the purpose of salary.“Labour welfare fund cannot be utilised for salary purposes as the Act does not permit it. As far as ESI is concerned it pertains to the Central government. However, Haryana government is issuing a SOP (standard operating procedure) to all deputy commissioners on Saturday regarding the opening of industries in a phase-wise manner, with strict guidelines for social distancing and operating with a labour force of less than 15% of the strength,” Chautala told HT on the phone. The association wrote to governments, both Union and state, through deputy commissioner’s office, Gurugram, on Friday. This their second letter after a gap of a week. Earlier on April 12, the industry had sought from the governments a reply to their relief package demand.“The government must provide the company with generous funding to cover the wages for April and then for the next three months. It is better to pay up and keep people on payrolls of the employers rather than risking economic disruption from the mass layoffs, which appears to be only option for employers in the absence of immediate support of the government,” stated the letter.As per the ESI record, there are 11 lakh employees engaged in the industries in Gurugram.“The government can pay the salaries during lockdown period from the huge funds accumulated and is available under various statutes such as ESI, Labour Welfare Fund and others which were enacted keeping in mind sole objective of welfare and social security of labour. Hence in present situation of crises, payments from these funds should be disbursed to those who are actual beneficiaries (sic),” said the letter.ESI is a medical fund the government uses for health emergency purposes, while labour welfare fund is aimed to provide employee-cum-beneficiaries financial help during marriage, repayment of loans, emergency help in accidental cases, etc.“There are ₹350 crore funds available in the labour welfare fund currently. However, if the government wants to use it for the salary purposes, it will have to revise the policy,” said Amarendra Singh, chairman labour welfare board.However, a senior Haryana government official told HT that the poor people, currently reeling under the Covid-19 lockdown are being fed from this fund only.JN Mangla, industrialist, said, “This is high time, the government gives some relief to the industry to save it from ruination. If this is not done, mass layoffs can take place. The ESI and the labour welfare funds are hardly used by the government. We believe that this is an emergency-like situation, when the funds should be used.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/use-labour-welfare-funds-to-help-pay-salaries-industry-owners-write-to-haryana-govt/story-NtEci6ldYntlhEIMNA5f4L.html
17-04-2020||Lucknow||LMC forms cell to nurture greenery in Lucknow||In an eco-friendly step, the Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC) has set up a green cell to maintain greenery in the state capital. The green cell would operate under chief garden superintendent Ganga Ram Gautam who is in charge of more than 3,000 parks in the city. Ganga Ram Gautam said, “The LMC has issued helpline numbers which residents can dial and call the civic body’s ‘green ambulance’ to water the plants which would otherwise die. The residents can dial 6389300092, 9140833150 and 9935793959 between 8 am and 10 am.”Municipal commissioner Indramani Tripathi said , “The green cell will help the LMC in maintaining roadside beauty. Many times plants on road sides die for want of care. Some times authorities don’t come to know if the plants need fertilizer or water. That’s why we have released the numbers so that anyone can dial and report what the plants need. We can also add some good landscape areas on roadsides if the things work out well.”He said, “ The municipal corporation feels that this cell will get good support from the residents , resident welfare associations , NGOs , trader organisations etc. They can help us in better maintenance of parks , road side greenery and development of beautiful landscapes.”Chief garden superintendent Ganga Ram Gautam said , “ The green ambulances will maintain saplings planted on dividers and on the sides of roads. The LMC has purchased 8 tankers (green ambulances) to water the plants. The system is implemented on the Indore model , where it has proved to be a success.”He said, “We have formed a WhatsApp group Virksha Mitra ( Friends of Trees ) of eminent citizens , NGOs working for environment and RWAs who will help us perform the task of keeping the city green.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/lmc-forms-cell-to-nurture-greenery-in-lucknow/story-eCpRUAAgiHE2pzkTeVWgWO.html
17-04-2020||Mumbai||BMC helpline gets most calls for groceries||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) Covid-19 helpline has got most number of calls from wards that house large slum pockets, with requests for groceries or cooked food packets topping the list, the analysis of the data shows.The BMC on March 30 set up a Covid-19 helpline (1800221292) at the G-North ward in Dadar. The civic body received a total of 8,151 calls between March 30 and April 16, of which 7,992 calls requested cooked food or groceries. Moreover, 1,178 of these were repeat calls, where the same callers asked for food or groceries, on another day. Based on phone call requests, the BMC provided cooked food packets to 1,15,192 people and groceries to 85,189 people. The BMC has received only 12 calls requesting arrangements for stay and seven calls requesting transportation.The highest number of cooked food packets were provided to the F-North ward, covering areas of Wadala and Matunga (45,524), followed by M-East ward (Govandi and Mankhurd) (16,943), then G-North ward, which has Dharavi (10,561). The highest number of grocery packets were delivered to the L ward which has areas of Kurla (15,113), followed by F-North ward (8,393), M-East ward (8,034), G-North ward (7,446), C ward that has areas of Marine lines and Charni Road (5,634).These localities either have the highest number of containment zones, where no grocery stores are open or have low-income households.A senior civic officer said, “These areas either low-income households, where people are employed in the unorganised sector and are not being paid regularly owing to the lockdown. They also have a need to save the money they can for now. In some cases, the areas are containment zones, and no one is allowed to go out even to buy essential items.”He said, “The F North ward comprises not just of slum pockets, but is also remote and congested. It has a lot of containment zones. So we receive a lot of calls from this ward asking for food and groceries.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-helpline-gets-most-calls-for-groceries/story-r8giu0LjMWxXqg2Ia823tN.html
17-04-2020||City||Amid lockdown, Ludhiana colleges handle students’ career queries online||Amid lockdown in the wake of coronavirus outbreak, colleges in Ludhiana have come up with online portals to guide the students regarding their careers and solve their admission-related queries.Gujranwala Guru Nanak Institute of Management and Technology (GGNIMT), Ghumar Mandi, has set up an online career counselling cell for Class 12 pass outs and graduates.Experts from various fields will connect with students through WhatsApp and video/audio calls to help them select a course or career on the basis of their interests and capabilities, besides detailed inquiries through Google forms.Gujranwala Khalsa Education Council (GKEC) president SP Singh said to help the students and their families in distress, GGNIMT will offer scholarships based on merit and certain reservations.GGNIMT director Manjit Singh Chhabra said the students seeking admission at the college can approach the experts through the website www.ggnimtldh.org to avail various scholarship schemes. Students can access the link to the inquiry form: https://forms.gle/byMqUCrgxXnWMNhh9, he said.Besides, Khalsa Institute of Management and Technology (KIMT), Civil Lines, has started an online registration-cum-enquiry module for the students who are seeking admission in graduation and post graduation courses.Students can fill the online forms on the college website “kimtludhiana.org” where they will also get the required information regarding various courses such as MBA, MCA, BBA and BCA. The registered candidates will be given online guidance regarding the eligibility criteria and the admission process.KIMT director Harpreet Kaur said this approach will help candidates in the present uncertain times, adding that the KIMT team will promptly handle the queries of candidates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amid-lockdown-ludhiana-colleges-handle-students-career-queries-online/story-ywFiAfokU8i4nEOczKqaXL.html
17-04-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan first state to carry out rapid antibodies test: Govt||Rajasthan started rapid testing of people for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Friday with the arrival of 10,000 kits from Delhi, and all 52 people who underwent the tests turned out to be free of the virus. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot said 50,000 more kits were expected to arrive on Friday night and over next three days. The state government proposes to simultaneously continue tests using the laboratory technique called reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR).Rajasthan plans to use rapid test for community surveillance and to scale up testing capacity to 10,000 tests per day over the next 10 days.Rapid tests for Covid-19 began in the country on Friday after the arrival of the kits ordered from China by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). China had restricted exports of the kits after quality issues surfaced, but an ICMR official, requesting anonymity, said the kits were found to be of satisfactory quality. The rapid testing kits are being dispatched and distributed among states that have a high burden of the coronavirus disease, said Lav Agarwal, joint secretary in the Union health ministry.“The kits are being directly given to states and will be deployed or used by them as per their requirement, as long as ICMR guidelines for testing are adequately followed,” said Agarwal.Rapid testing kits are meant for mass testing to detect undiagnosed infections. “Rapid testing works when you have to test a large number of people in a short span of time, as it is quicker and cheaper,” said Dr T Jacob John, former head of the virology department, Christian Medical College, Vellore, Tamil Nadu.Apart from getting a share of the central pool, the states have also been given a free hand to procure kits locally depending on their needs.Andhra Pradesh received a consignment of 100,000 rapid test kits manufactured by SD Biosensors based in South Korea, which arrived on a chartered Air India flight on Friday. Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy, who was the first to get tested using the kit, tuned out to be negative for the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-first-state-to-carry-out-rapid-antibodies-test-govt/story-PcrOLA8c4lS1anbk8P6W5I.html
17-04-2020||Chandigarh||IAF’s Apache combat helicopter makes emergency landing in Hoshiarpur village||An Indian Air Force (IAF) Apache combat helicopter made an emergency landing in the fields of Budhawar village of Hoshiarpur’s Mukerian sub-division on Friday afternoon, reportedly due to a technical glitch. This is the first such instance in eight months since the IAF inducted eight AH-64E Apache stealth helicopters, capable of firing missiles and rockets, in September last year. The AH-64E Apache is one of the world’s most advanced multi-role combat helicopters, and is flown by the US Army. Two pilots on board — Flight Lieutenant Anoop and Flight Lieutenant Rajat — are safe. There was no damage to the helicopter, they said. The choppers are based out of the Pathankot airbase. Sources in IAF said the air force will check the helicopter and then take it back to its base. Yesterday, a Cheetah helicopter of the IAF had made a precautionary landing due to technical snag on the Eastern Peripheral Expressway in Baghpat, Uttar Pradesh. (with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/iaf-s-apache-combat-helicopter-makes-emergency-landing-in-hoshiarpur-village/story-QEUwm625JpHdGyBpWFPdYP.html
17-04-2020||Gurugram||Staring at bleak demand post lockdown, real estate industry welcomes RBI move to improve liquidity||While a nationwide survey of the real estate industry shows that the lockdown, announced to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), shows that business sentiment is at its lowest, the industry and all stakeholders have welcomed the measures announced by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Friday. The report released by Knight Frank, Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry and National Real Estate Development Council, on Thursday showed that as per 60% stakeholders the Covid-19 global crisis will adversely impact residential new launches (65%), will significantly impact sales (65%) and prices (64%) in the next six months. The report stated that the residential sector, which was already experiencing weak demand, will find it difficult to complete the ongoing ones due to construction halts and labour shortage, and launch new projects. Looming uncertainty has adversely impacted the stakeholder sentiments for the coming six months, it said, adding that the lockdown will translate into a vicious sequence of stalled construction, delays in project deliveries, delays in loan repayments and debt servicing to banks and an overall slump in demand due to uncertainties in employment and salary cuts. “All these factors have marred the future sentiment score of stakeholders,” it added.Sentiments of the financial institutions have also become pessimistic. Shishir Baijal, chairman and managing director of Knight Frank India, said, “The pandemic has created an unprecedented condition which is impacting global markets and societies. There is already a severe shortage of liquidity due to the complete standstill that most economies have come to. Managing liquidity and sustaining through the length of this pandemic will be critical for economic survival in the post-pandemic era.”However, the move by the RBI to reduce the reverse Repo rate on Friday has sent some positive signals to the realtors and consultants.Anshuman Magazine, chairman and CEO, CBRE said, “RBI’s recently announced liquidity measures are a clear step towards encouraging liquidity in the banking system. To further ease flow of funds to the housing sector, the National Housing Bank (NHB) has also been provided with a refinance facility of ₹10,000 cr for housing finance companies as additional liquidity for individual housing loans, which is a much-needed boost at this time.”Jones Lang Laselle (JLL), a real estate consultancy major, said the relaxation of NPA classification norms and extension of one year for commencement of projects to real estate developers by NBFCs will provide relief. “The refinance facility to the extent of ₹10,000 crore to NHB is a welcome move to provide the much needed liquidity to housing finance companies,” said Ramesh Nair, CEO and country head, JLL India.Gurugram-based developers also welcomed the move and said that despite the negative sentiment, the RBI move will help. Pradeep Aggarwal, founder and chairman, Signature Developers said, “The RBI has addressed the concerns of realty sector too, which is a clear indication that the government understands the importance of the second largest employer in India. All the economic machinery has to work together to make sure the country comes out of this economic downturn as soon as possible.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/staring-at-bleak-demand-post-lockdown-real-estate-industry-welcomes-rbi-move-to-improve-liquidity/story-zSzjqJaXJVz7o46We8mjnK.html
17-04-2020||Gurugram||Haryana to resume revenue registries from April 20, no clarity over red zones||Taking another step towards normalcy even as the state observes lockdown due to the coronavirus pandemic, the Haryana government on Friday decided to resume execution of property registration deeds and related works from April 20. `The revenue department issued directions instruction execution of 30 registries per day, instead of the 60 done earlier. However, the order did not specify whether the revenue department will start registering properties in Gurugram, Faridabad, Nuh and Palwal, which have been designated as red zones.The Haryana government has divided the state into red, orange and green zones, based on the number of coronavirus positive cases.Officials of the district administration said that they are seeking clarification on the issue. “We are working on this and things would become clearer on Saturday,” said Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner, Gurugram. Officials also said that a plan to reopen factories in Gurugram district is also awaited. The order, issued by the revenue department to all deputy commissioners on Friday, stated, “It is amply clear that delivery of public services viz registration of instruments pertaining to transfer of property under sections 17 & 18 of the Registration Act 1908, delivery of copies of revenue records and registration deeds, entry and attestation of mutations, affidavits and issuance of resident, scheduled castes, backward classes certificates will have to be carried out with necessary staff deployed for such purposes wef 20.4.2020.”The government has directed the revenue staff to ensure social distancing among themselves as well as visitors. Online appointments for registration would be given in a staggered manner, said officials. Also, half of the appointments will be given online, while half will be issued at tehsil and sub-tehsil offices. All previous appointments shall stand cancelled, the order stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/haryana-to-resume-revenue-registries-from-april-20-no-clarity-over-red-zones/story-FpgAh4XhFDl7u26ufVRYQL.html
17-04-2020||Mumbai||After Dharavi, rising Covid cases in slums of Govandi, Deonar a worry||While G-North ward is in the spotlight with the rising number of coronavirus cases in Dharavi, experts are also concerned about the cases in M-East ward, which they say is at a greater risk, as it has the worst health indices in the city.The ward, which includes slum pockets of Deonar, Govandi, Bainganwadi, Shivaji Nagar and Cheetah Camp and the Deonar dumping ground, is spread across an area of 32.50sqkm. The population density here is 36,923 per sqkm, more than the average density of (32,303 per sqkm) of Mumbai, which is the fifth most-densely populated city in the world, according to a United Nations Population Prospects study released in July 2019. The M-East ward on Thursday crossed the 100 mark with 8 new cases, according to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) data. Between April 6 and April 15, the number of cases in M-East went up to 103 from 16, with 25 containment zones.One of the major worrying factors is that M-East is a hotspot for tuberculosis (TB) owing to the poor living conditions. A study conducted by Doctors For You (DFY) for the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) found that 8-10% households in the Lallubhai compound and Natwar Parekh compound in Govandi had at least one TB patient. The study found that these slum rehabilitation colonies, with no ventilation, were breeding grounds for the disease.According to the Mumbai Human Development report 2009, United Nations Development Programme, the average life expectancy in the ward is 39. The same report ranks M-East the lowest among the 24 wards in terms of human development index. Another situational analysis by Apnalaya, an NGO working in Shivaji Nagar in M-East, in 2017 found that 44% children are underweight, 57% are stunted and 88% pregnant women are anaemic. Most of the people living in the ward are daily wage workers, who have been hit by the lockdown.Social distancing – one of the key preventive measures recommended by the World Health Organisation (WHO) – is almost impossible to sustain in the densely populated ward. Dr Peehu Pardeshi, who was a part of the DFY study, said, “Covid-19 can be a major risk factor in the ward as their lung capacity has already been compromised and their immunity is low owing to the conditions they live in. The lack of ventilation, cramped spaces and lack of sanitation pose a huge threat.” Arun Kumar, CEO, Apnalaya, said the situation is more alarming than any other part of the city. “M-East has the highest disenfranchised, unenumerated people in Mumbai. The government records show its population as little over eight lakh, when it has a population of 12 lakh. The testing abysmally low.” Sudhanshu Dwivedi, assistant commissioner of M-east ward, BMC, said, “We have been taking all steps to address the situation. All 25 containment zones are being sanitised daily.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/after-dharavi-rising-covid-cases-in-slums-of-govandi-deonar-a-worry/story-ZlFkeBQKKm55DHKY1VYqcP.html
17-04-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Suspected Covid patient, who fled quarantine, arrested||A 27-year-old man, suspected to have contracted the coronavirus disease, was arrested after he allegedly fled a quarantine facility in Sector 9 on Friday. According to the police, the man was addicted to narcotics and had run away from the facility after stealing a mobile phone.The arrested man is a native of Uttar Pradesh. According to the police, he was arrested from Jyoti Park in Sector 7 on the basis of a tip-off.Police said that the man was brought to the quarantine facility, a government college on Wednesday night and his sample was sent for testing. The incident took place on Thursday around 3.30pm when he allegedly broke a window pane and jumped the boundary wall of the facility.A police officer privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said the incident happened when the officials posted at the facility were releasing people who had completed their quarantine. As the officials were busy in the process, the accused took advantage of the situation to escape.A doctor, posted at the facility, had approached the police and a case was registered regarding the incident on Thursday.Police spokesperson Subhash Boken said, “During the interrogation, the accused informed us that he was addicted to narcotics. On Thursday, he stole someone’s mobile phone and ran away from the facility to meet his friend.” He added that the accused will be produced before court on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-suspected-covid-patient-who-fled-quarantine-arrested/story-mdbmlYxi3kzie30hMsOPhN.html
17-04-2020||Lucknow||UP gives a boost to online learning during lock-down||Deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma on Friday held a meeting with vice chancellors of state universities via teleconferencing and stressed on online education amid lock-down. He said Sars-Cov-2 had encouraged teachers of both higher and secondary education to explore online e content.“Students studying in different state universities / colleges are constantly getting the benefit of online teaching / counselling / training etc as a result of the efforts made by the department of higher education, Uttar Pradesh government, amid the pandemic,” Sharma said.Tools used in online teachingOnline group learning platform (Skype, Google meet/Google Classroom/ØMicrosoft team/Zoom Cloud App)Group sharing tools- WhatsApp group is used to share online class schedule,Ølecture notes, supplementary study material. eBooksOnline learning platform- SWAYAM, MOOC, NPTEL, online courseDuring the lock-down period 65,943 e-contents have been prepared by the teachers of various state universities and colleges across the state. All of the e-content was available on the respective university’s / college’s website, being continuously accessed by the students to complete their curriculum, an official said. FIRST ONLINE PHD DEFENCE VIVA AT AKTUDr APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University, Lucknow hosted the first online PhD defence viva on Friday. PhD scholar Rekhnath Singh from computer science and engineering stream presented the PhD presentation titled ‘Improved Replication Algorithm in Distributed Database System’ though the online mode.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-gives-a-boost-to-online-learning-during-lock-down/story-U91LUvVST9ycDhYJ2Hr1UI.html
17-04-2020||Chandigarh||Car catches fire near DMCH in Ludhiana||A car that was parked on the roadside near Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) in Civil Lines caught fire on Friday afternoon.The Maruti Suzuki A-Star car, which got completely damaged in the incident, belonged to a Phillaur resident, Naman Khanna, who had come to DMCH for the medical checkup of his wife.“As the DMCH’s parking was closed, I parked my car on the roadside near the hospital around 11am. Three hours later, when I came out from the hospital, I saw my car in flames,” Naman said, adding that as he and his wife were in the hospital at the time of the incident, nobody was hurt in the fire.A security guard, who was deputed at a nearby bank, reported the incident and informed the fire brigade.“We got an alert around 2pm that a car parked near DMCH has caught fire. A fire tender was immediately rushed to the spot. It took an hour to douse the fire,” leading fireman Rajan Sharma said.So far, the reason behind the fire couldn’t be ascertained, however, the locals claim that the car might have caught fire due to the negligence of sweepers who burn dry leaves in the area, a fireman said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/car-catches-fire-near-dmch-in-ludhiana/story-ghWCN4bI1HBNzymyUwmxTK.html
17-04-2020||City||Enforcement of curfew in Ludhiana: 20 more join as volunteers, total count now 2,020||Twenty more residents have joined as volunteers to enforce curfew imposed in the city, making the total count of such volunteers as high as 2,020.On March 22, when the administration had imposed curfew in the wake of coronavirus outbreak in city, 400 volunteers were working with the police. Since then, the count has increased by over five times.These volunteers are deployed at around 125 check posts installed in various areas of the city.Assistant commissioner of police (ACP), Gurdev Singh, who is also the nodal officer of the curfew enforcement team, said to arrest the spread of coronavirus, residents must maintain social distancing, for which the curfew was imposed. “But we required a lot of manpower to enforce the curfew imposed in the city that has a population of 1.69 million people. So we decided to take help from civilians. Today, 2,020 volunteers are helping us in achieving the goal and are also providing door-to-door emergency services,” he said, adding that to monitor these volunteers, 28 police personnel had been appointed at every police station.“As there were a few complaints regarding misbehaviour by volunteers, we have formed a WhatsApp group on which I send videos to give instructions to the volunteers and counsel them,” he said. “If any resident is facing any issue regarding a curfew enforcement officer, they can contact me,” he added.The ACP said it was the duty of the department to take care of these volunteers and other police personnel deployed at various check points. “As summers have begun, it has become tough for volunteers to stand in scorching heat and perform their duties. So, we are providing them with umbrellas and also distributing water campers and cold drinks to them,” Singh said.So far, 50 umbrellas and 500 cartons of soft drinks have been distributed to the volunteers and police personnel, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/enforcement-of-curfew-in-ludhiana-20-more-join-as-volunteers-total-count-now-2-020/story-asNyl68PDY2ADkHb57AHMO.html
17-04-2020||Lucknow||Hemophilia patients facing problems during lock-down||Hemophilia patients in Uttar Pradesh are facing acute problems during the lock-down, due to non-availability of factors, a protein in the blood that controls bleeding.Hemophilia is a rare genetic disorder that affects the blood’s ability to clot. There are around 800 registered hemophilia patients in Lucknow and 3000 across Uttar Pradesh. The patients were restricted even from accessing healthcare facilities under the lock-down, said Vinay Manchanda, secretary, Hemophilia Society, Lucknow.He said there were 26 hemophilia treatment centres in Uttar Pradesh and most of them did not have anti-hemophilia factors for the past two months. Hemophilia patients have low immunity which makes them vulnerable to contracting Sars-Cov-2.Gopal Agrawal, Patient Advocacy, and Patient Services, Takeda India that works in the field of hemophelia treatment said it was an inherited single gene disorder. About one in every 5,000 males was born with the disorder. There are approximately 21,000 registered hemophilia patients in India. This rare disease mostly impacts pediatric males.“The restricted movement is further adding to the woes of the patients and their families. It is our humble appeal to the concerned departments to ensure the availability of factors across the state,” said Manchanda.“Police authorities should help the patients in safely reaching healthcare facilities during this emergency. As ambulance facilities are mainly used to carry Covid-19 patients, private vehicles should also be arranged by the government to ensure intra-state travel for the patients,” said Manchanda.As per the recent guidelines, the centre had advised the state governments to ensure essential services for patients with blood disorders like hemophilia, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/hemophilia-patients-facing-problems-during-lock-down/story-MbU8bgFYIi342tj9FNKwhJ.html
17-04-2020||Mumbai||Defer rent collection if you can: State advice to owners||The state government on Friday issued an advisory to landlords/house-owners to defer their rent collection by three months in view of the current lockdown and avoid evicting tenants over non-payment of rent during this period. The state, however, clarified that the advisory was issued as a majority of the trades were hit, but was not an order which would be binding on landlords.Sanjay Kumar, additional chief secretary (housing), who issued the advisory, maintained it was just an advisory to citizens and not a law.Housing activists, however, are not impressed. “It will not give any relief to tenants, if any landlord insists on rent or evicts the tenants,” said advocate Vinod Sampat, who deals with property matters. Leo Tharmi Raikhan, who hails from Manipur and represents a group of north-eastern migrants in the city, said, “A majority of firms have not paid our salaries and we are finding it difficult buy groceries. In such a scenario, paying rent is impossible,” said Raikhan.There are around one lakh people in the state from the north-east, a majority of whom live in rented flats and shared apartments in Kalina, Khar, Juhu and Mira Road. Khushi Surendra Prasad, who runs a polyclinic at Colaba, said: “For the past two months, my polyclinic has been shut and there is no income.” However, those who depend on rental incomes said they cannot abide by this advisory. “We depend on rents for survival and being a senior citizen, even I am hassled with various expenses. I can understand the problem of lockdown, but even we are facing issues,” said a 68-year-old senior citizen who has leased out his second home in at Andheri.Meanwhile, former CM Devendra Fadnavis demanded the state should reduce the stamp duty and registration fees to give relief to the realty sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/defer-rent-collection-if-you-can-state-advice-to-owners/story-38HH8J6iTHk9gmCYHn0V6M.html
17-04-2020||Chandigarh||Tokens given, farmers not ready; Punjab changes system||With the state’s decision to issue procurement tokens for farmers through commission agents (arthiyas) based on last season’s trends not yielding desired result, authorities will implement a new system that will be based on demand from farmers. Under the previous system, most farmers who got tokens were not ready with the harvest, so they were unable to come to mandis. Conversely, farmers who were done with the harvest were made to wait. The procurement, under strict regulation due to covid-19 pandemic, started on April 15. “Instead of issuing tokens on the basis of the crop arrival trend of the last season, we will now follow a demand-based system. Farmers would get tokens after they tell their commission agents that their crop is harvested and moisture in the grain is within permissible limit of 12%,” said state’s food and civil supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu. He added that the mandi board would take demand from farmers whose crop is ready, through mandi secretaries. Token would again be issued through the arhtiyas. The changes were introduced after Ashu met farmers and arhtiyas in Khanna mandi on Thursday. He found some dissatisfied farmers and some commission agents alleging bias. “Arhtiyas who have connections in the government are managing token for their farmers,” alleged Raghbir Singh of Khant village near Khamano in Ludhiana.“Arhtiyas would meet every morning and share demand. Tokens will be issued on this basis,” Vijay Kalra, president, Commission Agents’ Association told HT, adding, however, that to ensure speedy procurement, trends of previous years would need to be taken into consideration. This is the first time procurement is happening through a token system since the 1960s and is to be wound up in 45 days this year against the usual 21. “We are bringing in a new system, but want to clarify that without a valid token no farmer would be entertained. If any farmer is found without a token in any mandi, his arhtiya would face cancellation of licence,” said a senior officer of the food department. The daily lifting has already been capped at 3 lakh tonne.MANDIS IN FEROZEPUR,  LUDHIANA VILLAGES SHUTGrain mandis of Payal village in Ludhiana and Wara Bhai Ke village in Ferozepur were sealed after positive cases were reported. Arhtiyas have been asked to shift to other mandis. MANDI BOARD ISSUES  2.85 LAKH CURFEW PASSES The mandi board has issued 2.85 lakh curfew passes to farmers through arthiyas. Additional chief secretary (development) Viswajeet Khanna said said the passes were being issued to farmers through arthiyas and there was no condition or restriction to get these through any mobile app.SYSTEM HAS FLOPPED, TAKE CORRECTIVE ACTION: SUKHBIR TO CMShiromani Akali Dal (SAD) President Sukhbir Singh Badal on Friday said the e-token system had failed in Punjab and urged CM Captain Amarinder Singh to take corrective steps. “It seems most plans have been made on paper only as there is a big mismatch between the announcements of the government and ground situation,” he claimed. He also requested the CM to intervene and resolve all pending issues of commission agents who were demanding payment of Rs 200 crore in dues and insurance cover for labourers, besides other issues.Light rain predicted in regionLight to moderate showers are likely in Punjab and Haryana till Sunday, the weather department has predicted. It added western disturbances are active in the region. “Rain up to 20 mm can be expected at a few stations (between 25% to 50% stations) in Haryana and Punjab on Saturday and in isolated stations on Sunday and Monday. Gusty winds up to 40km per hour are also likely, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/tokens-given-farmers-not-ready-punjab-changes-system/story-0mQmsGMdqIeidvBH6obUEN.html
17-04-2020||Mumbai||PMC Bank fraud case: Special court refuses bail to HDIL promoter Rakesh Wadhawan||The Special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court on Friday refused to grant interim bail to HDIL promoter Rakesh Wadhawan, the main accused in the Punjab and Maharashtra Cooperative (PMC) Bank fraud case, observing that the defence has failed to point out that he is unsafe in jail.Wadhawan and his son Sarang had approached the court for interim bail on the grounds that they are unsafe in the jail owing to the Covid-19 outbreak. The defence lawyers however, on Friday, did not press for bail for Sarang and only argued for Wadhawan’s bail plea.Based on a report presented by the chief medical officer of the jail before the court, the defence pointed out that Wadhawan has been put in the category of high-risk patient for cardiac, pulmonary and infectious diseases. The defence also had pointed out that Wadhawan had to be admitted to JJ Hospital in February after a medical emergency.Additional solicitor general Anil Singh and advocate Sunil Gonsalves, representing the enforcement directorate (ED) opposed the plea on the grounds that medical facilities are available in prison and that Wadhawan had been given proper treatment at the hospital before he was discharged.After hearing both the sides, the court observed that the defence had failed to point out any urgency to release Wadhawan on bail. The court also held that the defence’s bail plea on merits is also pending for hearing. Hence, the court rejected the plea observing that there is nothing on record to show that the accused are unsafe in jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pmc-bank-fraud-case-special-court-refuses-bail-to-hdil-promoter-rakesh-wadhawan/story-X8jPpuTNIhb3m4HJURt16O.html
17-04-2020||Mumbai||Kurla resident arrested for spitting on northeast woman in Kalina||A 23-year-old man was arrested on Friday for spitting on a woman from Manipur, in Kalina area on April 6. The accused, Mohammed Amir Mohammed Elias, is a Kurla resident. The incident came to light when an activist from Delhi posted about it on social media. According to the victim Shonyo Kabai’s complaint, on April 6 she was on her way to buy groceries with her sister when Elias approached them on a bike, took off her mask and spat on her near Kalina signal. “I don’t know if this incident has to do with coronavirus, but our community faces discrimination. There is always name-calling and people mock us,” she said. While the accused told police that he did not spit on the woman deliberately, Kabai said, “It was not by accident, he purposefully spat on me. I was standing on the side of the road and if he wanted to spit normally why did he come close to me.”After Linda Newmai, a social activist from Delhi tweeted about the incident, the office of Mumbai Police commissioner directed the local police station to register a first information report (FIR) against Elias. A case was then registered under the Epidemic Diseases Act.Kailas Avhad, senior inspector of Vakola police station, said, “We had formed different teams and one of them was checking for CCTV footages in the area. On Thursday night we identified the accused and called him for an inquiry. We have now arrested him.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/kurla-resident-arrested-for-spitting-on-northeast-woman-in-kalina/story-UiKEoxVstkj6g28k8aYM0L.html
17-04-2020||City||Property registration begins with riders; ‘Aarogya Setu’ app a must||LUCKNOW The Uttar Pradesh stamp and registration department has ordered immediate resumption of property registration work but with some riders, besides adherence to Covid-19 prevention guidelines. The significant riders, as per the department’s order that has already come into force, are: No registry will be done if an applicant does not have an active ‘Aarogya Setu’ app; the applicant will first have to take an online appointment for physical visit to the registry office; no cash transactions are allowed; and at the office no applicant will be allowed to give biometric impression of the thumb before sanitising his/her hands.Veena Kumari, principal secretary, stamp and registration department, in the order dated April 15, has communicated to all divisional commissioners, district magistrates, district police chiefs and all officers concerned in the registration department about the resumption of registries and the guidelines.The guidelines also say that applicants must finish their deed verification from registration assistant concerned so that the physical work at the office gets completed within the appointed time. The guidelines further say that in the appointed time, only the buyer, seller and document writer will be allowed in the office.“The stamp fee will be accepted only through e-stamp and registration fee will be accepted only online. No cash transactions of any kind will be allowed during this period,” said Veena Kumari in the order.The order also spells out in detail about how to maintain social distancing and avoid crowding at the department’s offices and highlights that an applicant must have an active ‘Aarogya Setu’ app. ‘AAROGYA SETU’ APPThe app is a kind of coronavirus tracker that works on the basis of contact tracing, and can help a user identify possible coronavirus ‘hotspot’ around his or her area through geo-tagging. It can help people stay safe and adopt necessary precautions in some areas and also helps a subscriber to self-identify risks and monitor their health assessment vis-a-vis Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/property-registration-begins-with-riders-aarogya-setu-app-a-must/story-X4ngoUuaHFl1IadjZ4iezM.html
17-04-2020||Mumbai||Pre-monsoon road work to start, workers to be regularly screened for Covid-19 symptoms||With monsoon less than a month and a half away, it has now been decided that all desilting and monsoon road works will start wherever possible, other than in containment zones.This was decided in a review meeting held by the civic commissioner on Friday, along with Mumbai suburban guardian minister Aaditya Thackeray.In a series of tweets, Thackeray, on Friday, said, “This afternoon, I took a zoom video meeting of BMC officers, along with Municipal Commissioner Pravin Pardeshi for the preparations of the onset of the monsoon and to complete the essential pre-monsoon works in time, along with our fight against Covid. As guardian minister, Mumbai Suburbs, I’ve been in constant touch with the officers. Today once again in the zoom video call, I briefed them on my conversations with the MLAs, Corporators and citizens, their suggestions and pain points as well.”Thackeray added, “In times as the fight with Covid, the world is on pause, but not our monsoons and the onset would mean we have to complete our essential works before the monsoons arrive. I’m thankful to all the officers for their hard work and outreach, managing the situation and works together.”The BMC has also decided to not start digging or repair of any new roads, but only focus on completing the ongoing road repair works before the onset of monsoon. According to the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), monsoon is expected to arrive in the city by June 11 and is likely to stay on till October 08. Given this schedule, BMC has little time to complete its monsoon preparedness work.Sanjay Darade, deputy municipal commissioner, BMC (infrastructure) said, “We are starting work wherever it necessary to finish work before monsoons. At places where we can delay works due to the current scenario where there is a shortage of labour, we will start work post-May 03. Also, we are going to monitor the health condition of those working on our pre-monsoon work site.”Currently, post the lockdown announced last month, repair and maintenance work on 336 major and minor roads along with that of ambitious Coastal Road work was hit. However, work has started here with bare minimum work-force at the Coastal Road site. At many sites work may not start until the lockdown period ends on May 3 given the labour shortage.Manish Valanju, Assistant Municipal Commissioner, BMC’s L-ward in Kurla where Mithi River is located said, “Desilting work for Mithi River has started, however, there were problems at ward levels for minor desilting works. For this, we have worked out a solution to extend contracts of the contractors who were involved last year for similar work to be doing the same to ensure minor nullahs are desilted before the onset of monsoons.”Meanwhile, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA), which has city’s two arterial roads - the Eastern Express Highway (EEH) and Western Express Highway (WEH) - under its jurisdiction, has started desilting works along the 25-km WEH on Friday. It is also in the process of starting works at EEH soon. “The stormwater drains that need to be realigned or fixed at various metro sites in Mumbai will also be done soon,” a senior official from MMRDA said.(With inputs from Tanushree Venkatraman)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pre-monsoon-road-work-to-start-workers-to-be-regularly-screened-for-covid-19-symptoms/story-uLCJOqrgT16c1K1IWspcBO.html
17-04-2020||Lucknow||170 cops kept in reserve, 5 quarantine centres set up||Amidst fear of police personnel getting exposed to coronavirus, over 170 cops have been kept in reserve.“They will be roped in if any personnel get infected with Covid-19 while performing duty in containment areas and localities,” said police officials.A force of around 150 cops who are deployed with medical teams for collection of samples from these areas have been equipped with personal protection equipments (PPE) kits while those deployed in containment zones had been given masks, head covers, gloves and hand sanitizers to keep themselves safe.Lucknow joint commissioner of police (JCP), law and order, Naveen Arora said arrangements were being made to ensure safety of police personnel performing duties in containment areas, standing on roads and crossings and those working with medical teams.“We are making all necessary arrangements for police personnel to keep them safe. Those deployed in and around containment zones have been given masks, head covers, gloves and hand sanitizers while all other performing duties at crossings and roads have been given masks. We are providing food and water available to them to keep their immunity maintained,” he stated.As many as 170 police personnel had been kept in reserve and asked to remain in quarantine so that they do not get infected to virus. He said these reserve cops will be replaced with personnel who get exposed to the virus.In addition, five quarantine centres had been made for police personnel where they could stay if required to keep them in isolation.He said at least 250 PPE kits had also been kept in reserve. Besides, around 150 personnel equipped with PPE kits are already deployed with medical teams as people often resist while samples collection and taking away coronavirus suspects to hospitals, he added.Arora said the installation of CCTVs are been done in containment zones so that police could keep vigil in the area without coming in physical contact with locals. He said drones are also used for this purpose.“All efforts are being taken to minimise risk of police personnel getting exposed to the virus,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/170-cops-kept-in-reserve-5-quarantine-centres-set-up/story-yUhpZLeOFSpZrxWMmX7Q8H.html
17-04-2020||Bangalore||44 new Covid-19 cases confirmed in Karnataka, 359 infected statewide||In a record spike for the state, a staggering 44 new positive cases of coronavirus have been confirmed in Karnataka, taking the number of infections to 359, the Health department said on Friday.With 44 new cases, this is the highest single day tally in the state so far, after 36 new cases were reported on Thursday.“Today is a very negative day as far as the numbers are concerned, as there are 44 new cases,” Primary and Secondary Education Minister Suresh Kumar told reporters. “We have increased our capacity of testing and are testing more samples,” he said.Pointing out that more than 17,000 tests have been conducted, Kumar said, earlier 500 tests per day were conducted while now it is nearly 2,000.He said, in terms of tests and its results Karnataka stands second in the country after Kerala.“In Kerala one out of 44.16 tests is positive, while in Karnataka one out of 43.56 tests is positive.” Additional Chief Secretary Health and Family Welfare department Jawaid Akhtar too said complete census testing of all secondary contacts is being done and this is sending a lot of positive cases.“Even though the number (of positive) cases has gone up our positivity rate is 2.2-2.3 per cent.In this positivity rate, we are next only to Kerala ..it is good in a way that we are able to identify infections in secondary contacts and we will be able treat them now,” he said.“We have also kept adding different groups of patients like Influenza-like illness (ILI) history cases; patients in database with- non communicable diseases, TB, HIV, among others, widening the ambit testing,” he said, adding that intensive surveillance and screening will be done to diagnose cases early.According to a bulletin, as of 5:00 PM on April 17, cumulatively 359 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 13 deaths and 88 discharged.It said of 258 active cases, 255 patients (including 1 pregnant woman) are in isolation at designated hospitals and their condition is stable while three are in ICU. Among the 44 new cases, except two (one with travel history Delhi and other with SARI) all others are the contacts of patients already tested positive. Eleven of the newly infected are from Nanjanagud in Mysuru, who are contacts of a single patient who had earlier tested positive, while other districts with large number of fresh cases are - ten from Bengaluru urban, seven from Hosapete in Ballari, five from Belagavi, three each from Malavalli in Mandya and Chikkaballapura. Four out of total 38 new cases are children. The bulletin said nine out of 359 cases detected and confirmed in Karnataka are transit passengers of Kerala. From across the state most number of infections have been reported in Bengaluru urban with 86 cases, followed by Mysuru 73 and Belagavi 41. Out of total 88 patients discharged,41 are from Bengaluru, 12 from Mysuru, eight each from Chikkaballapura, Uttara Kannada and Dakshina Kannada. Among the dead are three each from Kalaburagi and Bengaluru urban, two from Chikkaballapura, and one each from Belagavi, Bagalkote, Vijapura, Gadag and Tumakuru. A total of 17,594 samples were tested so far, out of which 2,070 were tested on Friday alone. According to the bulletin, 14,606 samples have reported as negative, and of them 1,532 reported negative today. Responding to a question on the pharma company - Jubilant in Nanjanagudu, Mysuru district which is one of the large cluster of cases in the state, Kumar said 1705 people have been quarantined, 1225 have been tested, out of them 61 are positive, reports of 480 are still awaited. Meanwhile, with rising number of positive coronavirus cases in the state, the Karnataka government has decided to conduct tests on those displaying symptoms for the disease in districts that have not reported even a single case. Eight districts are Covid-19-free in the state. Noting that doctors were of the opinion that it was necessary for those suffering with fever, cold, breathing problem to immediately undergo Covid-19 test, the government said a special app is being developed for this purpose. In the wake of Covid-19 cases increasing during the last couple of days, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa held discussions with top officials and experts. The Department of Health and Family Welfare has issued guidelines for Testing of Pooled Samples using RT-PCR with advisory by ICMR. The department has issued circular regarding approval of Covid-19 testing in private laboratories with condition and fixed the cost test at Rs 2250 in Karnataka. On the advisory issued by ICMR, the department has also issued circular on Rapid antibody based blood test for Covid-19. According to Kumar, ICMR has purchased, 6,50,000 rapid tests kits for the country, of which Karnataka will get 12,400 kits. “It will reach us this night, so from tomorrow it will be used for tests,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/44-new-covid-19-cases-confirmed-in-karnataka-359-infected-statewide/story-sTeNUjf31kwiE03cHgUGcJ.html
17-04-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Unable to feed his family, migrant worker sells phone to buy ration and fan before killing himself||A migrant worker from Bihar, who had been unemployed for over two months and was struggling to make ends meet amidst the ongoing nationwide lockdown, reportedly killed himself in his shanty in Saraswati Kunj, Sector 53, on Thursday afternoon. His family said that he was upset as he was “penniless” and had not been able to provide for his family and due to loss of livelihood. His father-in-law said the man worked as painter with private contractors and had been unemployed for over two months. “He used to get work for about 10 days a month but had been unemployed even before the lockdown was announced. In the past few weeks, due to the lockdown, the situation had become severe and we did not have any money. We were getting by with help from neighbours or if someone donated ration,” said the man’s father-in-law.He added that a few hours before the incident, the man sold his mobile phone for ₹2,500 to purchase ration and a ceiling fan. “His wife told him that they did not have any food. So, he sold his phone at a throwaway price and purchased rice and pulses for ₹400 and also bought a ceiling fan for his shanty. He returned and handed over the leftover money as well as the ration to his wife. A few minutes later, when his wife and children had gone out, he hanged self,” alleged his father-in-law, adding that the victim was worried about how he would pay rent.The family has been staying in two shanties, paying a rent of ₹3,000 a month, said his family members.The father-in-law of the deceased said that the body was discovered by his daughter when the family came back inside. The victim’s wife told mediapersons that her husband was upset as he did not have any money to buy ration.“The police and authorities had distributed food a few days ago after I had contacted the helpline numbers but it was not sufficient and several families here need assistance,” the victim’s neighbour, also from Bihar, said, adding that locals had pooled in money to help pay for the last rites. Police, however, said there was enough dry ration at the victim’s house, adding that he was under severe mental stress. Officers denied that there was any shortage of ration in the area and that the district administration and police had been distributing food there. According to the police, the incident took place around 1.30pm when the man was in his shanty. No suicide note was recovered, police said. The body was sent for a post mortem examination and returned to the family on Friday. Inquest proceedings have been initiated under Section 174 of the code of criminal procedure, the police said, adding that the post mortem report has not been received yet.Chander Mohan, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), east, said, “Probe has found that he was stressed. There was sufficient dry ration in his house. The results of the autopsy is awaited. The district administration and police have been distributing food in the area,” said DCP.Gurugram deputy commissioner Amit Khatri did not respond despite multiple attempts for a comment.The victim, who was in his mid-thirties, is survived by his wife, and four children, the youngest of whom is a five-month-old girl.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-unable-to-feed-his-family-migrant-worker-sells-phone-to-buy-ration-and-fan-before-killing-himself/story-KCaf4yZNOnS8i65mfBQo7O.html
17-04-2020||City||Queues at token window, long wait in sun irk Haryana mustard farmers||Despite state government’s arrangement claims, mustard farmers have to stand in queues for long hours to obtain tokens and their turn to sell produce.Amit Lakhlan, a farmer from Bhiwani’s Garwa village, who visited Behal grain market on Friday, said that he had to stand in a queue for nearly three hours to get his token, which is mandatory to sell produce in the mandi.“After that, I sold 25 quintals of mustard at ₹4,425 through a commission agent. The employees working at token counter do not pay heeds to farmers’ demands. Only 100 farmers, who have to stand in the hot sun for hours, are allowed to sell their mustard crop in two shifts in a day,” he added.Vijender from Jind’s Julana said, “Even after you get the token, you can’t sell your crop till it is your turn as per the serial number. This too takes quite a while.”Many farmers come in advance to get the token and bring their produce to the mandi later on, Vijender added.Meanwhile, commission agents highlighted the shortage of gunny bags and transportation facilities before the state agriculture minister JP Dalal during his visit to the grain market on Friday.However, the minister later said that some agents were deliberately indulging in politics.“The farmers and commission agents have been helping the administration and the government in the procurement process. A few concerns that arhtiyas and farmers have raised will be resolved soon,” he told media persons in Jhajjar.However, a video that surfaced on the internet showed police and mandi officials struggling to maintain social distancing as large gathering of farmers, commission agents and other officials could be seen during the minister’s visit to the Jhajjar mandi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/queues-at-token-window-long-wait-in-sun-irk-haryana-mustard-farmers/story-wyPOaOWd3VUhia5JMUVRxH.html
17-04-2020||City||Covid-19 cases surpass 200 in Punjab, 16 more test +ve||Jalandhar/Patiala/Ludhiana/Ferozepur: Punjab on Friday reported 16 new coronavirus cases, taking the total in the state to 215. Seven cases have been reported in Jalandhar, three in Ludhiana, four in Patiala and one each in Ferozepur and Mohali.Seven more fresh cases, including an eight-year-old girl and a one-year-old boy, were reported in Jalandhar on Friday, said Dr TPS Sandhu, district nodal officer for Covid-19. With this, the count of coronavirus patients has reached 38, including two deaths. Four patients have recovered so far. Health officials said the new patients are mother, eight-year-old daughter and one-year-old nephew of 40-year-old patient from the Raja Garden area and 24-year-old youth, who is close contact of 55-year-old women patient from the Purani Sabzi Mandi area, 24-year-old youth of the Neelamahal area, a close contact of corona positive Congress leader and two granddaughters of a 70-year-old patient from Basti Danishmanda. Health officials said a total 779 samples were collected till Friday in Jalandhar of which 573 tested negative and results of 153 samples are awaited. The district administration has started the sealing of the Neelamahal area in the city.Health officials say 23 cases have been reported in the district since April 11.Nearly 30% of the 215 positive cases in Punjab have been reported in the Doaba region, which lies between the Beas and Sutlej rivers.LUDHIANA ACP’S WIFE, TWO COPS INFECTED In Ludhiana, wife of Covid-19 patient assistant commissioner of police (ACP North) tested positive while the report of their son came negative. Besides, two cops who are contacts of the ACP --- a woman sub-inspector, SHO at Basti Jodhewal police station, and a constable who was ACP’s driver --- also tested positive for the virus. The ACP’s driver, a resident of Wara Bhai Ka village, tested positive in Ferozepur. Ferozepur deputy commissioner Kulwant Singh said the constable had returned to his native village on April 14. This is the first case to be reported in the border district. The constable lives with his parents, wife and one-and-a- half-year old son.Besides, the report of Ludhiana district mandi officer also came positive. FOUR CASES IN PATIALA DIST In Patiala, four persons, including a woman, tested positive for coronavirus. With this, the district tally of Covid-19 patients has reached 11. Patiala’s civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said the positive cases include three family members of a book trader, who found positive on Thursday evening. Dr Malhotra said the samples of his 46-year-old wife and two sons (18 and 16) were taken on Thursday. “We have initiated the process of shifting the trio to an isolation ward of government medical college. Moreover, several areas in the interior of the Patiala city have been sealed and sanitisation drive has been started,” he said. Dr Malhotra said another 47-year-old woman from Rajpura tested positive for the virus. “The patient approached Rajpura civil hospital complaining of chest pain. The doctors attending her immediately rushed her to government medical college, where her samples were found to be positive,” he said. The health department has started contact tracing as she did not have any travel history and never came in contact with any Covid-19 patient.ONE MORE CASE IN NAYAGAONA 30-year-old resident of Mohali’s Nayagaon tested positive for Covid-19, taking the count in district to 57. He was working as a safai karamchari in the Covid-19 ward of the PGIMER, Chandigarh.61 CONTACTS OF COVID VICTIM NEGATIVEGURDASPUR: The reports of all 61 contacts of Sansar Singh, 60, of Bhaini Paswal village of Gurdaspur district turned negative. Sansar died of the virus on Thursday at Guru Nanak Hospital, Amritsar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-cases-surpass-200-in-punjab-16-more-test-ve/story-jMYTBtiqilyUKxpP0wbp6K.html
17-04-2020||City||Panchkula cases mount to 17 as two more test positive||The total number of coronavirus cases in Panchkula reached 17 on Friday after a 62-year-old man and a 27-year-old youth from Khuda Baksh village in Pinjore tested positive. The two had attended a Tablighi Jamaat event in Sikar, Rajasthan, taking the count of Jamaat attendees who tested positive to six. The youth is a relative of the 18-year-old boy of the same village, who had tested positive on Thursday night.Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Jasjeet Kaur said the two patients were already under quarantine. As many as 130 persons who had attended Tablighi Jamaat events in different states including Maharashtra and Rajasthan have been quarantined at Nada Sahib and Mouli village in Panchkula.Meanwhile six new cases, also with Tablighi Jammat link, surfaced in Palwal, taking Haryana’s count to 223 on Friday. 21 discharged in stateMeanwhile, the state recorded the highest number of cured patients a day with 21 being discharged. According to the official bulletin, seven are from Palwal, three each from Nuh and Yamunanagar, two each from Faridabad, Karnal and Sirsa and one each from Charkhi Dadri and Jind. As many as 18 of them had Tablighi link.However, there were reports from Ambala of a woman patient being discharged too. She is the relative of a local who had died in Chandigarh and was later tested positive for Covid-19, confirmed Ambala chief medical officer Dr Kuldeep Singh. PVT DOC BOOKED FOR NEGLIGENCEMeanwhile, following the Panchkula CMO’s complaint, police have booked a private doctor in Sector 11 for negligence while dealing with the Covid-19 woman patient from Sector 15.The complaint said in violation of the protocol for initial treatment, the doctor neither informed about the woman, nor refer her to the civil hospital despite detecting a spot in her X-ray report. The doctor had reportedly prescribed the woman antibiotic medication. The woman’s condition had started deteriorating on April 2, but she initially chose to self-medicate. On April 6, she visited the doctor’s clinic in Sector 11 and went to the civil hospital after being referred for a CT scan on April 11. The woman is the prime source of infection of eight other members of her family.A case has been registered against the doctor under Section 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Sector 5 police station. Meanwhile, the local unit of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) condemned the action. In his statement, Dr Ramneek Singh Bedi, vice-chairman IMA Hospital Board of India, said, “All doctors are working hard to combat this disaster. Punishing and blaming a doctor in these times demoralises the whole medical fraternity.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panchkula-cases-mount-to-17-as-two-more-test-positive/story-VHZB6w6753QfxnyhzShmzL.html
17-04-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand HC grants bail to ex-BJP MP, asks him to donate to PM-CARES||The Jharkhand High Court granted bail to former BJP MP Som Marandi and five others in a case of relating to blocking railway tracks during an agitation in 2012, but asked them to deposit Rs 35,000 each to the PM-CARES fund and download the Aarogya Setu app as a condition.Allowing the bail through video-conference on Thursday, the bench of Justice Anubha Rawat Choudhary asked the six accused to provide evidence of the deposit and the download after being released, assistant public prosecuter Rakesh Kumar Sinha said.The court said all the accused are also instructed to abide by the guidelines issued by the Centre and the state government regarding the COVID-19.The five other accused are Vivekanand Tiwari, Amit Agrawal, Hisabi Rai, Sanchay Bardhan and Anugrha Narayan.On March 28, the Centre set up the Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (PM CARES) Fund with the primary objective to deal with any kind of emergency situation like the one currently posed by the COVID-19 outbreak and provide relief to those affected.The government’s Aarogya Setu app alerts people if any known or person in their vicinity has tested positive for coronavirus infection.The accused persons, booked in connection with a “rail roko” agitation staged in March 2012, were arrested in February this year.A GRP court had held them guilty and sentenced them to a year in prison. Later, the sentence was confirmed by a court in Pakur district.They then moved the High Court against the verdict.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/hc-grants-bail-to-ex-bjp-mp-and-5-others-asking-them-to-donate-to-pm-cares/story-o5gaLtLpVZFFnksb3qJtVJ.html
17-04-2020||City||Rain adds to woes of farmers||The untimely drizzle witnessed in parts of Majha since the wee hours of Friday has delayed harvesting and procurement of wheat, adding to worries of farmers. With harvesting already delayed due to prevalence of moisture in the grain, mandis are yet to see normal arrival. Punjab Mandi Board officials said regular arrival was expected after April 20.“The rainfall is mild and will not have a major impact on the crop. However, it would increase moisture. If rain stops in a day or two, it would not cause much damage, but harvesting will be delayed,” said Harinderjit Singh, Amritsar chief agriculture office.Similar weather in Tarn Taran, Gurdaspur and Pathankot — have resulted in a lowering the temperature. At this stage, wheat needs high temperature and dry climate.“Rain is delaying the process. The sky is cloudy, which is a major cause of worry,” said Tejinderpal Singh, a farmer of Rasoolpur village of Tarn Taran. Farmers protest in GurdaspurFarmers protested against wheat procurement norms put in place in the district. Kirti Kisan Union’s state general secretary Satbir Singh claimed under the current system, farmers were required to take his crop for procurement a number of times, which was a waste of effort.Drizzle interrupts harvesting in NabhaHarvesting was interrupted at Kot Kalan, Sadhoheri and Binaheri village in Nabha due to drizzle that lasted an hour. Department of food and civil supplies joint director, Ajayveer Singh Sarao, inspected arrangements at the Nabha grain market. — With inputs from Kamaljit Singh Kamal and Mohit Singla Overcast conditions will impede procurement: PAU Mohit KhannaMohit.khanna@htlive.comAdvising state’s farmers to avoid rushing to the grain market amid overcast conditions and rain, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) has said farmers were better-off in ensuring that the crop stayed dry, by staying home. Admitting that overcast weather will impede procurement, the varsity’s extension education department has said farmers must be patient. “These are tough times. Covid -19 has hit all sectors. Due to paucity of labour, harvesting is getting delayed. There would be instances of rejection of crop due to over-ripening. Farmers are advised to show restraint and cooperate with procurement agencies,” said director, extension education, JS Mahal. New DSR technique could be handyThe varsity has also developed a new Direct Seeded Rice (DSR) technique. PAU senior agronomist MS Bhullar said the technique was developed after three years of research and was successfully tested in fields last year. In this, the field is first laser-leveled followed by pre-sowing (rauni) irrigation and its preparation when it reaches tar-wattar (good soil moisture) condition. Rice is sown immediately with a tractor-operated Lucky Seed Drill that simultaneously sprays herbicide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rain-adds-to-woes-of-farmers/story-gGpeXq8B4FA4wT7S17QrhI.html
17-04-2020||City||Asked to take their belongings away from hostel rooms by tomorrow, students write to Punjab CM||AMRITSAR Amritsar deputy commissioner (DC) Shivdular Singh Dhillon’s move to convert hostels of Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) here into Covid-19 care centres have left the hostellers in lurch as they have been asked to take their belongings away from their rooms by Sunday.Apart from converting the Government Meritorious School and hostels of Global Institutes and Amritsar College of Engineering, four girls’ hostels and three boys’ hostels are going to be used as Covid-19 Care Centre.Some hostellers told HT that they have been told over phone by respective wardens to vacate the rooms completely by Sunday. “After hearing this news, there is a panic among students about their belongings in the hostel rooms. In this epidemic situation we are unable to come to the hostels to collect our belongings,” said a law student hailing from Haryana.In a letter written by some students to Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, it is stated, “Thousands of students residing in the university hostels are from other states. Many students have left their important documents in hostels and there are chances of these documents getting misplaced and if this happens, who will be responsible?”In a tweet to the CM and the Punjab DGP, a girl student said, “Students are asked to take away their belongings by Sunday else it (sic) will be sealed by hostel authorities themselves. It is clear violation of privacy. Help us please”.Another student said, “There would be risk to the health of students if Covid-19 patients are isolated in the hostels and any virus remains there despite sanitisation”. Notably, some research scholars are still staying in their hostels. They have been asked to vacate the hostel immediately, which is not possible for them amid the lockdown.Dhillon said, “We have asked the GNDU to constitute a committee to supervise the removal of students’ belongings from the rooms with proper videography in case they are not able to come. These can be placed in a big hall.”“Many students have taken away their belongings. We have constituted a committee under the supervision of dean (students welfare) to shift the belongings from the hostels to a place where these will be secured.The students who are unable to come need not worry,” said Karanjit Singh Kahlon, GNDU registrar.He added, “We have not asked research scholars to vacate the hostel rooms.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/asked-to-take-their-belongings-away-from-hostel-rooms-by-tomorrow-students-write-to-punjab-cm/story-pLGzru0Nc1Bag2mdtFFB9I.html
17-04-2020||Ranchi||‘Give our pocket money to PM uncle’: 2 minor kids donate 2k to PM-CARES||Gumla Deputy Commissioner Shashi Ranjan was busy in his office when he noticed that two little girls were seeking permission to enter his chamber.After being allowed, they came in and one of them haltingly said, “Sir, hamare pocket money PM uncle ko bhej dijiye (Please send our pocket money to the PM uncle).” Accompanied by their father Shankar Mishra, five- year-old Shreyanshi and 8-year-old Priyanshi visited the DC on Friday and donated Rs 2,440 - the pocket money they have saved together - to fight the COVID-19 outbreak.“I am proud of these two children. This is a good initiative and an imitable work,” the DC said, adding that he has sent the money to the PM-CARES fund.Talking about his daughters, Mishra said, “The girls had some money... whatever they have got from us and my parents. When they saw the prime minister’s appeal on TV to donate money during this crisis, they brought out their savings and evinced the desire to give it to the PM uncle.” Trainee IAS officer Manish Kumar, who was present when the girls handed over the money to the DC, said, “It is a proud moment for all of us and their initiative is inspirational.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/give-our-pocket-money-to-pm-uncle-2-minor-kids-donate-2k-to-pm-cares/story-Qj9rVSn2G6TjJv4qBwq2cN.html
17-04-2020||City||‘Zoom app unsafe’: Ludhiana education dept, schools switch to WhatsApp||After the ministry of home affairs (MHA) asked government officials not to use Zoom video meet app for holding meetings citing it unsafe, the district education officer, secondary, has also switched to WhatsApp conference calling. According to the ministry, the software of the US-based app is said to be made in China and is prone to hacking as some calls are routed through the eastern Asian country. For the past three weeks amid the lockdown, the officials have been holding meetings with school heads and teachers through Zoom app. After the MHA’s direction, even the schools have stopped holding online classes through the app and are sending the assignments and recorded videos to the students through WhatsApp.However, many teachers are of the view that WhatsApp is not as useful as Zoom. Zoom conference allowed them to hold online classes for a batch of 30 to 40 students for two to three hours, however, it is not possible with WhatsApp, which allows maximum of four people to go live at one point of time, they rued. Ishita Sharma, a private school teacher, said, “I teach Class 8 and 9 students. I used to take three-hour session with the students through Zoom app and was even able to clear their doubts. It allowed us to cover the syllabus conveniently. Now that we have switched to WhatsApp, we are recording the lectures and replying to the queries of students through the messaging app. This is time-consuming and not very useful. There is a need to come up with a new software or app, which is totally safe to use.”District education officer (DEO), secondary, Swaranjit Kaur, said, “To interact with school principals, I have been holding meetings with them through Zoom app since March 23. I have now switched to WhatsApp conference call after the ministry’s guideline.”Principal of Green Land Senior Secondary School, Jalandhar Bypass, Baldeep Pandher, said, “A few teachers were using Zoom app for holding online classes, but not so actively. Majority of them were already using similar Microsoft software. Now that the hacking concern has come to the fore, we will discontinue the use of this software for online classes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/zoom-app-unsafe-ludhiana-education-dept-schools-switch-to-whatsapp/story-Yifv6ONTgfUYcsGsUaPAlL.html
17-04-2020||Chandigarh||Army launches search operation for missing jawan in Himachal Pradesh||The army on Friday launched search and rescue operations for a jawan who slipped and fell into the Satluj while negotiating a crossing near the Line of Actual Control(LAC) in Kinnaur district of Himachal Pardesh.Havildar Prakash Ralla of Tripeak Brigade was part of a patrolling party. The party immediately launched search operations and was later joined by around 200 persons of the unit.“The operations are being carried out despite challenges of increasing water levels, high silt content, water current and presence of large boulders in the river. Quadcopters, reconnaissance, observation helicopters as also specially-trained divers from special forces and engineer task forces are undertaking the operations,” an official spokesperson said.The efforts are being coordinated with the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), Border Roads Organisation (BRO) and Karcham Dam authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/army-launches-search-operation-for-missing-jawan-in-himachal-pradesh/story-SPtotSzr5w1rdNY1F8kB6K.html
17-04-2020||Chandigarh||Five arrested in four cases for smuggling liquor in Chandigarh||Five people were arrested and 36 cases of whiskey, two cases of beer and seven bottles of countrymade liquor were seized from them in four separate incidents, on Thursday.In the first case, the crime branch of Chandigarh Police arrested Deepak Kumar, 33, a resident of Ruda Bhagthana village in Gurdaspur district, Punjab, and recovered 35 cases of whiskey from his Indigo car, near Mauli Jagran’s Booth Market.Meanwhile, Alok, a resident of Vikas Nagar in Mauli Jagran was arrested with two cases of beer from behind the Mauli Jagran community centre.Also, Naresh Kumar, a resident of Sector 40, Chandigarh, and Mangal, a resident of Kangra in Himachal Pradesh, were arrested with a case of whiskey from the Sector-38D market and Baljeet from Jhujhar Nagar, Mohali, was arrested with seven bottles of countrymade liquor near the cremation ground in Maloya.All five were booked under the Excise Act and later, let out on bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/five-arrested-in-four-cases-for-smuggling-liquor-in-chandigarh/story-G8wLG7IWo4tBV9g8anaNvO.html
17-04-2020||City||Sikh Federation member dies in UK due to Covid-19||JALANDHAR Mandeep Singh, a member of Sikh Federation UK, died due to Covid-19 at Leicester city in the United Kingdom on Thursday evening.Mandeep, 46, who hailed from Chitti village of Jalandhar district, ran construction business in Leicester and was associated with various gurdwaras there. Varinder Singh, chairman of Gurdwara Guru Teg Bahadur, Leicester, told HT over phone that Mandeep got infected with coronavirus in the last week of March and was shifted to a hospital in Leicester two weeks ago. He was on ventilator and breathed his last late Thursday evening.He is survived by his parents, wife and two sons.Mandeep moved to the UK in 1993 and established his business. Gurjit Samra, spokesperson for Sikh Federation UK, said that Mandeep remained on the front foot in the community fund-raiser functions. “He was a very nice person and an asset to the community.” Claudia Webbe, member of parliament from Leicester East, tweeted, “So sad to learn of the #Coronavirus death of Mandeep Singh Chitte. He’d been a huge support to me. My thoughts are with his family, friends & loved ones. He did so much for the community, so gentle, so kind and well respected amongst @SikhFedUK of Leicester-this is a massive loss.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sikh-federation-member-dies-in-uk-due-to-covid-19/story-zGJRuVXJx4t3oAIjTZYjjL.html
17-04-2020||City||Challan those moving around without masks: Capt to police||CHANDIGARH Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Friday ordered strict enforcement of the government regulation on compulsory wearing of masks at public places and asked the police to challan all those found moving around without masks.Chairing a video conference to review the Covid-19 situation in the state, the CM made it clear that every citizen would have to mandatorily wear a mask when stepping out of home in order the check the spread of the deadly pandemic. He also issued strict directives for protection of all employees on the frontline of Covid-19 duty, including health, agriculture, police and revenue department staff, in the light of the death of a kanungo.Additional chief secretary (ACS) Vini Mahajan, who heads the procurement committee for Covid-19 related purchases, said that out of the 4.5 lakh personal protective equipment (PPE) kits ordered by the state, 26,500 have been received and 3,0000 more are expected to come by next week. There is sufficient stock of masks, gloves etc, she added.The CM said there could be no compromise on the lives of the people and the government’s priority continues to be on saving and protecting the citizens of Punjab. “I can get a factory started again but cannot bring a Punjabi back to life,” he said.Amarinder directed the health department to launch rapid testing in all the 24 containment zones of the state. Four Punjab districts (Jalandhar, Pathankot, SBS Nagar and Mohali) have been declared hotspot districts by the Union health ministry.10,000 RAPID TESTING KITS RECEIVED FROM ICMRVini Mahajan said the state on Friday received 10,000 rapid diagnostic kits (RDKs) from Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The 10,000 kits ordered from private vendors are expected to start arriving from Saturday.Of the 527 rapid tests conducted with the 1,000 kits received earlier from ICMR, 7 were found negative, she said, adding that all these tests were conducted in Jalandhar and Mohali.Regarding the high mortality rate in the state, former PGIMER director KK Talwar said it was on account of higher prevalence of comorbidities/high risk factors in the state, as well as the higher footfall of international tourists/NRIs, among other factors.Principal secretary (health) Anurag Aggarwal said the department was putting all 24 containment zones in the state on the COVA app. The number of ventilators in government medical colleges is being ramped from 102 to 220, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/challan-those-moving-around-without-masks-capt-to-police/story-g0KdYKjAVSQo7d3oKEUodM.html
17-04-2020||City||HC asks Nabha Jail authorities to examine new inmates for Covid-19||CHANDIGARH The Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday directed the superintendent of Nabha Jail in Patiala to ensure that new inmates are medically examined and kept segregated from others for a period of 14 days so as to rule out any chance of spread of Covid-19 infection. The directive came from the high court bench of justice Gurvinder Singh Gill in response to a bail petition of three Nabha jail inmates who are accused of having caused loss to state exchequer to the tune of Rs 20 crore by evasion of payment of goods and services tax. A complaint against them was lodged in November 2019 in Fatehgarh Sahib.The bail was primarily sought on account of the prevalant conditions of spread of Covid-19 virus. It was also argued that the apex court on March 23 had asked all states to take steps to decongest jails so as to prevent spread of Covid-19.The high court dismissed their plea observing that the move certainly cannot be treated as a windfall for all the prisoners even when there is no imminent threat or apprehension of spread of pandemic within the jail premises.The court further observed that after imposition of lockdown, everything has come to a grinding halt and even the inflow offresh inmates would have been drastically reduced. “Since it is more than 3 weeks after the lockdown was imposed, the number of fresh entrants in the jail would be minimal,” the court said, further taking note of the submissions from the state’s counsel that there is no congestion in Nabha Jail and that the number of inmates is less than the capacity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hc-asks-nabha-jail-authorities-to-examine-new-inmates-for-covid-19/story-4Sh25WP6fG3gNpUDpqasfK.html
17-04-2020||Patna||Bihar fears community transmission after two deaths in 24 hours||A 35-year-old COVID-19 patient man, also suffering from multiple ailments, died here on Friday raising the coronavirus pandemic death toll in Bihar to two. Following the death of the adjacent Vaishali district’s man here in AIIMS, Patna, the adjoining district administration said the deceased had no travel history and feared that his testing positive could be indicative of community transmission of the virus. The death marks the second COVID-19 casualty in Bihar. A 38-year-old from Munger had died on March 21, a day before his test reports confirmed him to be coronavirus-infected. The Vaishali man, who died in AIIMS here, was also suffering from numerous complications besides having tested positive for COVID 19, Patna AIIMS Director Prabhat Kumar Singh told PTI-Bhasha. According to sources in the health department, the deceased belonged to Raghopur panchayat falling under Vaishali district and suffered from tuberculosis, typhoid, brain fever and several other illnesses. Before being referred to AIIMS, Patna he was admitted to a private hospital here, which has been sealed, and its occupants quarantined, after he tested positive two days ago. Vaishali District Magistrate Udita Singh said, the deceased had no travel history. After falling ill, he had visited Samastipur and, later, Patna for treatment. Given the circumstances, his testing positive raises the probability of community transmission. Accordingly, instructions have been issued to strictly enforce lockdown in the district. The area within a radius of three kilometers from the village of the deceased has been made a containment zone wherein entry and egress has been banned and all essential supplies were being made by the administration, which was also carrying out sanitization of the zone, she added. More than 60 samples, of people who may have come in contact with the deceased, have been sent for testing. None has reported positive so far, she said. The deceased happened to be the lone case reported from Vaishali district, which is among the 13 out of 38 in Bihar where people have tested COVID-19 positive. Siwan and Munger districts have reported maximum cases of infection. At least 83 people have tested positive for the dreaded coronavirus in the state so far. Of these, 37 have recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-fears-community-transmission-after-two-deaths-in-24-hours/story-GMMj5RyQD8N82eNCPEu7nM.html
17-04-2020||Patna||Bihar allows eateries, restaurants along highways to operate from April 20||The Bihar government on Friday allowed the opening of eateries, restaurants and hotels along the highways in the state from April 20 in order to serve drivers and other transport workers of goods vehicles, officials said.Certain conditions will be imposed on opening the roadside eateries, restaurants and hotels, Transport Departments Secretary Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said.District Magistrates, Senior Superintendents of Police, Superintendents of Police have been informed about the decision that was taken after a meeting of the Crisis Management Group, he said.The decision was taken so that those involved in transporting goods do not face any problem in getting food, he added.Roadside eateries, located at least at a distance of 10 km from the district headquarters, will be allowed to function, Agarwal said, adding that the district administrations will decide where these joints will be allowed to operate.Stating that social distancing and sanitation must be ensured at the outlets, he said that there will be no sitting arrangements and the workers will have to have food inside their vehicles.Besides, patrolling will be done at these outlets to ensure that locals don’t misuse them and food inspectors will also carry out checks from time to time, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-allows-eateries-restaurants-along-highways-to-operate-from-april-20/story-UTCEs1TnUSWv0OpDWIOdyN.html
17-04-2020||Lucknow||Second corona death in Meerut||A corona patient died during treatment at Covid hospital of Meerut medical college late on Thursday. He was the second corona patient to have died in the district. Earlier on April 1, a 72-year-old Covid-19 patient had died here. Giving this information on Friday, district surveillance officer Dr Vishwas Choudhary said the 57-year-old patient, who was admitted to the hospital for respiratory disorder on Saturday, belonged to Jali Kothi area from where four cases of corona were found positive. The patient complained of nausea late on Thursday and passed away a little later. As per Choudhary, the man got infected after coming into contact with a ‘Jamaati’ who had stayed in a mosque situated in the area.His body was immediately packed as per the protocol and handed over to relatives who buried it in the night, he added.Meerut district has reported 68 corona positive cases so far. Of them, two died and 14 were discharged after they recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/second-corona-death-in-meerut/story-ILfDC4JZAonPo3FpxVSKkK.html
17-04-2020||City||Covid-19 puts desilting of drains, sewer lines on hold||New Delhi: A severe shortage of labourers owing to the Covid-19 outbreak in the city has put essential maintenance and repair works — such as desilting of drains and sewer lines — in the city on hold. Work on desilting of drains and sewer lines — an important part of the monsoon preparedness plan of the government and the civic bodies — usually begins by March end and is completed by the first week of June. Major drains across the city are cleaned by the Public Works Department (PWD), while drains laid alongside internal roads and lanes are cleared by the municipalities. Officials of the PWD and civic bodies confirmed that desilting process of drains across the city is yet to start because of lack of adequate workforce.All the agencies have to finish desilting of drains by the first week of June before the monsoon sets in the city.A senior PWD official said that the lack of availability of labourers have delayed the process, which should have begun by the end of last month.“Normally the desilting process of big drains take around 2.5 months. We keep two deadlines for the process, May 31 and June 15, to ensure that drains are cleaned before monsoon hits the city. But this year the process is yet to begin due to restrictions amid the pandemic that is raging in the city and the resultant scarcity of workforce,” the official said.According to PWD officials, the department manages around 1,700km length of drains along 1,260km of road across 17 divisions in the city. The officials said that around 1,200-1,500 labourers are engaged every year in the desilting process. This year, the workforce has drastically gone down.“Our estimates say that the workforce has gone down by over 50%. Contractors are unable to bring labourers as they have gone to their hometowns due to the pandemic. Many of those who had gone to their villages in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar to celebrate Holi have refused to return. Hence, getting labourers for the desilting process is a tough task. We are hoping that things will become normal after May 3,” the PWD official said.He added that after April 20, the department will ask details from contractors about the available workforce and start issuing curfew passes to start the desilting work.A similar problem of scarcity of labourers is being faced by the civic bodies too. They also have departmental staff for desilting purposes who at present are involved in Covid-19 control measures. The municipalities, however, said they might start desilting process from next week.South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) mayor Sunita Kangra said all her staff is engaged in Covid-19 related duties but still the corporation would float tenders for desilting process next week.“Labourers are not available in the city and our departmental staff ,such as sanitation and DBC workers, are busy in spraying disinfectants along with collection and transportation of garbage from containment areas. Even the machines — such as jetting machine, lifters, tippers — are engaged in Covid-19 related work. So desilting process couldn’t be started. We will float a tender next week and try to complete the process before June,” she said.Avtar Singh, mayor North Delhi Municipal Corporation, said that small drains are being cleaned but that is not enough. “I will convene a meeting with the municipal officials and the sanitation employees later this week to discuss the issue. Hopefully we will start desilting process properly from next week,” Singh said.A senior official of the East Delhi Municipal Corporation said, “We are not only short on workforce but are also cash strapped. We are working with limited staff as sanitation employees above 55 years age are on leave due to safety reasons.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-puts-desilting-of-drains-sewer-lines-on-hold/story-QLF746rY0EjZJBevRICAmM.html
17-04-2020||City||PAU suggests direct seeding of rice to address labour pangs||Amid the labour shortage due to coronavirus outbreak, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) has suggested a new direct seeding of rice (DSR) technique to address the issue during rice transplantation season.PAU senior agronomist MS Bhullar informed that the technique was successfully tested on large fields last year.In DSR, the field is first laser levelled, followed by pre-sowing (rauni) irrigation and preparation of the field when it reaches tar-water (good soil moisture) condition. Rice is then sown with a tractor operated lucky seed drill (LSD), which also sprays herbicide at the same time. “In case the machine is not available, paddy could be sown with the help of rice seed drill having inclined plate metering mechanism and herbicide could be sprayed immediately,” said Bhullar.For herbicide spray, he suggested to dissolve one litre stomp/bunker 30 EC (pendimethalin) in 200 litre of water for one acre area. Use 8 to 10kg seed for one acre and imbibe rice seed in water for 8 hours and then dry in the shade, he said. “Before sowing, treat rice seed with 3g sprint 75 WS (mencozeb + carbendazim) by dissolving in 10-12 ml water per kg seed, make paste of fungicide solution and rub on the seed. Apply first irrigation at 21 days after sowing and schedule succeeding irrigations as per monsoon rains,” the agronomist said.As weather is sweltering during June and evaporation is also high, the delayed first irrigation under this technique saves lot of water. Besides, it also reduces weed problem and helps roots of rice penetrate deeper, reducing incidence of nutrient deficiency, especially iron. Furthermore, with the new DSR technique, rice can be directly seeded into medium to heavy textured soils (sandy loam, loam, clay loam, silt loam), which accounts for 87% area of the state.Also, the profit generated from rice sown with the new technique is at par with the rice transplanted in a puddle field. Asking farmers to prefer short duration rice varieties for direct seeding, Bhullar urged them to adopt this technique and bring rice area under direct seeding during first fortnight of June, before beginning rice transplantation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pau-suggests-direct-seeding-of-rice-to-address-labour-pangs/story-idWVOmo2ounWgpmGOHpzWN.html
17-04-2020||City||Mohali residents face difficulty disposing daily garbage amid lockdown||Despite the best efforts of the municipal corporation (MC) officials, residents of various sectors and housing societies here have complained that they are facing difficulty in daily garbage disposal amid lockdown due to the coronavirus outbreak.“We are trying our best to clear the areas of waste, but the only issue is the shortage of manpower as workers are scared of the deadly virus,” said the officials.The president of ATS society in Kharar, Rajan Kapoor, said, “Since the announcement of the curfew, the residents have been facing an issue of waste disposal. We are now using a nearby dumping site to throw garbage generated by our society.”Adding to this, another resident of the same society, Atul Gupta, said, “The garbage dump has started smelling bad and has also become a breeding ground for mosquitoes.”A resident of Sector 69 here, Shiv Dutta, said that no garbage collector had visited the sector in the past two weeks. “Residents of the area have to dispose of daily waste at the nearby Safai Sehaj Kendras,” he said.What MC says?Mohali MC commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg said, the work of garbage collection is outsourced and the department had already directed the persons concerned to collect the garbage daily. He said the problem is arising as the garbage collectors are themselves scared of coronavirus.A similar problem is being faced by people living in the Maya Garden Colony at Zirakpur where the garbage collectors visit the area only once or twice a week. On the days when the waste is not lifted by the collectors, it becomes difficult to manage the heaps as stray dogs come and scatter the waste and litter the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-residents-face-difficulty-disposing-daily-garbage-amid-lockdown/story-9zbI2FjdLIQHYFUHsapsdJ.html
17-04-2020||Delhi||Log in to a new literary life in times of corona||New Delhi:Recently, when his publisher requested Vinod Kumar Shukla, 83, one of the veterans of Hindi literature, whose several novels have been translated into English, to do a Facebook live session, the reclusive writer agreed, though apprehensively. “I like to convey my ideas through my books, not by speaking on social media. In fact, I do not even have a Facebook page,” says the Sahitya Akademi Award-winning writer.The Raipur-based writer finally went live with the help of his son on the social media page of his Delhi-based publisher, talking about his journey as a writer, how he spends his time during the lockdown, and ending the live session by reading from one of his poetry books. Shukla now feels that technology can really help writers like him, who find it difficult to travel, have meaningful conversations with their readers. “ I generally do not attend literary events and have not travelled for many years, but it was great to have been able to speak to my readers. I do not mind another live Facebook session.”Shukla is one of over 60 writers, including Mridula Garg, Mrinal Pande, Javed Akhtar , among others, who, in the past three weeks have attended StayAtHomeWithRajkamal—a series of Facebook live sessions organized by Rajkamal Prakashan , one of the country’s biggest Hindi publishers. With all modes of public transport suspended and gatherings barred to stave off the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), Delhi’s literary life has moved online. These days one can come across literary festivals, book readings, conversations with authors, creative writing workshops and even occasional book launches happening online on Instagram and Facebook, Twitter, YouTube and Zoom.The Jaipur Literary Festival ( JLF) -- one of the most popular and high-profile events in India’s literary calendar -- recently rolled out what it calls ‘Brave New World,’ a series of online conversations, where writers from across the globe speak on their books, globalisation, the pandemics, celebrity, sexism, and power, and a host of other issues.The authors featuring in the series, which goes live on JLF’s social media platforms on Wednesday, Saturday and Sunday-- include top-notch names such as Siddhartha Mukherjee , Tina Brown, Peter Carey, Pico Iyer, Jhumpa Lahiri, among others. These online conversations are garnering thousands of views.“JLF is a platform for ideas and conversations. During the coronavirus pandemic, when the borders are closed and the idea of de-globalisation is gaining ground, it is important that the ideas and knowledge continue to be shared across borders,” says Sanjoy Roy, MD, Teamwork Arts, which produces Jaipur Literature Festival, and is also organising the series.How difficult was it to get such a stellar line-up of writers online? “In fact, it is often more difficult to get writers to Jaipur Literary Festival. All of them readily agreed to be part of these live sessions, because it allowed them to engage with their readers from the comfort of their homes in different parts of the world, ” says Roy. “Online literary events can draw much larger audiences than is possible in an off-line event.”Satyanand Nirupam, editorial director, Rajkamal Prakashan, says their online literary conversations have presented a good opportunity to several writers who do not get invited to conventional literary festivals. “Generally, you get to see almost the same set of writers at all the lit fests getting invited year after year. Online events are changing that; we have already done live sessions with several writers who never before spoke at a literary event,” says Nirupam.“Not all the writers, especially the older ones we requested to do live session with, are tech savvy and we had to involve their younger relatives. But even those who had never heard of Facebook live are now getting tech-savvy, and it will help them communicate with their readers more often,” adds Nirupam. “People want to hear and see more and more writers during the lockdown. Considering the excitement and the people’s response, we can carry on our live events for a year. But we will surely continue it till the lockdown is over. ”Many publishers are also running online literary festivals –Penguin , for example, is runningOnceUponABookWithPenguin ; Harper Collins India is organising ‘Reset’, live conversations with authors; and Juggernaut has launched ReadInstead LitFest, an online literary festival featuring conversations, workshops, masterclasses, writers’ bookshelves, among others. The schedule for most of these events is published online a week in advance. Both JLF’s ‘Brave New World’ and ‘ReadInstead’ have also sessions on coronavirus crisis. On Saturday, JLF’s event---“ Corona Chronicles: The past, present and future of pandemics”--- saw Siddhartha Mukherjee and Peter Frankopan in a live conversation.ReadInstead features a creative writing workshop by Amitabha Bagchi , the winner of the DSC Prize for South Asian Literature 2019 for his novel ‘Half the Night is Gone’.“I was quite surprised to find that a fairly technical workshop about the fine points of literary prose received so many views and got such good feedback,” says Bagchi. “Under the lockdown, the possibilities for digital interaction have been opened up for the literary culture, and these possibilities will remain and hopefully even flourish later. This is extremely important, especially for literary fiction writers such as myself whose audience is dispersed widely.”Talking of ReadInstead initiative, Chikki Sarkar, publisher, Juggernaut Books, says, “Getting people reading is at the heart of what we do and we also believe there is nothing like reading to focus your mind, and for you to learn and grow from. The idea behind ReadInstead was to remind people and get them excited to read and think about books and writers,” says Sarkar. “For us there has been one major learning. We have underused video as a tool to communicate with our readers. From now, you’ll see a permanent lit fest across juggernaut social.”In fact, not just lit-fests, a few online book launches were also organised online during the lockdown. For example, Polis Project, a New York-based non-profit, planned an online release of the book ‘His Father’s Disease’, a collection of short stories by Aruni Kashyap, a well-known, award-winning writer from Assam, who writes both in English and Assamese. The event, streamed live on Twitter, saw the writer in conversation with Suchitra Vijayan , founder, the Polis Project.“This event was originally scheduled in New York City, but because of the current crisis, we decided to have it online. Of course, I would have loved to travel to the city and meet my host personally, but this is the best alternative that we have. This was a new experience for me and I think even when we return to normal times, we should have more such conversations and book-talks online (not book launches, though) to hear from writers who don’t have the privilege to travel,” says Kashyap.And what does the spurt in online literary activities during the coronavirus lockdown mean for literature? “Not just online, people have returned to the book format. I spent the first few days of lockdown watching movies and television series, but after a while, it got extremely exhausting and boring and I returned to what I love best: reading. This is true even for people who don’t read regularly and I believe the lockdown has made us realise what we value most: books, company, family, friends, loved ones,” says Kashyap. “This is good news for literature. It reminds us that the book will never die. As long as the human curiosity of “what happens next” exists, literature will thrive”.Bagchi though has a different take. “My heart hopes that the people who have picked up books at this time when the movie theatres and restaurants and nightclubs are shut will stay with books after they reopen. But my mind says that most of them will probably not. Nonetheless, if they carry with them the memory of some books they read in this time, that’s not a bad thing either,” says Bagchi. “Today, even apart from the pandemic, our nation is at a critical juncture and we need people who have had the experience of reading and reflecting. So if this lockdown helps more people learn the pleasures and benefits of reading, it will have served an important, if unintended, purpose.”Aditya Sharma, a Delhi-based author, feels that the ongoing online events will help make literature more accessible to common people who otherwise do not attend literary events. “ People are searching for their favourite books and authors online like never before. Eventually, the growing online literary activities under the lockdown would help boost books culture in the country.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/log-in-to-a-new-literary-life-in-times-of-corona/story-BtlBpumYMnhLEMENjUxvSP.html
17-04-2020||Lucknow||UP govt issues order on relaxation in some sectors||Taking forward its previous announcements about partial resumption in certain essential and commercial sectors, the Uttar Pradesh government has decided to allow a large number of activities to restart from April 20, but with the rider that Covid-19 precaution protocol, including social distancing, must be adhered to.Chief secretary Rajendra Kumar Tiwari on Thursday night issued an order to all divisional commissioners, district magistrates and senior police officers concerned, detailing what will remain prohibited or what will allowed till the extended lockdown date of May 3.In the order, Tiwari separately listed all the activities and services that would resume from April 20.According to the order, critical care and emergencies in identified hospitals with the use of N-95 masks, PPE (personal protection equipment) and social distancing would resume. Telemedicine, tele-consultancy, dispensaries, chemists, pharmacies, Jan Aushadhi Kendras and medical equipment shops will be allowed to function, the order said.The government also allowed pharmaceutical and medical research labs and Covid-19 related research centres to function.For animal care, veterinary hospitals, medicine shops, pathology and vaccine centres would restart.Hospital and medical services related to supply-chain will become functional as well.The order also says: “Medical, nursing, para-medics veterinary services doctors-paramedics, medical technicians, midwives, ambulance can move anywhere in the state or outside for their services.” “All agriculture and horticulture activities, all agencies engaged in procurement of farm produce, mandis, FPO (farmers’ producers companies), movement of agriculture machinery, their repair and spare parts outlets, fertiliser, insecticides, pesticides, seed centres, fisheries, milk production, selling, processing; poultry farms, hatcheries and animal husbandry activities,” are allowed after April 20. Goods carrier services, transport of essential items are also permitted, according to the order. Construction work of expressways, highways, irrigation projects and buildings related to industrial projects outside Nagar Nigam areas would also resume, the order said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-govt-issues-order-on-relaxation-in-some-sectors/story-0hBAsutRjDDBgiqG8720PP.html
17-04-2020||Lucknow||Alert citizens make a point in corona battle||Their concern for the nation’s welfare overrides their personal interests and inhibitions. Bucking the trend of those hiding travel history details amid the Covid-19 outbreak, a few alert citizens have stepped forward to volunteer for medical examination and go for quarantine so that others don’t get infected. Police have announced they will honour such people with the Alert Citizen award.Take the case of Mohd Hamid, a preacher from Deoria who says he left his home district in November and visited several places for work ever since. “I went to Delhi from Hardoi on March 18 and then came to Lucknow on March 21. I visited a religious congregation at the Aminabad mosque (in the state capital) before calling my son, who lives here,” he recalls. The Janta Curfew was observed on March 22. The next day, some mosques were sealed as some infected persons were found in Delhi and some other places, he says.“I called a policeman and informed him about my travel to Delhi and then the Lucknow mosque. He got me medically examined and put in a quarantine centre after I tested negative. Since I had met my son and daughter-in-law, they are also in quarantine. I urge other people to come out on their own. This is the only remedy to save ourselves as well as others,” he says.Then, there is Gomtinagar’s Yash, who was studying in London and arrived in India on March 18 amid the Covid-19 outbreak.“I was aware of what’s happening around. When I reached home here, I felt some symptoms like cough and cold. The next day, I went to hospital and apprised them about my travel history,” he says.He was medically examined. Although he tested negative, he was put in quarantine as a precautionary measure. “I was in hospital and came back home on April 6,” he says. “I think this is the right thing to do instead of waiting for the infection to be severe or for others to get infected,” he adds.Joint commissioner of police (JCP), Law and Order, Naveen Arora has advised members of the Tablighi Jamaat and those who have come in contact with them to come forward for medical examination. “Tablighi Jamaat member or those who have come in contact with them should go for quarantine and call 0522-2780880, 8005192677,” he says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/alert-citizens-make-a-point-in-corona-battle/story-AxqiQyZHhhzDjWlGj7h8SN.html
17-04-2020||City||Now, Ludhiana residents can order essentials from police canteen||The city police have allowed online delivery of essential items from police canteen to ensure that the city residents have access to grocery, vegetables and fruits at affordable price amid the lockdown. The residents can only place online orders from the canteen at police lines through food delivery applications, such as Zomato and Swiggy. Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, headquarters) Deepak Pareek said the police were buying quality potatoes and onions from wholesale market. “The canteen is selling 5kg packs of potatoes and 3kg packs of onions at wholesale price for the general public,” he said.He said police were also procuring quality grocery and other essential items from the market at discounted rates and selling them to residents on no-loss, no-profit basis.“Apart from maintaining law and order in the city, the police are also performing social duty. We are receiving hundreds of calls on police control number from distressed people. The police are providing every possible help to them. The department is also providing free ration to needy, who have nothing to eat,” Pareek added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/now-ludhiana-residents-can-order-essentials-from-police-canteen/story-i9IwzuW5Zrn4ruVoRvTq9M.html
17-04-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana miffed over PGIMER’s refusal to admit critical patient from P’kula||The Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER)’s refusal to admit a critical coronavirus patient from Panchkula two days ago has reportedly not gone down well with the Haryana health authorities.On Wednesday, a 44-year-old woman from Sector 15 in Panchkula had developed respiratory distress, forcing the district’s chief medical officer (CMO), Jasjeet Kaur, to approach the PGIMER for immediately shifting her to the premier institute in Chandigarh.The CMO said the PGIMER doctors declined the request, stating that there were clear cut directions from the UT authorities to only admit positive cases from Chandigarh.“This put us in a tight spot. We immediately tied up with a local private hospital. They were hesitant at first, but finally admitted her after some pressure,” she said, adding that the patient is stable now.“I have already conveyed my objection in the video conference chaired by the UT administrator on Thursday. I have also communicated the same to higher officials in the Haryana government. I have been told that the officials are writing to PGIMER authorities on this episode,” she said. Sources said that the Haryana chief secretary also intervened and took up the matter with the PGIMER.BOUND BY DIRECTIONS: PGIMeanwhile, Dr GD Puri, dean (academics), who spoke on PGIMER’s behalf on the issue, told HT that they are bound by the Epidemic Act as evoked by the UT administrator banning the movement of inter-state migration of positive cases. He further said, “People think PGIMER is a tertiary care unit. But it is understandable only if we have a certain facility and others don’t.”“In case of the Panchkula patient, the government hospital there has as many as six ventilators. They have even designated a private hospital for Covid treatment. Despite all this, insisting for admitting a patient who just needed to be put on oxygen does not fall under the protocol,” he said.On why Panchkula was still trying to shift the patient to PGIMER, Dr Puri said, “I don’t know but if bigwigs call repeatedly, the patient must be related to someone. We had an ‘out of the way’ request from Punjab too but the administrator has already made a protocol on the basis of some long-term planning. Today we have 20 cases, it may be 50 or 100 in future.”‘WERE NOT READY FOR CRITICAL CARE’However, later Panchkula CMO Jasjeet Kaur clarified that the ventilator facility in their hospital was recently installed but their covid treatment protocol for critical patients was not adequate as yet.She added that the state had also roped in Paras hospital where the protocol for treatment facilities was not complete, which is why they had approached the PGIMER.“We will be ready to deal with serious patients shortly. But my request to PGIMER is that if there is a similar situation where they need their help as a tertiary care institute, they should accommodate,” said Kaur, adding that they will never bother the institute with mild or moderate cases which they are already treating.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-miffed-over-pgimer-s-refusal-to-admit-critical-patient-from-p-kula/story-TYwA8NEoIETjLD1Txni66J.html
17-04-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Police go into overdrive during Covid-19 curfew, vehicle seizures see spike||According to police, a total of 3,120 vehicles were impounded from January 1 to March 23, 2020, while 4,518 vehicles have been impounded since March 23 amid the Covid-19 lockdown. In just four months, police had been able to reach 50% mark of the total vehicles impounded during 2019, when 15,776 vehicles were impounded in total. Around 100-200 vehicles are being impounded daily and the number is likely to increase further.Deputy superintendent of police (DSP, traffic administration) Kewal Krishan said, “To keep a tab on curfew violation, both local police and traffic police are carefully checking all vehicles. Anyone without a valid movement pass is taken to task.” He added that recently the police had announced that impounded vehicles will be released on the fifth day and the vehicles were also being parked at Industrial Training Institute in Sector 28-C.Those caught violating curfew orders are charged Rs 500, however, Rs 2,000 is charged for towing, additionally. The documents of the driver are checked when the vehicle is to be released and those without a valid drivers’ license, registration certificate or pollution check certificate are fined with Rs 5,000 for each offence, while those with expired insurance are charged Rs 2,000. A total 136 vehicles were impounded and 397 people were rounded up for questioning on Friday. No one was penalised for moving without a mask, however, two morning walkers were booked under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant ) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for violating curfew orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-police-go-into-overdrive-during-covid-19-curfew-vehicle-seizures-see-spike/story-5vy0K5aaQ191rR0jwzIOYN.html
17-04-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh constable suspended for travelling to Narnaul on week off during curfew||A Chandigarh police constable was suspended and transferred to police lines on Friday for violating curfew norms by travelling to his local village near Narnaul in Haryana on Wednesday.As per sources, constable Ram Avtar, who was posted at the Sector 36 police station, was on a weekly off on Wednesday and he left Chandigarh without taking permission from the senior officers.According to the police, Avtar had pooled a ride for travelling to his village. However, after reaching there, he started showing symptoms of cold and cough and was taken to the civil hospital in Narnaul. The local police had to be called and his samples were taken. As per reports, he tested negative for Covid-19.The constable has been placed on suspension and transferred to the police lines, Sector 26, according to the UT administrator VP Singh Badnore’s War Room proceedings on Friday. He has also been quarantined at his house there as per protocol. Only recently, the UT senior superintendent of police (SSP), Nilambari Jagdale, had ordered rest for 20% of the force on the field on a rotational basis who were earlier on duty daily. The order however had barred members of the force from leaving the city during this.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-constable-suspended-for-travelling-to-narnaul-on-week-off-during-curfew/story-COWBS9X0YRexnjXwluW9uI.html
17-04-2020||Chandigarh||456 babies born at Mohali govt hospitals amid curfew||Despite the curfew imposed to prevent the spread of coronavirus pandemic, the government health institutions across the district are providing proper outpatient department (OPD) services along with maternal and child healthcare (MCH) and child immunisation services to the patients.Civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said the district health department is fully committed to provide quality and continuous emergency services along with other essential medical services to the patients in the hour of crisis. “During the period from March 20 to April 15, a total of 456 births have taken place in mother and child wards at Primary Health Centers (PHC), sub-divisional hospitals (SDH) and district hospital (DH) across Mohali,” he said, adding that out of the total figure, 245 are male while 211 are female babies. At DH Mohali, as many as 183 children were born while at Derabassi and Kharar SDH, around 103 and 97 babies, respectively, took birth during the lockdown, said Dr Singh. The civil surgeon said that all pregnant women coming to the hospitals for routine checkup and delivery are being given proper attention. Besides, the staff at the government hospitals ensure that the pregnant women and all other patients requiring immediate care do not suffer due to curfew, he said.Dr Singh further added that routine immunisation is also being carried out at all the levels of healthcare while ensuring the safety of pregnant women and newborn babies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/456-babies-born-at-mohali-govt-hospitals-amid-curfew/story-c7Cxrd23p4pLUwAtJFwxzO.html
17-04-2020||City||British Airways announces 4 Amritsar-London flights to airlift UK citizens stuck in India||The British Airways have announced four more flights from Amritsar to London to airlift UK citizens stuck in India. The four flights will take odd from the Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport and are among 17 charter flights being operated from India, with a total capacity of around 4,000 passengers.These flights will be operational on April 21, 23, 25 and 27, while other flights will start from Ahmadabad, Bangalore (via Ahmadabad), Delhi, Goa and Mumbai, as per the release issued by the Press and Communications, British High Commission, New Delhi, on Friday.“People who are most vulnerable will be prioritised. Given the number of people who have registered for a flight, majority of seats are likely to be allocated to people who are already on waitlist, having registered via the CTM website,” the communiqué read.UK minister of state for South Asia and the Commonwealth, Lord Tariq Ahmad of Wimbledon, said, “This is a difficult time for British travellers. There is a great demand for these flights. This is a huge and logistically-complex operation. We are working tirelessly with Indian government and state authorities to help more British travellers get home.”“There will be 17 more charter flights next week to take British travellers back to the UK on top of the 21 flights announced previously. We are working on arranging additional flights from locations where we know large numbers of people are stranded and are grateful for the support of Indian government,” said Jan Thompson, Acting High Commissioner to India.Of three charter flights announced on April 13, 17 and 19, two have taken off from Amritsar airport. The flights are expected to cost between £537 and £591.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/british-airways-announces-4-amritsar-london-flights-to-airlift-uk-citizens-stuck-in-india/story-AFsM70bpT0lkV64T4VFmwJ.html
17-04-2020||Chandigarh||COVID-19 field workers demand better safety gear in Chandigarh||Healthcare workers involved in the door to door survey for filtering out suspected and symptomatic patients have demanded better safety gear for performing their duties.In a letter to the UT health secretary and the director, health services, the National Health Mission employees’ union said that they had been visiting houses without proper coveralls and goggles.“The department has provided just face masks, head cover and shoe covers which are not sufficient,” said Amit Kumar, general secretary of the union.The employees have also filed a grievance with the UT labour commissioner regarding the deduction in the contractual employees’ salaries, who are unable to join their duties due to the curfew.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/field-workers-demand-better-safety-gear/story-q9QfO9493gzYtpmvfibRvL.html
17-04-2020||City||Man booked for assaulting woman cop in Kalyan||A 27-year-old man was booked for allegedly assaulting a police woman who was on bandobast duty at Kalyan taluka on Friday.According to Kalyan taluka police officers, although we made several announcements at Mharal village, some defied the lockdown rules. Nishant Deshmukh was driving his car when the woman police naik stopped him near the village.The police said, “He didn’t have any valid reason for being out but started arguing with the police. He assaulted the woman constable. We have registered cases against him under Section 353 of Indian Penal Code. We did not arrest him but seized his car. The constable was taken to hospital.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-booked-for-assaulting-woman-cop-in-kalyan/story-c2IHkjORipFX58CpkmqVjO.html
17-04-2020||Lucknow||Artists face tough time in lockdown, many struggling to survive||Artists are caught in the throes of multiple woes following Covid-19 outbreak and subsequent lockdown.As exhibitions, cultural events and even religious functions have been put on hold after the lockdown, artists, dependent on their art for survival, are facing acute hardships these days.“All painting exhibitions have been postponed or cancelled across the country. As a result, sale of paintings through such events has also come to a naught. With art buyers out of the scene, freelance painters like me have been hit hard,” shared Poonam Kishor, a resident of Rambagh locality of Sangam city.She said that many painters reside in metros as they find more scope to succeed there. “Many such young artists as well as MFA students known to me also take painting classes to supplement their earning and pay the monthly house rent. However, the lockdown has put their very survival on the stake,” she added. Folk artists are another lot, who are in deep trouble. “Barring big cities like Mumbai and Delhi, there are very limited options for a folk artist to make a living through his art. However due to the lockdown, all cultural events including local ones and those in metro cities have been either cancelled or postponed indefinitely right since March 2020,” shared young folk musician Saundarya Singh, a harmonium player and a resident of Jhunsi.“As a result, opportunities for earning Rs 1000 to Rs 1500 at each local event or even more at out-station events have all dried up. I am struggling financially”, rued the 25-year-old artist.His friend and colleague Hansraj, a percussion artist and a resident of Naini said that with religious events like jagrans also no longer being held, bhajan singers and instrument players like him were facing acute financial problems.The scale of the problem can be understood by the fact that North Central Zone Cultural Centre (NCZCC), Prayagraj— a centre dedicated to promoting arts and artists while functioning under the central government—has set up a dedicated helpline (Amit Srivastava: 8840885937, Shailendra Kumar: 9026304208 and Ravi Sahnkar Gupta: 9140215796) to extend helping hand to urban, folk and tribal artists in distress during the lockdown.The initiative has been taken following orders in this regard from the union ministry of culture.“As part of the initiative, the centre will help out artists of the seven states under its jurisdiction including UP, Bihar, MP, Rajasthan, Haryana, Uttaranchal and Delhi with the help of respective state governments. At a time when the artists are facing problems, we wish to stand with them and do everything that we can to help them,” said NCZCC-Prayagraj director Indrajeet Grover.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/artists-face-tough-time-in-lockdown-many-struggling-to-survive/story-MhRDYKSA5VduODkOYwZ2jM.html
17-04-2020||City||Kopri cops reach out to the elderly||Police personnel from Kopri police station are reaching out to the destitute and senior citizens, ensuring that they have food and groceries. They have identified senior citizens who are staying alone. “If any of them has any requirement of food, groceries or medicines, they just need to message us. We promptly help them,” said Jitendra Agarkar, senior police inspector, Kopri police station. They are also providing groceries to those who are less privileged and providing food to around 250 people within Kopri jurisdiction.“Initially, we contributed to buy provisions. Now, many come forward and donate,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kopri-cops-reach-out-to-the-elderly/story-IuvKIPRV4gjtVlexAJrtsO.html
17-04-2020||Chandigarh||Mohali society residents oppose move to allot flats to front-line Covid-19 workers||Residents of Purab Premium Apartments, Sector 88, have opposed the Mohali administration’s move to provide temporary accommodation in the locality to medical, police and administrative officials on the front line in the fight against Covid-19 patients. They are also opposing the proposal to covert their community centre into an isolation ward.Greater Mohali Area Development Authority had built 1,620 apartments in 2017, of which around 1,000 have been allotted and families are residing in nearly 600.In a letter to deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan, members of the Purab Premium Apartments Allottees Association said that instead of allotting the flats adjoining theirs, the administration should provide the front-line workers 300-odd apartments in vacant blocks or allot space in school and college hostels as they are likely to remain closed till June end.Association president SK Loona said front-line workers are at high risk of contracting the virus and might infect others. Harpal Singh, a resident, said: “I have raised the issue with the Punjab chief minister through Twitter and I am hopeful of his intervention. We really run the risk of turning the complex into a Covid-19 hotspot.”The Mohali administration had taken the decision on April 4, citing that temporary accommodation will help those who are apprehensive of returning home and infecting their family members. As of now, no one has been shifted. Dayalan said he has received the letter and will look into the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mohali-society-residents-oppose-move-to-allot-flats-to-front-line-covid-19-workers/story-gTFLUsvgks3oC9Vs36NHoJ.html
17-04-2020||Lucknow||NCR’s Prayagraj div providing ration at doorstep for staff, families||Setting an example, officials of Prayagraj division of North Central Railways (NCR) are providing ration to the railway staff and their families, right at their doorsteps in their colonies during the lockdown.Similarly, food and other essential items are being provided to the needy through the ‘mandal rail relief fund’ in collaboration with the district administration.Public relation officer (PRO) of the NCR`s Prayagraj division, SK Gupta said that in the present emergency situation owing to coronavirus outbreak, the Prayagraj division had started this unique initiative in the interest of its employees. Under the guidance of DRM Prayagraj, Amitabh, this system had been started to provide ration at the doorsteps to the families of railway employees. The staffs of welfare section and civil defence are providing specially prepared affordable kits of ration material to the railway families in the railway colony under the guidance of senior DPO Rajesh Kumar Sharma.Union representatives have also received immense support for this campaign. Under this arrangement, ration was made available at the gates to 24 families in Lalit Nagar railway colony on Friday.“Railway employees have welcomed this campaign of the railway administration and expressed satisfaction over getting such help in times of crisis”, said Gupta.With the help of Prayagraj mandal rail relief fund, established through mutual efforts, along with the district administration, arrangements had been made to provide food to 300 labourers, needy and poor people who stayed around the goods warehouse, DSA ground and railway station.Senior DPO informed that on the instruction of DRM, Prayagraj, this fund had been established to help the poor, orphans, helpless and needy people as much as possible. Through the same, the railways along with the civil administration were providing food and dry ration to the poor and helpless people, he added.Apart from Prayagraj, the provision of ration right at doorsteps of families of the railway employees as well as the poor and needy had been made at Kanpur, Etawah and Aligarh also, said Gupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/ncr-s-prayagraj-div-providing-ration-at-doorstep-for-staff-families/story-sTCB1d6Ug9RQMmqf2FzboL.html
17-04-2020||Lucknow||Five more test positive for Covid-19 in Bareilly division||Five more people tested positive for Covid-19, in Bareilly division of western Uttar Pradesh, on Friday. This includes three in Budaun and two in Moradabad district, according to reports.In Budaun district, two people including a 27-year-old man who returned from Delhi on March 24 and a 32-year-old man who gave shelter to a positive case in his house -were tested positive for Covid-19, on Thursday taking the tally of corona cases in the district up to five.After the test reports of both the patients arrived, the health department shifted them to Bareilly. Another case of Maharashtra resident was also reported positive in the district, on Thursday. Out of five positive cases in Budaun, four patients are undergoing treatment in Bareilly’s Covid-19 level 1 hospital; the fifth patient will be shifted here on Friday.“We have quarantined six family members of a 27-year-old man who returned to Jalandari Sarai locality from Delhi. Besides, we have been tracing people who came in contact with him. In another case, a 32-year-old man, a resident of Bhavanipur Khalli village, contracted the virus after coming in touch with a corona positive member of Tablighi Jamaat, whom he had given shelter in his house,” said Budaun chief medical officer, Dr Yashpal Singh.Meanwhile, with two fresh cases admitted in Moradabad, the number of cases in the district rose to 21. District magistrate, RK Singh said two positive cases are from other districts, but they are undergoing treatment at a Moradabad facility. “Out of 21 positive cases, one patient has been discharged after successfully recovering, while one died on Monday night. Now, we have 17 positive cases from Moradabad and two cases were admitted here from other districts,” he said, on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/five-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-bareilly-division/story-qOe0BEKVOHgYG3eANVw8FL.html
17-04-2020||City||Anxious labourers continue to protest, social distancing goes for a toss in Ludhiana||With the state reeling under curfew for the last over 25 days, migrant labourers continue to suffer due to lack of wages. While over 150 labourers in Macchiwara had protested on Wednesday, around 50 migrant labourers in Sherpur Kalan protested the next day demanding wages. On Friday, some labourers again protested outside an export unit for wages, defeating the purpose of the curfew.These migrants, around 150 in number, gathered outside an export unit on Jugiana- Kangwal road in Sahnewal, stating that the owner had not paid their wages. Police pacified the protesting labourers but one of them, identified as Raju Yadav, was arrested for instigating the others. Before his arrest, Yadav said the factory owner had not paid wages to all but cleared the dues of a select few. “It was becoming difficult for us to survive. Therefore, when we came to know that the owner is giving wages to some of the workers, I along with the other workers reached the factory to demand our dues,” he said while adding that later police intervened and asked the labourers to vacate the area and walk back to their quarters.Sahnewal station house officer, inspector Inderjit Singh said that around 11am, he received an alert from the control room that some labourers are protesting outside AH Exports in Jugiana. A team rushed to the spot and found over 100 migrants gathered there. “When we talked to the owner, he said that he had called four labour contractors to whom he was to give Rs 1.65 lakh for further distributing the amount to the workers but all labourers gathered at the spot,” informed SHO.He added that he interacted with the labourers and convinced them that they will receive their wages at their respective quarters. “All labourers were pacified but one of them was arrested for initiating the protest and collecting all the labourers outside the unit,” he said.A case under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Sahnewal police station against him.Industry expresses helplessness to pay wagesFederation of Industrial and Commercial Organisation (FICO) president Gurmeet Singh Kular requested the central and the state governments to intervene and share 50% of the salaries to be paid by the industry for the month of April.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/anxious-labourers-continue-to-protest-social-distancing-goes-for-a-toss-in-ludhiana/story-0tp5AuB1yr4ul1kVCjPy6N.html
17-04-2020||Chandigarh||Keen to restart economy, HP cabinet to meet on April 18||For the first time after the lockdown was imposed to combat coronavirus crisis, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Friday decided to hold a cabinet meeting in Himachal Pradesh Secretariat on Saturday to discuss ways to restart economic activities in the state.During the lockdown, the CM has been in constant touch with the administration of the 12 districts over the phone to review the situation amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Thakur had earlier held a cabinet meeting through video conferencing on April 7 which was attended by social justice minister Sarveen Chaudhary, agriculture minister Ram Lal Markanday and education minister Suresh Bhardwaj at Oakover which is the official residence of the CM. The rooms in Sectereriatte are being sanitised regularly. The cabinet will meet in the committee room on April 18.Meanwhile, CM on Friday held a video conferencing with the deputy commissioners, SPs and chief medical officers of the state in the wake of coronavirus. Thakur directed them that persons entering the state with a permit should be tested with rapid diagnostic kits at the entry point of the borders.He said that a person found Covid-19 positive should be shifted to quarantine centres and would not be allowed to enter the state. He said that only those tested negative should be allowed to enter the borders and strict vigil should be kept on such persons during their home quarantine.CM asked the officers to increase the sampling of persons in high-risk areas so that situation could be normalised at the earliest. He said that Covid-19 hotspots would be sealed and there would be no relaxation in these areas. Thakur said that interdistrict and intradistrict movement must be restricted to minimise the risk of infection.He said a mechanism should be put in place where donors could come forward to donate blood so that there was no shortage of blood in the hospitals. He said that it must be ensured that proper screening of donors was done before blood donation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/keen-to-restart-economy-hp-cabinet-to-meet-on-april-18/story-Lc4C0dyw4aPM0mHHvqSvTL.html
17-04-2020||Lucknow||UP’s corona tally 846, 3,200 more samples tested||Uttar Pradesh reported 41 fresh coronavirus cases on Friday taking the tally of Covid-19 infections to 846 in 49 districts, officials said.Besides, 3,200 samples were sent to laboratories on Thursday and 2,962 samples were tested in various laboratories across the state.Speaking at a press conference, principal secretary, Health and Family Welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said 993 people were admitted in isolation wards, while another 10,714 people who had symptoms or came in contact with coronavirus positive patients were quarantined.The health department has decided to focus on pool testing of samples to trace infected people across the state.For instance, 290 samples collected from Agra, Lucknow, Gonda, Bareilly, Shahjhanpur, Hardoi and Pilibhit were divided in 58 pools and tested, he said.The reports of 55 pools were negative but three pools tested positive, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-s-corona-tally-846-3-200-more-samples-tested/story-4cw3BLZEz3vrHCSkOohjWK.html
17-04-2020||City||30-year-old Nayagaon man tests positive for coronavirus; Mohali count reaches 57||After a gap of two days, a 30-year-old of Nayagaon in Mohali has tested positive for Covid-19, as per a report that came on Friday late evening, taking the total count in the district to 57.The man was working as a safai karamchari in the Covid-19 ward of PGIMER and has been admitted there itself. His sample has been sent for further testing.Mohali district has the highest number of cases in the state and the tricity at 57, but the administration is now hoping that in the coming week, around 10 patients will be discharged.Dr Manjit Singh, civil surgeon of Mohali, said, “We have started the process of discharging patients, and in a week’s time we will be discharging around 10 patients from Gian Sagar hospital in Banur. If two consecutive samples return negative, we will discharge the patient. The good news is all patients are responding well to the treatment.”Of the 57 cases in the district, 38 are from Jawaharpur village in Dera Bassi, six patients have been discharged and two have died. Over 900 people have been tested so far.RAPID TESTING BEARING FRUIT: DCDeputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said, “Rapid testing kits launched two days back are helpful as we have screened 400 persons in Jawaharpur village and Kharar. We were doubtful of two persons, but their reports came negative.”The rapid testing kits use a single finger prick to take blood samples and give the result in 15 minutes. The method will be used for those with symptoms for more than seven days at various government health centres. Samples of those found positive will be sent for further testing.The first patient from Jawaharpur village in Dera Bassi, panch Malkit Singh who was admitted at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), has been shifted from the ICU to the general ward. Speaking to the Hindustan Times, the panch said the doctors had taken a sample on Friday and if the report is negative, a second sample will be taken after 24 hours, following which he is hopeful to be discharged on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-no-new-covid-19-case-in-3-days-mohali-hopes-to-get-back-on-track/story-z48YvTlQW2hW23Ch3Kd8UI.html
17-04-2020||Chandigarh||Jammu industries department announces slew of measures for construction workers||The department of industries and commerce, Jammu and Kashmir on Friday said that it has initiated a slew of measures to restart industrial activities in the Union territory in a graded manner.The administration has started construction activities but with certain riders. However, industrialists were miffed over a “cumbersome” standard operating procedure (SOP), which has been put in place for the operationalisation of their units.Prime Minister Narendra Modi has assured that from April 20 there shall be a limited exemption in some key areas to restart some economic activities keeping in mind the poor strata.Lalit Kumar Mahajan, chairman of Federation of Industries Jammu, said, “A cumbersome procedure has been put in place to restart industrial activity. An order has been issued by the chief secretary BVR Subrahmanyam that entails us to approach general manager district industries centre with details of workers and production line to be started, passes for vehicles and manpower, who in turn will forward our case with remarks to director industries and commerce. Then, understaffed deputy magistrates, who are already overburdened with administrative work, have also been involved in this process. Why can’t the industries department do all this on its own.”Commissioner secretary to industries and commerce department MK Dwivedi said, “We have prepared a list of industries to be started in a graded manner from April 20. They are largely associated with essentials, like pharmaceuticals, packed processed food, manufacturing masks, sanitisers etc.”“The administration has decided to restart the construction work with less movement of workers. Construction contractors have been asked to make arrangements of their stay at the construction site so that with a minimum movement they can work and live at the site itself,” he said.The government has also decided to conduct weekly inspections to check whether the units were following the SOPs properly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/jammu-industries-department-announces-slew-of-measures-for-construction-workers/story-kCgnhK3ReLon1Gw4qZaxlO.html
17-04-2020||Mumbai||Surge in encroachments, garbage burning at mangrove forests during lockdown||Encroachers are taking advantage of the lockdown to occupy mangrove forests in Borivli and Dahisar, alleged residents. Residents of the area have photographed encroachers burning garbage to destroy mangrove trees near Ganpat Patil Nagar slum opposite to IC Colony in Borivli.BMC demolished some new encroachments in the mangroves on Thursday but said it was impossible to monitor such violations during the outbreak. “As concerned authorities like the police and Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) are busy containing the Covid-19 crisis, people are taking advantage and expanding illegal structures into mangrove forests. These violations are leading to permanent damage, and need to be addressed on priority,” said Harish Pandey, secretary, New Link Road Residents’ Forum. “Even if the fires are put out, the sheer expanse of the mangrove forests extending up to Gorai creek, allows encroachers to find new spots daily.”Borivli resident Aakash Sarin said, “This is systematic destruction. I have spotted at least one fire on lockdown days from my balcony, and subsequently structures coming up on the same spot. If such cases are neglected very soon they will spread across the entire green zone.”Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forest (Mangrove cell) said, “These areas do not fall under our jurisdiction. However, alerts have been issued to the revenue department for action against such incidents but all authorities are busy fighting Covid-19. As a result cases have increased.”Member of legislative assembly (MLA) from Dahisar Manisha Chaudhari said that local residents were burning garbage closer to mangroves. “The issue has been highlighted to the mangrove cell, BMC and the revenue department. Lack of waste management facilities in these zones is allowing such cases to increase. Corrective action is being taken,” she said.The revenue department said cases were on private land and mangrove trees had not been destroyed. “A recent Bombay high court order has also directed us not demolish all unauthorised structures for the fear that more people may congregate on streets breaking the social distancing norm and also increase chances of Covid-19 community spread. However, such cases are being closely monitored by us and BMC,” said Vinod Dhotre, Borivli tehsildar (revenue officer).“The fires are being lit at mangrove buffer areas and so far all complaints have been addressed. Major illegal structures have been removed but a lot of debris is dumped inside the reserved forest zone and we cannot access those areas” said Sandhya Nandedkar, assistant municipal commissioner of R North ward adding, “As per a report by the fire department, trucks are dumping debris at the site to flatten the mangroves followed by dumping and burning of garbage. While we are finding it very difficult to respond to frequent cases, major areas fall under the mangrove cell’s purview and an offence report needs to be filed for enhanced protection.”Not just the northern suburbs but mushrooming of illegal structures and tree felling cases were reported from Aarey Colony, Goregaon and inside Sanjay Gandhi National Park, Borvili during the lockdown said other environmentalists. Meanwhile, a fire was reported near the State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) camp in Aarey Colony, Goregaon on Friday evening. The fire department said it was due to burning of the garbage but was not a major fire, and doused in less than an hour. Aarey authorities were clueless about the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/surge-in-encroachments-garbage-burning-at-mangrove-forests-during-lockdown/story-O0QGWf1rQQ4MmCoX40vlxH.html
17-04-2020||Mumbai||Pandemic may affect flying habits: Survey||The coronavirus pandemic, which has brought the aviation industry to a near halt with only few cargo flights operating, may impact the flying habits of passengers in times to come. According to a survey by a global aviation consultancy ICF between late March and early April, nearly 50% of respondents indicated that they will prefer a direct flight with a stop-over (post-Covid-19) while another 46% respondents said the pandemic may give rise to demand for private jets. The survey was conducted on customers across the aviation industry to understand their views on the times of recovery, on how the crisis is likely to affect the passenger behaviour and industry practices, among others.“Nine out of 10 respondents expect the widespread adoption of video conferencing for work and education, which would undoubtedly impact the demand for air travel. The implications for business travel, much of which is driven by intra-company meetings, could lead to reduced demand,” stated the findings.Among other customer behaviours covered under the survey, the views were found to be largely split.It said, ‘In an attempt to avoid crowds, some passengers will limit their presence at large gatherings, will increasingly prefer non- stop flights to avoid exposure to crowds at connecting airports or will prefer the exclusivity of private aviation (if they can afford it)’ “The Covid-19 pandemic has introduced new practices (such as social distancing and telecommuting), raised hygiene awareness, and increased the popularity of video conferencing. We have never witnessed a social experiment of such magnitude and on such a wide scale, but it would be naive to think the new normal will be identical to the one we knew before Covid-19 upended our lives,” ICF said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pandemic-may-affect-flying-habits-survey/story-KhOhAOMbN5gVHkFld6PgfJ.html
17-04-2020||City||Three arrested from Panvel for manufacturing hooch||The Panvel city police on Friday arrested three people for manufacturing hooch in a Panvel village. During the raid, the police confiscated and destroyed 810 litres of raw materials and seized five litres of hooch and hooch-making equipment.Around 7am, the police team raided the spot in a field near Usarli village along the railway tracks towards Panvel and Pen. Bharat Mhatre, 40, Bhagwan Jamdar, 42, and ‘Dancer Chotu’ Rathod, 40, were arrested from the spot where they were making hooch.“We seized 810 litres of raw materials worth Rs28,150 and five litres of hooch worth Rs900. We also seized a stove and plastic drums. The men have been released on bail,” said Ajay Kumar Landge, senior inspector at Panvel city police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-arrested-from-panvel-for-manufacturing-hooch/story-Otdy6ckGK4Oa0ApL3UtgYK.html
17-04-2020||City||10 arrested in Ludhiana for violating curfew||As many as 10 persons were arrested in seven cases for violating curfew orders in Ludhiana on Friday. In one of the cases, a Haibowal resident allegedly assaulted a police personnel when he was stopped at a checkpoint. The accused has been identified as Akhilesh Yadav of Laxmi Nagar, Haibowal Kalan. Investigating officer ASI Amrik Singh said the accused was asked to show his curfew pass but as he didn’t have it, he started misbehaving with the cops on duty and even tore the uniform of one of them. He was immediately arrested and his vehicle was also impounded. He has been booked under Section 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 56-B of the Disaster Management Act.LABOURER HELD FOR FAKE DISTRESS CALLIn another case, a labourer was booked for disobeying the district magistrate’s orders as he made a fake distress call, stating that he had nothing to eat. The accused was identified as Sooraj Dio Prasad of Sekhewal village . ASI Amrik Singh said that when cops reached his house, they found that he had adequate stock of groceries and other essential items. He was also booked under Section 177 (furnishing false information) of the IPC.The Division Number 8 police arrested a cigarette and tobacco vendor found roaming around the city amid the curfew.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/10-held-for-violating-curfew-in-city/story-egId2cmtxpmk0jgeJUkwfL.html
17-04-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: 8 new hotspots identified in Delhi, total count at 68. Check full list here||The number of coronavirus containment zones in Delhi rose to 68 on Friday after 8 new areas were added to the list. In the updated list as of Friday evening, areas of L-2 Sangam Vihar, Streets no. 26&27 Tughlakabad Extension, C-105, Hari Nagar, B-33 Hari Nagar, C-785 Camp no. 2, Nagloi and RZ-168, K-2 block, Nihal vihar have been added to the list. Additionally, several houses in K block Jahangir Puri and area around a house in Savitri Nagar, Malviya Nagar were also added to list of ‘containment zones’ in Delhi. Here is the complete list: 1. Entire affected street near Gandhi Park, Malviya Nagar2. Entire affected street of Gali No 5, 6 &7, L 1 Sangam Vihar3. The affected area around H. No.A-176, Deoli Extension4. Shahjahanabad society, plot no 1, Sector 11, Dwarka5. Dinpur VillageAso watch | COVID-19 | Doubling rate reduced since lockdown, growth factor down 40%: Govt6. Gali No. 5 & 5A, H-2 Block, Bengali Colony, Mahavir Enclave7. Markaz Masjid and Nizamuddin Basti8. Nizamuddin West (G and D block) areas9. Area of Street/Gali No. 18 to 22 of Zakir Nagar and nearby area of Abu Bakar Masjid of Zakir Nagar 10 (Core) rest of Zakir Nagar as Buffer Zone10. H. No. 811 to 829 and 842 to 835 - Khadda Colony, Jaitpur, Extension, Part-II11. H. No. 1144 to 1134 and 618 to 623 - Khadda Colony, Jaitpur, Extension, Part-II12. Gali No. 16, Kachhi Colony, Madanpur Khadar, Extension, Delhi13. Mehela Mohalla, Madanpur Khadar, Delhi14. H-Block, Near Umra Masjid, Abu Fazal Enclave15. E-Block, Abu Fazal Enclave, Delhi16. H No. 97 to 107 and H. No. 120-127 Kailash Hills, East of Kailash17. E-Block (E-284 to E-294) East of Kailash, Delhi18. H. No. 53 to 55 & 25, Shera Mohalla, Garhi, East of Kailash19. B Block Jhangirpuri20. Gali No. 1 to 10 (1 to 1000) C Block Jhangirpuri21. H. No 141 to H. No 180, Gali no. 14, Kalyanpuri22. Mansara Apartments, Vasundhara Enclave23. 3 Galis of Khichripur including Gali containing H. No. 5/387 Khichripur24. Gali No 9, Pandav Nagar, Delhi 11009225. Vardhaman Apartments, Mayur Vihar, Phase I, Extension26. Mayurdhwaj Apartments, I P Extension, Patparganj27. Gali no. 4, from H. No. J- 3/115 (Nagar Dairy) to H. No. J- 3/108 (towards Anar wali Masjid Chowk), Kishan Kunj Extension28. Gali No. 4, from H. No J- 3/101 to H. No. J - 3/107 Krishan Kunj Extension29. Gali No. 5, A Block ( From H No. A- 176 to A-189), West Vinod Nagar30. E-Pocket, GTB Enclave31. J & K, L and H pockets Dilshad Garden; G, H, J, Blocks old Seemapuri32. F- 70 to 90 block Dilshad Colony33. Pratap Khand, Jhilmil Colony34. Shastri Market, including J.J. Cluster of South Moti Bagh35. Bengali Market/ Babar Road adjoining area of Todarmal Road, Babar Lane and School Lane, New Delhi36. Sadar Bazaar, Central District37. Chandni Mahal, Central District38. Nabi Karim, Central District39. Balaji Apartment, Sant Nagar, Burari, Delhi - 11008440. In and around area of G-174, Capital Greens, DLF, Motinagar, New Delhi 11001541. In and around area of B- 1/2, Paschim Vihar42. In and around area of 11/3, 2nd Floor Ashok Nagar43. In and around area of H. No. A-30, Mansarovar Garden44. In and around area of A-1B/75A, Krishna Apartment, Pashchim Vihar, Delhi - 11006345. In and around area of A-280, JJ Colony, Madipur46. In and around area of 36/4, East Patel Nagar, Delhi 11000847. Shop No.- J-4/49, Khirki Extension, Khirki village, New Delhi48. Jain Mohalla, Pandit Mohalla from Epic Centre 715, Chirag Delhi49. C-2, Block, Janakpuri, Kothi No- 11950. Gali No 1, 2 and 3, Block-D, Sangam Vihar, House No 112B, Gali No 2, New Delhi51. Entire gali starting from house number G-54 to F-107 and Entire gali starting from house number CN-854 to 137, Chhuriya Mohalla, Tughlaqabad Village, Delhi52. 1100 Wali Gali (house number 1181-1200), 1200 Wali Gali (house number 1238-1268), 1300 Wali Gali (house number 1306-1331), H-3 Block, Jhangirpuri, Delhi53. Bara Hindu Rao Area, Delhi54. Nawab Ganj Area, Delhi55. House number-62, Gali No-4, B-Block, Shastri Park, Delhi56. G,H and I Block of Police Colony, Model Town57. Street no. 6, A block, Abu Fazal enclave58. Shaheen Bagh 59. Street no.s 3-5, East Ram Nagar60. Shahdara 61. In and around area of C-105, Hari Nagar62. In and around area of B-333, Hari Nagar63. In and around area of C-785, Third Floor, Camp No.2, Nangloi64. In and around area of RZ-168, K2 Block, Nihal Vihar65. Gali No. 26 and 26B, H.No. 2056 to 2092 and Gali No. 27 and 27B, H.No. 2063 to 2083, Tughlakabad Extension66. Entire effected area around H.No. 859/20, L-II, Sangam Vihar 67. H.No. 153/B, 4th floor, Savitri Nagar, Malviya Nagar, New Delhi68. H.No. 716 to 785, H.No. 786 to 860, H.No. 861 to 950 K-Block, Jahangirpuri, Delhi||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-6-new-hotspots-identified-in-delhi-total-count-at-66-check-full-list-here/story-STPcLCEBTVsfw2qtd6W1yI.html
17-04-2020||Mumbai||Drunk minor killed after he falls from 15th floor in Andheri||A 17-year-old first-year junior college student who was drinking alcohol with a 22-year-old cook of a businessman lost his life on Friday after he fell down from the 15th floor of Parthenon building in Andheri (West). According to Amboli police officers, the minor, who started walking on the parapet of the building after drinking, lost control and fell down to the seventh floor. According to Shivanand Bharadwaj who was drinking with the minor in the refuge area of the 15th floor, they finished a bottle of liquor after which the minor was not in senses and was asking for more booze.“Bharadwaj told him that liquor was not available because of the lockdown, the minor threatened to jump off the building. The minor then started walking on the parapet, and did not listen to Bharadwaj’s plea to stay away from the area,” said senior police inspector at Amboli police station, Someshwar Kamthe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/drunk-minor-killed-after-he-falls-from-15th-floor-in-andheri/story-GCr9NTVSK4dFNrDTcKEjnJ.html
17-04-2020||Chandigarh||SC upholds Himachal HC order on regularisation of PTA, PAT teachers||The Supreme Court on Friday upheld the decision of the Himachal Pradesh high court order thus paving the way for regularisation of around 15,000 parent-teacher association (PTA), primary assistant teacher (PAT), and para teachers.The orders were passed on civil appeals filed by Chander Mohan Negi and others against the order of the high court.The case pertains to the appointment of teachers made by the state government under Prathmik Sahayak Adhyapak/PAT Scheme; the HP para teachers (lecturer school cadre), para teachers (TGT’s) and para teachers (C&V) policy of 2003 and the Himachal Pradesh Gram Vidya Upasak Yojna, 2001.In its orders, the division bench comprising Justice Mohan M Shantanagoudar and Justice R Subhash Reddy observed that it is true that in the initial schemes notified by the government there was a condition that such appointees should not seek regularisation/absorption but at the same time for no fault of them, they cannot be denied regularisation/absorption.It is in view of the requirement of the state, their services were extended from time to time and now all the appointees have completed more than 15 years of service.Further, it is also to be noted that though appointment schemes were notified as early as in 2003, nobody questioned such policies and appointments up to 2012 and 2013.A writ petition was filed in 2012 without even impleading the appointees as party respondents. In the writ petition, there was no rejoinder filed by the writ petitioners disputing the averments of the state as stated in the reply affidavit.“Having regard to nature of such appointments, appointments made as per policies cannot be termed as illegal,” said the SC Bench.Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur hailed the SC order said that the state government was already giving these teachers a pay scale equivalent to the regular teachers.“However, regularisation could not be done as the matter was pending in the SC. The government will study the verdict and tread on the issue accordingly,” said Thakur.Meanwhile, education minister Suresh Bhardwaj said that the process for the regularisation of teachers will be started after the lockdown is over.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sc-upholds-himachal-hc-order-on-regularisation-of-pta-pat-teachers/story-ej2t3s0k7P5uqPLwNwtGkJ.html
17-04-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s pay-and-use toilets will be free for users until the lockdown||Public toilets in Mumbai will be free for users until the lockdown. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said that this has been done for migrant workers who have been stranded in the city with no source of income. “We have instructed all public toilet facilities not to charge money from customers. This will continue until the situation comes under the control and stranded people in the city can go back,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner (health), BMC.Mumbai has around 8,500 public toilets which are run by BMC or by charities. The centres charge between Rs 2-5 for one-time use. On an average, over a million people in the city use the toilets, but since the declaration of the lockdown, footfalls at pay-and-use toilets has decreased by over 80%, with commuters locked up at home.Presently, the only users of the toilets are homeless migrant workers. A labourer from Malda, West Bengal, who is currently residing in the slums of Bandra (East) said, “Due to the lockdown, I have lost my job and I have only Rs100. As the public toilets charge for usage, I defecate openly on the railway tracks and take bath once a week for which I pay Rs5.”Human right activists have applauded the decision. According to them, it is the responsibility of the government to make arrangements for the necessities of the stranded workers during the outgoing epidemic. “Thousands of workers have lost work due to the lockdown. It is a responsible act that the corporation has levied the usage charge of public toilets. This will also control the cases of open defecation,” said Robert D’sSouza, a human right activist from Bandra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-pay-and-use-toilets-will-be-free-for-users-until-the-lockdown/story-C3pkOKmc00h5W306zLdGsJ.html
17-04-2020||Gurugram||Haryana govt extends suspension of toll collection in state till lockdown||Following the extension of nationwide lockdown, the Haryana government has decided to keep suspended till May 3 the toll collection by it at all its 15 collection points being run on Build–Operate–Transfer (BOT) basis or otherwise in the state. Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has approved a proposal to this effect, an official statement said here on Friday. However, during the temporary closure of these tolls, all goods traffic would be allowed to operate. Presently, 15 commercial toll points are being run by the Public Works (Building and Roads) Department in various districts of the State. Out of these, while five toll points operate are on BOT basis through concessionaires, six are being run through entrepreneurs and four are run departmentally. The state government had earlier given approval for temporary suspension for collection of toll tax on all these posts with effect from March 30 to April 14, 2020. The 15 toll collection points which have been temporary closed include those on Gurgaon-Faridabad road, Gurgaon-Faridabd crusher zone, Ballabhgarh-Sohna road, BS I Plaza, Ballabhgarh-Sohna road, BS2 Plaza and Firozpur-Jhirka-Biwan road in district Nuh. Similarly, the toll points which are being operated through Entrepreneurs include TP-18, Narnaul-Nizampur road near Rajasthan border, TP-24, Kaithal-Patiala road near Punjab border, TP-25, Pehowa-Patiala road, Teokar village near Punjab border, TP-27, Rohtak-Kharkhauda-Delhi Border road near Delhi border, TP-39, Hodal-Nuh-Pataudi-Patauda road and TP-42, Punhana-Jurhera road upto Rajasthan Border. The toll points which are being run by the department include TP-23, Kaithal-Khanauri road near Punjab border, TP-40, Rai Nahra Bahadurgarh road, TP-51, Hodal-Nuh-Pataudi-Patauda road after Jatauli and TP-52, Punhana to Lahanpur Sri Singalheri, Thenkri, Jamalgarh, Ranota Manota to Dondal road upto Rajasthan border in district Nuh, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/haryana-govt-extends-suspension-of-toll-collection-in-state-till-lockdown/story-qwHovTTC4Aj7WVyjPELUVJ.html
17-04-2020||Chandigarh||HP authorities to intensify testing for Covid-19: Jai Ram||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Friday said that coronavirus testing will be intensified in the state especially on interstate barriers.Thakur said that rapid testing kits will soon be made available in the state and will help increase the daily testing.Rapid testing kits will also be helpful in quick scanning of the Himachal residents entering the state from outside in emergency situations, said Thakur.CM said that special screening centres will be set up at all the interstate barriers at entry points and people entering the state with permits issued by the authorities of other states would be tested with rapid diagnostic kits.Besides, temporary quarantine centres with at least 15-20 beds would be established near these testing facilities and if any person tests positives would be shifted to these facilities and his movement in the state will be prohibited.“The authorities are in constant touch with these people and the respective state governments have been requested to ensure their proper care,” he said. He urged such people to remain wherever they are as the government would ensure their early return as soon as the situation normalises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hp-authorities-to-intensify-testing-for-covid-19-jai-ram/story-kyaoRoAfbnev7Qq5A8ZfRP.html
17-04-2020||City||Family skips rituals, feeds needy||A family from Deslepada in Dombivli skipped the 13th day ritual after one of their family members died, and instead donated foodgrains to the need in their locality.Krishna Desale, 72, died of a heart attack on April 4. “My uncle was involved in several social activities. Instead of the usual rituals, we decided to distribute 1,000 packets of foodgrains to the underprivileged,” said Dilip Desale.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/family-skips-rituals-feeds-needy/story-EminDwpmoL9GG8yeq5EX0J.html
17-04-2020||Mumbai||City NGO moves HC, seeks speedy decongestion of Maharashtra prisons||A city-based non-governmental organisation moved the Bombay high court on Friday seeking speedy decongestion of prisons across Maharashtra, as ordered by the Supreme Court.Taking due note of the threat created by coronavirus pandemic, on March 23, the apex court directed all states and union territories to decongest prisons to the possible extent. SC ordered setting up of high-powered committees at state level to determine the class or classes of prisoners who could be temporarily released from prisons in the wake of coronavirus outbreak. The apex court said the states and union territories could release certain categories of prisoners, like undertrials facing charge of offences punishable with imprisonment for up to seven years or prisoners convicted for similar offences.The petition filed by Global Care Foundation, through advocate Tanveer Nizam, states that the Maharashtra government, accordingly, set up a high power committee and according to a release issued by home minister Anil Deshmukh, it has been decided to released two categories of prisoners - under-trial prisoners and convicts sentenced to imprisonment for upto seven years. The petition adds that approximately 11,000 prisoners were, this, expected to be released on emergency parole for 45 days.“This order should be implemented at the earliest as grave and irreparable loss will be caused, especially in view of the fact that State of Maharashtra leads number of infections in India and is the worst hit with the pandemic and each day there is a great surge in the number of cases,” states the petition.“That, despite the eminent danger to lives of inmates and the only option of quarantine as a sole suggested measure, should the authorities fail to consider releasing the categorised inmates it would lead to loss of lives of inmates,” it adds.It has urged the high court to order the state government to forthwith release about 11,000 prisoners falling in categories identified by the high power committee either on emergency parole or furlough leave for a period of 45 days.The NGO has also sought list of the categorised prisoners and permission to allow the petitioner body to deposit bail amount ranging between Rs. 3,000 to 5,000 per prisoner. The petitioner body has offered to deposit the bail amount on behalf of the categories prisoners in order to ensure the process is not delayed any further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/city-ngo-moves-hc-seeks-speedy-decongestion-of-maharashtra-prisons/story-Ot1Oo7IZETgmy6hsxEIJWN.html
17-04-2020||City||6 drug peddlers held with Rs 3 crore in Kapurthala||Police and revenue department officials seized assets worth around Rs 3 crore from the villages of six drug convicts in Kapurthala on Friday. The process of freezing the properties of other smugglers is being followed up expeditiously, said superintendent of police (investigation) Manpreet Singh. He said that property worth Rs 10.50 lakh was found in drug peddler Pooran Singh’s village, Saichan. From Charan Singh of Latiyawal village, police seized properties, including a house, car, two-wheelers and agricultural land, worth Rs 56 lakh. Properties worth Rs 70 lakh were seized from Amandeep Singh’ s house. Besides, police took possession of a vehicle worth Rs 40 lakh in Saichan village, a double story and vehicle worth Rs 55 lakh from drug convict Malkeet Singh’s village, Latiyawal. A house and a car worth Rs 43 lakh was seized from peddler Harpreet Singh’s village, Toti. The assets were seized on the orders of the competent authority under the Smugglers and Foreign Exchange Manipulators (Forfeiture of Property) Act, and the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, SP said. He said that they have identified some other drug peddlers, who have made properties worth lakhs from drug and their properties would also be seized.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/6-drug-peddlers-held-with-rs-3-crore-in-kapurthala/story-i8zexZGUvA2w0el1gN9NUO.html
17-04-2020||City||Amritsar wheat farmers anxious as intermittent rain delays harvesting, procurement||The untimely showers have left farmers in Amritsar and other parts of the Majha region in Punjab anxious as it is likely to increase moisture content in the grains.“Right now, we are only experiencing light showers. But if the rain does not end in a day or so, the moisture content in grains will increase and cause considerable loss to the farmers,” said Amritsar chief agriculture officer Harinderjit Singh.He added that though procurement started on April 15, it is yet to kick-off properly due to slow arrival of grains. “Yes, grains have started arriving in mandis but the quantity is less,” he said.Procurement is expected to speed up around April 20 when more farmers are expected to come with their produce, mandi officials said.Similar weather conditions are prevailing in other Majha districts—Tarn Taran, Gurdaspur and Pathankot, bringing a dip in the temperature while the wheat crop needs high temperature and dry climate at this stage.Tajinderpal Singh, a farmer from Rasoolpur village of Tarn Taran district, said, “We want to finish harvesting and procurement of our produce quickly but the rain is delaying this process. The uncertain weather conditions are making us worried.”Harpreet Singh, a farmer from Pandori Sidhwan village said, “Low temperature may affect the quality of grain and yield. If that happens, we would be in losses. The moisture contents in grains will create problems for us as procurement agencies won’t accept it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amritsar-s-wheat-farmers-anxious-as-intermittent-rain-delays-harvesting-procurement/story-aKM0uyV0Lm2lYgMApuuNqL.html
17-04-2020||Mumbai||‘Asymptomatic people are going undiagnosed’||As the lockdown continues and social distancing is observed by a large section in view of Covid-19 endemic, HT spoke to Jacinta D’Souza, professor and chairperson, school of biological sciences at UM-DAE Centre for Excellence in Basic Sciences, Kalina, on the city having turned into an epicentre of the outbreak in the state, the need for extensive testing, testing mechanisms and more.What are the possible reasons that led to Mumbai becoming an epicentre of the outbreak?Infection trajectories of epidemic outbreaks are multifactorial and are numerically governed by initially-infected individuals, international travellers and Covid-19 positive entries at ports (particularly in February and until March 25), population density of a region, availability of testing kits, protection of technicians/ doctors/health officials who come in direct contact with samples and/or patients, and the ability to effectively identify and quarantine ‘prospective’ super-spreaders. Networks modulate through person-to-person interaction, shared spaces/surfaces, transport/travel, and exchange of articles/items that carry the viruses. Based on this, the number of suspected individuals is high in Mumbai (and Maharashtra), thereby making it a hotspot. In addition there are ‘escapers’ who were Covid-19 positive and ‘managed’ to escape the screening system. With the lockdown being announced for a 21-day period starting 25th March, these ‘escapers’ turned into super-spreaders.Though testing in Mumbai has ramped up, a section of experts say extensive testing is required to identify Covid-19 cases to contain the spread. What are the repercussions of inadequate testing?Demand and supply of kits worldwide has caused paucity in testing, and hence there is a set line of priority in investigating individuals – symptomatic over asymptomatic cases. It is difficult to know the exact numbers of asymptomatic individuals that go undiagnosed in testing. Unless this subset is diagnosed with critical surveillance, we won’t be able to gauge the spread of the virus in the community. Please explain the testing mechanisms.Currently, there are more 200 assay kits available for detecting Sars-CoV-2 virus and these are based on two scientific premises – molecular detection of genes that are specific to the virus from naso-pharyngeal swabs, and serological detection of antibodies specifically raised by the patient’s immune system against viral proteins. While the first requires a high-throughput real-time polymerase chain reaction machine, the latter is simpler, faster and requires the patient’s blood serum. The former is slower, more sensitive and can detect viral particles immediate to an infection in the throat or nasal swab. The latter mandates the patient’s immune system to develop antibodies after an infection. Additionally, each assay kit, in principle needs the presence of internal controls for testing every sample. Another requirement is the cold-chain transportation of samples. If these are not fulfilled, false negatives are bound to take place and become an inevitable part of the process. Given this, approved diagnostic testing by Indian Council for Medical Research is majorly based on molecular detection.What then is the way forward as far as testing is concerned?The need of the hour is to produce a comprehensive assay kit based both on molecular and serological principles. This will require more knowledge on the virus and the infection, and will take time. Many laboratories around the world are already working in that direction.India has laid out six criteria for testing that excludes asymptomatic individuals unless they have travelled in the last 14 years. Won’t this approach have implications in terms of underreporting of Covid-19 cases? The World Health Organization’s Covid-19 situation report 73 suggests that the number of asymptomatic individuals, who have tested positive, has been very few and the transmission of the virus from an asymptomatic individual has yet to be documented. Currently, the idea is to cater to those individuals who are symptomatic, the obviousness with which they can spread the infection and not to simply ‘burden’ the diagnostic laboratories/centres and hospitals.Large number of containment zones have been created where a person tested Covid-19 positive. Only family members, neighbours and those in close contact are tested, while the remaining populace is quarantined for 14 days. Is this an effective strategy especially in densely populated areas of Worli-Koliwada and Dharavi slums with cases spiralling?Indeed. The need to test others does not arise; if infected, they would develop symptoms during this 14-day period. A close watch and monitoring of these contacts is very important. However, in areas where the population density is very high (Dharavi, for example) the infection-spread-recovery cycle gets skewed; home quarantining might not prove to be the best solution. These contacts should be isolated from such regions and quarantined into a separate locality.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/asymptomatic-people-are-going-undiagnosed/story-0An55rFfOrvwxRkEXkO6aM.html
17-04-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19 fear, Pak shelling hits J&K border residents with double whammy||At a time when the world has been trying to combat Covid -19, hapless villagers along the Line of Control (LoC) and international border in Jammu and Kashmir, claimed that “trigger-happy Pakistan army has made their lives a living hell”.Caught in a Catch 22 situation, villagers, especially along the LoC in Poonch and Rajouri district were being subjected to intense shelling by the Pakistan army for the past over 20 days now.While villagers blamed Pakistani forces for aggravating their miseries, they also criticised the civil administration for not providing underground bunkers.“The intense shelling by Pakistan has made our lives miserable. They are deliberately targeting villagers. Our children, women, and seniors are getting injured. We constantly live in fear,” said 55-year old Bagh Hussain Rathore, a resident of Salamabad in Shahpur sector of Poonch.“In these difficult times, we are as good as dead. Pakistan, for the past 20 days now has been opening artillery fire on villages in Balakote, Gulpur, Shahpur, Mankote, Kirni sectors,” he added.“We cannot move out of our houses because of the lockdown imposed to combat coronavirus and on the other hand Pakistan has been targeting human habitations with artillery fire,” he said.Tufail Hussain, 32, a labourer from Gotrian Mandhar village on zero lines said, “We are totally perplexed. Instead of combating the Covid-19 in their country, the Pakistan army has been targeting poor villagers on the border.”Hussain said that every five minutes Pakistani troops rain down a barrage of mortars on Indian villages in the Poonch sector.He said that the civil administration has not provided bunkers to households on the borders.On Friday, an 18-year-old youth was injured in Pak shelling in the Kerni sector of Poonch while three civilians including an 8-year-old boy were killed last week in Pak shelling in Kupwara.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-fear-pak-shelling-hits-j-k-border-residents-with-double-whammy/story-kEnS18abeKnZLd1KimZbQP.html
17-04-2020||Lucknow||Now, UP’s Maharajganj, Hathras become corona-free districts||Maharajganj and Hathras became the second and third districts in Uttar Pradesh to become coronavirus-free, officials said on Friday. Pilibhit was the first district in the state to shed the corona tag earlier this week.“Maharajganj and Hathras districts have been also declared coronavirus free. The state government declared Pilibhit district coronavirus free on April 13 after the second report of two Covid patients was found negative in laboratory tests,” principal secretary, Health and Family Welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said at a press conference in Lucknow.In Maharajganj, all six Covid-19 patients tested negative for the Sars-Cov-2 virus for the second time, district magistrate Ujjwal Kumar said. There was no fresh Covid case in Maharajganj at present and the reports of 36 family members of the six patients were also negative, Kumar said.The district administration decided to discharge all six patients from hospital and shifted them to a quarantine facility for observation, according to state government guidelines.To make sure that no other person was infected with the coronavirus, health department teams collected five samples at random from the villages and sent them for tests, the district magistrate said.“All the samples tested negative, it was a major relief for us,” he said.In Hathras, the second report of four Covid positive patients was negative, principal secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said.Hathras district magistrate Praveen Kumar Laxkar said all four patients were discharged from hospital and shifted to a quarantine centre. There was no positive case in the district, he said.Last month, the district police had detained four Tablighi Jamaat members who had attended the Delhi congregation, he said.After their samples tested positive, they were admitted to the isolation ward of the Covid hospital. The samples of 14 people who came in contact with the Jamaatis were negative, he said. Similarly, Maharajganj was in the news after Tablighi Jamaat members, who attended the congregation organised in Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi last month, arrived in the district a fortnight ago.After receiving information that Tablighi Jamaat members were staying there, the district police raided dozens of villages near Kolhui town.Four villages and the market area of Kolhui town were sealed.The health department and police teams surveyed 7,500 people and screened 40,000. The samples of suspected patients were collected for tests.The villages and markets were sanitised and people were directed to stay home, follow social distancing norms and inform the district administration about the movement of suspected persons, Kumar said. After the Tablighi Jamaat members arrived in Maharajganj by train, the district administration alerted the Gorakhpur, Kushinagar and Deoria administration as people of these districts had travelled in the same coach as some of the infected patients.All the passengers were tracked and screened, but they tested negative, Kumar said.Maharajganj is located on the porous India-Nepal border. The border was sealed and samples of villagers nearby were collected for tests, he said.These steps were taken after the district administration received information that some suspected patients had moved toward the border.Meanwhile, 10,000 migrants workers from Maharajganj had arrived in the district from various states last month and they were shifted to quarantine centers established in schools.Thousands of Nepali migrants settled in various cities also arrived at the border town of Sonauli.“The Nepal administration refused them entry, but we called the Nepal Embassy to allow their citizens to cross the border. Permission was granted. After a few days, 300 Nepalese nationals again arrived on the border. They were quarantined in a school in Nautanwa town,” Kumar said. “We are keeping our fingers crossed, the population of Maharajganj is around 25 lakh. A majority of the people are settled in the rural areas. There is a large movement of the migrant population from neighbouring Bihar and Nepal. Vigil has been tightened, mandis (markets) are being opened in the morning. The administration has hired postmen to distribute money among the villagers and regular sanitisation is being done in public places,” Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/now-up-s-maharajganj-hathras-become-corona-free-districts/story-mejYCJlPBbhWj6WkSMdXqM.html
17-04-2020||Bangalore||Scores attend temple chariot festival in Karnataka village, 5 held||Violating the lockdown norms, the chariot festival of a local Lord Shiva temple was organised with the participation of a large number of devotees in Kalaburagi district, a Covid-19 hotspot in Karnataka, police said on Friday.Five organisers of the event have been arrested while the area sub-inspector of police and a district official suspended in connection with the incident, they said.The annual chariot festival of Lord Siddalingeshwara temple in Ravoor village in Chittapur taluk was organised on Thursday morning for about 15-20 minutes despite the management agreeing not to go ahead with it in view of the lockdown, a police official said. “Five people (organisers) have been arrested while a police sub inspector and a official from the district administration suspended,” Kalaburagi Superintendent of Police Iada Martin Marbaniang told PTI. According to him, the festival is conducted in the evening annually and the temple authorities had a few days ago given a written commitment to the SI that they would not organise it this year.They gave the commitment after the SI persuaded them during a meeting he held with them, citing the national lockdown and bar on large gatherings, including religious, the SP said.“Usually the function is conducted in the evening but perhaps they knew that if they try to do it in the evening police will be there. So they performed it in the morning for about 15 to 20 minutes,” Marbaniang said.Kalaburagi is one of the major COVID-19 hotspots where the first coronavirus death in the country had taken place.Till Thursday, the district has reported 20 positive cases, including three deaths.There are 14 active cases undergoing treatment in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/scores-attend-temple-chariot-festival-in-karnataka-village-5-held/story-gDvcooTQoad3e82VsS8QcM.html
17-04-2020||Education||In lockdown, UP Higher Education department uses e-learning tools for benefit of students||Uttar Pradesh’s Higher Education department has made elaborate efforts in the midst of COVID-19 lockdown to help students studying in different state universities and colleges in availing benefits of online learning. During the lockdown period, 65,943 e-contents have been prepared by the teachers of various state universities and colleges across the state. All of the new e-contents are available on the respective university/college websites, which are being continuously accessed by the students to complete their course curriculum, a government spokesman said. In addition to material on pdf format, the contents are also available in the form of PowerPoint presentations and audio-video recordings. All the newly-produced contents are being monitored by the vice chancellors of the respective universities, he said. Apart from this, 2,23,930 online classes of different subjects have been conducted by 10,087 teachers of various state universities and colleges across the state during the lockdown period. These classes are being attended by an average of 1,44,431 students per day, he added. During the lockdown, 4,677 teachers have conducted various online courses and published 2,823 research papers, books, etc. At the same time, the higher educational institutions are putting out information for students and parents about the spread of COVID-19 pandemic and preventive measures being taken. Since the lockdown began, 1,989 online meetings and 1,463 online training programs have been organised by the universities and colleges in the state. In addition, online conferences, workshops and courses have also been conducted through five different webinars. The students are studying subjects related to their interest through e-learning tools such as SWAYAM, MOOCs and NPTEL, the spokesman further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/in-lockdown-up-higher-education-department-uses-e-learning-tools-for-benefit-of-students/story-mUoVKV2Jz9idZn77lGJr9O.html
17-04-2020||Jaipur||Policemen attacked in Rajasthan’s Tonk, 3 seriously injured||Five policemen on patrolling duty were attacked by more than a dozen people after they asked them to stay at home in an area under curfew over the coronavirus pandemic in Rajasthan’s Tonk district, officials said. The injured policemen were rushed to a government hospital after which two of them were discharged while three are still undergoing treatment.According to police officials, the incident took place in Kasai Mohalla of Panch Batti area under Kotwali police station limits.“The injured cops were patrolling in the morning. Around 8am, when they saw some people were roaming unnecessarily in the curfew hit area and when these cops asked them to stay inside their homes, the accused started beating them,” Vipin Sharma, Tonk’s additional superintendent of police, said.Sharma said as soon as senior police officials came to know about the incident, an extra force was sent to the spot and the situation was brought under control using mild force.The injured constables were identified as Rajendra, Rajaram, Rajesh, Bhagchand and Asharam. “Three of them, Rajaram, Rajendra and Bhagchand, are undergoing treatment as they sustained serious head injurious while rest two were discharged after first aid,” added Sharma.Station house officer (SHO) of Tonk’s Kotwali police station Bansi Lal said seven people have been detained so far and a case has been registered.“The case has been registered by the injured cops under section 307 (attempt to murder), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to public servant), 353 (assaulting governments servant) and 188 (disobeying government order) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC),” said Lal. “The condition of the cops is stable,” Lal added.Further investigation is on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/policemen-attacked-in-rajasthan-s-tonk-3-seriously-injured/story-MCosjsk3jJbEpAbf29txHI.html
17-04-2020||City||2 Hizb-ul-Mujahideen militants responsible for killing SPO eliminated in Kishtwar||Security forces on Friday eliminated two Hizb-ul-Mujahideen militants, who had hacked a special police officer (SPO) to death with an axe and critically injured another on April 13 in Dachhan area of Kishtwar district.“With the killing of two militants in Kishtwar and as many in Shopian in South Kashmir, the ongoing operations concluded today and a total of four terrorists have been eliminated. Four weapons have also been recovered from the slain militants,” said a senior police officer.Two weapons of the SPOs have also been recovered from them.“After meticulous search and painstaking efforts for three continuous days, security forces zeroed in on Saunder village in a Nallah (rivulet). On observing the movement of forces, the militants fired at the search party and in the retaliatory action, both the militants were eliminated. One AK-74 rifle and one INSAS rifle were recovered from them,” said inspector general of police Mukesh Singh.With timely and sustained effort, an attempt by the Hizbul Mujahideen to revive their terror activities in the Dachan and Marwah areas of Kishtwar has been nipped, he said and added that this action of security forces was a tribute to the police martyr Basit Iqbal.One of the two slain militants was a rape accused released 20 days ago in the wake of the spread of the novel coronavirus.He was identified as Ashiq Hussain and his associate as Basharat Hussain, both residents of Tander village in Dachhan.The deceased SPO was identified as Basit Iqbal and injured SPO as Vishal Singh.Terrorism had re-surfaced in Kishtwar region after senior BJP leader Anil Parihar and his brother Ajit Parihar were killed outside their house in Kishtwar town on November 1, 2018.The next year, RSS leader Chandrakant Sharma and his security guard Rajinder Kumar were killed in Kishtwar district.Mohammad Amin Bhat, alias Jehangir Saroori, the longest surviving militant commander of the Hizbul Mujahideen, is believed to be the man behind revival of terrorism in the region. He had joined militancy in 1992.In October last year, Jammu and Kashmir Police had put up posters of Jehangir Saroori in Kishtwar region and had also announced a cash award of Rs 30 lakhs on information leading to his arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-terrorists-responsible-for-killing-spo-eliminated-in-kishtwar/story-U38adxHKi70uHVpg0Zqh1M.html
17-04-2020||City||Discrimination on communal lines will not be tolerated, warns Himachal DGP||Himachal Pradesh DGP Sita Ram Mardi on Friday said discrimination on communal lines will not be tolerated and strict action will be taken against offenders.“We have received reports that people are being discriminated in shops and hospitals on the basis of religion. Such acts will not be tolerated and warrant strict action, said Mardi.The DGP said that some landlords were asking their tenants to vacate the premises on the basis of religion. Maintaining that the security of Kashmiri labourers was also the responsibility of the state, Mardi directed Station House Officers (SHOs) to ensure that the Kashmiri labourers residing in the territorial limits of their respective police stations remain safe.Mardi said authorities had also formed peace committees in sensitive areas: “These committees should hold meetings and take steps to maintain communal harmony,” he said. He also made a case for the security of students from north-eastern states: “This is important from the point of view of national integration,” said Mardi.The police chief added that there had been reports of some students stepping out to procure drugs.“Earlier, I had appealed to parents to keep a watch on their wards. If you can’t stop your children from taking drugs during the lockdown then don’t expect the government will be able to do something about it,” Mardi said, cautioning people against consumption of methyl alcohol or adulterated beverages, which may result in loss of eyesight or life.‘USE ZOOM APP’Mardi also advised people to use the Zoom Application to hold official conferences and cautioned them against downloading unauthorised Covid Apps, which compromise data.He also warned those bringing essential supplies to the state to not smuggle in people. “An incident was reported in Kullu, wherein an ambulance driver was caught smuggling in people from Hamirpur. Action is being taken against the driver and the unauthorized people,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/discrimination-on-communal-lines-will-not-be-tolerated-warns-himachal-dgp/story-qwr4ckSLG1uD8RxdIrO2bL.html
17-04-2020||Patna||Covid-19 patient dies of multiple ailments in Patna, Bihar toll goes up to two||A 35-year-old man, who had tested positive for Covid-19, died at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Patna on Friday, taking the number of deaths related to the coronavirus to two, reports said.A 38-year-old man from Munger died on March 21 and his test reports that came out a day later confirmed that he was infected with the virus.News agency ANI said the man had a history of tuberculosis and had a fever when he was admitted to the hospital citing an official of AIIMS, Patna.Prabhat Kumar Singh, AIIMS’ director of AIIMS, said the man was a resident of Vaishali district and had tested positive on April 15.“He was suffering from many serious complications, including those related to the brain. Upon being tested, he also turned out to be Covid-19 positive,” Singh said while speaking to PTI.Also read: Covid-19 spreads to Buxar, Vaishali; Bihar tally up to 80The news agency cited unnamed sources in the health department as saying that the man was from Raghopur panchayat under Vaishali district and suffered from tuberculosis, typhoid and several other illnesses.He was admitted to a private hospital in Patna, which was sealed after he tested positive, before being referred to AIIMS, Patna.Also read: Most patients in Bihar recover without critical care, govt keeps fingers crossedSanjay Kumar, the state’s principal health secretary, had said on Thursday that a six-month-old infant and a two-year-old from the same family in Munger were among the 11 new Covid-19 patients, taking the state’s tally to 83.Among the 11 new coronavirus disease cases, nine were reported from Munger. Ten family members of the two children, including them, have tested positive so far.India’s coronavirus disease cases rose to 13,387, including 11,201 active cases, 1749 cured, discharged or migrated and 437 deaths, the Union ministry of health said on Friday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/covid-19-patient-dies-of-multiple-ailments-in-patna-bihar-toll-goes-up-to-two/story-MC8C7nXYFnx5Kt5h0gTd3L.html
17-04-2020||Education||IIT -Ropar designs ‘WardBot’ to deliver food, medicines to Covid -19 patients||A team of researchers at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Ropar in Punjab’s Rupnagar district has come up with a design of an autonomous ‘WardBot’ which can deliver medicines and food to COVID-19 patients in isolation wards without human intervention. Researchers working on the project said its deployment in hospitals will help in minimising the risk of the frontline health staff getting infected with the deadly virus. Based on the smart line following, WardBot, fitted with sensors, can work on a known path and can carry food items and medicines for delivery at different beds to patients in a ward, Ekta Singla, Associate Professor and Head, Department of Mechanical Engineering, IIT Ropar, said on Friday. Singla, who is heading the team of the researchers, said the ‘WardBot’ uses simple gesture sensors for a quarantined person to wave a bye to the bot, as an indication of receiving the material. Patients will get the intimation through bed-IDs being displayed on small LCD units, she said. The design of an autonomous WardBot is such that it can be instructed to receive and deliver food and medicines and necessary equipment from one room to the other from the remotely located control room, the researchers said. The control room can instruct multiple bots to accomplish tasks simultaneously on different floors, they said. WardBot also has a feature of self-sanitising on the return path and could be used for sanitising walls of the hospitals, said the researchers, adding it can also work under low-light conditions. WardBot can serve as a support structure to the healthcare sector at the peak of the COVID-19 pandemic with a focus on minimising human interaction with the coronavirus patients, they said. “All team members are currently working from home. We plan to provide robust support to the frontline workers to combat well in the battle against this pandemic. We are also looking forward to industry collaborations to take this concept to virtual use,” Singla said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/iit-ropar-designs-wardbot-to-deliver-food-medicines-to-covid-19-patients/story-spjINaQ0NGycfD4dKlf7pJ.html
17-04-2020||City||Overcast skies may impede procurement process, PAU asks farmers to show resilience||While overcast skies have triggered panic among farmers across the state, director extension education, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), JS Mahal has admitted that the prevailing weather conditions may impede the procurement operations across the state.He has advised farmers to show resilience and remain prepared for hardships.Mahal said that due to the spread of the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) disease, the duration of procurement has been increased from 21 days to 45 days.He said that instead of rushing the grain to the market amid rain, farmers should let it dry first.“These are tough times. Covid-19 has hit all sectors of the economy. The farming sector is no different. Due to the paucity of labour, harvesting has also been delayed. There would be instances of rejection of crops by procurement agencies due to over ripening. So I would advise farmers to show restraint and cooperate with them,” said Mahal.“If procurement agencies refuse to lift grain on account of high moisture content, farmers should wait and let the grain dry. As per the process, a farmer can reapply for a token two days after the expiry of the first token. They could also get in touch with the arhtiyas concerned for issuing them tokens,” said Mahal.He said that the department of extension education was in talks with the government to mitigate the issues being faced by farmers.On the other hand, school of climate change and agricultural meteorology of Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) has stated that light rainfall and windy conditions will prevail for next 24 hours.The head of the department Prabhjyot Kaur Sidhu has stated that the overcast skies will continue till Saturday.“We are expecting light rainfall and windy conditions. It is unlikely that such conditions will hamper the harvesting operations across the state,” stated Sidhu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/weekend-showers-won-t-hamper-farming-ops-pau/story-Wa1QIeSisDcu5Tia2EOzeK.html
17-04-2020||Patna||Bihar nod to NIPI to develop AI-powered tool to track Covid-19 suspects||Bihar has given approval to the Norway India Partnership Initiative (NIPI) to develop artificial intelligence (AI)-powered tool to track suspects of the coronavirus disease through cough sound analysis.Sanjay Kumar, Bihar’s principal secretary (health), said NIPI, which is working with the Wadhwani Institute of Artificial Intelligence, would take four to six week to develop the tool. Wadhwani Institute is India’s first research institute dedicated to developing artificial intelligence solutions for social good.“Every cough has a distinct pattern. Cough of a Covid-19 patient will also have a distinct pattern, different from other (influenza-like) coughs, which a machine will be able to recognise,” Kumar said.NIPI, he said, would need a fairly large number, at least 500 Covid-19 patients, to record their coughing pattern to develop the tool. Once it has as reference the coughing pattern, the AI-powered machine would be able to detect a Covid-19 suspect as soon as the individual coughs in front of the machine, said Kumar.Also read: Bihar intensifies outreach programme for stranded migrants in other states“I have given NIPI the go-ahead to collect Covid-19 related information it may require from us. Since we do not have as many Covid-19 patients, the NIPI may need to collate data from patients in other states as well,” added Kumar.Four new Covid-19 cases were recorded during the last 24 hours, taking Bihar’s tally up to 74 on Thursday.“The AI-based tool seems exciting and may have the potential to triage suspected Covid-19 cases through cough sound analysis,” said Kumar.“We granted NIPI our approval in principle on April 14 to develop the tool in keeping with our proactive response to Covid-19 crisis and several measures taken to identify suspected cases, testing the high-risk population and quarantining them, besides looking at the introduction of innovative solutions to control and break the chain of transmission of infection Covid,” he said.Also read: Most patients in Bihar recover without critical care, govt keeps fingers crossedNIPI was established in 2006 through a joint statement by the Prime Ministers of Norway and India. It provides strategic, catalytic and innovative support to the Indian healthcare system for improved maternal and child health. The initiative is one out of five bilateral partnerships that Norway has entered into to support the achievement of the health-related Millennium Development Goals.NIPI provides technical support to Bihar, Rajasthan, Odisha and Madhya Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-nod-to-nipi-to-develop-ai-powered-tool-to-track-covid-19-suspects/story-YDXNp1x8jLpfOrKup4Uh6K.html
17-04-2020||Delhi||Delhi man hanging from flyover wanted to kill himself, cops save him||A group of five policemen out on highway patrolling and picket checking duty saved the life of a 32-year-old man, who allegedly attempted to kill himself by jumping down from a flyover on Thursday night.The policemen managed to pull the man up, after they spotted him holding the flyover’s concrete barrier and hanging down, a statement issued by the Delhi Police spokesperson said.They also placed a municipality truck loaded with garbage on the road below the flyover, to ensure that the man’s life was saved, in case he lost his grip on the concrete barrier and fell down.The incident took place at around 9 pm when two constables, who were out on highway bike patrolling, saw a man hanging from the flyover’s railing and screaming for help. The constables alerted three other policemen who were deployed at a barricade picket, said a senior police officer.  # Vigilant Covid Patrol Police of PS Mangolpuri, Outer Delhi, saved a man trying to jump from flyover... @DelhiPolice @CPDelhi @ANI @LtGovDelhi pic.twitter.com/ngjNDi4Yds“The two constables immediately reached the flyover and grabbed the man by his hands. In the meantime, the three policemen stopped a garbage collecting truck and asked its driver to position it right below the place where the man was dangling. The constables pulled him up and saved his life,” the officer said.When the man was questioned, he told the police personnel that he was upset because of the frequent quarrels he had with his wife, who works as domestic help.“The man is unemployed and his wife often scolded him for not looking for employment. The family lives in Tilak Nagar, which is almost six kilometres away from the spot where tried to jump off the flyover. He had walked to reach there,” the officer added.A video of the rescue operation has also been circulated on social media by the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-man-trying-to-jump-of-flyover-saved-by-cops/story-AaBZTgf76bIX4v1xFtheTJ.html
17-04-2020||Delhi||‘It felt like Ram Rajya’: Rs 500 notes lay on street, no one dared to pick them||About a dozen people watched from a safe distance as three Rs 500 currency notes lay unattended right outside a house in Delhi. For several minutes, no one dared to touch the currencies. Then someone dialled the police.The fear among many people that currency notes could be carriers of coronavirus disease Covid-19 resulted in this peculiar situation in North Delhi’s Lawrence Road on Wednesday afternoon.It all began around 1.15 pm when someone noticed three soiled notes lying outside a house. Soon, there were a host of curious onlookers and no one to claim the unattended cash.A call was made to the Keshavpuram police station at 1.27 pm. A police team arrived at the spot, but they too didn’t want to take chances. “We cordoned off the street and sent the onlookers into their homes. One of us wore hand gloves to pick up the notes. We then sprayed them with sanitiser and packed them in an envelope,” said a senior police officer.The police asked around, but didn’t find anyone who would claim the cash. The residents of the house outside which the currency notes were found too did not claim them. “No one had picked the money off the street. No one would claim it either. It felt like Ram Rajya,” said the officer.But the suspense over the notes ended soon after the policemen returned to the police station. “A woman, Charanjeet Kaur, visited the police station to claim that the notes belonged to her,” said Vijayanta Arya, deputy commissioner of police (north-west). Kaur, a 49-year-old teacher at a government school in nearby Shakurpur, told the police that the notes were part of Rs 10,000 she had withdrawn from an ATM in RG City Centre, a mall in Keshavpuram. “Afraid that the notes could be carrying the virus, she had washed them with sanitiser and put them on a table in the balcony of her second floor house to dry. The wind may have blown away three of them,” said DCP Arya.Kaur had remained unaware of the drama when the police had landed outside her house. It was only when she walked out to her balcony, that she got to know of the missing notes and the drama that had unfolded.The police asked her to produce the other notes she had withdrawn. “The notes found on the street were of the same series as the other notes with her. We gave back the currencies to her,” said the DCP. While there isn’t enough scientific evidence to suggest that the virus survives on currency notes, many people have tried to play safe while exchanging notes. At a fuel station in Delhi’s Saket, for example, many customers chose not to take loose change from attendants after paying for the fuel. Earlier, some residents of Saharsa in Bihar had found currency notes scattered outside their homes. The currencies were accompanied by notes which said, “I have come with Corona. Accept this note, otherwise I’ll harass everyone”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/it-felt-like-ram-rajya-rs-500-notes-lay-on-street-no-one-dared-to-pick-them/story-qfhZNIlJHlSlOYPlbOSkkJ.html
17-04-2020||Ranchi||Coronavirus Update: First Covid-19 case outside containment zone Hindpiri in Ranchi||Jharkhand’s capital Ranchi on Thursday recorded it’s first Covid-19 case outside Hindpiri locality after a 50-year-old man, resident of MG Road behind Punjab Sweet House, was found infected with novel coronavirus infection on Wednesday night.The patient lives in Haidri apartment on the by-lane. The administration has declared this area, which lies behind city’s famous Punjab Sweet House and Capitol Hill, as containment zone and sealed the lane for next 72 hours to conduct contact tracing and health screening of residents.There are eight apartments in this containment zone.The man, who is reportedly a contractor and social worker, was admitted to Covid-19 hospital at the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) for treatment. Five other members of his family were also shifted to isolation centre.“We have sealed the lane for next 72 hours to conduct health screening of residents and carry out contact tracing exercise to identify people who came in direct or indirect contact with this man. The patient has been shifted to Covid-19 hospital at RIMS. The other family members were put in isolation centre,” said Ranchi’s sub-divisional officer Lokesh Mishra.  “We are investigating into the man’s travel history, if any, or contact history with any positive case. We are gathering information on this from family members and others in this regard,” Mishra said.This is the 14th confirmed case reported in Ranchi district. Barring this, all other cases are concentrated in Hindpiri locality, which is the epicentre of the disease.The state’s first Covid-19 case was identified in this area when a Malaysian woman was tested positive. The woman was part of the 22 member group including 17 foreign nationals who were recovered from two mosques in Hindpiri. The group had arrived in Ranchi last month after attending Tablighi Jamaat in New Delhi’s Nizammudin area.As many as 28 confirmed cases of Covid-19 have so far been reported from across the state, which had also witnessed two deaths due to this pandemic. These cases are spread over six districts with maximum number of cases (14) registered in Ranchi district followed by Bokaro which have nine positive cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/coronavirus-update-first-covid-19-case-outside-containment-zone-hindpiri-in-ranchi/story-4vpjH9IwqkjpspqetXeRkO.html
17-04-2020||City||IAF’s combat helicopter makes emergency landing in Hoshiarpur village||An Indian Air Force (IAF) Apache combat helicopter made an emergency landing in the fields of Budhawar village of Hoshiarpur’s Mukerian sub-division on Friday afternoon, reportedly due to a technical glitch. Police have now cordoned off the area.Two pilots on board --Flight Lieutenant Anoop and Flight Lieutenant Rajat --are safe. There was no damage to the helicopter or on the ground, they said. The attack choppers are based out of the Pathankot airbase and this chopper had taken off from there. Sources in IAF said the Air Force will check the helicopter and then take it back to its base. The Air Force had last year inducted AH-64E Apache Guardian Attack choppers.Yesterday, a Cheetah helicopter of the IAF had made a precautionary landing due to technical snag on the Eastern Peripheral Expressway in Baghpat, Uttar Pradesh. (with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/iaf-s-combat-helicopter-makes-emergency-landing-in-hoshiarpur-village/story-QFq7GKP0W5Bo9ubTXH12SN.html
17-04-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal drug manufacturers seek relaxation in restrictions to salvage pharma industry amid Covid-19 crisis||The Himachal Pradesh Drug Manufacturers’ Association (HDMA) has demanded that the state government lift certain restrictions imposed on the pharmaceutical industry to facilitate smooth functioning of units in the state.In a letter to chief minister (CM) Jai Ram Thakur, HDMA president Rajesh Gupta said pharma units including micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) were only functioning at 50% of their capacity as they were having trouble procuring raw material from bulk manufacturers, traders and importers.Gupta said black marketeering and skyrocketing prices had aggravated the problem.“The coronavirus outbreak, has hit allied industries, especially packaging material manufacturers, which are only running at 15-20% of their capacities,” wrote Gupta.He demanded that the state government allow trading of raw materials for two to three hours a day and said that the restriction placed on entry of people from outside the state to Baddi area for pharma industry workers be lifted.“The state government should waive off fixed and demand charges in electricity bills for the MSME industry as done by Gujarat, Maharashtra and Pujnab,” he said. The association has demanded that inter-city movement be allowed between Baddi, Nalagarh and industrial areas of Punjab. “The government should allow entry to at minimum five persons from each pharma unit from outside the state. Vehicle passes should be issued to pharma industry staff,” said Gupta.He said that during shift timings the movement of pharma unit workers should be allowed on foot or two-wheelers to avoid transport burden on MSME or Himachal Road Transport Corporation-run bus service be provided on select routes.Gupta said if the associations’ demands are not met at the earliest, the supply and production of medicines will be affected.“Given the situation, the lockdown may not be relaxed for the next two-three months, thus the government needs to formulate a roadmap till September to facilitate the pharma industry,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-drug-manufacturers-seek-relaxation-in-restrictions-to-salvage-pharma-industry/story-KcHrstB8rrmQWuXjBav1VM.html
17-04-2020||Mumbai||51,000 samples tested for Covid-19 till now: Maha Health Minister||Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Friday said that till now about 51,000 samples have been tested for coronavirus in the state.“Of 51,000 samples, over 24,000 samples have been tested for coronavirus in Mumbai,” Tope said.He further said, “We have a total of 30 Covid-19 testing labs in the state including 15 government and 15 private labs. Soon, 6 more testing labs will be added in our list.”“We are increasing our capacity of labs so that the time-lapse between sample collection and test result can be minimised and better treatment is given to the infected patients as soon as possible,” he added.The State Health Minister further said that permission for rapid testing has been sought from ICMR.According to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, India’s count of positive cases of coronavirus reached 13,387, of which 3,205 cases have been reported from Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/51-000-samples-tested-for-covid-19-till-now-maha-health-minister/story-WqFClvjPhzwTl1sPW8GoLO.html
17-04-2020||City||Allow blood banks to issues passes, NGO urges HP chief secy||Umang Foundation, a public welfare trust, has urged Himachal Pradesh chief secretary Anil Khachi to authorise blood banks to issue passes to donors during the curfew, as per the advice of Union health secretary. The trust has also asked him to provide a van to all blood banks so that donors can be brought in case of emergency. In the letter, the foundation’s chairman Ajai Srivastava said that due to the lockdown, there was an acute shortage of blood in all banks across the state. “There is a regular requirement of blood for thalassemic children, cancer patients, those undergoing cardiac surgeries and deliveries at Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital, Kamla Nehru Hospital, which is the only Mother-Child hospital, and Dr Rajendra Prasad Medical College in Tanda among others,” he said Srivastava further wrote that keeping with Union health secretary Preeti Sudan’s advise to the Union home secretary, hassle-free movement of donors must be facilitated so that blood banks can be replenished. He said this will help in saving precious lives amid this pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/allow-blood-banks-to-issues-passes-ngo-urges-hp-chief-secy/story-mwkSxV70bh2CBj8ccSTxRL.html
17-04-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka to buy 2 lakh rapid test kits for Covid-19 detection||The Karnataka government has announced the purchase of an additional two lakh rapid test kits for Covid-19 detection at a task force meeting on Thursday.Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai and other senior officials were present at the task force meeting chaired by Deputy Chief Minister Dr CN Ashwathnarayan.The Chinese government has agreed to supply rapid test kits to an officially listed company, which will increase the number of tests once it arrives, Ashwathnarayan said.Moreover, 250 kiosks will be set up in the state to collect saliva samples of a person with Covid-19 symptoms. Such kiosks will be launched one-by-one in taluks of the state. Ashwathnarayan explained that this would increase the sample collection process and prevent the spread of disease.Ashwathnarayan said the purchase of the required 25,000 RT-PCR kits was also approved.He stated that Covid-19 patients should be treated at government-appointed hospitals. A separate coronavirus helpline will be made operational to address the queries of people, Ashwathnarayan said. During Ramadan, it has been decided not to allow mass prayers, he said. And added that tracing of cases related to the Tablighi Jamaat meeting in Delhi has been completed in the state.(This story has been published from a wire agency feed without modifications to the text. Only the headline has been changed.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-to-buy-2-lakh-rapid-test-kits-for-covid-19-detection/story-yFgMRzBhTIr7cdPDEjXzWK.html
17-04-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka scales up Covid-19 tests 5 times to 1,500 per day||Karnataka has scaled up the number of coronovirus tests by five times, said a key Minister, who regretted that some of those who died due to Covid-19 pandemic could have saved their lives had they opted to avail the treatment early.In the biggest jump in a day, Karnataka reported 36 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday, taking the total to 315 in the State, where the death toll stands at 13.Speaking to P T I on Friday, Medical Education Minister Sudhakar K, who is in-charge of all matters related to Covid-19, said those are not new cases in the sense they are related to primary and secondary contacts (who have been quarantined) of those who have already tested positive.He said 200-300 real time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (real time RT-PCR) tests, one of the most accurate laboratory methods for detecting, tracking, and studying the coronavirus, were used to be conducted a day in the State.The number has now been increased five times, to 1,500 such tests per day, the Minister said, adding, it would be further scaled up substantially once rapid test kits are delivered from China in a day or two.A medical professional himself, Sudhakar said the patients who lost their lives had co-morbidities, in addition to being Covid-19 positive, adding, they sought medical treatment only after their symptoms aggravated and their health condition worsened considerably.He said he has convened a meeting of specialists to discuss in detail the pattern of treatment of Covid-19 patients, adding, he has told doctors to adopt a little more aggressive treatment protocol without waiting for symptoms to aggravate.“Major reason for deaths, apart from co-morbidities and other things, is that the patients intentionally coming in (for treatment) at the last stage,” Sudhakar said.“When they knew they have fever, sore throat and difficulty in breathing, they should have come quickly and get test done and admitted; things would have dramatically changed. I have seen all these patients. They (some of them) have gone to some quacks initially. Had they come in the first week itself (once they had symptoms), 100 per cent I will tell you mortality would not have happened,” he said.Sudhakar said people should be a little more sensitive and responsible in the sense they have to report to the health system the moment they have cold, cough or any medical issue if they have contacted Covid-19 positive patient.“We are doing on our own to identify, trace and track (Covid-19 cases) but (some of) those people try to hide from us. My earnest appeal to them is ‘come and report to the health system’; they will be saving themselves,” the Minister said.He said he would suggest to the Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa that the government issue an advisory to information technology and other companies to test their own employees with rapid kits when they restart operations with 50 per cent staff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-scales-up-covid-19-tests-5-times-to-1-500-per-day/story-Y6RANiankz0o6Wcgohn9QM.html
17-04-2020||Kolkata||Sweet shop owners in Bengal hopeful of making profit after extended lockdown ease||Sweetmeat makers in West Bengal have welcomed the state government’s decision to allow their shops to operate from 8 am to 4pm, an extension from its earlier noon-4pm window, amid the lockdown imposed by the government to combat COVID-19.Several confectioners, who were sceptical about opening their outlets for just four hours, fearing more losses, will now confidently lift shutters in the next two to three days, West Bengal Sweetmeat Shop Owners’ Association Secretary Jagannath Ghosh said.“There are around one lakh sweet shops in Bengal. Just about 30 per cent shops were doing business since March 31 (when the 4-hour order was issued), trying to recover the cost incurred. The new notification will encourage more owners to open their outlets. By Sunday, 50 per cent shops will lift shutters and hopefully make profit.“I say 50 per cent as employees of many sweet shops have returned to their villages and the owners will find it extremely difficult to run the show without them,” Ghosh said.Dhiman Chandra Das, the owner of popular confectionery ‘K C Das’, said he would have to make arrangements for the safety of customers and staffers over the next three days.“We need to clean the entire premises and make adequate provisions for sanitisers and hand wipes before starting operations. Hopefully, we will be able to offset the mounting losses during the morning hours, when more people are out on the streets to buy essentials,” he said.The government, in a notification on April 16 said “in continuation of the order dated March 30, it is hereby noted that sweetmeat shops (mistir dokan) may be open from 8 am to 4 pm” from now on.The notification clearly spelt out that only takeaway services will be allowed for dry sweets.Ghosh said all shops have been asked to abide by the lockdown norms, and customers will not be allowed to crowd the counters.“Our members will adhere to the guidelines issued by the government. Customers will not be entertained if they do not maintain social distancing rules,” Ghosh added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/sweet-shop-owners-in-bengal-hopeful-of-making-profit-after-extended-lockdown-ease/story-kE7M3XrWef9H2pQ2G9kGJO.html
17-04-2020||City||Cong hits out at BJP MP Ramswaroop for entering state amid lockdown||Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) president Kuldeep Rathore on Friday hit out at Mandi Member of Parliament (MP) Ramswaroop Sharma for returning to his hometown Jogindernagar from Delhi amid the nationwide lockdown. “It is very surprising that Prime Minister Narendra Modi is urging people to stay indoors and obey the lockdown orders while his own party leaders are violating the orders,” said Rathore.The Congress leader further added, “It seems that there are two laws in the country -- one for the BJP leaders and the other for the people. Due to the lockdown, thousands of labourers and students are stranded within and outside the state as they don't have permission to go anywhere while on the other hand, BJP leaders are going anywhere they want.”“This is injustice. The rules should be the same for everyone. Coronavirus is very dangerous and lockdown is the only way to curb its spread,” he said.The Congress leader also asked the state government to provide essential seeds and pesticides to farmers and orchardists.He said that as the lockdown has been extended till May 3, the state government should make special arrangements to send stranded people to their homes after carrying out their medical check-up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cong-hits-out-at-bjp-mp-ramswaroop-for-entering-state-amid-lockdown/story-2MaMJMb87uN0rFOrCEXX0L.html
17-04-2020||Lucknow||78 new Covid-19 cases in UP, total cases mount to 805||With 78 new positive cases reported on Thursday, the total number of Covid-19 positive cases in Uttar Pradesh reached 805, according to the state Health Department.According to the bulletin issued by the Directorate of Health Services on Thursday 17 patients were declared recovered and discharged taking the total number to 74.While 13 deaths have been reported across various districts of Uttar Pradesh till Thursday.(This story has been published from a wire agency feed without modifications to the text. Only the headline has been changed.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/78-new-covid-19-cases-in-up-total-cases-mount-to-805/story-qZeNp1NDSo4gvKvXL0LfcP.html
17-04-2020||Lucknow||38 out of 983 samples tested positive for Covid-19 in UP yesterday: Report||A total of 38 samples have tested positive for the coronavirus, out of 983 samples which were tested on Thursday, according to King George’s Medical University, Lucknow.All these patients have been admitted to various hospitals of the state.Meanwhile, the total number of coronavirus cases in India has risen to 13,387. As many as 23 deaths have been reported in the last 24 hours, as per data provided by the ministry.Out of the total count, 11,201 cases are active, while 1,749 people have been cured/discharged/migrated and 437 deaths have been reported till Friday morning. (This story has been published from a wire agency feed without modifications to the text. Only the headline has been changed.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/38-out-of-983-samples-tested-positive-for-covid-19-in-up-yesterday-report/story-0Y9GpLW7ENiCaC7MM6rHwJ.html
17-04-2020||Chandigarh||First Covid-19 case reported in Ferozepur, village sealed||A 27-year-old Punjab Police constable tested positive for the novel coronavirus at Wara Bhai Ka village in Ferozepur on Friday morning.The constable, who was the driver of Ludhiana assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Anil Kohli. Kohli had tested positive for the deadly virus on April 13.Ferozepur deputy commissioner Kulwant Singh said the constable had returned to his native village on April 14. This is the first case to be reported in the border district. After samples of the ACP’s three gunmen and driver were sent for testing, they were sent to their respective residences in Khanna, Moga, Ferozepur and Sangrur after neighbours in Ludhiana objected to their presence. They were instructed to stay in home quarantine. The constable lives with his parents, wife and one-and-a- half-year old son.Following the constable’s diagnosis, standard operating procedure was put into effect and the village was sealed. Villagers were told to stay inside their homes. “We are tracing his primary and secondary contacts,” said the DC. The constable has been shifted to an isolation ward at the Civil Hospital, Ferozepur. FOOD DELIVERIES BANNEDTo minimise the risk of food contamination, the DC has stopped operations of food establishments till further orders.Permissions granted for food preparation and food delivery have been cancelled. “All such permissions stand cancelled with immediate effect. No such permissions will be granted to any establishment till further orders. Any establishment, such as restaurant and hotels, if found providing home delivery, will be booked under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 and Disaster Management Act,2005,” the order said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/first-covid-19-case-reported-in-ferozepur-village-sealed/story-k3IW1a4qMam6VWwBS73JpJ.html
17-04-2020||Education||Officials skip office, university teachers, staff go unpaid in Bihar||Owing to the callous approach of senior officials in the state universities, thousands of teaching and non-teaching staff working in various constituent and affiliated colleges have not received arrears of their upgraded salary, the fund for which was released by the government last month.General secretary of the Federation of University Services Teachers’ Association of Bihar (FUSTAB) Dilip Choudhary, who is also a member of legislative council (MLC) of ruling Janata Dal (United) said, “Salary for March and arrears as recommended by the 7th pay commission could not be paid in various universities due to prolonged absence of registrars, financial advisors (FA) and finance officers (FO) from the headquarters.”“This is ridiculous. Crucial staff of the universities have been absent from their duties for weeks, even though they have been exempted from the lockdown,” alleged Choudhary after seeking the intervention of chancellor’s office in the matter.Citing the cases of Lalit Narayan Mithila University (LMNU), Darbhanga, and Kameshwar Singh Sanskrit University (KSSU), Darbhanga, Choudhary claimed that salary and arrears of more than 1,700 teaching staff of 43 constituent colleges of LMNU and 70 of KSSU could not be paid as FA and FO were out of station for many weeks now.Teachers of Patliputra University, Patna; JP University, Chapra; Kunwar Singh University, Ara and Purnia University have neither been paid salary for March and nor arrears of upgraded salary structure owing to absence of important officials. Patna University is, however, exception which paid its staff salary and arrears.Purnia University vice-chancellor Rakesh Singh, who is also in-charge of LMNU, said that the FA and FO had been sent reminders to come to office and prepare the bills for all the staff to arrange the arrear payments. “Salary amount for teaching and non-teaching staff of Purnia and LMNU has not been released yet by the government,” added Singh.Vice-chancellor of Kunwar Singh University Devi Prasad Tewari said that they had paid salary to non-teaching staff from the varsity’s internal resources. “Arrears of revised salary could not be paid due to non-availability of some important officials.The teachers will get salary for March probably in the next few weeks as the government is likely to release the necessary funds soon,” added Tewari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/officials-skip-office-university-teachers-staff-go-unpaid-in-bihar/story-EZPZzKq6L4lUTgR3RqYf8L.html
17-04-2020||City||92 new coronavirus cases surface in Gujarat, total crosses 1,000||The total number of positive cases of coronavirus in Gujarat crossed the 1,000-mark on Friday after 92 new infections were reported during the last 12 hours, said health officials here.With this, the coronavirus count in Gujarat now stands at 1,021.Out of the 92 new cases reported during the last 12 hours, the highest, 45,were from Ahmedabad, followed by 14 in Surat, 9 in Vadodara, 8 in Bharuch and 5 in Narmada, said Principal Secretary, Health, Jayanti Ravi.Other districts where new cases have emerged include Botad (3), Panchmahal (2) and one each in Anand, Chhotaudepur, Dahod, Kheda and Mahisagar, she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/92-new-coronavirus-cases-surface-in-gujarat-total-crosses-1-000/story-a2ScmsqizKXmoMG2pQsMqI.html
17-04-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal tea growers suffer losses due to coronavirus lockdown||Bearing the brunt of the nationwide lockdown imposed to curb coronavirus, the tea industry is suffering due to reduced workforce and lack of transportation.“When the lockdown was announced, the plucking of tea leaves and processing had stopped. On March 30, we were given permission to restart the activities with minimum use of labour and ensuring cleanliness. But we are still facing issues of reduced workforce and transportation,” Aman Pal Singh, the manager of the Dharamsala Tea Company, said.“Our produce in April is usually in demand in the European markets and in Kolkata. However, due to European markets being almost shut we will have to send all the produce to Kolkata, but transporting them is difficult as trucks are not plying. Our stock is held up here. If this continues for a few more days then we will have to face 30% to 40% loss,” he said.The tea estate manager hoped that the government will allow the inter-state movement of trucks after April 20, which will ensure that the produce fetches good price and losses can be reduced for all growers in the region.REDUCED WORKFORCESachin Butail, a tea grower from Palampur, said that the lockdown not only resulted in the reduced workforce in the tea gardens and factories but hit the small tea growers financially.“In a normal situation, I would employ more than 20 people in my factory. The number has now come down five. The workload has increased,” he said.“The transportation of the produce has halted, which means our sales are zero. It was from the earnings from sales that we would meet our expenses. The banks are asking us to pay instalments,” he said, adding that transporters were not ready to ferry tea to Kolkata market due to the lockdown as they fear harassment by authorities.“Work was stopped for many days. The number of people working in tea gardens has also gone down drastically. We are afraid of the (coronavirus) disease and are using masks besides washing our hands regularly basis while working,” Vishu Oraon, a worker, said.The lockdown, which was originally scheduled to continue till April 14, has been extended to May 3 in view of the rising number of Covid-19 cases.If the situation continues the tea growers will face heavy losses, Butail said, adding that the tea plucked in March would fetch a profitable price in the auction but the delay would result in prices lower than even the manufacturing cost.Meanwhile, a spokesperson for the Small Tea Growers’ Association of Himachal Pradesh, Gokul Butail, said since the authorities prohibited engaging labour from outside the state, tea plucking was delayed in the region.“If there is further delay due to transportation, the Kolkata market will be flush with the produce because of the arrival of Assam tea. Kangra tea will fetch nominal prices, resulting in growers incurring heavy losses,” he said. NO SUPPLY TO AMRITSARGokul Butail said that the Kangra tea growers stopped sending produce to the Amritsar market several years ago.“The tea from Amritsar was mainly supplied to Iran, but the market was closed due to conflicts in the Gulf,” he said. Sachin Butail added that the Amritsar market was no more viable as the commission agents would frame rules on their whims, causing harassment and losses to the growers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-tea-growers-suffer-losses-due-to-coronavirus-lockdown/story-NJ6kOPniURFkNLXSZFrkvM.html
17-04-2020||Education||Unauthorised absence: Chancellor pulls up V-Cs, seeks clarification||Taking serious note of several vice-chancellors (V-Cs) of the state universities remaining out of headquarters during the lockdown period, Bihar governer-cum-chancellor Phagu Chauhan late Wednesday sought clarification from them for the unauthorised absence from university headquarters without taking leave of absence or permission from the chancellor, as per the provisions.While some of the V-Cs, including those having additional charge of another university, rushed back to their respective headquarters soon after receiving the letters, others are yet to do so.“In view of Covid-19 pandemic and consequent lockdown, the V-Cs were expected to be in headquarters and exercise leadership role as the principal executive and academic officer of the university. It is during the hours of crises that the responsibility of leaders of organisations goes up manifold,” said the letter from Raj Bhawan additional secretary Ram Anugrah Narayan Prasad to the Pataliputra University V-C Gulab Chand Ram Jaiswal.The letter stated the order did not “explicitly or implicitly state or imply that the officials could leave their headquarters and stay on unauthorized leave during lockdown.”“In fact the V-Cs were expected to enforce lockdown in their universities and colleges, besides taking measures for facilitating online education,” the letter said, seeking clarification within a week.The chancellor has asked his principal secretary to seek report about online teaching on weekly basis. All the university officials have been asked to facilitate online education and put links of the topics on the university website for the students.V-C Jaiswal could not be contacted despite repeated attempts on his mobile number. Pataliputra University Pro-VC Girish Kumar Choudhary, however, said that he was given charge for three days only from March 16-18 through a WhatsApp message. “I don’t know anything after that,” he added.BRA Bihar University V-C Hanuman Prasad Pandey, who also holds the additional charge of JD University, Chapra, said that he had applied for permission, but left before its approval as he required medical help. “I am a heart patient and had gone to Faziabad (UP) on March 21 for check. I was hospitalised and in the meantime, there was lockdown and I was stuck there. I requested the DM for a pass to move from there,” he added.Pandey said that he had reached JP Univeristy, Chapra and would join at BRABU in Muzaffarpur on Friday.Nalanda Open University V-C HN Prasad, who was appointed on March 9, has been out of Patna since March 22. He sent a WhatsApp message from UP to the pro-VC that the latter should discharge routine functions in his absence. He did not pick up phone despite repeated attempts.Prof RK Verma of Munger University, though within state, is in Gaya. “I was on leave on March 21 and had applied for the same on March 18 as I had to go Jamshedpur for work. As there was a meeting with additional chief secretary and principal secretary to Raj Bhawan on March 23 and then lockdown was announced, so it became difficult. Also, the death of a Munger man due to coronavirus created further problem,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/unauthorised-absence-chancellor-pulls-up-v-cs-seeks-clarification/story-Uvg4ggjELjFqCY57p2Yi3H.html
17-04-2020||Education||Online learning without textbooks challenging||Though majority of schools in the city have switched to digital platforms for academic activities, non-availability of textbooks is yet another challenge for the teachers and the students alike in the virtual learning process.Parents, who generally buy textbooks after announcement of results of final examination, are facing trouble in arranging them as both schools and local book shops remain closed owing to the lockdown. Seema Sinha, whose daughter studies in class 7, said, “Every year, I buy books from the school counter after collecting result of the final exams. This year, however, the school promoted students without holding a parents- teachers meeting. I had no idea about the lockdown and hence, I didn’t go out to buy the prescribed books in March.”“My daughter often demands books, complaining that she is not able to understand properly through online lessons. But, I am left with no option other than waiting for schools or book shops to reopen to buy the textbooks”, said Sinha. Shashank Kumar, a class 8 student, complained that he will have to again go through the lessons after buying the books. “I have almost completed the first unit of each subject through online classes. But, after getting the textbooks, I will have to redo it for systematic learning which may take extra time.”Teachers also agreed that it was quite difficult to teach without books, especially subjects like mathematics and science. Deepak Kumar, a senior teacher at a private school, said, “Higher classes students can deal with non-availability of books as all private schools prefer NCERT textbooks, which are available as e-books free of cost. However, various schools prescribe private publication books till class 8 which are not available in the digital format. It is difficult to teach numericals and maths problems without referring to the textbooks.”Earlier, the Patna district administration had asked the education department to provide a list of schools interested in home delivery of books for the purpose of issuing a vehicle pass to them, however, the procedure has not started yet.According to an education department official, around 50 schools have applied for vehicle passes for home delivery of books so far.“Around 50 schools have applied for the vehicle pass for more than 200 vehicles for home delivery of books. The pass will be issued after April 20 once the list of schools is finalised.”Meanwhile, Bihar Public School and Children Welfare Association (BPSCWA) has requested the administration for permitting the schools to open for a short period to sell books.D K Singh, chairman of BPSCWA, said, “Students are scattered in different localities and hence it is difficult to chalk out a plan for covering a wider area. Moreover, every school doesn’t has a private vehicle for delivering books. It would be convenient for both schools and parents if schools get permission to distribute books through their counters.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/online-learning-without-textbooks-challenging/story-Gq7t21mavvpvwJweT3ZhwK.html
17-04-2020||Mumbai||Drones, heat maps: How civic officials are checking Covid-19 spread in Dharavi||The civic officials in Mumbai are using drones to keep an eye on the areas like Dharavi, which have seen spurt in number of Covid-19 cases in recent days.Using these drones, the officials of BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) were able to disperse crowd thronging a market in the Dongri area last week, violating the countrywide lockdown begun on March 25.The drone feed is beamed to giant a screen which is monitored aggressively by the officials.These drones, along with re-oriented traffic cameras and heat maps, are also helping the police in enforcing the lockdown in these densely populated areas.These drones are also used by the policemen in Mumbai to monitor containment zones, where Covid-19 cases have been detected and strict restrictions imposed to stop interaction of people from these areas with neighbourhood and other localities. Maharashtra has 297 active containment zones.“We have given the policemen the necessary safety equipment and are using drones to monitor containment zones,” Pranaya Ashok, DCP (operations), told Hindustan Times.The number of positive coronavirus cases in Dharavi have tripled in the past five days, from 28 cases on April 11 to 86 on April 16, while the death toll during the same period has also increased from four to nine, data from the state health department revealed.On Thursday, Dharavi saw its highest spike in the number of coronavirus-positive patients, with 26 new cases. A 58-year-old man from Laxmi Chawl, who had been tested positive last week, also died on Thursday.The first case in Dharavi was reported on April 1, following which there has been a rapid surge in the number of positive cases, which may soon pose a grim challenge for civic authorities. If the pattern continues, Dharavi could see around 100 cases in the next few days.Mumbai, the city affected most by the spread of Covid-19 in the country, saw 177 more patients on Thursday, taking its tally past 2,000 to 2,073, and reported three deaths. The city’s death toll is now 117. The other four deaths were from Pune.The Mumbai Police, meanwhile, has the maximum number of Covid-19 cases among all state police. Five more police personnel tested positive on Wednesday, taking the total figure to 15 from Mumbai. The state police has a total of 23 positive cases (seven officers and 16 constables).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/drones-heat-maps-how-civic-officials-are-checking-covid-19-spread-in-dharavi/story-2eXUipV9aVVjstmZVO5PiO.html
17-04-2020||Pune||180 people in Pune made to sit for 4 hours for defying lockdown norms||As many as 180 people were made to sit for over four hours at Swargate area in Pune on Thursday for violating lockdown norms, police said.“A total of 180 people have been made to sit on the road at Swargate area in Pune for over four hours for defying the lockdown norms which were imposed to contain the spread of coronavirus,” Shabbir Sayyed, police inspector (Crime) Swargate police station, told ANI.He said that these people were made to sit to make them realise the grave situation and the risk they pose.“Though there has a continuous increase in the number of coronavirus cases in Pune, these people are being irresponsible. About 50 cases under IPC Section 188 have been registered till now and their vehicles have also been detained,” Sayyed added.The total number of coronavirus cases in Maharashtra has risen to 3,081, according to the state health department.(This story has been published from a wire agency feed without modifications to the text. Only the headline has been changed.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/180-people-in-pune-made-to-sit-for-4-hours-for-defying-lockdown-norms/story-C1W57H3ObnYeBzQHn4B6BK.html
17-04-2020||City||Life in the times of lockdown: Now’s the perfect chance to bond with kids, shares this mother-teacher||For Bhavna Vikram Pandit, 36, the principal of NM Jain Girls Senior Secondary School, the Covid-19 lockdown is the best time for parents to step forward and act as role models for their children.While our usually busy routines leave us bereft of time, Pandit says, the time available now will be best utilised by teaching children the oft-neglected moral values.“Earlier, parents were busy with their jobs and children with their schools and tuitions. The silver lining of the lockdown is that families now have enough time to spend together,” she says, adding that this should be used to bridge the gap between parents and children.Mother of two daughters, an eight- and a five-year-old, Pandit says as a parent, she makes sure to involve her children in prayer rituals and meditation. “Every morning, my husband and I perform yoga and meditation, along with other exercises. This is followed by recitation of prayers, when we take the opportunity to pass on traditional treasures to our children. Now, we also have the chance to teach them ethics through Ramayana and Mahabharata,” she says, while appreciating the government’s decision of re-telecasting these historical epics.Her rest of the day, Pandit says, is spent taking care of household chores, such as cleaning and cooking, helping her daughters with their online classes and interacting with her school staff. When possible, she relishes reading books and newspapers, and indulging in dancing and singing with her children.The ample time has also given her the chance to try out various recipes. “Apart from our staple diet, I am also trying my hand at pasta, pizza or whatever I can whip up with the available ingredients,” she says.But the lockdown has also brought along a new challenge - persistent inquiries by the blossoming minds at home.Being home all day, she says, the children can’t help but be restless about not going to school or playing with children. “These are indeed challenging times, but it’s parents’ duty to help their children understand the prevailing situation and the risks involved in stepping out,” she says, not forgetting to remind her daughters to wash their hands before eating.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/life-in-the-times-of-lockdown-now-s-the-perfect-chance-to-bond-with-kids-shares-this-mother-teacher/story-Zf6YEABzLbJ90y4Da4I3eI.html
17-04-2020||Lucknow||UP govt allows 11 types of industries to start operations amid lockdown 2.0||The Uttar Pradesh government has given permission to run eleven types of industries subject to fulfillment of certain conditions during the lockdown.According to an order issued by Rajendra Kumar Tiwari, Chief Secretary, Uttar Pradesh government on Thursday, industries belonging to the sectors of steel, refineries, cement, chemical, and fertilizers, sugar mills, among others have been allowed to operate in the state.The conditions, however, state that only the production units can be opened and that too with half of the workforce usually deployed at them in the first stage. The headquarters and administrative units of the industries are not allowed to be opened.The factories falling in the hotspot zones will, however, not be allowed to function.The industries will have to use thermal scanners for the screening of the personnel and also have to ensure the availability of sanitizers, masks, and water at the workplace.The district administration and health department will have to ensure that the guidelines are being followed at the workplace, and the managers or owners will have to inform the district administration if any personnel shows symptoms of Covid-19.Further, the units will also be given permission for transporting raw materials and availing other maintenance facilities during the period.The lockdown, which was originally scheduled to continue till April 14, has been extended to May 3 keeping the rising number of Covid-19 cases in mind.With 78 new positive cases reported on Thursday, the total number of Covid-19 positive cases in Uttar Pradesh reached 805, according to the state Health Department.According to the bulletin issued by the Directorate of Health Services on Thursday 17 patients were declared recovered and discharged taking the total number to 74.While 13 deaths have been reported across various districts of Uttar Pradesh till Thursday. (This story has been published from a wire agency feed without modifications to the text. Only the headline has been changed.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-govt-allows-11-types-of-industries-to-start-operations-amid-lockdown-2-0/story-GxVUuIsZifpW4TJcoA6FxH.html
17-04-2020||Chandigarh||All with flu symptoms to be tested for Covid-19 in Chandigarh||With the Union health ministry declaring Chandigarh a Covid-19 hotspot (red zone), the UT administration has decided to test all those with Influenza like Illness (ILI) for the virus. Also, the administration decided to start thermal scanning on city’s border of all the people entering the city.The administration has decided to adopt the testing protocol of the Indian Council of Medical Research which was updated on April 9.UT’s principal secretary, health, Arun Kumar Gupta, said the patients with ILI —a person suffering from fever, cough, sore throat and running nose — will be tested for the virus.“It is as per the protocol developed by ICMR that persons with ILI should be tested within seven days of developing the illness and it will be adopted in Chandigarh in the same manner,” he said.Regarding the other condition of ICMR which says that after 7 days of illness, the test should be repeated using anti-body test and if it is negative, it should be reconfirmed by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction, he said it will not be required at the moment as they should be able to conduct the test within the 7 days of the illness.Earlier the protocol for testing involved symptomatic patients who have undertaken an international travel, and the contacts of the confirmed cases. Later, it was extended to patients with severe acute respiratory illness.PGIMER director Dr Jagat Ram said the tests will conducted as per the policy framed by the UT administration and it will be adopted by all city institutes.NO FRESH CASE FOR FOUR DAYSMeanwhile, the city reported no fresh case for the fourth consecutive day, while 17 people of a joint family were quarantined in Sector 15. They are all contacts of the Covid-19 positive cases in Sector 15, Panchkula. Of the 17 people, two have been sampled. Results are awaited.Meanwhile, the police department has been provided with the 60 thermal scanners for examining people entering the city. In the review meeting, the administration also decided that all the staff of municipal corporation, including vendors, vehicle drivers, sanitation workers etc. must be medically screened, sanitised and provided safety gears.The permissions granted to all the online home delivery agencies would stand cancelled if they failed to follow similar measures stipulated for the MC staff. Cooked food home delivery services will continue to be banned. Also, UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida held discussion with Punjab and Haryana governments to run their offices in Chandigarh with minimal staff, since the entire city has been declared as hotspot district and is under curfew.RELAXATIONS CITY SET TO MISS AFTER APRIL 20From April 20, additional activities will be allowed “to mitigate hardship on the public” in the country except areas under red zone. Chandigarh will miss out on these relaxations:- Hospitals, nursing home, clinics- Services provided by self-employed persons, for example electricians, IT engineers, plumbers, motor mechanics and carpenters.- Production units which require continuous process and their supply chain.- Manufacturing of IT hardware- Manufacturing units of packaging material.- Construction of roads, irrigation, buildings and all kinds of industrial projects including MSME in rural areas.- Construction of renewable projects.- Continuation of works in construction projects within MC limits.- Private vehicles for emergency services.- Movement of all trucks and other goods carrier vehicles.- IT an IT-enabled services with up to 50% strength.- E-commerce companies, vehicles used by e-commerce operators with necessary permissions.- Courier services.- Private security services and facilities management services for maintenance and upkeep of office and residential complexes.- Hotels, homestays, lodges and motels, which are accommodating tourists and stranded persons.- Shops of agriculture machinery, its spare parts (including its supply chain) and repairs.- Movement (inter and intra-state) of harvesting and sowing related machines.- RBI regulated financial markets and entities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/all-with-flu-symptoms-to-be-tested-for-covid-19-in-chandigarh/story-CgvVkBg2NQg9KND5bDpHUO.html
17-04-2020||Chandigarh||19 juveniles sent back to decongest special homes in Chandigarh||In an effort to reduce overcrowding in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak, 19 juveniles have been sent back to their homes from the observation-cum-special home where they were being kept in Chandigarh.According to the official data released by the district legal services authority (DLSA), out of 43 juveniles residing in observation-cum-speical homes, 19 have been sent back to their families.“Many steps have been taken to reduce overcrowding of institutions housing children. In the first phase as directed by justice Jaswant Singh, chairman of Juvenile Justice and Monitoring Committee, five juveniles were released as per Section 98 of the Juvenile Justice (Parent Protection of Children) Act, 2015, on “leave of absence” for a period of 21 days. Later as per HC order dated March 30, three juveniles were released. As per Supreme Court directions dated April 3, another 11 juveniles were released,” the release mentioned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/19-juveniles-sent-back-to-decongest-special-homes-in-chandigarh/story-KzjdLsHMafUcUIAhcB2MDL.html
17-04-2020||Chandigarh||Untraced sources of four Covid-19 patients in Chandigarh add to authorities’ worry||As the tricity remains under lockdown for Covid-19 for over three weeks now, health authorities are racing against time to come up with answers to “untraced” sources of the disease as the count of patients with no known history of contact with people from infected zones has gone up to four.Teams tracing the 113 contacts of a Panjab University teacher and Chandigarh’s 19th positive case are clueless about the disease source.As of now, the search has narrowed down to the teacher’s 64-year-old mother-in-law, who came down from Delhi to help during her daughter’s pregnancy and childbirth.The teacher who tested positive last Friday, is in the intensive care unit of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER). Even as his wife (32) and infant daughter are negative, the mother-in-law and elder daughter (8) have tested positive. “We have not been able to trace his source. The man has no travel or contact history,” says Chandigarh health secretary Arun Gupta.The only man with history of foreign travel the teacher had come in contact with on March 10 had tested negative. So, the “only possibility is that he might have caught infection from his mother-in-law, who came from Delhi,” Gupta adds.Contacts of teacher’s relative being testedHowever, even as the Chandigarh administration had written to Delhi to test the woman’s family, calling it a case of community spread would be wrong, Gupta cautions.A PGIMER based epidemiologist, however, does not agree, saying: “We are afraid this could be a case of community spread.”Indicating that there is no need to panic, the epidemiologist says other indications of community spread are not holding true for Chandigarh. “For instance, we are not finding corona positivity among patients with severe acute respiratory infections (SARI). But, it’s worrisome if source is not found.”Sources of three more cases in Mohali that are yet to be traced include the panch of Jawaharpur village in Dera Bassi, because of whom 38 more cases turned positive, pushing up Mohali district’s tally to 56, the highest in Punjab.The source of infection of the tricity’s first fatality, a 65-year-old Nayagaon man who died on March 31, also remains a mystery even though 35 of his contacts were traced.On April 7, the reports of another 78-year-old from the Mundi Kharar area of Mohali district, a woman, came out positive after her death. Only 15 of her contacts could be traced, of whom two tested positive.Markaz link“We are trying our best to find the primary source, but have not been able to do so,” says Dr Manjit Singh, civil surgeon, Mohali. “ As far as the panch of Dera Bassi is concerned, we are suspecting that he came in contact with a worker who in turn came in contact with one of the attendees of the Tablighi Jamaat’s Markaz event at Nizamuddin in Delhi last month, but we have not confirmed this yet,” he adds.Apart from the four, the Panchkula health department is also struggling to trace the source of infection of the a 44-year-old woman living in the city’s Sector 15, who tested positive on Tuesday, following which eight of her family members were also infected.(With inputs from Yuvraj Kaushal)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/untraced-sources-of-four-covid-19-patients-in-chandigarh-add-to-authorities-worry/story-HMT9JLVoSlhLDaxMYnjqPK.html
17-04-2020||City||Coronavirus curfew: Two women arrested for attacking councillor in Mohali||Two women of Phase 11, Mohali, were arrested for assault, violating the curfew, and house trespass after they allegedly attacked a councillor on Thursday.The women have been identified as Saroj and Raj Rani and they were booked on the complaint of Congress councillor Jasbir Singh Manku. The women were angry as the councillor did not concede to their demand to give in writing that “they belong to poor families and deserve to be provided ration”.“They said an organisation was distributing ration near Bawa White House in Phase 11 and wanted a vetting from me that they belong to needy families,” said Ward 33 councillor Jasbir Singh Manku.Ignorant of any such condition for ration distribution, Jasbir asked the crowd of about 50 people gathered outside his house in Phase 9 to let him talk to the NGO people. “The women entered my house and Raj Rani held my hand while Saroj slapped me before leaving after issuing threats,” Jasbir said in his complaint to the police.“We have arrested the women and sent them to jail,” said Amandeep Singh, station house officer of Phase 11, Mohali. The women have been booked under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 452 (house-trespass after preparation for hurt), 506 (criminal intimidation), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life)NAYAGAON MAN BOOKED FOR FALSE ‘OUT OF RATION’ ALARM A resident of Dashmesh Nagar in Nayagaon, Sanjay, was booked under the Disaster Management Act for making a false call to the police control room on Wednesday that his family has run out of food. The information was shared with naib tehsildar Jaskaran Singh Brar, who sent volunteers of an NGO to the family and they found around 30kg flour, rice, dal stocked in the house. A report was sent to Kharar SDM Himashu Jain on whose directions, a case was registered against Sanjay. The entire process was video graphed.“The district administration is fully committed to provide the essentials to the genuinely needy. It is imperative and our primary duty,” said Mohali DC Girish Dayalan, adding ”raising fake alarms regarding non-availability of ration in this hour of crisis is not just morally wrong but also a punishable offence”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-curfew-two-women-arrested-for-attacking-councillor-in-mohali/story-WKLLoNvO83wat9ezdEJaeK.html
17-04-2020||Chandigarh||A day after warning, Chandigarh parks wear a deserted look||A day after the UT adviser took to Twitter to issue a stern warning of exposing ‘VIPs’ found walking in parks amid curfew, the parks in the city on Thursday wore a deserted look.The houses of notable bureaucrats from Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh and judges of Punjab and Haryana high court are located in the northern sectors of the city. The reaction from adviser Manoj Parida was a result of the fact that police personnel on the lookout for violators in city parks were facing difficulty in handling VIPs, who would indulge in name-calling and resort to threats if stopped from taking walks.This Hindustan Times correspondent visited the Bougainvillea Garden in Sector 2, Shanti Kunj Garden and Rose Garden in Sector 17, areas of Sector 39 that are frequented by Punjab ministers and bureaucrats. Police presence was noted in the area and a few persons found walking were being let off after a warning.On Thursday, police rounded up 359 and arrested nine persons in seven cases of curfew violation by stepping out of the house for a walk or without wearing a mask.Since April 10, the police have arrested 156 walkers in 40 cases, and more than 800 persons have been let off after a warning including bureaucrats from Punjab and Haryana. Yesterday alone, six persons were arrested for stepping out of their house and 347 were rounded up. Station house officers (SHOs) at police stations have been directed to click pictures of those violating curfew orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/a-day-after-warning-chandigarh-parks-wear-a-deserted-look/story-6rxywpxUq5CbXeEaBTeKXN.html
17-04-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh SSP orders rest for 20% force on rotational basis||To ensure that contact among police personnel is minimised and to prevent them from getting fatigued, the Chandigarh Police has directed station house officers (SHOs) and deputy superintendents of police (DSPs) of three sub-divisions to give rest to 20% of the force deployed in the field.The orders issued by senior superintendent of police (SSP) Nilambari Jagadale state, “All SHOs and DSPs will give rest to 20% force on a rotation basis so they can rest even with such a hectic schedule.” She said officers concerned will send a list of personnel who have been given rest. The order, however, bars or restricts members of the force from leaving the station or city. Since the lockdown was turned into a curfew, prohibitory orders were made more stringent. “More than 2,500 police personnel deployed in the city are not only maintaining law and order, but are also helping provide food and ration to the needy. Non-stop duty puts them at risk of fatigue and more prone to infection,” said Jagadale. She added that a rotation policy will be followed so that the entire force gets adequate rest.So far there is no scheduled rest in place for SHOs and DSPs of Chandigarh Police. ADDITIONAL FORCE DEPLOYEDAccording to police records, the south sub-division has been provided with an additional force of 150, while the central and east sub-divisions have been provided with 100 personnel each. Additionally, specialised investigators posted with the economic offences wing, vigilance, crime branch, PO summon staff, women police station, cyber cell, deputy district attorney, police lines, intelligence unit and police headquarter have been asked to do field duties.Police have identified 56 entry points that connect Chandigarh to Panchkula and Mohali; of these, 18 have been sealed. The remaining 38 points are patrolled by the police round the clock and incoming traffic is being checked.A special team to screen field officials is carrying out regular health checks. So far, at least 10 police personnel have been quarantined due to various reasons, of which most have rejoined active duty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-ssp-orders-rest-for-20-force-on-rotational-basis/story-K1Axq6pIV7Zm6b1zw2K01L.html
17-04-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra virus tally crosses 3,000; city’s count 2,073||India’s worst-hit state, Maharashtra, crossed a grim mark of 3,000 coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases on Thursday, with the addition of 286 new infections. The state, which accounts for a fourth of the country’s tally, has so far reported 3,202 cases and 194 deaths, including seven on Thursday.The state’s capital, Mumbai, which is the country’s most affected city, saw 177 more patients on Thursday, taking its tally past 2,000 to 2,073, and reported three deaths. The city’s death toll is now 117. The other four deaths were from Pune. The state government said that there was a drop in the rate of doubling of cases and an increase in the number of patients recovering. The state government has also started planning to relax lockdown restrictions in about half its districts from next week, by allowing industrial operations and intra-district movements.Of the day’s deaths, four of them were above 60 years of age, while the remaining were above 40 years. Six had underlying ailments, including diabetes, heart ailment, asthma and high blood pressure, read a statement released by the state health department. The state has conducted 56,673 tests at various public and private facilities, and has marked 297 active containment zones. A total of 5,664 survey teams, comprising doctors and assisting staff, have screened more than 20.50 lakh people. A total of 300 patients have been discharged from hospitals, while 71,076 people in the state are home quarantined and 6,108 are under institutional quarantine.State health minister Rajesh Tope said the rate of doubling of cases has improved to 5.5 days, from 2 and 3.5 days a few days ago. “We expect to improve it further. It is true that the mortality rate in the state is high at 7%, but it’s owing to comorbid issues in patients. 83% deaths are related to underlying ailments such as diabetes, and ailments related to heart and kidney. We have also formed a task force of experts to suggest measures to minimise the death rate and clinical management of Covid-19 patients who are critically ill,” he said.He said that the percentage of patients being discharged after recovery has increased. “Our focus on expediting the recovery has been reaping fruits as the rate of discharged patients has increased. 300 patients have been discharged so far,” he said. The minister said that only 2.5% of the 51,000 tests conducted turned positive.He said that six more labs are expected to be added to the existing 36 laboratories. “We are expecting approval from the ICMR to our proposal of pool-testing rapid testing,” he said. He said that all 1,400 people from Maharashtra, who had attended the international congregation at Nizamuddin in Delhi, have been traced, quarantined and tested. “Only 50 of them are diagnosed with Covid-19, the rest are kept in quarantine facilities,” he said.The state government is also planning to relax the lockdown restriction in the state from April 20. The relaxation will, however, be in the non-affected areas and limited only to the essential services, industries and agriculture sectors by strict following of the lockdown norms. Tope clarified that no public gathering will be allowed nor will educational institutions, such as school and colleges, be allowed to function.The state government is also planning to increase the workforce in government offices to 33%, according to the Central government. In a video conference on Thursday, top-level officials held discussion on the guidelines by the Central government. “Based on the notification issued by the Centre, we have already included a few auxiliary sectors in exempted essential activities. The districts with no Covid-19 patients or less than 15 patients can have more relaxed lockdown restrictions,” said an official on the condition of anonymity.There are seven districts with no patients and four other districts, where rural parts are unaffected. These districts will get maximum relief although all the activities will be within the district boundaries, which have been sealed. The districts with less than 15 patients are expected to get relief in unaffected areas. However the most affected areas, mostly governed by municipal corporations, will continue with the strict implementation of lockdown, said the official.Industries minister Subhash Desai said the state government was considering to allow industrial operations in at least 20 districts, which have either no case or very few cases from April 20. “Following the Centre’s guidelines for the second phase of lockdown and by using our own powers, we are preparing a proposal to begin industrial operations in some districts. The industrial units, following the standard operating procedures (SOP) laid down and making arrangements for their employees, would be allowed to commence operations,” he said. The minister said that the industrial units will have to make arrangements for the shelter and transportation of workers. According to officials, the state government has planned to begin operations of at least 60% MSMEs by the end of the month.Palghar district in MMR saw a sudden spurt in cases over the past few days after a 3-year old daughter of brick workers and two intern doctors tested positive for the virus. “We have 75 patients, including 62 in Vasai-Virar, who have tested positive. Its spread in remote areas is a matter of worry for us. All contacts of the doctors who tested positive are being traced. Our priority is containment of the spread, for which we have identified five hotspots,” said Kailash Shinde, Palghar collector.According to officials from the state government, the doubling rate of cases is a little over five days. “Our aim is to contain it at that rate, if not improved, immediately. Endeavours are put in to ensure that the doubling rate does not drop below 4. In such a scenario, the condition can be said to be under control. Our major concern is areas like Dharavi and Worli, where the number of patients are rising rapidly. But with full focus on these areas, we expect it to be contained soon,” the officer said.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and former education minister Vinod Tawde, while attacking the state government for suppressing the freedom of press by arresting a journalist, has also criticised its failure in handling the Covid-19 pandemic. Tawde said that journalists are being booked to cover government failures in handling the Bandra crowding incident on Tuesday. “A journalist of a Marathi channel was arrested, holding him responsible for the crowding of migrants outside Bandra station. In fact, it was a failure of the government and the action against the journalist was just to cover its own failure in handling law and order. The state government has also failed to handle the pandemic effectively. It has not even done adequate financial arrangements to combat the outbreak,” he said in a video statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-virus-tally-crosses-3-000-city-s-count-2-073/story-XyOvp8rommgIulECoqOXtL.html
17-04-2020||Chandigarh||Light rain likely in Chandigarh from April 17||As per the India Meteorological Department (IMD), a western disturbance will be active in the region, bringing light rain up to 20mm in the city on Friday and Saturday bringing along thunder and gusty winds of speeds up to 40km/h.The weather is likely to go back to being dry after Saturday. A dip in maximum temperature can also be expected during this time, but it will rise again from Sunday onwards. Maximum temperature went down from 37.9 degrees Celsius on Wednesday to 36.4 degrees Celsius on Thursday.Minimum temperature went down from 24.7 degrees Celsius on Wednesday to 22 degrees Celsius on Thursday. In the next three days, maximum temperature will remain between 33 and 34 degrees Celsius , while minimum temperature will remain between 21 and 23 degrees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/light-rain-likely-in-chandigarh-from-april-17/story-5ZVl5ENouT1B4AWdJs03bN.html
17-04-2020||Pune||Man walks 350km to reach Parbhani; tests coronavirus positive||Parbhani district in central Maharashtra on Thursday reported its first coronavirus case after a young man, who came from Pune on foot, was found infected with the disease, an official said.A 21-year-old man, who reached Parbhani from Pune on foot, has been found to be coronavirus positive, Civil Surgeon Dr Prakash Dake told PTI.He was admitted in Parbhani Civil hospital after he showed symptoms of COVID-19 after arriving from Pune, walking more than 350km, he said.His swab was sent for testing and report received on Thursday found him to be positive for the disease, the official told.“There are no severe symptoms in him and the patient is now stable. We have found 8-9 close contacts of this patient and further formalities are on,” said Dake. PTI AW RSY RSY||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/man-walks-350km-to-reach-parbhani-tests-coronavirus-positive/story-wwCedUDE6GNMetgNZCBhYK.html
17-04-2020||Gurugram||Three held with 107 kg marijuana; were waiting for lockdown to end||The police on Tuesday arrested two men allegedly in possession of 107 kilograms of marijuana (ganja), estimated to be valued at least ₹50 lakh, from a housekeeping shop in Udyog Vihar. One of their suppliers, a Bangladeshi national, was arrested from Delhi on Wednesday. According to the police, the gang was active in Delhi-NCR and its members allegedly sold smaller consignments of 10 kilograms each to drug peddlers for potential sale to people. The police said the crime branch of Sikanderpur had received a tip that the men had been hiding in a housekeeping shop in Udyog Vihar, following which the police raided the premises and arrested Rajan Kumar, 34, from Samastipur (Bihar) and Abhishek Kumar, 19, from West Champaran (Bihar).A police officer privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said that during questioning, the men revealed that they had sourced the marijuana in a mini truck from two suppliers in Delhi on March 18, a few days before the nationwide lockdown was announced to prevent the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). “They had been peddling drugs for over two months. They planned to wait for the lockdown to end and then supply the consignment to several suppliers in the city. Due to frequent police patrols, their movement within the city had been restricted,” the police officer said, adding that several bags packed with the marijuana packets were confiscated from the shop. One of their alleged suppliers, identified as Nur Islam alias Dada from Bangladesh, was arrested by a police team on Wednesday from Delhi Cantonment area. The police said the main kingpin of the gang, who used to source the narcotics from Odisha, was yet to be arrested. The men were produced in a district court on Thursday and sent to police custody for one day. A case was registered against them under relevant sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act at Udyog Vihar police station, the police said.In August 2019, the city police had arrested four men in possession of 54 kilograms of marijuana, while they were trying to peddle the consignment. The marijuana had been procured from Odisha and smuggled into the city in a truck. The police said that they were investigating if this week’s arrests had any link to the supply chain network of the arrests made last year as both consignments had been procured from Odisha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/three-held-with-107-kg-marijuana-were-waiting-for-lockdown-to-end/story-R9ZxDfHcC2DetQeMEPuzJM.html
17-04-2020||Delhi||Security guard blamed for Defence Colony coronavirus cases tests negative||A security guard employed by a Defence Colony family, three members of which tested positive for coronavirus (Covid-19) and of whom one died, has tested negative for the virus.This comes days after the Delhi Police registered a first information report (FIR) against the security guard, on the family’s complaint, for allegedly hiding information about visiting the Tablighi Jamaat headquarters in Nizamuddin in March.Three members of the family had tested positive for Covid-19 on April 9 and were shifted to a private hospital. On Wednesday, one of the family members died. The guard and his family have been placed in home quarantine at their Okhla residence, after his sample was taken for testing at RML Hospital. Two senior RML Hospital doctors confirmed that the security guard tested negative for Covid-19.Bhavreen Kandhari, a resident of Defence Colony, has been in touch with the security guard since the incident. Kandhari said, “He had called me on Thursday morning to inform that he has tested negative for Covid-19. He was very disturbed, as the family had to suffer a lot due to what has happened. He said they were starving in quarantine.”Major (retired) Ranjit Singh, the president of Defence Colony residents’ welfare association (RWA), said, “Earlier, the police and the government told us that the man has tested positive. If now, they are saying that his test result is negative, then it is for the authorities to answer. We are taking the usual precautions in our neighbourhood anyway.”A senior police official said that an FIR was filed on the basis of the statement given by the members of the family, who had employed the security guard, and other employees, who had said that the guard had informed them about his visit to the Nizamuddin Markaz. Also, the guard had his duty after the three members of his employer’s family were found positive with Covid-19 and a technical probe confirmed his presence near the Markaz.“Our investigation is still in progress. Moreover, neither the guard nor anybody else has been arrested in the case. The family has told us that only the guard had been visiting their house,” the officer said, adding that the guard was ill and they sent him to quarantine at his Okhla residence. A senior police officer privy to the case said that registering an FIR does not mean the person has been held guilty. “The investigation will tell us who infected the members of the Defence Colony family. The investigators will question the family members again to find how they were infected. A charge sheet will be filed accordingly,” the officer said.There were reports that one of the family members had a foreign travel history. When the police were asked about it when three members tested Covid-19 positive, they said the family members had already got themselves medically examined after the person returned to India around one-and-a-half month ago. Their medical reports confirmed that they were not positive with Covid-19 at that time, the police had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/guard-blamed-for-def-col-cases-tests-negative/story-2W3iSwoziJsKlxxVl88kGI.html
17-04-2020||Gurugram||Man kills himself; three booked for abetment||A man, believed to be in his early 20s, died after he allegedly hanged himself from a metal hook attached to the ceiling of his rented room in Palam Vihar, police said Thursday. The man was addicted to narcotics, they added. According to the police complaint, the man was under stress for sometime after three men did not give him anything despite taking his money after promising to supply him some narcotics. The police have booked the three men for abetment to suicide. The police said the deceased was a resident of Palam Vihar and was unemployed. The incident took place on Tuesday after he allegedly sent two voice notes to a relative through an instant messaging mobile application.In the police complaint, the relative said the deceased informed him he was tired of his addiction to narcotics. He alleged that the three suspects took the deceased’s money and did not provide him the narcotics. “The three men harassed my relative. He was under severe stress and then hanged himself,” the complainant added.A police official privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said they are verifying the claims of the complainant. “The suspects are yet to be arrested. We are investigating the case,” he added.A case was registered against the suspects under sections 306 (abetment to suicide) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Palam Vihar police station on Wednesday.A few major suicide prevention helpline numbers in India are +914066202000 from ‘Roshni’ (Hyderabad-based) and +914424640050 from Sneha India Foundation (Delhi-based).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/man-kills-himself-three-booked-for-abetment/story-cauDVxXoSH9p25PA4Q6QfI.html
17-04-2020||City||Stricter norms likely in Delhi after food rider tests Covid-19+||A day after a food delivery person working for a Malviya Nagar restaurant tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) -- leading to residents of at least 72 households being put under home quarantine -- the city administration is scrambling to put in place rules and standard operating procedures to ensure proper safety norms for local delivery firms and stand-alone restaurants in the Capital.While larger food delivery chains and essential supplies providers have strict processes to ensure the safety of their deliveries, smaller firms may fall below the radar, senior civic officials said, highlighting the need for standardised norms.“This incident shows that modalities should be chalked out under which the employer must issue fitness certificates to all its delivery persons and other staff at least once a week after proper health checks,” said BM Mishra, district magistrate of the south Delhi district, from where the case emerged. “All our Covid containment efforts will go in vain if there is no safety mechanism for the thousands of delivery persons operating in the city,” he added.Other district magistrates also called for protocols to be put in place. One district magistrate said that “if rules are laid down, people will have clear directions on what to do”; while Central Delhi district magistrate Nidhi Srivastava said the “daily temperature screening of all workers should be mandatory in these outlets”.Police on Thursday said that the man was an employee of Box 8, and the pizza was from the kitchen of the adjoining restaurant MOJO Pizza, also located in the same building. Police said that apart from serving its own menu, Box 8 has a tie-up with multiple food chains. In a statement on its official Twitter account on Thursday, Box 8 said: “After all precautions and vigilance, in an unfortunate turn of events, a delivery partner of our Malviya Nagar kitchen in south Delhi has tested Covid positive yesterday….The delivery partner has been keeping well and getting the required medical attention. All his co-workers have been quarantined and we have shut down the Malviya Nagar kitchen in South Delhi for the next 14 days.” Mishra, the South Delhi DM, said the delivery person had not been feeling well for nearly a month and had visited several hospitals. “He had a cough but some hospitals had dismissed it as common flu. But when he didn’t recover, he went to Safdarjung Hospital for a check-up from where he was referred to RML. He tested positive for Covid-19 on April 14,” said Mishra.Government officials said at least 16 employees and the owner of Box 8 have been put under institutional quarantine in Chhatarpur. The delivery person, who tested positive on April 14, is at the Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality hospital in Tahirpur for treatment.Larger firms involved in aggregated food delivery and chain restaurants said they were already following strict guidelines and the norms for their staff were assiduously enforced.Domino’s Pizza, a food chain, said it was the first company to start the “zero contact delivery” to contain the spread of the virus and that it was taking several other precautionary measures. “We would like to reassure all our customers that in these uncertain times, we are taking all possible precautions to ensure the safety and well-being of our employees and customers. As a rule, all our Safe Delivery Experts are 100% company employees and are following heightened sanitisation and hygiene protocols in all our restaurants. All employees in the stores are being temperature screened every day and they follow a mandatory hourly hand wash protocol for a minimum of 20 seconds. We are deep sanitising our restaurants as well as delivery bikes, boxes and pizza hot bags every 4 hours. Besides, we have moved all our deliveries to Zero Contact Delivery thereby avoiding any physical contact with the customer. Additionally, all our Safe Delivery Experts are wearing gloves and masks to ensure the safety of our customers,” it said in a statement. Food delivery aggregator Zomato said orders delivered by the restaurants directly were sometimes placed on the Zomato platform and it was not sure if this delivery person had delivered any such orders while he was infected.“At Zomato’s end, we are leaving no stone unturned to make sure that our customers, our delivery partners, and our restaurant partners are safe. Covid-19 could happen to anyone - and it is near impossible for all of us to completely isolate ourselves, especially when we need outside support for essentials such as food... We believe that none of our riders should and would knowingly keep working if they knew they were infected with Covid-19,” the company said in a statement.Another food delivery platform, Swiggy, said it regularly shared guidelines on best practices with its delivery partners. “We regularly send reminders to our delivery partners on best practices of respiratory hygiene, proper method and frequency of washing hands, as well as identification of associated symptoms. A series of videos capturing pertinent details shot in multiple languages are being circulated as a ready reckoner. We have also started the distribution of N95 masks to all our delivery partners in the affected cities, free of cost,” the company said in a statement. There are least 25,000 food delivery persons in the national Capital, estimates the RedSeer consulting firm. The number of active riders, however, has gone down after the Covid outbreak and the nationwide lockdown, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/72-houses-quarantined-as-delivery-boy-tests-positive/story-GqdMBjS9RybSkjDIdrogwJ.html
17-04-2020||Noida||Nurse tests positive for corona; 12 new cases in a day in GB Nagar||A 26-year-old nurse, working at Sector 39 new district hospital that has been converted into a quarantine centre for Covid-19 suspects,has tested positive for the virus in Gautam Budh Nagar. This is the first incident wherein a corona warrior getting infected in the district, which till Thursday had witnessed 92 cases, including 12 new ones.Officials said the nurse lives in the Gama sector of Greater Noida. Around 12 healthcare workers, who came in contact with the nurse, have also been put under quarantine. There are more than 200 Covid-19 suspects at the new district hospital at the moment. Officials, however, said that the area will not be turned into a hotspot as it is already serving as a quarantine centre for Covid-19 suspects. Officials are making a list of primary and secondary contacts of the nurse.“The hospital area can’t be put under a lockdown as it was already functioning as a quarantine centre. Required measures have been taken for the safety of others,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate, Gautam Budh Nagar.The other patients who tested positive on Thursday includes 5 members of a family from a residential society in Sector 93 A of Noida. Previously, another member of the family had been infected with the disease but the source of his infection is yet to be identified.Four people of another family in Sector 50 have also tested positive for the virus on Thursday after coming in contact with another person of the same family who had Covid-19..A 3-year-old child — from sector 74, whose parents are undergoing treatment for Covid-19 at the Super Speciality Paediatric Hospital and Post Graduate Teaching Institute in sector 30 of Noida — also tested positive for the virus on Thursday. The father of the child is an employee at Ceasefire company in sector 135 of Noida. Till now, 52 people having direct or indirect link with the company have been found positive for the infection in Gautam Budh Nagar district.On Thursday, the total number of hotspots in the district increased to 29, after the administration decided to add adding Sector Gama in Greater Noida and sector 20 on the list.Meanwhile, a 33-year-old woman who was undergoing treatment for Covid-19 at Sharda Hospital was discharged on Thursday. She was shifted to the hospital on April 8 from the Super Speciality Paediatric Hospital and Post Graduate Teaching Institute in Sector 30, after the condition of her husband deteriorated. The husband is still undergoing treatment and his condition is stable now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/nurse-tests-positive-for-corona-12-new-cases-in-a-day-in-gb-nagar/story-qy08oS4vmIKfz84i1vmbZN.html
17-04-2020||Noida||People under government quarantine allege misbehaviour by officials||Four people, suspected of being infected by Covid-19 and currently under isolation at two government-run quarantine centres in Greater Noida, on Thursday complained of misbehaviour by officials, delay in food and unhygienic conditions under which they are being forced to lived. A 42-year-old domestic help of two Ceasefire employees is under quarantine along with her family for the past 13 days and has been waiting for her test reports for Covid-19.“I have been kept under quarantine at the Galgotias hostel along with my daughter while my husband and son are at the Kasna centre. Whenever we go to ask for our reports, we are shooed away rudely. The premises and rooms where we live in are very dirty. Food comes very late and nothing is given for breakfast, except tea. I just want to know the reports so that we can leave. It is difficult to live like this for so many days,” said the 42-year-old domestic help, who worked at the houses of two Ceasefire employees in sector 93.The woman lives with her family in Gheja village of Noida in Sector 93. “The staff over here have not addressed any of our queries. It’s been 13 days and our test reports are yet to come. We just want to know if we can go home . I worked at houses of people who worked with Ceasefire company in sector 135. We were brought here on April 4,” the domestic help told HT over the phone..The district magistrate of Gautam Budh Nagar said he had received complaints regarding the cleanliness of the premises at the Galgotias hostel, but the issue has been resolved. “I received complaints and we sent the chief development officer to look into the matter. The cleaning has already started. As far as a complaint regarding food is concerned, I will have to cross check that. If there is any issue then it will be resolved,” said Suhas LY, Gautam Budh Nagar district magistrate.The teenager son of the woman is at the Kasna quarantine centre, along with his physically challenged father. “My father is in another room. My mother and sister are at Galgotias. Life is very difficult under such circumstances. We want to go home if our results are negative, but no official is ready to give us any feedback. When we ask for food, we are shouted at,” said the 15-year-old boy.“There are many reports which are pending because load has been increasing on laboratories tackling Covid-19 tests. Most of these delayed reports had gone to the Aligarh Muslim University, which is facing a lot of pressure following increase in number of sampling. We are also waiting for their reports and they will be informed as soona s we have them. Now, National Institute of Biologicals in Noida is also conducting tests, so the pressure has eased a little. But their reports were sent to AMU. One lab has already started functioning at the Government Institute of Medical Sceinces and another will be ready soon at the Super Speciality Paediatric Hospital and Post Graduate Teaching Institute,” district magistrate Suhas said..The daughter of the domestic help said that the cleaning staff was on leave following which the premises had become very dirty. “The cleaning staff wasn’t coming to clean our rooms or the premises. When we asked, we were told to mind our own business. There is no fixed timing for lunch and dinner here,” said the 23-year-old woman.The district magistrate said, “Few of the cleaning staff at Galgotias had gone on leave but now they have been replaced by others. Only once, some food related issue had come up and it has been resolved. We are ensuring that the basic facilities are in place.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/people-under-government-quarantine-allege-misbehaviour-by-officials/story-I52XG7AONwqEEn2ow4IOkN.html
17-04-2020||Noida||Noida: Migrants leave rented houses, shift to slums amid lockdown 2.0||Working as a construction labourer in Noida, despite being a Delhi University commerce graduate, Pawan Ahirwar says life and survival have become all the more tougher during the lockdown.With no work or income, the stranded migrant from Chhatarpur, Madhya Pradesh, who once aspired for a job suited for a DU graduate, can no longer afford even the one-room apartment in Noida’s industrial sector where he lived. Abhishek had no other option but to shift to a slum cluster at Sector 66 with his family.“The lockdown might just be extended again and there is no guarantee of work. I have a wife to look after, and I belong to a landless farming family. What other option do I have? Shifting to a slum will cut my costs. At least I’m spared the tension of paying rent for my apartment at Sector 67,” Ahirwar, who got his BCom degree from PGDAV College, DU, last year, said. With his meagre savings, Ahirwar has to look after his parents in the village and also support the education of his wife Vineeta who is pursuing her BEd from a private college in Greater Noida.Pawan is not alone in facing such adversity, as almost every slum cluster around the industrial area comprising sectors 63, 62, 66, 67 and others is seeing such new shanties or jhuggis being constructed by stranded families from MP, Bihar, Jharkhand and even the remotest villages of Uttar Pradesh. Some of these families had earlier left slums to move to comparatively cleaner and better localities, however, they had to return as the lockdown changed their priorities from ‘quality life’ to ‘sustenance’.Anticipating another extension of the lockdown, migrant labourers consider the slum a better choice, even as they compromise on hygiene, water and electricity and live in fear of being shooed away by the administration.“I had been renting a room for ₹3,500 a month in Garhi Chaukhadi where I live with my wife. I did not get the salary for March and the chances look bleak for April as well. Our landlord waived the rent for March, but who knows how long the lockdown will continue? Do you think he will keep waiving rent as long as the lockdown continues? My wife and I had to shift back here last week as we had lived here a few years ago, but the circumstances have changed,” Abhishek Singh, a migrant worker from Nawabganj, Farukhabad district, who made a tenement at a cluster in Sector 67, and worked at a garment factory in Sector 63, said.Sarlaya Kumar, another migrant daily wager who hails from Khaddipur village in Hardoi district, moved to a slum cluster in Sector 67 from Khanpur, Delhi, where he used to rent a two-room house he shared with another family. While the other family went back home during the exodus, he preferred to shift to this slum.“The jhuggi I’m living in now belonged to a friend who left for his village. The family I lived with and the friend had some land as well as the promise of work during the harvest season; I didn’t. So, I had to stay back and made affordable living arrangements,” Kumar, who manages to make ₹150 to ₹350 on a normal day, said. According to the officials, people have an option to stay at shelter homes until the situation returns to normal. There are over 20 such facilities across the district that offer food, accommodation and medical facilities.“We will look into the matter; people don’t have to leave their houses. There are facilities for shelter homes, and anyone in crisis can go there as those facilities are meant for them,” Praveen Mishra, additional chief executive officer, Noida authority, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-migrants-leave-rented-houses-shift-to-slums/story-QnXDjOZd8evsH1MonPJPRO.html
17-04-2020||Delhi||In times of a pandemic, Delhi Police go mask and glove to nab criminals||On Wednesday, after Delhi Police’s special cell finally managed to nab 32-year-old Bijender alias Gadgu, who was wanted for several crimes — including murder — and carried a reward of Rs 1 lakh, the first thing they did was give the man a mask and a pair of surgical gloves.Bijender is a hitman of Karambir alias Kala’s gang, which operates in Delhi-NCR, and is involved in killings over land grabbing, personal enmity and gang rivalry.On way to the court, Bijender wore the mask and surgical gloves, while armed police officers maintained a radial distance of at least 5-6 feet from the suspect.The law does not allow policemen to handcuff an arrested person, unless there is a court order. So police personnel usually grab the hands of the arrested suspects to ensure they do not escape. As the number of police personnel with symptoms of Covid-19 continues to rise, police officers working on the ground have had to adopt different techniques to ensure that they do not catch the virus. The city’s criminals, too, have realised the importance of social distancing and have in some instances asked police not to hold their hands while promising that they will not escape, many police officers said.The city’s police force — from ensuring social distancing norms are followed to conducting security checks on the roads and the hotspots across the city — have been at the forefront of the fight against Covid-19 pandemic that is raging in Delhi at the moment. Till Thursday, Delhi had recorded 1,640 Covid-19 positive cases with 38 deaths.Till Thursday evening, at least seven Delhi police personnel had tested positive for Covid-19, while around 261 others were in home-quarantine. A senior police officer, however, said that the seven cops who had tested positive had not been infected by anyone they had arrested. A police station in Chandni Mahal was also sealed later in the day after two cops tested positive.A senior police officer said that around 25-30% of police officers in each police station are already on leave. With the crime rates falling, the officers were advised to go on leave but to be prepared to join duty if the numbers continues to increase. With a number of healthcare workers on home quarantine after catching the infection, earlier this week the Delhi government had decided to deploy post-graduate medical students to help the district health authorities. Delhi chief secretary, Vijay Dev had issued an order in this regard.A crime branch officer, who did not wish to be named, said the city’s criminals seem to have realised the do’s and dont’s related to Covid-19 and request police personnel not to hold their hands. They even ask if the lock-up has been sanitised because police station lockups, usually a single cell, is shared by several people.“At least three such criminals, who we arrested in the last five days, requested us not to hold their hands. They promised us they will not try to run. We stood in a circle around the suspects, while maintaining a distance of 5-6 feet. One such photograph also went viral on social media later. I was also told that a man arrested for snatching in outer Delhi on Wednesday asked the station in charge if the lock-up had been sanitised,” the officer said.At places such as Chandi Mahal and Nizamuddin, which have been declared hotspots for Sars-Cov-2 infection, police personnel have also been given Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) kits. Deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur said, “Apart from sanitation masks and hand sanitisers, those deployed in containment zones have been given Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) kits. They also regularly disinfect and sanitise the PPE kits before using it again.”Sanjeev Yadav, who is the DCP of the special cell, said that apart from social distancing at work, the force are following all guidelines during raids, transporting suspects to courts or jails and while keeping the arrested in the police stations lock-ups.“The raiding team members wear masks, hand gloves, and use sanitisers before and after they physically nab the suspect. Social distancing is maintained during interrogation as well. The lock-up is properly sanitised before locking the suspect. Following precautionary guidelines is the most important thing to avoid getting infected from Covid-19,” he addedOn preparedness in the backdrop of police personnel testing positive for the virus,additional commissioner of police, Mandeep Randhawa, who is the city’s police’s spokesperson said, “We have advised all our personnel to be cautious on duty. All police stations have been provided with masks and surgical gloves. We have managed our resources well. With fewer crimes, around 25-30% of the force are on rest. They can also join anytime if the need arises. Our police commissioner also issued a message for everyone on the field on the ways to ensure social distancing. We have enough police personnel in this fight against Covid-19.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/in-times-of-a-pandemic-delhi-police-go-mask-and-glove-to-nab-criminals/story-2CL5EjujlvaQfDZULtoBWM.html
17-04-2020||Delhi||Admin says those gathered on Yamuna plains were local homeless not migrants||A day after 700 people had gathered on the Yamuna floodplains in search of shelter, the district administration said they were not migrant workers but homeless people who remain in that area, especially during summer. While some of whom were later shifted to various shelter homes by local authorities, others continued to take shelter under a flyover on the banks of the Yamuna on Thursday as well. The local authorities had swung into action after several media outlets ran a photo showing hundreds of people under a flyover on Yamuna floodplains. District magistrate (Central) Nidhi Srivastava said nearly 3,000 people have been relocated from Yamuna Pushta and Chandni Chowk. “They are not migrant workers but mostly the homeless who remain in the surrounding areas of different shelter homes. They move in groups and during the lockdown, most of them congregated near the Yamuna to carry out their daily needs (bathing, washing etc.) When they came to know that they were being watched, many of them moved to Chandni Chowk area,” Srivastava said.She also suggested that many of the homeless abused substances. “Around 18 shelters across different districts have been set up for them. Apart from providing food and shelter, the government will soon introduce rehabilitation facilities in these shelters for patients of substance abuse,” Srivastava said. Bipin Rai, member, DUSIB, which is the nodal agency for shelters, however, said many of those seen in pictures and videos put out by media outlets were those who live in rented rooms and railway sheds nearby. “Since they did not have a proper home, they came out to the floodplains, which is cooler than other areas during the day. We have shifted most of these people,” he said.Social activists, who had visited the floodplains, did not agree with the administration. “I had visited Yamuna Pushta on Wednesday. Not all of them could be local homeless. The place is close to the Kashmere Gate bus terminal and has two railway stations in the vicinity, which is the reason why they gathered on the floodplains, since they had nowhere else to go,” Indu Prakash Singh, member of the Supreme Court-appointed state-level shelter monitoring committee, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/admin-says-those-gathered-on-yamuna-plains-were-local-homeless-not-migrants/story-odec7yj4zHZYO8I3x13keN.html
17-04-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s PDS distribution far from enough to alleviate hunger||The ongoing distribution of wheat and pulses under centre’s public distribution system (PDS) is not enough to mitigate hunger among thousands of poor affected by the Covid-19 lockdown in Chandigarh.Those affected say that a substantial fraction of the poor are not given the ration because they are not enrolled with the local food and supplies department for free ration.PDS beneficiaries get 5kg wheat per month per member and 1kg pulses per month per family. The UT administration, through 11 teams, is distributing three months of ration in one go in line with the central government’s directions.AFFECTED POPULACE MORE THAN REGISTERED BENEFICIARIESUT administration figures reveal that 63,616 beneficiary families are eligible for ration distribution, whereas, according to industrial bodies, the city has over 1.25 lakh labourers, who along with their families, are struggling due to scarce resources.Former mayor and Maloya colony councillor Rajesh Kumar Kalia said the second phase of the lockdown will be much more severe on the unemployed daily wagers, as whatever stock of ration they could manage before the lockdown will be exhausted. “Distribution of cooked food is not a permanent solution. We need a little compassion from the administration in terms of ration distribution to people outside the enrolment list,” he said.Kanwaljeet Singh Rana, councillor from Sector 45, said in his ward, only 2,500 people got the ration under PDS, while at least 10,000 were bereft of it. “We are trying to give them cooked food, but that is not an effective solution,” he added. On Thursday, the administration distributed ration in Bapudham Colony near Sector 26. During distribution, councillor Dalip Sharma appealed to the beneficiaries to share the supplies. Chanderwati Shukla, councillor of Sectors 43 and 52, where over 10,000 migrant families live, said, “There are people who got over one quintal of wheat under PDS, then there are those who don’t have anything at all. Such inequality must be addressed before it causes unrest among the underprivileged,” she said.‘INVOLVE ELECTED REPRESENTATIVES, TEMPORARY RATION CARDS’Dr Rajesh Gill, professor of sociology at Panjab University, said the situation was definitely alarming, as snatching of livelihoods had pushed thousands into starvation. “We don’t know how long it will be before the economy revives. As India has sufficient stock of food grain, we need to devise a mechanism to reach out to non-PDS beneficiaries,” she said.She said local councillors could identify such people and issue them temporary ration cards till the lockdown was in place. “Quick mapping of poor is possible in a small territory like Chandigarh,” she said.Teachers in PU’s economics and public administration departments also emphasised the need for effective distribution of cooked food among the needy, something where UT was struggling even three weeks after lockdown.UT secretary, food supplies and consumer affairs, Vinod P Kavle, could not be reached for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-pds-distribution-far-from-enough-to-alleviate-hunger/story-zqvzi15t3sduyxHCAO9heO.html
17-04-2020||Pune||Dean of Pune’s Covid-19 treatment hub, Sassoon hospital, transferred by state government||Dr Ajay Chandanwale, dean of Sassoon General hospital, one of two major centres for the treatment of Covid-19 patients in Pune, was transferred on Thursday, officials from the health department said.As per the state government’s orders, Dr Murlidhar Tambe, deputy dean of BJ Medical College and Sassoon General hospital, has been given interim charge.“Yes, it is true that I have been asked to report back to my original posting. I will go back as joint director, directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER) tomorrow (Friday). Since September last year, when I took charge as dean at Sassoon, I have always worked hard to ensure that hospital remains ahead in offering treatment to needy patients. During these difficult times as well, I have offered my best,” Dr Chandanwale said. Divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar, confirming the transfer, said, “Dr Chandanwale was holding the position of joint director and in view of the prevailing conditions, he has been asked to report to that position.”Sassoon is testing swab samples from Satara, Ahmednagar and Nashik, in addition to Pune. To minimise the mortality rate in Pune, the state government has constituted a task force under Professor (medicine) Dileep Kadam.On Thursday, four deaths due to Covid-19 were recorded in Pune city, all from Sassoon General Hospital. The first Covid-19 patient admitted at Sassoon General hospital, a 42-year-old male, was discharged from the hospital. He was admitted on March 31 and is from Parvati. His second test came back negative on Thursday.Amongst the deceased, was of a 65-year-old female who had type 1 respiratory failure due to acute respiratory distress syndrome, due to Covid-19. She was admitted on April 3.The second causalty is a 54-year-old male admitted on April 13, and had myocarditis with acute kidney injury, also with acute respiratory failure.Similarly, the third patient to die is a 55-year-old female, admitted on April 14, with acute respiratory failure and pneumonia due to Covid-19.The fourth deceased patient is a 47-year-old female admitted on April 9, who died due to myocarditis and respiratory failure.With inputs from Dheeraj Bengrut||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dean-of-city-s-covid-19-treatment-hub-sassoon-hospital-transferred-by-state-government/story-De1VtSvWlnv1hrH6j44pVN.html
17-04-2020||Delhi||Chandni Mahal police station shut after cops test positive; 2 ASIs in north Delhi get disease||The Chandni Mahal police station in central Delhi was sealed on Thursday after two constables posted there tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. Along with this, at least 26 other police personnel, including the station house officer, were quarantined there too. This is the first police station in the Capital to be sealed. Chandni Mahal was earlier declared a containment zone by the state government that placed severe restrictions on its residents, after many tested positive for the disease.Deputy commissioner of police[DCP] (central) Sanjay Bhatia said that the two constables lived in the barracks inside the station because of which such an action was necessitated. Bhatia said the other police personnel of the station will now be working from the nearby Jama Masjid police station. The constables, both in their 40s, were taken to Max Hospital, Saket for treatment.ASIs test positiveTwo assistant sub-inspectors (ASIs) with the Delhi Police tested positive for Covid-19 in north Delhi.One ASI tested positive after his wife, a nurse at the Lok Nayak Hospital that is a dedicated Covid-19 hospital, contracted the disease. The hospital, however, maintains that she did not get the disease from there. Police are still to determine how the second ASI officer contracted the disease. The first ASI officer lived in Model Town’s Police Colony. His 21-year-old son too tested positive. Vijayanta Arya, deputy commissioner of police (north-west), said that the ASI was posted with the provision and logistics department and that his duty profile did not require him to have much contact with his colleagues.The ASI was on a medical leave for a few weeks and that was extended once his wife fell ill. His wife was shifted to Lok Nayak Hospital’s isolation ward for treatment.“The ASI’s wife tested positive last week. The ASI and his two sons went into quarantine as per protocol and got themselves tested. On Monday, the ASI and a son tested positive,” said the DCP. The duo have been moved to Lok Nayak Hospital too, while the son has been home quarantined. “Ever since the lockdown, the couple had not been interacting with their neighbours, maintaining social distancing. So, it is unlikely that their neighbours were infected because of them. But we are investigating all possible contacts,” said Arya. An official from Lok Nayak hospital said that the nurse did not contract the disease from the hospital but could not confirm from where she eventually got it from. “Two of our nurses were diagnosed with Covid-19 and they might have got it from outside the hospital -- one of them lived in a containment zone and the other lived close to a quarantine centre,” said the official. On Wednesday, a doctor from the hospital also tested positive for the infection. The doctor worked in the high-risk Covid-19 ICU.The other ASI lived with his wife and four children in North Delhi’s Burari and was posted as the persona security officer with a private doctor. He had become symptomatic last week and was tested. Santosh Kumar Meena, deputy commissioner of police (security), said that it was unlikely that the ASI’s association with the doctor had anything to do with him contacting the virus. “The doctor and others known to the doctor have not tested positive for the virus. The policeman told us that a scrap dealer had visited his house. We don’t yet know how the policeman contracted the disease,” said Meena. The ASI was found positive on Tuesday and was moved to Lok Nayak Hospital on Wednesday. “His wife and four children have been home quarantined and their test results are awaited,” said Meena.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/chandni-mahal-police-station-shut-after-cops-test-positive-2-asis-in-north-delhi-get-disease/story-4hY4aYGMxLfbn4JAXKM6pL.html
17-04-2020||Delhi||68 people at Bhagwan Mahavir Hospital quarantined after death of Covid positive patient||At least 68 people at Bhagwan Mahavir Hospital in Pitampura had to be quarantined after a patient who did not reveal her travel history tested positive for Covid-19, and later died during treatment, officials said. Of the 68 quarantined, 20 were doctors, 21 nurses, 15 technicians, and other housekeeping and security staff.Hospital authorities said a 25-year-old woman with an ectopic pregnancy – where the embroyo is attached outside the uterus – underwent a surgery at the hospital on April 13. She did not reveal her travel history and that she had been advised home quarantine by the district authorities.Two days later, her condition deteriorated and she had to be put on ventilator. She later revealed her travel history and contact with Covid-19 positive travellers. She died on Wednesday night.Four of the woman’s family members have been put in quarantine.Meanwhile, a 49-year-old man, under treatment at the Delhi State Cancer Institute, succumbed to the Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) late Wednesday. The man was recovering from surgery after a cancerous tumour had been removed from his brain. He is the second patient to have died of Covid-19 at the hospital.He was admitted to the Institute on March 24, after having been operated elsewhere, as his condition was deteriorating. After several members of its staff tested positive for Coronavirus, the hospital shut down all of its services and transferred its patients to private hospitals. The patient who died Wednesday was one of those transferred to Dharmashila hospital, where he and one of his family members had tested positive for the Sars-Cov-2.They were then sent to the Rajiv Gandhi Super-Speciality hospital in Tahirpur, which is a dedicated Covid-19 facility. So far, of the four Covid-19 patients who were admitted to the Institute, two of them have died.Twenty-five of staff members in the hospital have tested positive for the infection, making the hospital a hotspot. The first one to test positive was a 35-year-old doctor of preventive oncology. However, the health department has been unable to pinpoint the source of the infection. Healthcare workers continue to be at a higher risk of contracting the infection, with another doctor from Lok Nayak Hospital testing positive for Covid-19 Wednesday night. He was a PG student from the department of anaesthesia and was working in the Covid-19 intensive care unit of the hospital.Lok Nayak is one of the two dedicated Covid-19 hospitals of the Delhi government. At least 50 people from the hospital have been quarantined after two nurses and the doctor tested positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/another-patient-dies-at-dsci-25-healthcare-workers-and-four-patients-infected-at-the-hospital/story-gdKRNnntHlCV3mCAtQ0NJM.html
17-04-2020||Delhi||CCTV footage helps arrest three men involved in hit-and-run that killed cycle-riding doctor||Three men were arrested on Thursday for mowing down and killing a cycle-riding doctor in south Delhi’s Malviya Nagar on Monday.The 52-year-old doctor, Jai Prakash Yadav, was returning to his home in Greater Kailash-1 in the afternoon when the incident happened. Yadav was posted at an MCD polyclinic in south Delhi’s Mehrauli and served as the south zone’s nodal officer for Covid-19.Surveillance footage from close to the accident site helped police identify the car and thereafter, its occupants: 37-year-old Vijay (identified only by his first name),an assistant at an automobile showroom; and 35-year-olds Ajay (identified only by his first name) and Sandeep Pal Singh, both of whom sold and repaired vehicles.“The three friends have told us that they were driving from their homes in east Delhi’s Mandawali to the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences in Vasant Kunj. They are still being questioned.They did not carry any curfew passes to move about during the lockdown and were not into providing any essential service either,” said deputy commissioner of police (South) Atul Kumar Thakur.Another police officer, on condition of anonymity, said that arrested men claimed they were on their way to give blood to a friend admitted in the hospital and that they hit the doctor when he took an unexpected turn. “Each of these claims are yet to be verified,” this officer added.The incident had happened at a traffic junction near the Police Training School in Malviya Nagar. As part of the probe, police obtained surveillance footage from CCTV cameras along the route. None showed the actual accident.However, the doctor’s colleague who had been following him in a car that day had given police a clue: it was a white car.“We checked the footage for all white cars passing on that route around 3.30pm when the accident happened. We found five such white cars,” said Thakur. Armed with the registration numbers of those five cars, the police physically checked the owners of each of them. “One belonged to a man named Sonu in Rohtak. On Wednesday, we visited him and got to know that he had given the car to his friend, Vicky, in Sonepat. Further inquiry revealed that Vicky had let his friend, Sandeep Pal Singh, drive the car. Singh was questioned and he said that he and his two friends, Ajay and Vijay, were driving the car to Vasant Kunj when the accident happened, said the DCP. “All three of them have been arrested and the car - a Maruti Swift - was recovered from Mandawali. It bore the marks of an accident. The men have confessed to being involved in the hit-and-run case,” said the DCP.“The car occupants had driven away without caring to help the injured doctor,” said the DCP. The doctor had later succumbed to his injuries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/cctv-footage-helps-arrest-three-men-involved-in-hit-and-run-that-killed-cycle-riding-doctor/story-i8XyiXxipwnfuMkGhonMuJ.html
17-04-2020||Delhi||Delhi gets nod to start plasma enrichment technique trials||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said the Capital has got the Centre’s nod to start trials for plasma enrichment technique, which will begin in the next three to four days. If successful, plasma enrichment can be used to treat seriously ill Covid-19 patients.“We had asked for permission for testing plasma technology (for Covid-19) from the Central government. Today we got the nod for the same… If successful, we can save the lives of seriously ill patients,” Kejriwal said on Thursday.There is currently no cure for Covid-19 and convalescent plasma is an experimental procedure . Plasma enrichment technique entails taking blood plasma from a person who has recovered from Covid-19 as it contains antibodies which, when transfused to a sick patient, can boost immunity and help in recovery.Delhi so far has recorded 1,640 Covid-19 positive cases and 38 deaths.“We are ready to conduct the experiment in the next 3-4 days. The technology, if it turns out to be successful, can increase the chances of saving lives of seriously ill patients. We are likely to get a sense of the results of the trial after another 4-5 days,” the chief minister said.On Wednesday, Delhi’s lieutenant governor (L-G) Anil Baijal had said he has advised all the concerned authorities to strictly adhere to a standard operating procedures, guidelines and protocols issued by the Union Health Ministry while dealing with Covid-19 patients. Baijal ahd also mentioned about plasma therapy in a review meeting with the Capital’s health minister and top bureaucrats.Baijal’s office said in a statement: “Delhi to use plasma technique for treatment on a trial basis to save lives of critical Covid-19 patients. Advised all to strictly adhere to SOPs/guidelines & protocols issued by the Union health ministry while dealing with Covid-19 patients.”On April 13, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had sought the participation of researchers for conducting a clinical trial of convalescent plasma therapy to treat critically ill Covid-19 patients and floated a protocol for it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-gets-nod-to-start-plasma-enrichment-technique-trials/story-uQYdzOS1SQwKZ1wnt0DgGK.html
17-04-2020||Pune||On the frontline: The tempo service that delivers food to at least 2,000 job-less daily-wage earners||Sachin Jadhav, a tempo driver, delivers food packets to the needy who have been affected by the lockdown which is in place to contain the spread of Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 (coronavirus) infection. The food packets are provided by various non-government organisations (NGOs) which is delivered by Swiggy, an online food ordering and delivery platform. He speaks to HT about his role.What is your role in this crisis?Since the lockdown was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 24 many people fled to their villages. I too thought of taking my wife and child to our village near Sangli, but, by then, the lockdown was in effect. There are many people who are daily wage earners who have no source of income during this time of crisis. As a result, they would have to starve without any food coming their way. I have been hired by Swiggy to help deliver the food plates to the people who have no way to buy food for themselves. I pick up the food plates from the designated kitchens and deliver it to the places they ask me to. This way, at least 2,000 people get to eat daily. Though I had no work for the first week, this job came my way and I am happy that I can help those who are worse off than me.How does your day begin and roll out?I live in Bhosari with my seven-year-old son and wife. I start from my home at 9 am. I drive to the kitchen in Hinjewadi that prepares the food for the morning shift. I reach there by 10 am. The food packets are loaded onto my tempo, after which, my job is to deliver it to two sites, Phursungi and Yerawada. I get to the delivery spots where the parcels are offloaded. I generally finish the two sites by 1-1.30 pm. I eat my tiffin that my wife packs for me and then head back to the second kitchen at Balewadi. From this kitchen I have to deliver the food packets to three sites - first to Budhwar peth (500 plates); then I drive to Kondwa where 600 packets are offloaded; and then Yerwada where 200-300 plates are given. After this, around 8pm, I head back home.What precautions are you taking?I’ve bought a face mask, sanitiser and gloves. I wear a mask and gloves especially when the food is being loaded and offloaded since that has a lot of people around. But whilst I am driving and the roads are quite free and I am not at the signal, I let the mask drop. It does tend to get very hot with it. I use the sanitiser when I get in and out of the tempo. When I get home, I take a bath and my clothes are washed. I do not touch anything till I have bathed.What is your assessment of the Covid-19 crisis in Pune? How is it unfolding?I think everyone should do their bit in this fight against Covid-19. Whist I am driving I see some places where people loiter on the streets. I wish they would be more responsible and sit at home instead. This infection is very dangerous and the less we get out of our homes the better. This epidemic is taking its toll not only on human lives, but also on our earnings. The government and non-government organisation (NGOs) are doing their best to provide food to the poor, but people who are daily wagers or who don’t have a job are on very shaky ground. In 15 days, I had work for just eight days. I have an EMI of Rs 9,500 to pay for my tempo. Of course, I get an extension of two months, but the sooner we get out of this Covid-19 the better it will be.What gaps do you see in healthcare and relief work?I think the food delivery system that is being taken up by various agencies is good. People are now getting food, but the real trouble is lack of jobs. The poor can get help from the government or NGOs, but for small-time businessmen like me, it is very hard. We cannot seek help and yet have financial responsibilities. Along with food and temporary shelter the government should think of providing jobs as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/on-the-frontline-the-tempo-service-that-delivers-food-to-at-least-2-000-job-less-daily-wage-earners/story-h3qBlDBh12QBEqsdhYryRJ.html
17-04-2020||Pune||Stay home, or face action: Pune police chief sends out firm warning||Since the lockdown 2.0 has begun, from April 15, restrictions and rules to fight Covid-19 were expected to evidently become stricter.However, a spot visit to several areas in the city by HT lensmen on Wednesday, revealed busy roads with no social distancing or mask-use in place.Pune police commissioner K Venkatesham, responding to the pictorial evidence, believes this is the exception rather than the rule.“Lockdown rules are very clear and a majority of Punekars, like 99.99 per cent of them, are following the rules and staying at home for the sake of everybody. But, 0.1 per cent of people, do not have respect for other citizens; so, shame on them. We will be very firm and from now onwards; strict action will be taken on such violators by Pune police department,” Venkatesham said on Thursday.“At many places we have taken action where violators were found roaming the roads, which is not acceptable. We will do whatever is required to enforce the lockdown. These people, without any reasons, are coming out on the roads and are likely to spread the disease. Many citizens themselves are objecting to such careless behaviour,” he added.“Why do we need police all the time to tell people to follow the rules, when it is clearly laid out by the government - do not come out and stay at home. I request Punekars to follow all the rules and regulations of lockdown and please stay at home,” Venkatesham said. Action taken on ThursdayAccording to Pune police commissioner K Venkatesham, under the special drive against the lockdown violatorsGot updated figures for today now from CP - Cases lodged under section 188 of IPC - 476Total vehicles seized - 1,248Action against “morning walk” violators - 90Action against violators for not wearing mask - 78||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/stay-home-or-face-action-pune-police-chief-sends-out-firm-warning/story-fsD6scWe80kYCItCgvt8WL.html
17-04-2020||Pune||Pune’s maximum temperature hits 40 deg C, with light rain||The city witnessed a strange weather occurrence on Thursday, with the maximum temperature recorded at 40.1 degrees Celsius, followed by scattered rain in various areas.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), “A trough/wind discontinuity will run from southwest Madhya Pradesh to north interior Karnataka across Vidarbha and Marathawada, while another trough in the easterlies at 0.9 km above mean sea level will run from equatorial Indian Ocean to southeast Arabian Sea, off south Kerala coast, causing the state to witness high temperatures.”While the highest maximum temperature of 43.9°C was recorded at Akola, lowest minimum temperature 20.1 was recorded at Mahabaleshwar.The city will see its maximum temperature rising up to 41 degrees Celsius from April 20- 22, with the sky remaining mainly clear.Temperature forecast for PuneApril 17-April 2040 degrees Celsius, with minimum at 23 degrees CelsiusApril 21-2241 degrees Celsius with minimum at 22 degrees Celsius||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-s-max-temp-hits-40-deg-c-with-light-rain/story-3MjzpTOAkf4153xJxl3JpJ.html
17-04-2020||Pune||With 46 deaths, Pune ‘flu centres’ now front-line defence in Covid-19 attack||The Pune civic administration is focusing its anti-Covid-19 efforts on ensuring all symptomatic persons are able to access a host of “flu centres” set up across the city.Ten mobile vans are in operation in the containment zones in Pune, with four such vans in Pimpri-Chinchwad. This is apart from 74 flu centres already set up across the city, and 35 in areas under PCMC.Pune, as of Thursday, had recorded 46 deaths related to Covid-19, with 442 positive cases. Currently mortality rate in the city stands at 10.40%.Deepak Mhaisekar, divisional commissioner, said, “We have noticed that often senior citizens or people comorbid conditions, like diabetes, hypertension, or any diseases which affect the kidney or liver, go for preliminary treatment and take medicines off the counter. This may suppress the symptoms for a few days, which then come back and worsen the situation. We request every patient who shows any flu-like symptom to directly go the flu centres set up by the local body.”As per data released by the Pune municipal corporation’s (PMC) health department, since March 1, 2.24 lakh citizens have been screened, of which 58,872 patients were found to have flu-like symptoms.However, of these, only 326 were sent to Naidu hospital, and 497 were sent to Sassoon hospital, for the Covid-19 test.Further, data from the PMC’s door-to-door survey, on from March 16 until April 14, reveals a total of 1,483 persons with flu-like symptoms have either been home quarantined, or isolated in hospitals.Thirty of these are in the Naidu hospital, one at the flu centre at Sanas ground, and 15 at the Laygude hospital. An Indian Journal of Medical Research (IJMR) study, released earlier this week, found that 21 out of 577 patients with severe acute respiratory (SAR) illnesses tested positive for Covid-19 in Pune.Doctors have been emphasising that all symptomatic patients, irrespective of travel history, location or contact with Covid-19-positive person(s), be tested.Dr Avinash Bhondwe, head of the Indian Medical Association’s Maharashtra chapter, said, “More patients with flu-like symptoms need to be tested. There was a case in Panvel when a man tested negative and then died. Many people attended the funeral. The second test results, which came later, showed he tested positive for Covid-19. Since Covid-19 first attacks the respiratory system, all patients with flu-like symptoms must be tested.”Covid Care Centres (CCC) or flu centresThese are institutional quarantine facilities set up in hostels, hotels, guesthouses, lodges, stadiums, banquet halls and schools for high- and low-risk contacts, who are not identified as Covid-19 positive, but need to be kept under observation.Prominent flu centres: • Rakshak Nagar sports centre, Kharadi (70 beds)• Draupdabai Murlidhar Khedekar hospital, Bopodi (50)• Murlidhar Pandurang Laygude hospital, Wadgaon Dhayari (60)• Namdevrao Shivarkar Maternity Centre, Wanowrie (10)• Meenatai Thackeray Maternity Centre, Kondhwa (10)• Sanas Sports Ground hostel (175)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-46-deaths-pune-flu-centres-now-front-line-defence-in-covid-19-attack/story-hF9j39Lcqb0YeuGE4CgeAO.html
17-04-2020||Pune||Aundh, Kothrud among bright spots in Pune’s Covid-19 saga; Shivajinagar, Yerawada demand closer attention||While Bhavani Peth (BP), Dhole Patil Road (DR) and Kasba-Vishrambaugwada (KV) areas have emerged as the three hotspots in Pune city with the highest number of Covid-19 positive cases as of April 16, an analysis of the spread of the disease in the city has brought to light some bright spots too. As of April 15, Bhavani Peth area had 96 positive cases, Dhole Patil Road (48) and Kasba (KV) had 45 cases. Next to the three hotspots of Pune, the two other areas which need closer attention are Yerawada-Kalas-Dhanori (YK) and Shivajinagar-Ghole Road (SG), an analysis of 368 positive cases during April 8 to 15 has shown. Both of these areas have shown a rising trend in positive cases in the last eight days with 33 cases in the Yerawada (YK) area and 27 in Shivajinagar (SG) area as of April 15, said data analyst Sahil Deo.Co-founder of a city-based data analysis firm, Deo has been interacting closely with elected representatives and officials while analysing Covid-19 data released by the government on a daily basis and presenting data based insights on the current situation and its socio-economic implications. Data over the last eight days shows that areas such as Kothrud-Bavdhan (KB) and Aundh-Baner (AB) has shown the least number of positive cases in spite of a large concentration of people working in the IT and other industries and travelling abroad for work. While Kothrud had one case, Aundh-Baner had three. “This is in a way very surprising and very good also because areas like Aundh Baner, Kothrud and Bavdhan would have a lot of travellers. In spite of that we don’t see cases there,” said Deo. Significantly, the data shows that the situation in Sinhagad Road (SR), which saw the first two positive cases in Pune and then went up to eight cases, has also been brought under control with the line graph showing a steady flattening. This area had just eight cases as of April 15. Although Warje-Karvenagar (WK) showed a slight rise in positive cases and then flattened in the last three days with a total of nine cases, Deo said the fact that this was still below 10 was not a cause for worry. “Given our population, anything below 10 positive cases in an area would be a bright spot,” he said. The analyst noted that while the number of positive cases were clearly rising in Bhavani Peth followed by Dhole Patil Road; the rise in the number of cases in Kasba-Vishrambaugwada area was not as steep as compared to the first two areas. Yerawada-Kalas Dhanori also needed closer attention from the authorities as the graph was showing a rising trend as compared to the others. Areas which were in the “medium band” and demanded closer attention were Shivajinagar-Ghole Road (SG), Dhankawdi-Sahakarnagar (DS) and Wanawdi-Ramtekdi (WR), he said. The Shivajinagar-Ghole Road area which saw one Covid-19 related death on Wednesday had been showing a rising trend since April 11-12 with a total of 27 cases as of April 15. This area would need to be watched closely to get an idea of the situation there, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/aundh-kothrud-among-bright-spots-in-pune-s-covid-19-saga-shivajinagar-yerawada-demand-closer-attention/story-2V5lJTfgeIuEHUWIsqYLQK.html
17-04-2020||Education||IIT-K, SGPGIMS jointly develop safer alternative to N-95 masks||In an effort aimed at providing a much safer alternative to N-95 masks, which are being used by people in large numbers to protect themselves from corona virus infection, Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur (IIT-K) and Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS), Lucknow, have jointly developed a working prototype of a positive pressure respirator system (PPRS). Professor Nachiketa Tiwari (IIT Kanpur), and professor Devendra Gupta, in-charge, Covid-19, ICU SGPGIMS, Lucknow have led the innovation.“While the existing N95 respirator does not protect the user if there is an imperfect seal between the mask and the face, as there is negative pressure inside the mask. In contrast, the PPRS provides uncontaminated air because it uses positive pressures. Thus, contaminated air from the room cannot enter the PPRS even in presence of leakages,” professor Tiwari said.“The PPRS is better placed vis-à-vis N95 respirator in one more way. The N95 respirator is only 95% efficient. Thus, health professionals working in isolation wards with large number of Covid-19 infected patients may fall sick due to exposure to significant viral loads. The PPRS eliminates this risk as well,” Tiwari added.Prof Gupta of SGPGIMS said, “This is just the prototype. We have applied for patenting of the design of the product. A lot of refinement will be done in due process of time.”“The PPRS is essentially made up of a snug, comfortable and leak-proof transparent enclosure for mouth and nose which receive positive pressure air from a portable, light, and wearable air-bottle as well as a trolley-mounted large cylinder,” said Gupta.“The device can deliver uncontaminated air for over six hours. It uses locally producible reliable one-way valves to avoid the inflow of contaminated air,” he said.The new PPRS is simple, rugged and incorporates multiple design features to protect the user. It is a universal, i.e. one-size-fits-all, design. It uses easily available local materials for fabrication. “And finally, it can be produced locally as it uses commonly available skill sets. Thus, such PPRS devices can be produced in very large numbers in a very short time frame across the country,” the IIT-K professor said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/iit-kanpur-lucknow-institute-develop-alternative-to-n95-masks/story-uveeaisH5VgLLHubL9p73I.html
17-04-2020||Pune||Congested houses, lack of hygiene and alcoholism in three wards adding to Pune’s Covid-19 positive cases tally||Sarika Gaikwad, a vegetable vendor, lives in two 10x12 sq ft room along with her husband, in-laws and two children at the Kashewadi slums in the Bhavani peth ward. For her social distancing is a privilege given the size of her house and the vicinity in which she lives is densely populated. So, when the Pune Municipal Corporation appeals to the residents to maintain distance to prevent the spread of Covid-19, she laughs and says, “It may be possible for them, not for us.” ​If Mumbai’s Dharavi or Worli Koliwada are major contributors to the Covid-19 positive cases in the state capital, three wards in Pune - Bhavani peth, Kasba-Vishrambaug wada and Dhole Patil road – have emerged as the city’s hotspots. These three wards, according to statistics provided by PMC till April 15, account for 50 per cent of city’s total covid-19 positive tally. Of the 388 cases till Wednesday evening, these three wards reported 189 cases with most coming from slums and densely populated areas, according to PMC assistant medical officer Vaishali Jadhav.​According to PMC, Bhavani peth has 96 cases, Kasba-vishrambaug wada 45 cases and Dhole Patil road has 48 cases. The PMC records show more than 70 per cent of overall cases in each ward have come from pockets such as Kashewadi and Tadiwala road, which are slums from Bhavani peth and Dhole Patil road respectively.​“Lack of social distancing along with lack of hygiene are some of the reasons that these areas have seen maximum cases. Alcoholism, which brings down immunity, has also been a major contributing factor,” said Jadhav.​High concentration of population in small geographical area has now prompted PMC to send family members and neighbours of every positive case to facilities set up by the PMC for institutional quarantine. ​“We have turned maximum focus on some of the hotspots in the city with our health teams conducting house surveys in every locality having positive cases. Since it is increasingly becoming difficult to ensure that social distancing norms are followed in these slums, we have asked people living in pockets to shift to the institutional quarantine as it is difficult for them to follow social distancing norms at home,” said PMC commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad. ​The spread of Sars-Cov-2 virus in these areas can also be witnessed from another PMC report which shows that of the 37 deaths in city till April 14, 11 deaths have come from Bhavani peth ward alone. The city has till Thursday witnessed 43 deaths of Covid-29 positive patients, most of whom also had pre-existing ailments such as diabetes, hypertension along with alcohol driven liver failure, said Jadhav. ​Aggressive screening has also been initiated with a special test centre started in Bhavani peth area by PMC.​“PMC took the first step to seal these areas and made it mandatory for residents to use masks when stepping out of their homes to purchase essential commodities. Now, the police is ensuring that there are few people on the roads,” added Gaikwad.​PMC issued a press statement on Thursday and said that they have started flu clinics in these areas which are mobile units. People with symptoms of flu can approach these mobile clinics for inspection.​A health worker, Sushma Pawar, raises her concern. “Police has sealed the areas and there is control on vehicle movement, but people who are living in crowded areas and mainly in slums or chawls are coming out on the streets, which is a concern for us as it can lead to the spread of the virus.”​Ramesh Bagwe of the city unit of the Congress who represents Bhavani peth area, on Thursday went to the slums to appeal to residents to stay at home.​Steps taken by PMC and police​- Quick response teams formed which are led by regional ward officer and medical officer.​- Contact tracing sped up and more survey teams deputed in these localities.​- Administration is ensuring that there is enough supply of essential commodities at the doorstep.​- PMC staff is visiting homes which have reported positive cases and sending the family members to a quarantine facility after a test. They are also sanitising the zone immediately. ​-PMC is taking help of NGOs and political personalities to convince the citizens to stay home.​- Thermal scanning of all the people residing in Bhavani peth area has started.​||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/congested-houses-lack-of-hygiene-and-alcoholism-in-three-wards-adding-to-pune-s-covid-19-positive-cases-tally/story-u9NyU9Ls2A3dnrn0GX2zoM.html
17-04-2020||Pune||Lockdown no hurdle for Pune athlete Priyanka Chavarkar whose daily runs on terrace bring her closer to the finish line||Running is the one thing which Priyanka Chavarkar cannot miss- lockdown or not. The 22-year-old, whose pet events are steeplechase and running, does all her drills on the terrace at her home in Ambegaon Budruk near Taljai.Chavarkar delivered memorable performances in 2019 as she emerged as the top runner in the 10km event at the Pune International Marathon and Bhakti Shakti Nigdi Marathon. Chavarkar, whose best timing is 38 minutes15 seconds in 10km run, has also participated in the Skechers Performance Los Angeles Full Marathon in March last year where she was placed 24th with the timing of 3 hours 43 minutes and 2 seconds in the age group of 20-24 years. Chavarkar has also won a bronze medal in the National Cross Country in Warangal, Telengana and another bronze medal in the 3000m steeplechase event during the Maharashtra State Athletics Championship. She trains under two-time Shiv Chhatrapati award winning coach Bhaskar Bhosale and practices on regular days at the Baburao Sanas Ground. Morning sessionMy day starts at 5.30am and my routine is to follow my workout schedule. I start my workout with a 20-25 minutes run on the terrace. After that I skip, do squats, lunges, core workout and other functional strength exercises. These workouts focus on a single muscle each day.Afternoon sessionAfter my workout, usually in the afternoons, I love to spend time with my family. I like to help my mother in the kitchen and as I am a foodie, I like to cook too. I play with my dog, listen to good energetic music and watch videos to learn new techniques of running. My event is 3000m steeplechase and marathon running, so my favourite player is Emma Coburn from the United States, who I follow. There are many things to learn while watching Coburn perform in steeplechase events. She is one of the best in the world. Evening sessionOn normal days, I practice twice and generally go out for running, but because of the lockdown, I prefer to stay at home and do stretching and yoga sessions on the terrace which helps me increase my concentration. Sometimes, my mother joins me. Then, I spend my evening, tending to the plants in our garden.Gym – not an issueLife without gym is not an issue for me as with body weight exercises, I maintain my fitness at home.Hobbies Swimming, trekking and watching videos online. I really miss going to the swimming poll since the summer season is here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/lockdown-no-hurdle-for-pune-athlete-priyanka-chavarkar-whose-daily-runs-on-terrace-bring-her-closer-to-the-finish-line/story-0K41gFdT1Teb2eQVRASgoO.html
17-04-2020||Chandigarh||60-year-old Gurdaspur man dies of Covid-19 in Amritsar hospital||A 60-year-old man from Bhaini Paswal village of Gurdaspur district, who tested positive for coronavirus on Tuesday, died at Guru Nanak Dev Hospital (GNDH) here on Thursday, Amritsar civil surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore said.“The patient, Sansar Singh, was earlier admitted at the Gurdaspur civil hospital. Since he was not responding to treatment and his condition was serious, he was referred to GNDH on Tuesday. As soon as he was admitted here, he was put on ventilator. He was also suffering from diabetes. The patient, however, died due to Covid-19 at 12.30pm on Thursday,” Dr Kishore said.Punjab special chief secretary Karan Bir Singh Sidhu tweeted on Twitter and said, “Sansar Singh, the first Covid-19 patient from Gurdaspur district, has expired at GNDH Amritsar. His cremation will be held in Gurdaspur today.”The patient was admitted to a private hospital in Gurdaspur on April 9 after he complained of increased sugar level and problem in breathing. The doctors advised him to undergo treatment at Fortis Hospital, Amritsar, but he preferred the civil hospital in Gurdaspur.Sidhu had said in his tweet on Tuesday that the patient’s brother had died in Jalandhar with some symptoms although his posthumous sample has not yet been received.”Sources said that his brother died in Jalandhar on April 7 and he was cremated the same day at his native village of Bhaini Paswal in Gurdaspur district.Sources said that the lady doctor who attended to him in the private hospital has been quarantined for 14 days.Also, the health department has traced 46 close contacts of the deceased. Their samples have been sent to Government Medical College (GMC), Amritsar, and their reports are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/60-year-old-gurdaspur-man-dies-of-covid-19-in-amritsar-hospital/story-hdxTxhgJEC0qv0qlVMCCgK.html
17-04-2020||City||Yumdoots come calling for curfew violators in Mohali||After punishments, public shaming and registration of FIRs proved futile, Mohali police have now roped in yumdoots, the messengers of death according to Hindu mythology, to rein in on curfew violators in the city.Holding placards in their hands, two Ramlila artistes -- Jasbir and Sunny of Balongi village in Mohali -- roamed around the city for about two hours, telling residents to stay indoors or prepare for afterlife. They then stood at the PTL Chowk in Phase 5, with the message, “Stay indoors, or we will take you.” Phase 1 station house officer (SHO) Manphull Singh said, “Covid-19 is the deadliest disease that the humankind had faced so far. With the help of these Ramlila artistes, we are trying to create awareness among people that if they violate the curfew and come out on the streets, death awaits them.”At 56, Mohali has the highest number of Covid-19 cases in Punjab. So far, two deaths have been reported and only five persons have recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/yumdoots-come-calling-for-curfew-violators-in-mohali/story-Nzbg3ijQrhtqM2gFxsLdsL.html
17-04-2020||City||3 Ludhiana factory workers cycle 1,100km to home in UP village||Over 200km of cycling a day for almost a week, food from generous Punjabis, and an ample dose of luck and pluck, helped three factory workers reach home in Rae Bareilly, Uttar Pradesh, 1,100km away, amidst the lockdown and curfew across Punjab, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh. The three men, Arjun, 26, Monu, 30, and Narendra, 35, started on March 30 and reached their villages on April 5. Arjun and Monu are from Lala ka Purwa village; Narinder is from a nearby village. They worked as tailors at a hosiery factory in Ludhiana. “We did not run away on seeing the police, but informed them about our journey and offered to be taken for medical screening. At all times, we covered our faces with a mask made out of handkerchief,” Arjun, currently isolating himself at home, told HT over phone. He added they felt it was far riskier to travel in an overcrowded truck or by hitching a ride from any other source. On the way, they were told to isolate themselves for a day at the Uttarakhand-Uttar Pradesh border at Laskar, 500km away from their destination, and at Bareilly, 325 km away. After a screening, in which their body temperature was taken, they were asked to move on. “Thanks to the generous spirit of Punjabis, we did not have to worry for food, even though we had packed 10kg of flour, utensils and raw vegetables,” Arjun adds, emphasising that they were anxious to get home and followed discipline. “We started at 4am and used to stay at a temple or dharamshala at night. We used our mobile phone only once a day to conserve battery,” he adds. Manu and Narinder have three children each, Arjun has one child. “Our families were worried. With the number of cases increasing, at one point we also felt we would never see family again. We are exhausted now, but realise that anything is possible.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-ludhiana-factory-workers-cycle-1-100km-to-home-in-up-village/story-CoR33940jV4PjSQFzJtGaL.html
