18-04-2020||City||Covid-19:Auto driver gives free rides for emergencies||An autorickshaw driver in Dombivli has been giving free rides to people who have to travel for emergencies during the lockdown. Rupesh Repal, 43, said he has ferried 500 people to hospitals. “I feel happy being able to help people instead of just sitting at home during lockdown. I do not refuse even if people have to go to Mumbai,” said Repal, who ensures all his passengers wear a mask.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-auto-driver-gives-free-rides-for-emergencies/story-uWnBg5kE40MNf4cR5OaCiO.html
18-04-2020||City||Owners of two biscuit firms booked for flouting safety norms||Two biscuit manufacturing companies in Ulhasnagar were booked for flouting safety norms.The companies were operating as they come under essential services. According to the police, Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation (UMC) officials went on a surprise visit to the companies and found employees working without following social distancing rules. The civic officials asked the companies to shut and alerted the police.A police officer from Vitthalwadi police station said, “We have registered two cases under Section 188 of Indian Penal Code against owners of Bharat Food Products and the owner of Parvati Food Products. They manufacture biscuits and according to Ulhasnagar civic officials, the companies didn’t follow any safety precautions while working.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/owners-of-two-biscuit-firms-booked-for-flouting-safety-norms/story-6SaLDriOsIiqbPZCn4nUbM.html
18-04-2020||City||Arrested man who escaped from hospital after lying about having Covid-19, nabbed again||New Delhi: A man from Haryana, who was arrested for smuggling liquor, but claimed to be a Covid-19 patient, and was then admitted to a hospital, from where he escaped five days later, has been arrested again. The man, Amit Paldi, was arrested from Sampla district in Haryana on Friday.Police said that around 6.30am on April 10, a van was stopped by a team in central Delhi’s Ranjeet Nagar. Police checked the vehicle and found 3,120 bottles of liquor concealed inside empty cartons of milk. The occupants of the car, later identified as Amit and Vikrant, had also pasted a fake pass, supposedly issued by north Delhi district magistrate’s office, on the car’s windshield. The two were arrested from the spot. Deputy commissioner of police(central), Sanjay Bhatia said,”When we questioned the two occupants of the van, they said Vikrant’s aunt had died of Covid-19 last week and that he and Amit were also possibly carrying the infection. They were then taken to hospital and kept in isolation”. Police said the two men were then taken to the Lok Nayak hospital, where their samples were taken and they were sent to quarantine. Police said that while the hospital authorities were conducting a second test for Covid-19, after the first tested negative, Amit escaped from hospital. Police said he walked to Sampla, about 60km from Lok Nayak hospital. An officer said Amit, who works in a crockery factory, has landed himself in more trouble by lying about the disease and escaping police custody. Vikrant, who is still in isolation, will be released, because he has been granted bail in the liquor smuggling case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/arrested-man-who-escaped-from-hospital-after-lying-about-having-covid-19-nabbed-again/story-pVFYNJ0z5np1sfSq0F455M.html
18-04-2020||Mumbai||Cops with health issues kept away from Covid-19 hotspots||The Mumbai Police, which has recorded the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the Maharashtra Police department, has kept its staff with health issues away from the containment zones where the chances of them getting infected by the pandemic are relatively high. As of Saturday, a total of 37 police personnel have tested positive for Covid-19 in Maharashtra Police department of which 18 are from Mumbai, 17 from Thane and one each from Pune city and Mumbai Government Railway Police (GRP), as per the information received by Vinayak Deshmukh, assistant inspector general, law and order, Maharashtra Police. When asked about preventive measures being taken for the officers with health issues, Pranaya Ashok, DCP (ops) and spokesperson for Mumbai Police said, “We are avoiding the deployment of older and physically weak in frontline areas.” Hotel rooms booked for quarantined copsIn order to ensure that families of police officers asked to be in quarantine do not contract Covid-19, police department has arranged hotel rooms for such officers. Senior inspector of Vakola police station, Kailash Avhad, said, “I have booked around 50 rooms in three hotels so that we can use them in case of emergency to quarantine our police personnel. Our zonal DCP has asked every police station to make arrangements for self-quarantined officers.” 183 FIRs on Friday over lockdown violations A total of 183 FIRs were lodged against 335 people on Friday in which 164 cases were for gathering in one place. In all, 73 FIRs were lodged in the central region with containment zones, followed by west region where 58 FIRs were lodged. Till Friday 7,911 people were booked in 4,015 FIRs for lockdown violations.Nine jogging at Juhu beach arrested The Santacruz police on Saturday arrested nine men for jogging on Juhu beach. Shriram Koregaonkar, senior inspector of Santacruz police station, said that, “Around 5 am our staff at the beat chowky found nine people jogging near Sea Princess hotel while patrolling.” Man booked for using MLA sticker on carAn FIR has been registered against a 20-year-old college student on Friday for allegedly using a MLA sticker on his car to avoid being caught during the lockdown. The accused, Sahet Shaha, a BCom student, was caught near Andheri flyover. Senior inspector of Andheri police station, Vijay Belge, confirmed the development. 122 cases of hate speech on internetCyber police lodged 222 FIRs, including 122 cases of hate speech among communities and 77 for fake news during the lockdown till Saturday. “In all 46 accused are arrested and 170 are identified,” said Balsing Rajput, SP, Maharashtra Cyber.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cops-with-health-issues-kept-away-from-covid-19-hotspots/story-XcZ6LP6waUqk8T1a0CE37N.html
18-04-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Parents from NCR drive through states to fetch kids in Maha hostel||A couple in their fifties from Gurugram embarked on a 1200-km journey across four states on Friday, amid the nationwide lockdown, to bring their son home from his college hostel in Aurangabad.Their 25-year-old son is one of the 450-odd students of the Institute of Hotel Management (IHM), Aurangabad, who are stranded in the hostel since March, after a teacher, who had returned from abroad, tested positive for Covid-19 on campus. After the case was detected, all students were quarantined in the hostel until March 26. However, after a nationwide lockdown was announced on March 23 and later extended till May 3, the students were unable to return home. IHM, Aurangabad, principal and director Satish Jayaram refused to comment on the issue.Although the institute has not asked students to vacate the premises, several parents are making road trips across states to bring their children home. “The institute is taking good care of the children but we are worried that necessary social distancing norms are not being followed. Moreover, there is uncertainty over when the lockdown will be lifted so we decided to drive to Aurangabad to pick up our son,” the parents, who are working professionals, told HT. They had booked flight tickets on two airlines for April 15 for their son, but the flights were cancelled after the lockdown was extended. They then procured a curfew pass from Gurugram to Aurangabad and back. The parents took turns and drove non-stop for around 19 hours to reach Aurangabad in Maharashtra, crossing Haryana, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh. They reached the hostel on Saturday and soon after, started their journey back home. Another man, also a working professional from the national capital region (NCR), will start his journey on Sunday to bring back his son. “We tried to bring our child back by booking a chartered flight but permissions were difficult to come by.... Hence, we were forced to make these long journeys.”Aurangabad district collector Uday Chaudhuri said, “Some parents got in touch with us. They are panicking but there is no reason to as students have completed their quarantine and are safe. However, if parents have proper curfew permissions from a competent authority, they can pick up their children.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/parents-from-ncr-drive-through-states-to-fetch-kids-in-maha-hostel/story-4BQ8s7prjnrEWAEPbGCjBN.html
18-04-2020||City||Infrastructure work begins across Mumbai Metropolitan Region||Almost a month after the work for the infrastructure projects came to a standstill owing to the nationwide lockdown, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA), which is implementing most of the projects in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), said it has resumed works at some of the sites. Joint metropolitan commissioner BG Pawar said the work on the Kalyan Ring Road and the Rajnouli road overbridge at Bhiwandi have commenced, even as the MMRDA has received the nod to start work for the Mumbai Trans-Harbour Link (MTHL) on Friday. Meanwhile, the work on the Kalanagar flyover is also expected to start from Monday. MMRDA had earlier planned to open the flyover for motorists by next month. RA Rajeev, metropolitan commissioner, MMRDA, said, “We are starting with the work outside Mumbai first. We have 11,000 labourers at different project sites and we are progressing gradually with the work.” Despite the delay in the infrastructure works owing to the lockdown, Rajeev said MMRDA has worked on major policy decisions in the past one month. “Since March 9, MMRDA officials have had 85 meetings via video-conferencing. We have finalised our second branding vision document, which enlists all the signages for Metro projects. We have also worked on a transit-oriented development policy. We are aiming to make optimum use of digital tools to continue working,” said Rajeev.The MMRDA has, however, revised the bidding schedules for at least 10 major projects by a month, owing to the lockdown. Some of the projects include procurement of rolling stock for the Monorail, a master plan for salt-pan lands in MMR, an urban design master plan for the Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) and the Mumbai Eye project at Bandra reclamation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/infrastructure-work-begins-across-mumbai-metropolitan-region/story-oV498QMYYysU9HykH1V2HI.html
18-04-2020||Mumbai||Isolation is new normal for 34-yr-old Covid-19 survivor from Worli||For the 34-year-old Mumbaiite who recently recovered from Covid-19 after testing positive in March, isolation is the new normal. He believes it was his decision to isolate himself that ensured no one else in his family contracted the infection. Now, even after he has tested negative for the Sars-Cov-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, he is voluntarily extending his isolation. “I have to do this to ensure I stay healthy and my family and friends stay safe. I’ve almost forgotten what normal feels like,” he said.The 34-year-old runs a company that sells tickets for sporting events around the world. On March 14, when the World Health Organization declared Covid-19 to be a global pandemic, he was in the United Kingdom and had tickets to return to Mumbai on March 16. He was showing no symptoms at the time. “I stuck to the plan and once I reached Mumbai, I immediately started safety and hygiene protocols,” he said. “Just awareness about the virus and understanding how to avoid it can save us from spreading it further,” he said. Once in Mumbai, he isolated himself completely. “I’d informed my family to stay at a safe distance and I never left my room,” he said. However, within a week of his return, he developed a cough and got himself tested at a private hospital. The results showed he was positive for Covid-19. “On March 27, I admitted myself to Wockhardt Hospital where I spent around 10 days. I was discharged only after two tests within 24 hours showed negative results,” he said.After returning home on April 9, he has chosen to remain in isolation for the benefit of his family. “Since there isn’t a remedy, I decided to ensure that even after recovering, I’ll continue self-imposed isolation to let my body fully recover.” He said he plans to stay in isolation for 40 days since the first symptoms appeared. “This is the new normal, I guess,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/isolation-is-new-normal-for-34-yr-old-covid-19-survivor-from-worli/story-W2ZdHXHE4Ah3RrNsosoGEI.html
18-04-2020||Mumbai||Schools unable to pay teachers as parents yet to pay fees||A few days after the Maharashtra education department asked schools to not force parents to pay fees during the lockdown, teachers working in several private schools have now requested the government to allow at least partial payments. In a letter to the education minister, several teachers have stated that schools are not able to pay them their salaries, because they have not got fees yet. “While asking schools to not force parents into paying the fees is a good step, many schools are not even receiving partial payments because of the circular. With this, schools are now unable to pay their teachers. Many such schools in the city and other parts of the state are yet to pay teachers. The government can make an addition to the circular and state that those parents who can pay fees or those who can make partial payments, can do so,” said Uday Nare, a teacher from Hansraj Morarji Public School in Andheri..Teachers said that most schools who had collected fees until April this year are also using the circular as an excuse to not pay up. “They are using the government circular as an excuse to delay payments. We request the government to also act against such schools,” said the teacher who works at a private school in Kandivli. On Friday, state government announced that parents from across the state can complain to the district education officers if schools insist on paying fees during the lockdown period. The announcement came after several parents complained about schools not adhering to the March 30 circular asking them to give exemption in fees until the lockdown ends..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/schools-unable-to-pay-teachers-as-parents-yet-to-pay-fees/story-0tN3KQ5pc3KogbwFSroI5J.html
18-04-2020||Lucknow||UP minister demands ban on Tablighi Jamaat||After the Enforcement Directorate registered a case against Tablighi Jamaat chief Maulana Saad and other members of the outfit, Uttar Pradesh minister Mohsin Raza urged the Centre to consider banning the Jamaat which was founded by Deobandi scholar and Saad’s great grandfather Mohammad Ilyas al-Kandhlawi in Mewat.Raza, who is the minister of state for minority Welfare, Waqf and Haj, said he had demanded a probe into TJ’s activities and was happy that the central government had acted. He said, “I had urged the Centre to probe their funding because it needs to be known from where the religious society gets financial support. I am happy that an investigation is underway now.”The Jamaat has been in the news ever since several Jamaatis, including those from abroad who attended a congregation at Tablighi headquarters at Delhi’s Nizamuddin, had tested positive. Maulana Saad has already been booked by the Delhi police under the Epidemic Disease Act.The Talblighi Jamaat members had spread out in different parts of the country, including Uttar Pradesh, after the Delhi congregation. A senior cleric close to the Tablighi Jamaat said while the financial matters of the Jamaat were clean, their stress on religious preaching alone had led to divisions. He said the prominent Islamic seminary Darul Uloom Deoband had banned activities of Tablighi Jamaat, its own ideological off-shoot, from the campus. “It’s true that Darul Uloom had banned their activities after the Islamic seminary was split on ideological lines,” said an influential cleric from Deoband, adding that the ban was largely to prevent Deoband students from being trapped in ideological differences. The ban still stays. The Deoband cleric said Tablighis erred by not following the Covid-19 prevention protocol of social distancing though he blamed the media more for what he called was the ‘systematic targeting’ of Muslims. The cleric disagreed with the UP minister over his questioning the intentions of Jamaat and its leader Maulana Saad. “Maulana Saad is a pious man. We may differ ideologically but I will have to admit that there isn’t anything wrong with his intention. It’s just that we prefer ‘ilm’ (knowledge) over purely religious matters,” the cleric said.Raza said it needed to be known how the headquarters of the Tablighi Jamaat came up in Delhi’s Nizamuddin? “They have a grand building there and it’s time all of it is probed,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-minister-demands-ban-on-tablighi-jamaat/story-rYi0cjgtcUc8nH1AvkVWTP.html
18-04-2020||Lucknow||Harassed Meerut doctor appeals to IMA for help||A group of residents, who allegedly attacked Dr Prashant Bhatnagar, was harassing the doctor’s family for over 10 days and adopting different ways to pressurise the family to vacate their rented house.In a letter written to the Indian Medical Association to seek help for justice, Dr Prashant Bhatnagar said that he was an associate professor in community medicine department of LLRM Medical College in Meerut. He and his parents lived in a house in sector 6 in Shastri Nagar locality for over 7 year and residents had no complaints. But things changed in the past 10 to 12 days as he was being seen as someone who spread corona and residents adopted different ways to harass him and his family. Dr Bhatnagar said that he often moved between his home and college and a few days back the residents locked the colony’s gates. He somehow managed to get keys which they again took back, which created problems for him. The same group of resident placed the make shift kiosk of guard at his parking. When he resisted they attacked him and his hand was fractured. Dr Bhatnagar’s father Vimal Bhatnagar also levelled similar accusations. He said that an Ashoka tree was cut because they used to throw its dry leaves in the nearby open area and people were scared that it may spread corona as his son was a doctor in the medical college and prone to infection.He also charged the police with siding with the accused. He said that cops in Nauchandi police station misled him about helping in writing a complaint and directed him to write what they dictated. “They ignored my repeated queries that why the issue of corona had not been included in my complaint and that it was incomplete. But they didn’t hear me and later declared that the incident had nothing to do with corona and the scuffle broke out on the issue of placing the kiosk for the guard,” he said. He said the police were working under pressure and said that the IPS son of a neighbour might be behind twisting the case.SHO of Nauchandi police station Ashutosh Kumar rejected the charges and reiterated that the incident was a fallout of dispute over placing guard room in front of Dr Bhatnagar’s house. He also denied the charges that police were working under pressure. “ I have heard about an IPS posted in MP whose family lives in the colony but nobody telephoned either him or senior officials in this regard,” said the SHO. A case has been registered against some residents on the complaint of Dr Bhatnagar’s father Vimal Bhatnagar but no arrests have been made yet. Meanwhile, Dr Bhatnagar had appealed to the IMA for support in his fight for justice. IMA’s secretary for Meerut Chapter Dr Anil Naushran said that a letter had been received from Dr Bhatnagar for seeking support. A meeting of IMA was convened on Saturday to discuss the issue and it was decided that the IMA would extend its full support to Dr Bhatnagar in his fight for justice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/harassed-meerut-doctor-appeals-to-ima-for-help/story-mDWyTDMPbk0ZbycURgoyoM.html
18-04-2020||City||TMC sets up PCR testing lab in its hospital||Thane Municipal Corporation started its own polymerase chain reaction (PCR) testing laboratory in Wadia hospital to speed up the testing process for Covid-19. The city can now test up to 100 swab samples a day. Thane residents need not go all the way to Mumbai to get the tests done. The testing of suspected Covid cases and close contacts of those found positive will be tested in the lab.Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner of TMC, said, “We used to send the throat swab of positive patients to Mumbai to some private labs in and around the city. This used to delay the reports. There was an increasing demand from elected representatives to set up a lab in the city. The lab in Wadia hospital is operational and the testing of samples began from Saturday.”Malvi said the lab has approval from the Indian Council of Medical Research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tmc-sets-up-pcr-testing-lab-in-its-hospital/story-u8OfEOe4nrGthoBfz6HGsK.html
18-04-2020||Lucknow||UP police operate beyond districts to deliver vital medicines||PRAYAGRAJ Often at the receiving end for their conduct and attitude, while dealing with the public, the Uttar Pradesh police have gone out of its way to ensure delivery of much-needed medicines to a 45-year-old sick man suffering from a psychiatric ailment in a village in Pratapgarh district.The Uttar Pradesh police, received an SOS through a tweet from his nephew Ramesh Kumar Yadav, from Hyderabad, on April 15 at 8.30 pm stating that his uncle was alone at their village home and was almost out of his medicines that he needs to take every day for his psychiatric problem or he would fall into remission, shared ASP (west), Pratapgarh Dinesh Dwivedi.Soon after receiving the request, the state police assigned 112 Uttar Pradesh police emergency management system to coordinate the entire exercise of delivering medicines.Ramesh Kumar Yadav, a professional employed in Hyderabad but hailing from Rajapur Pure Upai village of Sanghipur area of Pratapgarh informed that his uncle had medicines merely for two days and due to the lockdown, he was unable to procure them, ASP said.On April 16, the state police started a well-coordinated exercise, of delivering medicines, across two different districts of the state, being managed by 112 media cell from the state capital.Policemen from 112 media cell, Lucknow contacted Ramesh in Hyderabad and managed to get the mobile number of his uncle. They then contacted the man and with some help from Ramesh, the police procured the doctor’s prescription. Besides, it was informed that the medicines were not available in Pratapgarh and possibly were also not available in the adjoining Prayagraj district.“The policemen then ascertained that the medicines were however available in bordering district of Rae Bareli, around 55 km from Rajapur Pure Upai village. Consequently, the 112 policemen contacted their counterparts in Rae Bareli and forwarded the doctor’s prescription to them, said Dwivedi.Rae Bareli police collected the medicines from a pharmacy and deputed police response vehicle (PRV) 3277 to deliver medicines at Pratapgarh border. From there, the Pratapgarh police ensured that its policemen manning PRV 2026 deliver it to the man at his doorsteps on April 16 evening. The medicines were delivered even before the last dose of pills was consumed. The whole exercise was completed with a smile and true spirit of selfless service, the police official explained.The ASP (West) said that policemen of PRV 2026 have been complimented for their service and awarded citations by the district police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-police-operate-beyond-districts-to-deliver-vital-medicines/story-ZBrOrUIGzSaEBcdOds3jZJ.html
18-04-2020||Lucknow||State govt has a budget of ₹50 crore for the elderly, says UP social welfare minister||A day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi appealed to all to take care of the elderly, especially those suffering from co-morbidities during the current extended Covid-19 lockdown, the focus straightaway was on Uttar Pradesh, the most populous state with an estimated 18 million senior citizens.Not only are the elderly bracketed in the high-risk group abut they also among the most vulnerable to domestic abuse (Helpage India survey).It has been nearly four years since the state government notified the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens and Dependents Act, but only a handful of cases, mostly from Rampur, have been reported so far.UP’s social welfare department is funding old age homes in all 75 districts.This is in addition to several private old age homes as well as some ‘pay and stay’ ones, which are functional.Hindustan Times caught up with UP’s social welfare minister Ramapati Shastri on the steps the government was taking to ensure the elderly, especially the destitute, stay safe amid the outbreak of SARS-CoV-2 (Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2). Excerpts:UP has a huge elderly population, many of them destitute. What is the government doing for them?Well, only recently after increasing the old age pension for destitute to Rs 500 per month, we also just deposited two months’ pension in the accounts of nearly 50 lakh (5 million) elderly. Then we are providing 100% funding for old age homes in 74 of the 75 districts where, along with food, shelter and other things, we also take care of their medical and recreational needs. The one in Deoria, which was shifted to Kushinagar, is going to be functional again.We realise that the elderly are among the high-risk groups and entry of outsiders to all old age homes is currently barred to guard them against infection.How many elderly are there in old age homes at present?We have 5400 elderly in our fully funded homes across the state. And our old age homes have the capacity to admit more for each has a capacity to admit 150 elderly. We are providing masks, encouraging the elderly to use gamchas (multi-purpose wraparound) and also appeal to donors to come forward. But please avoid approaching old age homes directly for safety reasons. We encourage donors to contact us through local officials.But how can elderly destitute, or those abused at home and requiring help, get admitted to these homes?They can contact us through welfare officers in the district or officials of the local administration. In many cases, NGOs get them admitted.Are your old age homes big enough to ensure social distancing, especially keeping the present Covid-19 situation in mind?Yes, in most places we have old age homes whch are big enough, above 10,000 square ft or so. And, our officials are in touch with the elderly through video chats and video conferencing. What is the amount the state government spends on their stay, food, medicine and other things?Well, the government has set aside a budget of Rs 50 crore (Rs 500 million). So, the government allows NGOs running these old age homes to rent a home for up to Rs 90,000 per month.On an average, Rs 75 per day is roughly spent on each elderly person’s food, Rs 200 per month is kept aside for their medical needs and another Rs 150 monthly for recreational needs.Don’t you think the amount of Rs 75 per day per person for food needs to be reviewed?Yes, a proposal was raised to increase it, but let me tell you that this is an average amount. So the food is prepared in bulk. There is a different menu each day.It was in 2016 that the state government framed the rules for the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens. Have there been cases?Yes, there are. Though there are cases of abuse, but at the end of the day most parents, including those ill-treated by their children, often end up withdrawing the cases after children apologise. But yes, we would like to assure the elderly that the state government is there. They shouldn’t hesitate to report cases of abuse.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/state-govt-has-a-budget-of-50-crore-for-the-elderly-says-up-social-welfare-minister/story-r2Xr6lKsGnipjpKFWMwIDI.html
18-04-2020||Lucknow||UP gets ready to get back to the grind gradually||In consonance with a central government order, the Uttar Pradesh government has decided to start select activities from April 20 in the state to mitigate the hardship of people under the nationwide lockdown.Chief secretary Rajendra Kumar Tiwari said the state government had decided to start the functioning of government offices, factories and other activities in accordance with guidelines issued by the Union ministry of home affairs on April 15. The order directed the state government to ensure that all preparatory arrangements with regard to social distancing, sanitisation and other protective measures are implemented in the offices, workplaces, factories and other establishments, he said.A meeting of the heads of various state government departments was held under chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday to prepare a work plan for the opening of the government offices, operation of the factories and other activities from April 20. The heads of departments were directed to implement the order according to the work plan, he said.GOVERNMENT OFFICES AND SECRETARIATAdditional chief secretary, Secretariat Administration, Mahesh Gupta said all the heads of departments, including the officers of the rank of the additional chief secretary, principal secretary, special secretary, as well as the junior officers, will resume work compulsorily in their offices on April 20. They will discharge their duties and works assigned by the state government, he said.The officers will call one-third of the clerical and office staff on duty daily. The department heads will prepare a duty roster for the clerical staff. The staff, who are handicapped or ill, will be exempted from office duties. The officers and staff residing in hotspots will follow the directives of the district magistrate and the police commissioner, he said.The government offices will be sanitised, officers and employees will follow social distancing rules and cover their faces with masks, he said. The entry of outsiders in offices will be prohibited. Only persons permitted by the head of the department will be allowed entry on the basis of a pass, he said.The officers and employees will not be permitted to leave the headquarters, but will be granted leave for emergency works.The employees granted permission to work from home will not leave their homes during office hours and remain connected with the office through mobile or the internet, Gupta said.Another senior state government officer said the divisional commissioners, as well as the district magistrates of all the divisions and districts, were directed to start working in the collectorate and district offices according to the guidelines.Government treasuries in all the 75 districts will become functional and the required staff will be on duty to operate the treasuries, he said. INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITIESA state government spokesperson said the state government had issued an order to all divisional commissioners and district magistrates that ‘continous process industries’ were permitted to operate in the state during the lockdown. The state government had listed 11 types of industries that can operate and the riders associated with the operation.The 11 industries that can function as continuous process industries in the state include steel, refineries, cement, fertilisers, textile (but not garments), boundaries, paper, tyre, common effluent treatment plants, and sugar mills.The industries will follow the guidelines, including sanitisation and social distancing. These industries will work with minimum possible workforce and under no circumstances should it increase to more than 50% of the total staff strength. The units that fail to implement the order will be closed.Principal secretary, excise, Sanjay Bhoosreddy said, all the distilleries in the state were directed to manufacture sanitisers.LAUNCH OF MGNREGSThe state government has decided to launch Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) outside the containment zones in the state after April 20 to give jobs to migrant workers, who have returned to their villages in Uttar Pradesh after the Covid-19 pandemic in the country.POLICE FORCEA state government officer said police personnel, home guards, civil defence, emergency services, prisons and local bodies staff will continue to discharge their duties as usual.Director general of police HC Awasthi on Saturday directed all zonal ADGs, IGs, DIG and superintendents of police to implement the lockdown orders effectively across the state from April 20 as was done by the officers since March 25 when the nationwide lockdown first came into force.He said during search operations, the police personnel will move with masks, gloves, riot control and body protection equipment and carry polycarbonate sheets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-gets-ready-to-get-back-to-the-grind-gradually/story-ZvA5dcdHNtHKDoRWjo4CAL.html
18-04-2020||Lucknow||Corona spread under control in UP, says govt||The state government on Saturday claimed that the spread of the coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh was under control.Additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi said Uttar Pradesh was the country’s most populous state with a high population density. Yet, in comparison to other states, the Covid-19 cases and the number of deaths were less in UP, he said.Several districts, including Pilibhit, Maharajganj, Hathras, Prayagraj, Bareilly and Shahjahanpur had got rid of the corona tag after the infected patients in these districts recovered and there were no fresh cases there, he said. The central government had lauded the efforts of the Uttar Pradesh government and directed other states to follow the UP model to control the spread of coronavirus in their respective states, he said. “If we analyse in terms of population, UP would have been the fifth most populous country had it been a separate nation. In comparison to the national average, there were less coronavirus positive cases in UP,” he said. The state government was able to control the spread of the coronavirus due to the joint efforts of various government department employees, who were working round the clock in coordination with sanitisation workers, police personnel and frontline health workers, he said.The state government had identified the hotspots and divided them in three categories to control the spread of the virus, he added. The first category included 179 hotspots in 15 districts, the second had 93 hotspots in 25 districts and the third category included seven hotspots in five districts, he said.The health department and police teams surveyed 11 lakh people in category one hotspots, 12.88 lakh people in category two hotspots and 20,000 people in category three hotspots, he said.UP’S COVID TALLY 869A state government officer said 869 positive cases were reported in 49 districts till Saturday. There were more Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan and Gujarat in comparison to UP, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/corona-spread-under-control-in-up-says-govt/story-rcIsdGiZNLQHdMnAcQkQfP.html
18-04-2020||Delhi||Speeding car hits scooter in Janakpuri, one killed; driver arrested||A 37-year-old man, who worked as a plumber and had gone to repair a water pump in Dwarka, was killed and his friend was injured after the scooter they were riding on was hit by a speeding car in west Delhi’s Janakpur area on Friday evening. Police said they have arrested the car driver, a 20-year-old resident of Janakpuri, who was driving on the wrong carriageway. The driver has claimed that he was returning after distributing food packets to the homeless. Investigators claimed that neither of the three people involved in the accident had curfew passes to drive during the lockdown.According to the police, the accident was reported around 6.45pm from near B3 Block on Dharam Marg in Janakpuri. A police team that reached the spot found that a Hyundai Creta car had hit a scooter in a head-on collision The scooter was being driven by Ashutosh, 23, and his friend who rode pillion was Rizab Shah, 37 — both residents of Mahabir Nagar in Tilak Nagar. “Both were taken to Deen Dayal Upadhyay hospital. While Ashutosh survived the accident with injuries to his leg and is under treatment, Shah succumbed on Saturday morning,” said a police officer. Deputy commissioner of police (west) Deepak Purohit said the car has been seized from the spot and the accused, Rudraksh Khanna, a resident of Janakpuri, who was driving the vehicle, arrested. “A case under Section 304 A for causing death due to negligence and rash driving has been registered against Khanna. Post mortem will be conducted on Sunday to ascertain the cause of death and for further legal action,” Purohit said.A police officer probing the accident, said Rudraksh Khanna’s father is a government contractor. “On enquiry he said he had stepped out of his house amid the lockdown to distribute food packets to the homeless. His medical examination did not show any signs of alcohol in his bloodstream at the time of the accident. He was alone in the car. Because many carriageway have been closed due to the lockdown, Khanna was driving his car on the wrong carriageway. Both Khanna and the two men on scooter were in violation of the lockdown, “ the officer said. “What we know is that Rizab had gone to repair a water pump in Dwarka. Ashutosh had taken him to Dwarka, because the person who needed the plumber was his employer. The accident took place when he and his friend were returning home. Both were wearing helmets. He is survived by his wife and their toddler. He was the only earning member in his family,” Sapne Shah, Rizab’s aunt, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/speeding-car-hits-scooter-in-janakpuri-one-killed-driver-arrested/story-Bvc8ZILj2knJ8O3PaplZRK.html
18-04-2020||City||Watch artistes perform live online and donate||NGO, Muse Foundation, started a musical event on the social media to raise funds for the underprivileged in Thane.“Live Feeds to Feed Lives is an event with performances by various artistes. We started streaming on Saturday on our Instagram page. As and when artistes are available, we will keep updating,” said Nishant Bangera, 27, founder of Muse Foundation. Mc Mawali, Avish Sharma, Sahil Khan, Sanish Nair Roshni Thakkar, Saurabh Nimbkar and Pallavi Ishpuniyani are some of the artistes who will be performing live for the online audience.One can watch the performance on the Instagram page, musefoundationwts.“Through our event, we will urge viewers to donate and contribute for the stranded migrants and daily wage labourers in Thane. We have distributed ration among more than 1,000 people but there are still many. We are using this online platform to raise funds,” said Bangera, adding that they are distributing ration and essential commodities with help from the Thane collectorate which is helping volunteers reach the needy.Follow the Instagram page of Muse Foundation, musefoundationwts, and watch Sunday’s (April 19) line-up-- 11am: Sahil Khan; 6pm: Roshni Thakkar; 7:30pm: FuzzCulture (Arsh Sharma); 9pm: Avish Sharma||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/watch-artistes-perform-live-online-and-donate/story-8Flo9TXwXVfq0eh0ulrJZM.html
18-04-2020||City||Man hits wife with bat after argument, kills her||Gurugram: A 23-year-old woman was killed allegedly by her husband after a heated argument at a paying guest (PG) house near Atul Kataria Chowk, the police said on Saturday. According to the police, the man had allegedly hit her wife with a bat several times after tying her up. He then allegedly hid her body in the bed box, locked his room and fled the spot. The victim was identified by her first name, Shahnaz, a native of West Bengal, the police said. The woman and her husband worked as cook at the PG accommodation. The police said that both of them were staying there for the past one-and-a-half months.The incident took place on Friday night when the suspect and victim had a heated argument over something, the police said. The victim’s body was found on Saturday around 11am by the police after the landlord of the PG house lodged a complaint.In the police complaint, the landlord said that when he saw that their room was locked from outside, he approached the police. A team of officials then reached the spot, broke the door and found the victim’s body in the bed box, the police said.Jasvir, station house officer (SHO), Sector 14 police station, said, “The suspect had tied up his wife and had stuffed a cloth in her mouth so that no one can hear her screams. He then hit her with a bat several times. He has been missing since Friday night. We are yet to know why they fought. The husband is yet to be traced.” He added that a postmortem examination of the body will be conducted on Sunday.A case was registered against the suspect under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code at Sector 14 police station on Saturday, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-hits-wife-with-bat-after-argument-kills-her/story-mGdJt3jhmdNT6di3J0jFeM.html
18-04-2020||City||Covid hospital to cater to virus positive pregnant women||The district health department on Saturday said Covid-19 positive women or women suspected to be infected with the virus will now be taken only to Sanjay Nagar Combined District Hospital, a dedicated Covid-19 hospital, for deliveries. Earlier, all pregnant women were taken to New District Women Hospital at Gaushala Road for deliveries.“From now on, the deliveries of any Covid-19 positive patient or women suspected of being infected with the virus will be taken up at a dedicated Covid hospital which is an L2 category hospital in Ghaziabad. Such cases will not be referred to the Women Hospital. We have also directed the 102/108 ambulance service officials to take such women to the Sanjay Nagar hospital and not the Women Hospital,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer (CMO), Ghaziabad.The state family welfare department on April 13 had rolled out directions stating that such women patients must be taken to L1/L2 category hospitals and three of four ambulances should be regularly disinfected and deputed for ferrying such patients. The directions also stated that newborn babies of positive or suspected cases should be treated at Sick Newborn Care Unit (SNCU) at Covid hospitals and not at regular SNCUs.Under the three-layered Covid healthcare facilities, the Uttar Pradesh government has divided Covid hospitals into three categories: L1, L2, and L3. The L1 hospitals are for positive cases with no health issues, while L2 hospitals deal with positive patients who have health complications. The L3 hospitals attend to critical positive patients.The 100-bedded Sanjay Nagar Combined District Hospital is an L2 category Covid hospital. Health officials clarified that pregnant women from hot spot areas will be taken to the Women Hospital for delivery.“The women who arrive from hot spot areas cannot be termed as suspected cases, so they will be treated at Women’s Hospital. If such women patients come to dedicated Covid hospitals, they and their newborns are at risk of getting infected with the coronavirus disease,” Dr Gupta added.Meanwhile, the officials at Women’ Hospital said there has been a sharp decline in the number of deliveries at the facility in the past few weeks amid the lockdown.“At an average, 18 deliveries would take place at the hospital everyday, and now amid the lockdown, the figure has come down to an average of about 12 deliveries per day. The catchment area of our hospital is about 10km in different localities which include many areas where migrant workers live. We can attribute the decline in the number of deliveries to the recent exodus of migrant labourers who returned to their home towns,” said Dr Deepa Tyagi, chief medical superintendent of the hospital. She said a major chunk of women patients come from areas like Khoda, Kaila Bhatta and Old Ghaziabad City.After the countrywide lockdown was announced, thousands of workers in Delhi-NCR had left for their home towns. Hundreds of buses were deployed by the UP State Road Transport Corporation, with help from Haryana Roadways, workers were ferried to their respective home towns in Uttar Pradesh on March 28 and 29.The Women Hospital is a 100-bedded facility inside the MMG Hospital complex and has a staff of about 150 doctors, nurses and other health care workers.“We are taking every precaution at the hospital, and recording an extensive history of patients and checking them for any coronavirus related symptoms. We also got all our staff, including 42 doctors and nurses working at the front-line, tested nobody has been detected with Covid-19 so far,” Dr Tyagi added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/positive-pregnant-women-or-those-suspected-to-have-virus-will-be-taken-to-covid-hospital-only/story-Qf9yCzVesI6kfnYW4YjvnI.html
18-04-2020||City||Industrial units outside F’bad civic body limits may return to life from Monday||Gurugram: Manufacturing units and factories in the district beyond the Faridabad civic body’s limits and not identified as containment zones will be allowed to function from Monday, subject to their abiding by operating norms, the district administration said on Saturday. In another step aimed at a return to normalcy, Faridabad deputy commissioner Yashpal Yadav announced that the revenue department would also start the registry of property deeds, as directed by the state revenue department, Monday onwards.The respective industrial units that restart operations will have to follow social distancing rules prescribed by the state government and Union home ministry. “We are moving towards a phased resumption of manufacturing across the state, and as per government directions, industrial units outside containment zones will be allowed to operate from Monday. The standard operating procedure (SOP) in this regard is being prepared by the government and everyone will have to follow it,” said Yadav, adding that the final decision in the matter will depend on when the SOP is issued.On Friday, Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala had told HT that industries outside the municipal corporations and containment zones would be allowed to function from April 20. Faridabad is a major industrial centre in Haryana and a number of large manufacturing units are located in the district. The containment zones in the district are Sector 3, Sector 11, Sector 16, Sector 37, Sector 28, Badkhal, Green Field Colony, AC Nagar, Fatehpur Taga, Khori, Chandpur Arua, Mohna and Ranhera.Yadav also said industries that are allowed to function if they follow safety protocol to avoid the spread of Covid-19, including calling in 50% of staff, ensuring staggered entries and exits, maintaining a six-feet distance between workers on factory floors, making sure staff members wear masks, and disinfecting work areas on a regular basis.As for the registration of property deeds, Yadav said, “There will be 30 registrations a day, and the e-appointments will be done in a staggered manner. Officials will also ensure social distancing, and only a single executant and witness will be allowed inside,” he said.Directions to local hospitalsThe Faridabad deputy commissioner on Saturday issued directions to local hospitals and chemist shops to share details of customers who have sought treatment or bought medicines for influenza-like illnesses (ILI). “The chemist shops may provide data regarding the patients, who came to the shop without prescription from the doctor and found suffering from ILI. If any person is found positive later on and discloses that he/she has visited some hospital or chemist shop and they failed it to report to the authority, in that eventuality action under Disaster Management Act, 2005 and Epidemic Act 1897 and under provision of IPC would be taken,” said the order issued by deputy commissioner.Yadav said that apart from medical establishments, they have also asked urban and local bodies, resident welfare associations, and other groups to share information in this matter, claiming it is crucial to test patients suspected to have Covid-19, and take action to stem the spread of the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/industrial-units-outside-f-bad-civic-body-limits-may-return-to-life-from-monday/story-387LXEKGkuYroWW2jS1CiM.html
18-04-2020||City||Astaire Gardens forms emergency response team to make life easy in lockdown||Gurugram: Soon after Covid-19 cases started emerging last month in the city, Astaire Gardens in Sector 70 created an emergency response team (ERT) to tackle the unprecedented situation. Since then, the team has been coordinating all the efforts to ensure that life under the ongoing nationwide lockdown goes on without any major hiccups.Besides, the gated society, which houses about 350 families, has taken a number of steps aimed at containing the spread of Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. The ERT comprises members of the residents’ welfare association (RWA), representatives from various blocks and the builder, who are working in tandem to contain the spread of coronavirus disease. “We constituted the team early on as more and more updates regarding Covid-19 started emerging. We coordinate our efforts and ensure that needs of residents, especially senior citizens who are at greater risk of being contracted the deadly virus, are met. We help them with essential supplies such as medicines, or any other requirement that arises,” said Neehar Ranjan, president of the RWA.Rahul Srivastava, a member of the RWA and the response team, said that the ERT worked as a point of contact with the senior citizens. Srivastava said, “We have details of all senior citizens with us. Whenever there is a delivery at the gate, the security guard informs the block-wise ERT members who go and collect the deliveries. The supplies are then delivered to the senior citizens.” Srivastava said that senior citizens could reach out to the team for all kinds of assistance, including household work if required. “While we have not received any request from senior citizens regarding household work so far, an arrangement has been worked out if the need arises,” he said.Asha Malhotra, 64, said that senior citizens like her were being taken care of. “We are not facing any problem. Whenever our deliveries arrive at the gate, they are collected by the members of the response team who bring them to our doorsteps,” said Malhotra, who lives with her husband and has been managing the household work on her own.The society has barred the entry of part-time domestic helps such as maids, cooks, drivers, car cleaners, and dog walkers, among others. Entry for external vendors such as food delivery persons has been restricted. Residents are required to collect the belongings from the main gate. All persons entering the building with deliveries are thermal scanned and mandatorily required to use sanitizers, the RWA said, adding that a makeshift washbasin has also been placed at the entrance.In view of the lockdown, the society has provided all essential staff members with boarding and lodging facilities within the condominium. “It was becoming difficult for our support staff to commute with restrictions in place. Moreover, we felt that any unnecessary exposure was not safe. To resolve the issue, we made arrangements within the society for the whole shift. Looking after their health and accommodation is necessary since they are the ones who keep the society running,” said Ranjan.The staff have been housed in two floors of a villa while residents have taken the responsibility of providing them with rations and other requirements. “We have around 10-12 people living on the premises for the day shift and a skeleton staff for the night shift. They have been provided with ration and induction cookers,” said the RWA president.While the condominium does not have grocery shops within the complex, it has tied up with a retail outlet that delivers at request. “In order to restrict the movement of residents and provide them with safer options, we tied up with the retail chain. Every week, the retail chain puts out a form seeking details of the commodities required by residents,” said Ranjan. Guards on duty ensure that residents adhere to physical distancing protocols and stand at a distance from each other. “We realised that there is a rush of people whenever essential services are delivered at the gate. The guards monitor the situation and ensure that people collect the deliveries one by one in a designated spot. The retail chain calls up residents one by one and asks them to collect their order,” said Ranjan.The condominium has also been utilising the provisions supplied by the MCG for helping people residing in the neighbouring slums in Parla village. “Once or twice in a week, we reach out to the MCG’s provisions facility which sends a truck of supplies. We buy from them and distribute rations among domestic helps and others in need in the nearby sites. We give out packets of rice, pulses, and flour,” said Ranjan.Since the lockdown started, the condominium has been maintaining a record of persons moving out. “Whenever a person is stepping out of the society, we note down the details and the reason for which the individual is stepping out. We have around 350 families. After monitoring the movement of people, we have realised that about 40 people are moving out on an average daily,” said Srivastava.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/astaire-gardens-forms-emergency-response-team-to-make-life-easy-in-lockdown/story-bevH2qRrbQKNFs2JYfD3XI.html
18-04-2020||City||Navjot Sidhu defies CM’s order to wear masks at public places||Even as Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh has made wearing masks mandatory for everyone at public places in the state as a measure to combat Covid-19 outbreak, Congress MLA from Amritsar Navjot Singh Sidhu continues to step out from his house without mask.On Saturday, Sidhu was out to donate 1,000 N95 masks to frontline healthcare personnel of Amritsar and Taran Tarn civil hospitals, and the Government Medical College here. It was his fifth public visit since curfew was imposed in Punjab and he did not wear mask during any of these visits.On Friday, he was among the people of his Amritsar east constituency to distribute ration. The persons accompanying him in his SUV were also without masks.In a video conference with state officials on Friday, the CM ordered police not to spare anyone moving around without masks.In his first visit after the lockdown, Sidhu reached out to the people of his constituency on March 31 to distribute essential grocery items to them. On April 9, he visited Guru Nanak Dev Hospital (GNDH) to distribute masks and sanitisers to hospital staff. Six coronavirus patients were undergoing treatment at the hospital at that time.On the same day, the CM ordered that wearing masks will be mandatory in the state and asked the health secretary to issue detailed guidelines in this regard.On April 13, Sidhu distributed protection kits to healthcare and sanitisation workers at GNDH, again without mask.Notably, Amritsar commissioner of police (CP) Sukhchain Singh Gill on Saturday issued a statement that the police will not make any compromise in cases of violation of the CM’s directions and action will be taken against anyone found at a public place without mask. Gill, however, was not available for comments over Sidhu’s violation despite HT repeated phone calls.To a media query on Friday as to why he did not wear mask, Sidhu kept mum and just smiled. Through social media later, he cited WHO guidelines, saying a healthy person does not need to wear a mask.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/navjot-sidhu-defies-cm-s-order-to-wear-masks-at-public-places/story-q8PZROWYT5PYL5fXOUmvbL.html
18-04-2020||City||Residents suffer as MCG wrongly pastes ‘home under quarantine’ stickers||Gurugram: Amid the growing fears over the spread of Covid-19 pandemic, many residents of the city have found themselves at the receiving end, with the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) incorrectly pasting ‘do not visit, home under quarantine’ stickers outside their houses, despite them not being under the quarantine list.Ashutosh Batta, a resident of DLF Phase 1, said that he discovered the sticker on the floor of his driveway last week, with an address that was not his. He used social media to complain to the MCG, but despite response to his message, no action has been taken as yet.His bigger concern, Batta says, is that the family it was meant for could easily be roaming around, with their neighbours unaware they are meant to be under quarantine.“The address and the name of the person mentioned in the sticker were completely different from mine. I tweeted to the MCG about this and also got a response from the civic body. I expected further communication from them but nobody has contacted me. I am worried that those who need to be under quarantine are roaming freely in the city, and their neighbourhood is completely unaware of it,” said Batta.RS Randhawa, a resident of DLF Phase 2, says MCG workers mistakenly put a sticker meant for his daughter, who married earlier this year and now resides on Sohna road, outside his home without speaking to him beforehand.He said that due to the stigma attached with the stickers, he has faced problems with the delivery of essential items while garbage collection workers have also refused to collect waste from his house ever since, even though sticker is no longer there.“I ordered some items online, but the delivery boy refused to even keep the packet outside my gate. Even after the quarantine period was over, and I was permitted from authorities to remove the sticker, the garbage collectors still refuse to pick my household waste. I have no choice but to dump the garbage every day outside my office located nearby from where waste is collected,” said Randhawa.Similarly, a complaint by a resident on MCG’s social media account highlighted the incorrect details in the sticker pasted outside the person’s home such as the quarantine period starting from June 4-18 and the address mentioned as “Sector 7 or Sector 10A”.“@MunCorpGurugram. We are wondering how the quarantine would start from 4th of June, 2020?, (sic)” a tweet by @rude_front stated.Over the last month, MCG officials said they have pasted ‘home under quarantine’ stickers outside 6,900 houses across the city. “Regarding pasting of stickers outside incorrect addresses, it needs to be remembered that the MCG is only assisting the district administration and health department for this objective. We receive a quarantine list from the health department based on which we paste stickers outside people’s houses. We do not have a mechanism in place for corroborating or verifying the information. On the matter of incorrect dates, there have been several cases of a clerical error from our end which we are in the process of rectifying,” said a senior MCG official, privy to the matter.Ashish Singla, medical officer and nodal officer of the MCG for Covid-19, declined to comment on the matter. However, MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh said, “The quarantine list was provided by the health department and we have asked them to review it.JS Punia, chief medical officer (CMO), Gurugram, said that an updated quarantine list is being prepared. “We are preparing the updated quarantine list to check if there were any errors in the database regarding the name or the address of the person under quarantine and accordingly rectify it. In addition, we will also be updating the list to create a separate database of those whose quarantine period is now over and the MCG can now go to their residences and remove the stickers,” said Punia.As per MCG officials, a quarantine list from the health department is divided into four categories depending on the number of houses falling under each MCG zone. Each joint commissioner of the MCG is then tasked with the responsibility of getting their staff to paste these stickers, which are usually done by members from the sanitation, taxation, or establishment wings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/residents-suffer-as-mcg-wrongly-pastes-home-under-quarantine-stickers/story-pxNzgFh906IBgORkPOfc7L.html
18-04-2020||City||In times of lockdown, govt school students use WhatsApp for online studies||Teachers like Avrati Agrawal, who also heads a basic education school at Nabipur in Muradnagar block, are making the most of WhatsApp to teach her students during the lockdown period. The Uttar Pradesh government has also initiated various online modes of teaching and learning to ensure that students of basic education schools do not miss out on studies.“We have created student groups and are sending them study material in audio and video formats and also as online links. With these aids, they can learn at their own pace even while staying at home. We also send them worksheets and assignments to keep them up to date with lessons. They can send us back pictures of completed assignments and we grade them and send them our feedback,” Agrawal said.She said about 40-45% students of basic education schools have at least one smartphone available in their family.“We have asked students having basic phones to visit their classmates nearby who have smartphones and then copy the assignments from them. We have cautioned them to maintain proper social distancing and to compulsorily use masks and sanitisers. The aim is to reach out to maximum number of students during this lockdown. Even if we are able to reach out to about 50% students, it would mean that much less effort when schools reopen,” she added.According to official sources, the basic education schools in UP are not likely to reopen before July.The officials of the district basic education department said they have an enrolment of about 84,000 students in Ghaziabad schools (classes 1 to 8). According to them, some 880 groups have been created on WhatsApp for sharing content and they have further connected to students and parents as well for continuing studies during the lockdown.Officials said one of the apps, ‘Diksha’, has 5,000 videos available for learning besides QR-codes for accessing e-books and e-content. The state government has also made arrangements for scheduled programmes on television and radio.“The online content and classes are now available to our students through Doordarshan (UP), radio (All India Radio) and other online apps. The state government has also decided that students of all basic education department schools will be promoted to the next class this year as their examinations were held up due to lockdown,” Brij Bhushan Chaudhary, basic education officer, said.Social activists have welcomed the move to have online teaching and learning for basic education school students. “A majority of children in these schools come from weaker sections of society. So, the government must focus on roping in IT firms so that connectivity issues that these children may face are resolved. Teachers should also be provided with more resources,” Vikrant Sharma, a social activist from Raj Nagar Extension, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/in-times-of-lockdown-govt-school-students-use-whatsapp-for-online-studies/story-M9Hb2gArUln3Xpejw3CtqJ.html
18-04-2020||City||Ghaziabad: Woman tests positive for Covid-19 after delivery at private hospital, 28 sent to isolation||A 25-year-old woman, who delivered at a private hospital in Nandgram on Thursday, has tested positive for Covid-19 in Ghaziabad. The woman, who tested positive on Saturday morning, is the first case of a new mother having just delivered testing positive for the virus in the district.With the fresh case, the total count of Covid-19 positive patients in Ghaziabad stood at 30 till Saturday evening. Of the 30, at least seven had completed their treatment and had been discharged from different hospitals till date. In recent cases , recorded on April 14 and April 17, two resident doctors of Max Hospital, Vaishali, had tested positive for Covid-19.According to officials, the woman is a resident of Kaila Bhatta locality, located close to MMG District Hospital.Chief medical officer Dr NK Gupta said that the source of the infection of the two doctors and the woman, whose reports arrived on Saturday morning, is yet to be traced.“We received the report of the woman on Saturday morning. Her caesarian operation was conducted at a private hospital in Nandgram on April 16 and post delivery she tested positive for Covid-19. Her test was conducted through a private laboratory. We have added the case to our tally of positive patients. The baby girl will also be tested for the virus in a few days. Our teams have taken the mother and the child to our isolation facility,” Dr Gupta said.He added that a decision will soon be taken on sealing the area where the woman lived in order to contain any infection.“Our teams are trying to trace her contacts and trying to determine the source of the virus. She has seven primary contacts and 21 doctors and staff members of the private hospital who she came in touch with. All of them have been sent to isolation. Her other contacts near her place of residence are also getting traced. A list is being made but we are yet to find the source of infection,” CMO added.The CMO added that before her delivery at Nandgram, the woman had also gone for consultation at a private medical college. “We have sent to isolation the doctor of the medical college for now. The doctor who took up her delivery had later assisted in one more delivery at a different hospital. So the doctor as well as the staff of the other hospital has also been sent to isolation. In all, 28 persons who came in contact with her during her treatment and otherwise have been sent to isolation so far,” CMO Dr Gupta added.A staff member of the hospital in Nandgram, where the woman delivered, said, “The woman was showing symptoms of Covid-19, but her family was reluctant in telling us her medical or travel history. So, we informed the health department. She delivered a baby girl and both mother and child were taken to an isolation centre by the health department. Five of our staff members, who attended the woman, were also taken to the isolation centre.”Across the state, officials said, the tally of Covid-19 positive patients stood at 869, reported from 49 districts. Amit Mohan Prasad, UP’s principal secretary (health), said that districts like Pilibhit, Hathras, Maharajganj, Prayagraj, Bareilly have had no positive cases and all the patients admitted there were discharged after treatment.“There are other districts where second round of testing is going on or patients are on the verge of getting discharged. But we have directed that surveillance and sanitization of different areas will continue so that no new cases surface in these areas. The primary affected districts are Gautam Budh Nagar, Ghaziabad, Meerut, Lucknow, Agra and Saharanpur,” he added.Across the state, at least 1,025 persons are still lodged in isolation wards and 1,0814 persons are in quarantine as of Saturday evening.“We have also scaled the number of isolation beds in UP to 10,000 which are ready, and 15,000 beds are ready at different quarantine facilities,” Prasad added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-woman-tests-positive-for-covid-19-after-delivery-at-private-hospital-28-sent-to-isolation/story-4nPyeAFTLCYwOmZn1R0gCP.html
18-04-2020||Jaipur||Ex-councillor turns saviour for elderly residents amid Covid-19 lockdown||A former Congress councillor has become the guardian angel for 27 residents of an old age home in Jodhpur who were left unaided during the lockdown necessitated by the Covid-19 outbreakWhen she learnt that the home was left without staff, Pratibha Gehlot shifted to the old age home and is cooking, washing, taking care of the physical and mental health of the elderly residents.“I came to know the home was facing a shortage of staff and so I decided that I should chip in,” says Gehlot, 44. Her husband, Ratan, is secretary of the old age home.Along with her husband and two children, Pratibha shifted in on March 22 and will remain till the end of the lockdown when things get back to normal.She has been taking care of the residents, cooking for them, washing their clothes, mending clothes, playing games with them, chatting with them and providing them solace in these trying times.The residents, all above 70 years, were left unaided after their cook and some other staff went to their villages ahead of the lockdown announced on March 22.The shelter, located in Mahamandir area of Jodhpur, is run by the JodhanaJan Kalyan Sewa Samiti. The management tried to make alternative arrangements and contacted some cooks but they refused to come amid the coronavirus outbreak.Gehlot says the home has 6-7 staff including a cook, a nursing staff, and a couple of helpers. However, before the lockdown, four of them went home while a helper couple and a caretaker stayed behind.“My husband and I have been associated with the home since many years and I know all the residents. They are like my family and so I decided to help them,” she said.She follows the schedule of the home and provides meals at the fixed time. She begins her day at 5 am as tea is served at 5.30 am.After tea, preparations for breakfast begin. Breakfast is served at around 7.30 after which Gehlot begins preparing for lunch which is served at 11 am. The residents are served some fruits and then tea and biscuits are served at 3.30 pm. Then preparations begin for dinner which is at 6 pm and milk is served at 9 pm, says Gehlot.Mohanlal Sharma, 71, is all praise for Gehlot. “She looks after us well. She makes different dishes such as dal, bati, choorma, khaman, dhokla and other delicacies. She spends time with us and is managing very well.” Gehlot and the lady helper do the cooking and washing of utensils. Clothes are washed in washing machines in the afternoon. The helper couple clean the premises and also help with patients who are paralysed or cannot bathe themselves or eat by themselves.Gehlot says she keeps the residents engaged by playing games with them, singing songs, or chatting with them. The home also has a big garden where the residents can walk or sit in the evenings when they also perform aarti.Each resident has an AC room with a TV but they prefer being in each other’s company.“They love to talk. There are times when they feel depressed or anxious but I try to talk to them and cheer them up. We keep them engaged in different activities to keep them busy.Gehlot says a Sikh lady who claims she is 101 years old came to Rajasthan from Lahore during the partition in 1947. “When I tell her that we are in lockdown and we can’t go out, she thinks its partition and starts recalling her experiences.”Gehlot says she feels that she is serving her family. “I consider this my good fortune that God has given me this opportunity to serve. The blessings of these people are keeps me motivated,” she says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/ex-councillor-turns-saviour-for-elderly-residents-amid-covid-19-lockdown/story-o0g9k1KVJmrfWowL5I39dM.html
18-04-2020||City||Anganwari workers carry on work without salary, safety kits in Bathinda||By 10 am on Saturday, anganwari worker Rajni Bala, a widow and mother of two young children, reaches Naval Mandir at Bathinda’s Awa Basti for distribution of ration among beneficiaries.Though Rajni and her colleagues have not been paid wages since February and not provided any safety kits, they are regularly providing ration to the registered children, pregnant women and nursing mothers in her area. “It is our duty to provide food material at their doorstep during the pandemic crisis. But most of us are also struggling to feed our families. I have two children, including a 10-year-old daughter, and elderly mother-in-law with no wages coming in. Anganwari workers move among masses to discharge duty, but we have no protection kits,” she adds while preparing raw food packets at the temple.After the lockdown, anganwari workers have been directed to provide ration at the doorstep of beneficiaries. These recipients are entitled to up to 1kg each of wheat flour, sugar and rice for a fortnight as readymade ‘panjiri’ is not in supply since last month. But workers say neither the administration nor any social organisation has provided them hand sanitisers or masks. “We have been directed to supply uncooked material, but bags have not been provided to us. We borrow carry bags from our neighbours and even the beneficiaries. We have no means to carry the food material to the households,” says Gurcharan Kaur, in-charge of Awa Basti that has about 40 beneficiaries.Manpreet Kaur, a worker from Amarpur Basti, said the state government should provide insurance to anganwari workers. “Most of the workers are widows and they should have a sense of security for their next of kin while discharging duty in these challenging times. Our association has decided to stay away from screening of households for suspected Covid-19 cases if anganwari workers are not provided protection kits,” she said. District programme officer Avtar Kaur said the issue of delayed salary being looked into by the state-level officials. While lauding anagwanri workers for efficiently distributing dry ration, she said the department has no provision to provide hand sanitisers and protection kits for them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/anganwari-workers-carry-onwork-without-salary-safety-kits-in-bathinda/story-m4SRwY8LKxkAV4XeBg0RDK.html
18-04-2020||Chandigarh||Mustard procurement: Haryana farmers shocked as ’40 quintal turns 32kg’ on token issued by mandi officials||Already irked over long wait in queues, mustard farmers in the state on Saturday complained of mandi officials issuing them faulty procurement tokens.Ajit Singh, a farmer from Bhiwani’s Garwa village, said that he was shocked when Behal mandi officials issued him a 24kg of token for his mustard crop.“I had enrolled for 27 quintals of mustard on the official website. When I went to Behal mandi to unload my crop fro procurement, I was shocked to see only 24 kg only in the roster issued by the grain market officials,” he added.Ajay Singh of Kuriyanwali village in Sirsa said that he had visited Kalanwala grain market and brought 40 quintals of mustard, but the officials had issued him a token of 32kg only.“I had requested the officials to purchase my 40 quintal crop, but they refused to do it. So, I was forced to return home with 39.68 quintal mustard,” he added.When contacted, Behal grain market secretary Anil Kumar said that they were facing such problems due a mismatch in the list provided by the concerned area patwaris and the government web portal issuing tokens to farmers for their mustard produce.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mustard-procurement-haryana-farmers-shocked-as-40-quintal-turns-32kg-on-token-issued-by-mandi-officials/story-2ZBcp2pPKNTv4xTHGuqCvJ.html
18-04-2020||City||Government launches ‘Kisan Rath’ app for farmers||The National Informatics Centre, a Central government body, has developed an app ‘Kisan Rath’ to assist farmers and traders in transporting agricultural and horticultural produce from farms to mandis, warehouses or food processing units. With over 5 lakh trucks and over 20,000 tractors registered on it, the app will provide best rates for specific transportion needs, and even provide the possibility of sharing transport vehicles. Punjab Mandi Board secretary will monitor it in the state. Ajay Bansal, state coordinator, eNational Agriculture Market (eNAM), Punjab, said, “Truckers can also sell empty space available in their vehicle, thus generating better income. Even if a farmer, trader or the food processor doesn’t have a full load of truck, he can register the volume of his produce on the app, and this will be conveyed to transporters.” He added that the app will revert to the consignor with transporter details and best quotes for further offline negotiation. “This benefits both the consignor and the transporter,” Bansal added. The app is available on Android, in eight languages. Officials added it would be available in Punjabi and on I-phone within a week. Farmers can sell their produce online on eNam and the app will provide additional support. Transporters available on the app will be rated on feedback from users.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/government-launches-kisan-rath-app-for-farmers/story-2N7awIGmWfLahuIe3plPTO.html
18-04-2020||City||Chef among three who test positive in Panvel||Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) reported three new Covid-19 cases on Saturday. One new case was reported in Navi Mumbai.The total number of Covid-19 cases in PCMC is 34, including 11 CISF personnel.PCMC commissioner Ganesh Deshmukh said, “A Kamothe resident, who works as a chef at Taj hotel, has tested positive. He has been admitted to NMMC hospital in Vashi.”An 84-year-old Khanda colony resident has tested Covid-19 positive. He had earlier been admitted to sub-district hospital in Panvel. He has been shifted to MGM hospital in Kamothe.Deshmukh said, “The third case is of a Kharghar resident, who has been admitted to DY Patil hospital in Nerul since March 17 for a heart ailment.”NMMC commissioner Annasaheb Misal said a security guard of a company tested positive on Saturday, taking the total number of Covid-10 cases in Navi Mumbai to 60.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chef-among-three-who-test-positive-in-panvel/story-O8iXTTFTEixUqgkkW1WcaI.html
18-04-2020||City||52-year-old Covid patient dies in Thane||A 52-year-old Thane resident, who had tested positive for Covid-19, died after suffering a stroke on Saturday in a city-based hospital. The man had a paralytic attack earlier, said the Thane Municipal Corporation. This is a second Covid death in the city.Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner, said, “The man used to work in Mumbai and has no travel history. He was admitted to Horizon Prime Hospital on April 11 and had cerebrovascular accident (sudden death of brain cells due to lack of oxygen) and suffered a stroke. He also had a history of paralysis. He had tested positive for coronavirus, so we will consider it a Covid-19 related death.”His family members have tested negative, Malvi said.Thane saw 15 new cases on Saturday, including that of two teenagers from Kausa in Mumbra.A Thane Municipal Corporation employee also tested positive but his name is registered in Bhiwandi. Malvi said, “We also have 15 new cases, taking the total positive cases in the city to 130. Out of these, seven cases are from Kausa area of Mumbra.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/52-year-old-covid-patient-dies-in-thane/story-0PWtTep5FgdPvl0kYLkphM.html
18-04-2020||City||Seven relatives of Ludhiana ACP’s driver quarantined in Moga||The district health department on Saturday quarantined seven relatives of the driver of Ludhiana assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Anil Kohli. Kohli died of covid-19 on Saturday, while the 27-year-old driver, who is a constable, had tested positive at his native village, Wara Bhai Ke, in Ferozepur on Friday. The constable had visited his maternal relatives in Moga on March 14. At the time of the filing of this report, the district has four confirmed cases of covid-19. Moga civil surgeon Dr Andesh Kang said the patient had stayed at Ramuwala village in the district. “We have quarantined seven members of the family who came in contact with him, at the civil hospital. Their samples have been sent for testing to the Faridkot lab, even as all were asymptomatic. Twelve other residents of the village have been home quarantined,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/seven-relatives-of-ludhiana-acp-s-driver-quarantined-in-moga/story-cGstkl45mPfjTfUkE1PNqO.html
18-04-2020||City||7 hurt in group clash over veggie prices in Ludhiana||Curfew and social distancing norms went for a toss as two groups clashed at Punjabi Bagh in Tibba over vegetable prices on Saturday morning. Members of both groups attacked each other with sharp-edged weapons and stones, leaving seven persons injured. All the injured were rushed to the ESIC Model Hospital for treatment.The clash was triggered by a minor spat that took place between two residents on Friday evening. One of the residents had gone to purchase vegetables from a vendor who lives in the same locality. As the vendor was reportedly charging exorbitantly, an argument ensued between the two.Later at night, a group of residents allegedly reached the vendor’s house and attacked him and his family members. On Saturday morning, the vendor along with his relatives attacked the other group and a full-fledged clash broke out. Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP-4) Ajinder Singh along with a team reached the spot and pacified the groups. Tibba station house officer sub-inspector Sukhdev Raj said the case has currently been registered against unidentified persons as they are yet to record the statements of the injured, who are undergoing treatment. “We will register a case against the accused by name, once we record the statements of the injured,” he said. The case has been registered under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), and 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon) of the Indian Penal Code.11 residents held for curfew violation in LudhianaAs many as 11 residents were arrested for violating the curfew in Ludhiana on Friday. Among the accused are four vegetable vendors who were found selling vegetables on the roadside, attracting a huge crowd. In another case, a resident of Bhai Manna Singh nagar for making fake distress call.Police arrested a shopkeeper identified as Mahanand of Haibowal Kalan for making counter sales of groceries to residents.Similarly, Moti Nagar police arrested Vishal Kumar of Ajit Nagar and Jatin Duggal of GK Estate for opening their telecom shops during curfew.Apart from this, three persons were arrested for roaming on the roads without permission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/7-hurt-in-group-clash-over-veggie-prices-in-ludhiana/story-KUx2kuYXepoib3LIxbzuUI.html
18-04-2020||Chandigarh||With 9 fresh cases, Haryana count climbs to 232||Nine more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Haryana on Saturday, taking the total number of cases in the state to 232, officials said.While four positive cases, all having Tablighi Jamaat link were reported from Palwal, three were from Sonepat and one case each from Nuh and Panchkula. In Panchkula, the new case was reported from Pinjore on Friday night, which also has the Tablighi link.As many as 14 patients— six from Palwal, four from Nuh, three from Faridabad and one from Ambala— were discharged after they were cured of the infection on Saturday. So far, 100 patients have been discharged at various districts.Also, reports of 2,143 samples are still awaited, the health department bulletin said. As many as 10,454 samples have so far been sent for testing, of which 8,093 were found negative. The bulletin said 14,052 people are still under surveillance in the state.DELHI COP AMONG THREE TEST POSITIVE IN SONEPATThree people, including a Delhi policeman, from Sonepat are among those who have tested positive for coronavirus on Saturday. Sonepat civil surgeon Dr BK Rajoura said apart from the Delhi policeman, among the two infected persons are a combine harvester machine driver and a vegetable vendor.The Delhi policeman, a resident of Sonepat’s Rasoi, was admitted to the isolation ward here. A combine driver hailing from Karnal’s Sirsi village, who had come to Kakroi village for wheat harvesting was admitted at a private hospital in Sonepat. The third person is a street vendor. All these patients have been referred to the Government Medical College in Sonepat.RUNAWAY CORONA SUSPECT HELDA suspected patient, who had fled from a government hospital in Delhi, was arrested at Rohtak’s Sampla block on Friday night, police said. A resident of Sonepat, Amit Kumar, who was working as driver in Delhi was admitted at the hospital after one of his relative was found positive. He fled the hospital on Friday night by dodging the security guards. ANM worker tests + in AmbalaAn ANM (Auxiliary Nurse Midwifery) worker, who was on duty at the containment zone, tested positive for coronavirus on Saturday. The district has recorded eight cases till now of which three patients have recovered. Chief medical officer Dr Kuldeep Singh said, “A 35-year-old female ANM worker who was on duty at the containment zone in Ambala cantonment from the last ten days has tested positive. Her family and contacts have been quarantined. Their samples are being taken.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/with-9-fresh-cases-haryana-count-climbs-to-232/story-8yOTG17Nsfgij8OWJNR84M.html
18-04-2020||City||Markfed rakes in sales, meets yearly targets for some products||With traders slipping into losses amid lockdown/curfew in the state, Markfed, a state-run cooperative organisation, has stepped in big time, resulting in record sales for itself as well as providing relief to consumers. This institutional supplier has continued to meet demand through its robust network of cooperative societies in villages, while also ensuring door-to-door supplies to consumers in urban areas, after executing agreements with delivery apps like Zomato and Swiggy. For some commodities, it has managed to sell more than its annual sale in just the 25 days of the lockdown so far (March 23 to April 17). In pulses, it has already sold 230 tonne against its average monthly sale of 6.5 tonne (75 tonne annual). “Unlike others, Markfed did not exploit the situation and increase rates. Over the past 25 days, we have achieved more sale than our annual target in some categories. Pulses were purchased by every rural society, and even in urban areas,” said Varun Roojam, managing director, Markfed. On what worked, Roojam, who has previously headed many districts as deputy commissioner, added, “As soon as the lockdown was announced, we focused on running our factories, as they were covered under essential commodities. We engaged with district administrations for issue of curfew passes for labour and transport vehicles to ensure our supply chain faced minimum disruption. The marketing team contributed by agreements with Zomato, Swiggy etc. We also used our village cooperative network.” This focus has yielded sweet dividend, as against its targeted sale of 84 tonne of sugar a year, it has already sold 200 tonne of the commodity in the lockdown. Markfed supplies to PGI, police canteens, para-military canteens, the National Institute of Sports Academy, jails, for mid-day meal scheme to the social welfare department, to primary agriculture cooperative societies (PACS) in rural sector and even to private distributors. Cattle feed some solace for farmersWith shortage of cattle feed a major issue for farmers, Markfed increased its supply as well. During the period under lockdown, it has sold 4,340 tonne cattle-feed, an increase of 25% over its average monthly sale of 3,260 tonne, Roojam added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/markfed-rakes-in-sales-meets-yearly-targets-for-some-products/story-cIxvOCWZImQ0XodmbRHIcN.html
18-04-2020||City||2 BSF officials among 9 quarantined as Pakistani women test positive on their return via Attari||As many as nine people, including the officials of the Border Security Force (BSF), customs and immigration departments, have been quarantined in Amritsar after two Pakistani women tested positive for Covid-19 on their return via Attari-Wagah border. The two women — Hameedan Bano (57) and her daughter Maida Rehman (32) — were among 41 Pakistani nationals who were allowed to return to their home country on Thursday. A special permission was granted to the 41 Pakistanis to cross over to the neighbouring country by the ministry of external affairs (MEA) on the request of the Pakistan High Commission as the borders of the two countries have been sealed due to the coronavirus pandemic.“We have quarantined nine persons as a precautionary measure, though till now we don’t have any official information about the positive results of the two Pakistani women. We have learnt it through media. Those who have been quarantined include two officials each of BSF, customs, immigration and health departments,” said Shiv Dular Singh Dhillon, deputy commissioner (DC), Amritsar. He said, “Out of the 41 Pakistani nationals, 19 had been staying in Amritsar. The two women had come from New Delhi in a taxi. The cab driver had returned to Delhi after dropping the duo at Attari border.”As per the instructions of the MEA, all 41 people were screened at the Integrated Check Post (ICP), Attari by the staff of the health department before they were handed over to Pakistani Rangers by the BSF personnel. “We had come to know about the positive results of the two women thorough BSF officials. We immediately alerted our senior officials in New Delhi about this and about the taxi driver who brought the duo at Attari,” said a senior Land Ports Authority of India (LPAI) official posted at the ICP. He said, “The health department has also quarantined our driver who drove the bus carrying the 41 Pakistanis from the ICP to the joint check post (JCP) near the zero line.” This is the second such case. On March 30, two of the five Pakistani nationals who had been on medical visas in India were found to be positive on their return. Rural health pharmacists protest for PPE kitsMeanwhile, the Rural Health Pharmacists Association of Amritsar held a protest outside Amritsar DC office on Saturday demanding personal protective equipment (PPE) kits and N-95 masks. The union members said they have been deployed to conduct screening of passengers. They said two of their members were quarantined after they conducted the screening of the two Pakistani women.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-bsf-officials-among-9-quarantined-as-pakistani-women-test-positive-on-their-return-via-attari/story-i8ZBf8Q1nkfqnqdRS1DZFJ.html
18-04-2020||City||Special flight airlifts 125 Bahrain nationals from Pune airport||Pune: The Bahrain authorities airlifted its 125 nationals from Pune airport on Saturday. The operation began at 7 am with tourist buses and taxis carrying nationals from various parts of the city, mostly from Kondhwa, arrived at the Lohegaon airport.Speaking to HT, Ali Abdulla Al Noaimi, chargé d’affaires, Embassy of the Kingdom of Bahrain, New Delhi, said that the Kingdom of Bahrain supports India’s efforts to combat the pandemic.“We had a list of all the Bahraini citizens who were staying in various parts of the country. Some were tourists, some seeking medical services, and most of the nationals were students. Under the leadership of our King His Majesty King Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifa King of the Kingdom of Bahrain, His Royal Highness Prince Khalifa bin Salman Al Khalifa, Prime Minister, His Royal Highness Prince Salman bin Hamad Al Khalifa, Crown Prince, we planned a special flight Gulf Air GF7753 to expatriate the nationals back home. Across India, we had 167 nationals in cities like Pune, Delhi, Chennai, Kochy, Hyderabad, and Mumbai. We began contacting them over the past two weeks and then decided upon Pune as it had the largest contingency of nationals (126), who were mostly students, followed by Chennai which has 42 nationals for medical services,” said Ali Abdulla Al Noaimi. According to the Bahrain official, one national from Pune developed high fever and was advised rest and could not board the flight.With all the information in place, the Ministry in Bahrain arranged a special flight in accordance with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to arrive in Pune. The Consul General of the Kingdom of Bahrain, Mumbai, Ali Al Balooshi was in Pune to see to the travel safety of the nationals.The pick-up began at 7 am in Pune, while several of the Bahraini nationals from other parts of the country, except Chennai, had already arrived three days prior and were staying in Hotel Taj Blue Diamond in Pune. The flight left Pune airport at 4.15 pm.Kuldeep Singh, airport director, Pune, said, “All arrangements were made for thermal screening at DEP (departure) entry, Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) protective gear, immigration, customs, tea-coffee snacks counter, sanitisation machine at DEP entry gate, frequent cleaning /sanitisation of the washrooms, markings for physical separation on the floor and on chairs. We opened only limited areas for the passengers’ movement to ensure focused cleaning. GF-7753, A321 departed for Chennai with 125 passengers at 0436 pm with one passenger with high temperature detained and referred to hospital.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/special-flight-airlifts-125-bahrain-nationals-from-pune-airport/story-8pV35PyaOOEscd0CIaQ0NL.html
18-04-2020||Chandigarh||No money received from Centre to fight Covid: Punjab CM||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Saturday hit back at Union food processing industries minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal, rejecting her charges of central relief not being provided to the people of the state in the wake of Covid-19.“Your information is absolutely incorrect. The state has received no money from the Centre to fight the coronavirus,” said Amarinder, in response to Harsimrat’s series of tweets in which she claimed that Punjab received funds and grains to deal with the crisis. Asking her to cross-check her facts before shooting out of her mouth, the CM said instead of using her office as a central minister to help out her own state, Harsimrat was shamelessly indulging in petty politics based on blatant falsehoods.“You should be ashamed of spreading such false propaganda on such a major issue,” said Amarinder to the Akali leader.The CM pointed out that the Rs 2,366 crore referred to by her on the GST account was Punjab’s money. Moreover, Rs 4,400 crore of the state’s money was still pending with the Centre, he added. “You couldn’t even get our own pending arrears released,” he quipped.On the 10,000 tonnes of grain claimed by Harsimrat, he said the state received only 42 tonnes of pulses so far, which was a joke given the state’s requirement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-money-received-from-centre-to-fight-covid-punjab-cm/story-OqbQnhITOcAdDPJjsYKnXK.html
18-04-2020||Mumbai||In pics: When Covid-19 brought Mumbai, city that never sleeps, to juddering halt||Mumbai, which goes by the moniker of Maximum City, has been forced to stay shut and chastened by the raging coronavirus crisis. The vibrant metropolis is unusually quiet.On Saturday, 328 people tested positive for Covid-19 in the state, taking the total number of cases to 3,648, the health department said. Eleven patients died, taking the death toll due to the pandemic in Maharashtra to 211.On the very day, five patients died in Mumbai, four in Pune and one each in Aurangabad and Thane.Of 3,648 patients detected so far, 2,268 were found in Mumbai. The state capital also accounted for 126 of the 211 coronavirus deaths.The Gateway of India where once usually spots tourists, families angling for picture and enjoying themselves stands mightily alone. This is one of the biggest draws in the city and gets visitors from all over the country.The iconic Taj Mahal Hotel, which bore the brunt of 26/11 attacks, also stands by the sea taking in the quiet. All flight and train operations have been halted in view of the coronavirus crisis. Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus wears a deserted look on the occasion of World Heritage Day during nation wide lockdown due to COVID-19. (HT photo/Aalok Soni)Seen here is the grand and imposing Asiatic society library. (HT photo/Aalok Soni)Deserted aerial view of Lalbag flyover during nationwide lockdown due to Covid 19 in Mumbai. (Photos by Pratik Chorge)Deserted aerial view of Lalbag flyover during nationwide lockdown due to Covid 19 in Mumbai. (Photos by Pratik Chorge)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/when-covid-19-brought-mumbai-city-that-never-sleeps-to-juddering-halt/story-EakZOGPMQ2JAdsfKUfj2JP.html
18-04-2020||City||Sangrur man booked for firing in air during curfew in Punjab||Police booked a man for allegedly firing in air during curfew in Sangrur on Friday. The accused, Jagtar Singh of Sohian Kalan village, allegedly arrived at his in-laws’ place to attend his brother-in-law’s marriage along with his relatives and friends.But when his father-in-law ‘tried’ to convince him for holding a small function, he allegedly started firing in the air with a revolver. As per the FIR, the accused fled in a Maruti Swift car.The case was registered under Sections of 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant), 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act at the city police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sangrur-man-booked-for-firing-in-air-during-curfew-in-punjab/story-krGcLWpoyrEt1Iuhbx23bP.html
18-04-2020||Chandigarh||Why central aid not reaching Punjabis, Harsimrat asks Capt||: Union food processing industries minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal on Saturday asked chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh as why the monetary aid or relief material sent by the central government to Punjab in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak was not given to the people of the state.In a press release, Harsimrat claimed that Punjab received Rs 3,485 crore, including Rs 2,366 crore on account of Goods and Service Tax (GST) compensation and arrears, Rs 638 crore as revenue deficit grant, Rs 247 crore for disaster management, Rs 72 crore for MNREGA, Rs 41 crore under the National Health Mission and Rs 72 crore as 100% assistance under the emergency response and health preparedness package as announced by the Prime Minister.“Besides, the state also received 10.70 lakh hydrochloroquine tablets, 33,615 N-95 masks and 4,500 personal protection equipment (PPE) kits from the Centre,” she claimed.“Similarly, the much-needed ventilators have not been provided to government hospitals despite the fact that funds have been received for this purpose under the Emergency Response Health Preparedness,” she said.She said the Union government also sent 15 kg wheat and 3 kg pulses each for 1.4 crore people, half of Punjab’s population after March 26. “This relief material is still lying in the Punjab government godowns and has not reached a single household.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/why-central-aid-not-reaching-punjabis-harsimrat-asks-capt/story-8DYk8WtNg9MjoalJc5GneI.html
18-04-2020||City||Lockdown leads to decline in crime, but sharp hike in online fraud||When the National Crime Records Bureau puts together statistics pertaining to crime in India in 2020, they will show a sharp decline in crimes like burglaries, robberies, chain and mobile phone snatching, carjacking, pickpocketing, etc. during the lockdown period, but a steep spike in online fraud.Obviously, with people locked up inside their homes and no movement on the streets, thieves have little opportunity to pursue their trade, but online fraudsters have become extra active and are finding new ways of cheating consumers of their hard-earned money. A Gurugram resident—a senior citizen—who lives alone and pays all her utility and credit card bills by cheque, says she constantly received calls from her telecom service provider about the non-payment of her bill. She also got messages asking her not to drop the cheque in a dropbox, but to pay online. She had no idea how to pay online and was worried that her only link to the outside world—her cellphone—might be cut off. So when she got a call reminding her about the non-payment of her cellphone bill and offering to help her make the payment online, she was quite glad and readily provided all credit card details necessary for executing the payment.She realised that she had been duped when she got a message showing a spend of ₹10,000 on her credit card and continued to get reminders from her cellphone operator about non-payment of the bill. There have also been complaints of such fraudulent calls from people claiming to be from power supply undertakings, offering consumers assistance in paying bills online, through a link specially created for easy payments. While some have fallen prey to such scams, many have escaped by exercising caution. Fraudsters mainly play on consumers’ anxieties related to the lockdown and the virus. There are thus offers of ‘guaranteed’ cures for Covid-19. There are fraudulent calls claiming to be from a bank or a credit card company, offering short-term loans on attractive rates of interest or re-scheduling of existing equated monthly instalments. The calls invariably end with the extraction of bank account details or credit card details. There are also hoax calls, selling airline tickets for a future date at throwaway prices and insurance policies covering coronavirus treatments at a very nominal rate. There are phoney offers of work from home, refunds of cancelled tickets or hotel stays, sale of groceries at throwaway prices—the list is long. I have also heard of e-mails from a ‘relative’ or a ‘friend’ said to be down with Covid-19 and needing money urgently for treatment. Another trick is to promise, through e-mails, a huge cash prize if you answer questions pertaining to Covid-19.In all of them, the attempt is to withdraw money from consumers’ bank accounts or mobile wallets or credit cards through vishing or links sent through text messages or e-mails.A friend told me that she got two calls from someone claiming to be from her telecom service provider, offering to help her get a better and cheaper tariff plan. The first time she got the call, she said she was not interested. The second time, she fell for it and agreed to have the plan changed. However, when she was told that she had to confirm her identity and was asked for her date of birth, alarm bells rang and she disconnected. These are difficult times and consumers must exercise utmost caution, whether answering a call, an email or a text message. Utilities and banks have been warning consumers that they never ask for their bank/credit card details, date of birth or OTP number. This is a warning that consumers must remember at all times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lockdown-leads-to-decline-in-crime-but-sharp-hike-in-online-fraud/story-BBF4RNJJNjFLoYG74sHxgM.html
18-04-2020||City||NDMC disinfects its Parliament Street headquarters as engineer tests positive for Covid-19||New Delhi: A senior engineer with the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) on Saturday tested positive for coronavirus, prompting the civic body to disinfect its headquarters on Parliament Street. Besides, the 16th floor of the NDMC headquarters has been sealed as the 56-year-old engineer’s office was on that floor, officials said. According to the officials in the NDMC, the engineer had complained of “breathlessness” on Wednesday and was taken to Ram Manohar Lohia (RML) Hospital from the NDMC headquarters. The officials said the engineer, who is diabetic and has high blood pressure, has no history of foreign travel. “He had no history of foreign travel. But as a senior engineer, he was responsible for the maintenance of NDMC’s Charak Palika Hospital in Moti Bagh. This is a Covid-19 screening centre and at least one positive case has emerged from here. Besides, he also frequently went to NDMC’s Bakkarwala flats in west Delhi which have been turned into isolation centres for suspected Covid-19 patients,” an NDMC officer said.Another NDMC official said that the engineer had attended several meetings as he was unaware of the suspected transmission. The 16th floor of the headquarters has at least 10 offices of the engineering department of the civic agency. Assistant press and information officer of NDMC, Om Prakash, said, “One of our engineers has tested positive for Covid-19. Contact tracing as per protocol is being done and necessary action would be taken. The NDMC is disinfecting his office and entire building.”This is the first case of an employee working at the NDMC headquarters testing positive for Covid-19, the officials said. On Thursday, the state government had sealed the Chandni Mahal police station after two constables, who lived inside the station, tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ndmc-disinfects-its-parliament-street-headquarters-as-engineer-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-JZtfbAtIbGGYQtIxbE9lJK.html
18-04-2020||City||Ludhiana ward 82 councillor initiates screening of street vendors||With a number of Covid-19 positive cases having connection with the main vegetable market near Jalandhar Bypass, Congress councillor Gagandeep Singh Bhalla has initiated screening of street vendors supplying vegetables and fruits in his ward. Before allowing vendors to move in the area, thermal scanning is done to detect fever and it is being ensured that the vendors wear face masks and gloves while selling vegetables.Councillor of ward number 82, Bhalla said earlier he used to conduct screening of only those residents and officials, who used to visit his office. But, now, after district mandi officer (DMO) Jasbir Kaur and other police officials, who were deputed in the mandi, have tested corona positive, they initiated thermal screening of the vendors from Saturday, as vendors get supply from the market only and they had also been visiting the market in the past. He has also provided coverall suits to his office staff, who conduct screening. Bhalla said no vendor was being allowed to sell vegetables without wearing a face mask and gloves and he appealed to residents to maintain social distancing while purchasing vegetables and fruits from vendors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-ward-82-councillor-initiates-screening-of-street-vendors/story-t7Lc2H2yOxaU4Dwo7ArclK.html
18-04-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19 lockdown: Rule with a tender touch, not iron hand||The experience of the lockdown has been mixed. While its extension was warranted to arrest the spread of Covid-19, now it needs to be executed with lessons learnt in the last few weeks. It is fine for the law enforcing authorities to be strict, but people’s problems too need to be resolved with sincerity.It is not easy to sit at home, even though one retired as a Colonel from the Army years ago. Inactivity and lack of outdoor exercise take their toll. Think of those who have been laid off, lost their jobs, and those whose salaries have been slashed by over 30%. Most of all, the heart goes out to the millions of daily wagers in the country who are without work today. Most of them are without a roof over their heads, at the mercy of others for food and shelter. Where is their dignity and self-respect? They are missing their families and parents, possibly living hundreds of kilometers away, who could also be suffering .That is why many of them are protesting, earlier at Surat, and now in Mumbai’s Bandra. They want to go home to be with their families, and old parents, to look after them. Their anxiety is understandable.Taking care of daily wagersThis is why I feel the lockdown should be imposed carefully. It should be humane. These daily wagers should have been taken care of in a much better way. Most of them have migrated to the metropolises from smaller towns and villages. They do not have ration cards where they work, so they are deprived of government welfare schemes like free ration or monetary help.The Delhi government made a sincere effort to house them centrally at a number of facilities, giving them regular food. Kerala also looked after its people well, and arrested the infection. Why couldn’t Maharashtra do it? Why were these poor people sleeping on the bridge/open areas without regular food or water?The rich and the advantaged are the ones who have brought coronavirus to India from abroad because of which the poor are getting infected.Yes, these are the disadvantaged communities that have helped the rich become wealthier by building their properties and working in their industries.Aren’t they then entitled to a dignified life?From canvassing to door-to-door feedingRemember election time, when every MP and MLA candidate makes it a point to visit each poor man’s house with folded hands for votes? The whole party machinery is activated, with cadres and local leaders reaching out to each and every family in their constituency, making tall promises for their welfare. Now, in a lockdown, with the poor going hungry, where are those leaders? Why can’t they visit each house now with the same gusto and ensure the welfare of their people? Why can’t they ensure that a basic minimum amount is given even to those who do not possess the ration card of the place they work in? Why can’t they reach out to the families of the migrants in Uttar Pradesh or Bihar and assure them that their sons and daughters are in safe hands?Yes, the government has to do more. It has to ensure the mental and physical health of people, particularly of the migrants and daily wagers. It is not the iron hand, but a warm heart which will make the extended lockdown a success.We the people also need to be responsible citizens. Let each one of us adopt a poor family in our lane, street, locality, and take care of them during the lockdown. Let’s share our blessings and emerge as better persons. The nation then is bound to win.The writer is a star blood donor, and at present the convenor, INTACH, Ambala Chapter. Views expressed are personal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-lockdown-rule-with-a-tender-touch-not-iron-hand/story-krIp90vtfBHAWib4MMzbWI.html
18-04-2020||Chandigarh||Wildbuzz: Siberian specks in a PGI sky||How about rare birds delivered at the proverbial doorstep of a householder? Yes, to none else but the Covid-19 curfew can be attributed the credit for an astounding avian sighting. Bird watchers cooped up in their balconies have maintained a hawkish eye on surrounding flora and the skies above while seeking to alleviate curfew boredom. One of them grabbed a fleeting opportunity to photograph the cryptic passage through our lives of rare Black storks from the Siberian Palearctic.It so happened that Upendra Goswami was sipping evening tea in his balcony at Chandigarh’s Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) residential quarters last Sunday when he noticed four to five storks coming in from the city’s south-east and circling high above amid the soars of local Black kites. They were specks but his keen eye had gleaned a novelty. He fetched his long lens and captured the storks before they took a graceful glide to the north-west horizon where nestle Shivalik check dams.Very few of these storks wintering in India halt in the tricity’s adjoining wetlands. They halt briefly before migrating to western/central India in early winter or while journeying back to Siberia as the Indian spring’s first sparks singe their Palearctic wings. Over the decades, the tricity’s well-heeled and fast-wheeled covey of birders has notched up less than a dozen sightings from Morni hills, Chakki Modh, Kaushalaya/Siswan dams etc. Goswami’s photographs are a first in that they capture a tricity flyover by these rare birds. His unique capture elevated Covid-19 balcony birding to an entirely different pursuit, distinct from the staple curfewed fare of native sunbirds, parakeets and hornbills photographed while making merry in our untended gardens!Were Covid-19 not upon us like the most horrific of sci-fi nightmares, some birders would have ventured out of the tricity to birding hotspots and trudged knee deep through marshes. Photographers staying put at home would not have kept their eyes peeled outwards while sipping balcony tea, presumably in deference to the routine remonstrations of their better halves! So, there was a good chance that had normal times prevailed birders would have missed spotting the flyover of last Sunday’s storks over urban density.To lend a life story to the fleeting black specks or put in another way, those blessed migrants not needing curfew passes to head home, I consulted Gopinathan Maheswaran, a scientist with the Zoological Survey of India. He authored a research paper, Black Stork Odyssey, with Czech ornithologists, Miroslav Bobek, Lubomir Peske and Frantisek Pojer. They assessed migration based on satellite tracking of storks under the project, New Odyssey. An assessment by other Indian ornithologists regards the species as “an uncommon, wary, winter and passage migrant to India” and sounds an alert: “The wintering population of storks in India reduced alarmingly.”“The Black storks that visit India mostly come from Siberia and Mongolia. The storks that visit western/northern India come from Siberia while storks that visit eastern India come from Mongolia. I strongly believe that the storks that visit Chandigarh region should belong to the Siberian population, which breeds there in such regions as the Ob river,” Maheswaran told this writer.I put to Maheswaran questions on possible routes storks take from the Chandigarh region, estimated distances they fly and days taken to reach Siberia. “If these storks sighted over Chandigarh follow the same route taken by storks earlier (as revealed through satellite telemetry studies), they might have crossed Pakistan, Afghanistan, part of South-west China, Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan and then to Siberia. These storks on an average travel 4,000-5,000 km one way and it takes roughly 15-20 days; it clearly shows that they stop in between and that is how a few storks were sighted in Chandigarh,” explained Maheswaran.A perilous passage lies ahead for our storks, who passed us by like stoic, aerial marathoners on a Lindbergh odyssey. Satellite tracking revealed that storks were shotgunned while flying over or halting in Pakistan, POK and Afghanisthan. For example, a satellite-tagged stork christened, ‘Katerina’, was hunted in the Indus Valley near Nanga Parbat while on a brief halt after having flown over the mighty Karakorams, ‘Petr’ was likely shot in the Afghan Hindukush and ‘Altynai’ on the Indus river.vjswild1@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/wildbuzz-siberian-specks-in-a-pgi-sky/story-YdAbXuAe6ze2bagcRXefiP.html
18-04-2020||City||11 residents held for curfew violation in Ludhiana||As many as 11 residents were arrested for violating the curfew in Ludhiana on Friday. Among the accused are four vegetable vendors who were found selling vegetables on the roadside, attracting a huge crowd. The accused were identified as Arvinder Singh of Issewal, Balwinder Singh of Hargobing Nagar, Jatinder Kumar and Rajesh Kumar of Mundian. They were booked under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code.In another case, a resident of Bhai Manna Singh nagar for making fake distress call. He was identified as Ajay Paswan. He alleged called up the control room and demanded ration for 250 migrants residing in his area. When a police team reached the spot to deliver the ration, they found people had stored stock.Police arrested a shopkeeper identified as Mahanand of Haibowal Kalan for making counter sales of groceries to residents.Similarly, Moti Nagar police arrested Vishal Kumar of Ajit Nagar and Jatin Duggal of GK Estate for opening their telecom shops during curfew.Apart from this, three persons were arrested for roaming on the roads without permission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/11-residents-held-for-curfew-violation-in-ludhiana/story-cxfO7cveEmzwilWI43sfPJ.html
18-04-2020||City||Punjab CM mourns death of ACP Kohli and kanungo Gurmel Singh due to Covid-19||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday condoled the demise of assistant commissioner of police (Ludhiana north) Anil Kohli and kanungo Gurmel Singh, both of whom have fallen victim to coronavirus. Gurmel Singh died on Friday and ACP Kohli on Saturday.The chief minister announced Rs 50 lakh ex-gratia to the next of the kin of both the officials, and stated that a similar amount would be paid to the family of any officer who dies in the line of duty due to coronavirus.“Deeply saddened to lose two of my officials to Covid-19. Have decided to pay Rs 50 lakh ex-gratia to their next of kin. While I pray such an incident shouldn’t happen, but if, it does, state govt will pay Rs 50 lakh to NoK of officials, who die in the line of duty due to Covid-19,” he tweeted.In a condolence message, the CM remembered the ACP as a courageous officer, who always discharged his duties with utmost dedication, sincerity and professional commitment.Recalling his outstanding services in the police, Captain Amarinder said Kohli would remain an inspiration for the young officers in uniform.The ACP breathed his last this afternoon in DMC Ludhiana due to Covid-19.Meanwhile, in another tweet, Capt Amarinder said,”Sad to share that we had lost Gurmel Singh Kanungo yesterday and ACP Anil Kohli in Ludhiana to Covid-19. In this moment of crisis, losing our corona warriors is a big loss for the state. I join their families in this time of grief. Rest assured, Punjab will stand by them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-cm-mourns-death-of-acp-kohli-and-kanungo-gurmel-singh-due-to-covid-19/story-HErn3HhVdxPP0eWnwzK91M.html
18-04-2020||City||Helpline numbers for distressed, migrants in J&K, Ladakh launched||To mitigate the suffering of people in distress, J&K State Legal Service Authority(SLSA), under the guidance of Justice Gita Mittal, chief justice of J&K high court and Justice Rajesh Bindal, patron-in-chief J&K SLSA, have drawn up a comprehensive plan.Helplines manned by District Legal Services Authorities (DLSA) secretaries have been launched.The helpline launched to redress the grievances of labourers and daily wagers belonging to other parts of the country, who are stranded in J&K and Ladakh, is being managed by a committee comprising Amit Sharma, secretary, DLSA, Ramban, (9419035006) and Rafia Hassan, secretary, DLSA, Anantnag, (9149450377).Another helpline to redress the grievances of the people including the students belonging to J&K and Ladakh, who have been left stranded in other states, is being managed by Faizan-ul-Haq Iqbal (9622200042) and Swati Gupta (9419190340), secretaries, DLSA, Baramulla and Samba, respectively.Apart from this, another helpline to provide necessary educational guidance has been constituted for children and is being manned by Naushad Ahmad Khan, secretary, DLSA, Jammu, (9622283677) and Sandeep Kour, secretary, DLSA, Udhampur, (9419223000) as nodal officers for Jammu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/helpline-numbers-for-distressed-migrants-in-j-k-ladakh-launched/story-m7IPSWeM6D9BqIMBqU8nrJ.html
18-04-2020||City||Covid-19 in Kashmir: Mother stuck by minor daughters’ side till recovery||When Zahra’s (name changed) two daughters, aged 4 and 7 years, were tested positive for Covid-19 last month and put in isolation, she vowed to not leave their side till full recovery.During quarantine at the hospital, when the girls started asking her mother why she was maintaining physical distance with them, the mother convinced them saying it was her who was ill and needed to take precautions, while pointing towards her personal protection equipment set.“I knew there was high risk of getting infected myself, but how could have I left them alone? All I wanted was to take care of my children, give them clean food, hot water, maintain their hygiene and leave the rest to God,” said the 32-year-old mother.Throughout the isolation period, the girls’ father was in a different hospital tending to his dad, who had initially tested positive for the disease.Now both cured and home, the girls had contracted coronavirus from their grandfather, who had returned from Saudi Arabia in March. Except the three, no other family members have contracted the infection.Zahra, a homemaker from uptown Srinagar, said the news of the three testing positive devastated the whole family. “It is now we know that people can recover as well, but three weeks ago we knew the disease was nothing but fatal,” she said.The 21 days of quarantine with her daughters in the hospital was a life-changing experience for Zahra. Though in same room, she kept distance from her children, wore protective suit day and night, and maintained constant hygiene. “My children would ask me to hug them, sleep beside them, but I would tell them that I was sick and needed to avoid contact. The younger one was difficult to pacify at times,” she recollected, adding that she would weep at times, but hide it from the kids.The girls’ tests came negative for fifth times and were discharged on April 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-in-kashmir-mother-stuck-by-minor-daughters-side-till-recovery/story-ZF7lXYXD4x09oaoYKQCJ1M.html
18-04-2020||Mumbai||State asks Muslim community to not gather for prayers, celebrations during Ramzan||The Maharashtra government on Saturday asked the Muslim community to not come out for prayers, iftar and other festivities during the holy month of Ramzan. It has asked the community members to strictly follow the lockdown guidelines and social distancing rules by performing all the religious practices at home.Following directives from union minority affairs ministry, Jayashree Mukherjee, additional chief secretary of state minority affairs department issued the instructions on Saturday.“The holy month of Ramzan is starting shortly. During this month, Muslims in large number gather for daily prayers at mosques and at other public places. They also come together for iftar and taraweeh (special evening prayers). However, considering the present situation, such large gatherings are likely to help in spreading Covid-19. This ultimately may lead to large number of deaths. It is in the interest of the Muslim brothers,” states the order.Muslims are expected to follow all the lockdown restrictions issued by the state government even during the Ramzan. They must not gather for daily prayers, iftar, taraweeh and other religious practices at mosques, building terraces, open grounds etc. They must perform daily prayers, taraweeh and have iftar at home only, as all the religious gatherings have been prohibited,” it says further.The state government has also asked all the divisional commissioners to create awareness in the community by taking help of religious heads, social activists, political leaders and NGOs.State minority affairs minister Nawab Malik said that they are trying to create awareness among the people so that lockdown rules can be strictly followed during Ramzan month as well. “There is already a sentiment in the community that the restrictions should be followed. Many religious heads have also issued appeals on their own level asking the community to offer namaz and other practices at home. We are also trying to create awareness in this regard,” Malik said.Muslim scholars have also welcomed the move. Maulana Mehmood Dariyabadi, general secretary, All India Ulema Council said, “It’s a good initiative. We have already issued an appeal to the community to maintain social distancing and not to gather for prayers, iftar and taraweeh at mosques. People can fast and perform prayers at home. There is no need to come out. I believe all the sects of the community are on same page in this regard.” The council is an association of religious scholars.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-asks-muslim-community-to-not-gather-for-prayers-celebrations-during-ramzan/story-umr5lztDaULixeAUy3bocN.html
18-04-2020||City||Covid-19 fear: HP cabinet bans offering bouquets, shawls to guests||During a cabinet session on Saturday, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur banned the practice of presenting mementoes to guest at government functions in view of the coronavirus outbreak.The state cabinet, which met for the first time since the lockdown was imposed, also appealed the social and non-government organisations to abide by its order by shunning the age-old practice of greeting guest with shawls, caps and bouquets etc during events.The cabinet lauded Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his endeavours in combating coronavirus. “Steps taken by the central government have helped a great deal and India is doing a way better job than most developed nations,” said the government official.The CM also thanked various NGOs, social and religious organisations in the state for their wholehearted support in the fight against Covid-19.Urging the people to contribute generously towards the PM Cares fund, the cabinet asked them to download the Arogya Setu app and always use face cover for their safety. It appreciated the Union government for providing generous financial accommodation.In view of the emerging situation and for safety of healthcare workers, a stock of safety equipment, including 50,000 PPE kits 10,000 N-95 masks and 10 lakh surgical masks, has been maintained in the state, the cabinet marked. It informed that rapid test kits will be procured in adequate numbers for testing in hotspots and inter-state borders.A presentation on Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojna and its implementation status in Himachal Pradesh was shown during the meet.Meanwhile, the cabinet approved the new Himachal Pradesh Fisheries Rules, 2020, for smooth running of fishery activities in the state. It gave its consent for filling up one vacant post of assistant professor in the pulmonary medicine department of Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri Government Medical College, Ner Chowk in Mandi.It gave nod to regularise contract employees who have completed three years of regular service as on 31st March, 2020 and 30th September, 2020. It also decided to fill up 13 clerk posts in the health and family welfare department on compassionate ground.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-fear-hp-cabinet-bans-offering-bouquets-shawls-to-guests/story-eFd6kiEUxkT3m54grtHW2N.html
18-04-2020||City||Ludhiana: Traders oppose decision allowing e-commerce companies to supply non-essential goods||Terming it a disaster for the local trade industry, several traders’ associations have opposed the decision taken by the Union government to allow Flipkart, Amazon and other e-commerce firms to start delivery of non-essential products such as mobiles, refrigerators, garments, etc in the country from Monday.The organisations have expressed concern over the possibility of the spread of coronavirus through delivery of products. Leaders of different associations rued that local traders have stored a large number of products before the lockdown and are expecting to sell the products after the lockdown period was over. They said, “As the local traders are already reeling under losses, the crisis for them will deepen further as the demand for the products will decrease with the supply of non-essential products by e-commerce companies during the lockdown period. This step will also defeat the purpose of the ‘Make In India’ initiative of the Union government.” President of the Punjab Chapter of Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) Harkesh Mittal said, “If e-commerce companies started the sale of non-essential goods, then the local trade industry would witness its impact in the coming time.”Mittal said the CAIT will also take up the matter with the Union government and demand withdrawal of the decision.President of the Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal Arvinder Singh Makkar said apart from impacting the trade industry adversely, the decision might also contribute to the spread of the deadly virus.A Delhi incident, wherein a pizza delivery boy, was found corona positive and 72 families had to be quarantined is a recent example.YAD SEEKS PACKAGE FOR MIDDLE CLASS, TRADERSDistrict resident of the Youth Akali Dal (YAD) Gurdeep Singh Gosha regretted that the state government had failed to announce a package for the middle class and traders.Gosha demanded the government should announce a relief package for electricity bills, school fees, etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-traders-oppose-decision-allowing-e-commerce-companies-to-supply-non-essential-goods/story-re3HJhfVqCjmZyf2gDvpmO.html
18-04-2020||Chandigarh||Sunet resident booked for raping woman on pretext of marriage||A resident of Sunet has been booked for allegedly raping a 33-year-old woman on the pretext of marriage.The woman had lodged the complaint against him around two months ago on February 13.The accused had allegedly developed physical relations with the woman in December 2017 on the promise of marrying her, but he refused to marry her later.The accused was working with the woman in a hospital of the city where they became friends.The victim claimed that the accused was already married and, despite that, he had promised to marry her. “On December 31, 2017, he took me to a hotel near the bus stand where he established physical relations with me. After that, we continued the relations for several months, but later he refused to marry me,” the victim alleged.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Veena Rani said after the victim lodged the complaint,on February 13, following which an investigation was carried out and a case was registered on the basis of the report at the Women’s Cell. “The accused will be arrested soon,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sunet-resident-booked-for-raping-woman-on-pretext-of-marriage/story-2EYdfVyPadUoivXwl3JezN.html
18-04-2020||Delhi||Delhi government kicks off online Happiness Classes for students, parents||Twelve-year-old Deepanshu Jha, a student at Rajkiya Pratibha Vikas Vidyalaya (RPVV) Shalimar Bagh, has been practising mindfulness, and other such activities, as part of his Happiness Class, with his parents for over a week now. While he takes his Happiness lessons through text messages and pre-recorded messages, the class 8 student now looks forward to the online lessons.On Saturday, the Delhi government launched online Happiness Class which will accessible on social media platforms, Facebook and YouTube, at 4pm everyday, and will be open for all. This is the first time the government school teachers will conduct the Happiness sessions through a deferred live programme everyday. Happiness Class is a new and unique curriculum that was launched by the state government in 2018 to develop self-awareness and mindfulness among students. The First Lady of the United States, Melania Trump had also attended a session at a government school earlier this year.“At a time when there is so much stress and anxiety around Covid-19, the Happiness Class make us more positive. From the laughter activity to mindfulness, our parents participate in these activities with us and this makes it more fun. Till now, we were being told about the activities over the phone. The online lessons will be a step closer to the classroom experience,” Jha said.His mother, Rinku Devi, said, “We have been doing all the activities recommended in the Happiness Class with our son, but it will definitely be better when we will be able to see the teachers while performing the activities. The time chosen for the classes (4pm) is also convenient because we are generally done with our household chores by then.”Since the Covid-19 lockdown, the Delhi government has used multiple remote-learning measures, including video conferences, automated text messages and pre-recorded voice calls, to ensure there is no academic loss during the pandemic. Teachers have also been disseminating learning material over WhatsApp.While launching the classes during the third live session of “Parenting in the time of Corona”, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said the classes would help in dealing with present times. “The current situation is something that has not been witnessed ever by our parents or grandparents. Our goal is to sail through these times by shredding our anxiety and worries,” he said.“We need to bring our families together and stay united. Practising mindfulness together can be one such activity which would help all of us to ease our anxieties.”Bhavna Sawnani, a mentor teacher who has been working on the Happiness Curriculum, said, “We will give instructions in a simplified manner so that everybody can follow. The sessions will start and end with mindfulness. There will be an activity or a storytelling session everyday with questions which will make participants think about traits like respect, gratitude, care, and compassion among other things.” The government has also launched a Happiness Blog which lists out the syllabus and content of their flagship Happiness Curriculum. A senior official in the education department said they plan to introduce an option for live feedback in the coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-government-kicks-off-online-happiness-classes-for-students-parents/story-fqegWXuSvbTUkUFohBvLUN.html
18-04-2020||Chandigarh||Cured Karnal nurse gets rousing welcome at home||A government hospital nurse received a rousing welcome at home in Ashoka Colony here after defeating coronavirus on Saturday.Meenu (36) had tested positive on April 11 and took only seven days to recover. She was discharged from the isolation ward of Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College and Hospital (KCGMCH) after her second consecutive report turned out negative.After being welcomed with flowers in her locality, which was sealed soon after she was tested positive, she said. “I couldn’t have won this battle without the support of doctors, my friends and family.”In her message to the people, she advised not to worry even in the event of contracting the infection and fight it with positive thinking. “There is no need to worry about coronavirus, and people should come to the hospital as soon as they develop the symptoms,” she added.She urged them to follow the government’s guidelines and remain inside their homes during the lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus.However, the source of her infection is yet to be traced. Meenu, along with a woman doctor and a staff nurse, were reportedly posted in the general ward of KCGMCH where Karnal’s first Covid-19 patient Gian Chand (58) was admitted between March 25 and April 1.Meenu’s recovery has been considered as a big achievement for the doctors of KCGMCH as now there is no coronaviurs patient in the district and out of the six patients, five have recovered and one had died earlier this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cured-karnal-nurse-gets-rousing-welcome-at-home/story-ObGd3wVhuSmLsS99aX42oI.html
18-04-2020||City||Cluster schools, block offices to get new computers in Ludhiana||In an initiative taken up by Punjab government, 1,500 cluster schools and 228 block education offices across the state will be provided new computers with latest technology and printers in the next three months. Cluster schools are the centres of excellence (within each school grouping) responsible for dissemination of information to the district education office.TENDERS FLOATEDThe government’s move will prove beneficial at the cluster as well as the block level as the equipment they have are more than 10-year-old. Tenders have been floated by the Punjab Information and Communication Technology Education Society (PICTES) and in the coming days, the selected agency will deliver the equipment to the respective schools and offices.Each cluster primary school will get one computer and one printer, while block offices will get two computers and two printers each. In Ludhiana, there are 112 cluster primary schools and 19 block offices that will get the new equipment.At the cluster level, the head teacher and other staff handle various responsibilities regarding gathering of information about the enrolment in schools, evaluation of answer sheets, marking duties to staff and other works.As per sources, there was a dire need of providing computers and printers at the cluster level as a lot of data is first collected and then sent to the block offices. A cluster level employee, requesting anonymity, said, “We have two computers and both of them freeze several times resulting into a delay in the works.” “Under our cluster, there are 18 schools and whenever we are instructed to send the data, we face issues as the system either get slow or shut down. We require new systems to send the information to the schools quickly,” he said.At the block level, a block primary education officer (BPEO) and his/her staff are responsible to send the consolidated information of schools related to the attendance of students, teachers and head teachers to the district education office. Ludhiana-1 BPEO Tripta Rani said, “We had received computers from a high school years ago but they are non-functional now. We have arranged laptops and computers at our own level to send the required data to the district authorities.”DELIVERY IN 3 MONTHSConfirming the details, PICTES assistant manager (hardware) Yadwinder Singh said, “Tenders have been floated and the selected agency will deliver the equipment within next three months to the cluster schools and block offices.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cluster-schools-block-offices-to-get-new-computers-in-ludhiana/story-NT7MTJiiafEmCn4OdAWGvJ.html
18-04-2020||City||MC, NGOs commence deworming of stray dogs in Ludhiana||With an aim to save the human population from zoonotic diseases (illnesses that pass from animals to humans) and to take care of the stray dogs during the lockdown, the municipal corporation (MC) along with two NGOs, President Animal Protection Welfare Society and Om Shri Sewa Trust, started their deworming process on Saturday.The MC had started serving food to hundreds of stray dogs in different parts of the city on March 26 so that they don’t turn aggressive.As per the MC officials, Ivermectin tablets are added to the food for the dogs to clear the endoparasites and ectoparasites.On Saturday, the teams served 1,500 rotis, 5kg cooked rice and 4kg milk to the stray dogs at Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), markets of Sarabha Nagar, BRS Nagar, Rajguru Nagar, Ferozepur Road and Barewal area where the dhabas and restaurants have been closed due to the lockdown.MC senior veterinary officer Dr Harbans Bhalla said, “Prabhjot Singh, owner of Akal Medical Hall, donated the medicines and has also assured that he will talk to the manufacturers for more.”He said, “Ivermectin tablets clear the parasites including round worms, skin mange, mites, ticks, etc. So, if the dog defecates in the open, there would be no parasite eggs on the faeces, which can be harmful for humans. Few zoonotic diseases are also covered under this medicine.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mc-ngos-commence-deworming-of-stray-dogs-in-ludhian/story-VzdepOSTF2WtJobH9D4MiK.html
18-04-2020||Chandigarh||Man dupes Ambala resident of ₹2L on pretext of sending him abroad||An FIR was registered against a man after he allegedly duped an Ambala resident of ₹2.23 lakh since December 2018 on pretext of sending him abroad.The accused was identified as Sachin Kumar, 35, a friend of the complainant’s brother. The complainant, Nikhil Kumar, 24, a resident of Naraingarh block in Ambala in the FIR stated that the accused had taken money from him between December 2018 and February 2019 on pretext of sending him to Singapore.“Initially, I had deposited ₹50,000 in two different accounts after which he sent an image of a fake visa and asked for ₹1 lakh in cash. Later, I received an image of a work permit and he asked me to transfer money in another account. I deposited ₹50,000 and then handed him ₹23,000 in cash. However, in February 2019, he started ignoring my calls. I along with my brother went to his house where his brothers refused to acknowledge any money given by us.”“After a few days, Sachin told my brother that he has no plans to send me abroad,” Nikhil said.A case under Sections 406 and 420 of the Indian Penal Code has been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/man-dupes-ambala-resident-of-2l-on-pretext-of-sending-him-abroad/story-W1rcs4cNZmnWX9AYCRCedL.html
18-04-2020||Chandigarh||Two brothers arrested with 12kg poppy husk in Ludhiana||The Moti Nagar police arrested two brothers and recovered 12kg poppy husk from their possession. The accused, identified as Varinder Kumar, 36, and Vikram Kumar, 35, of Jeet Nagar, were arrested at a checkpoint installed at Samrala Chowk on Friday, police said on Saturday.“A team led by assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Buha Singh was present at Samrala Chowk when they received a tip off about the accused. The accused were travelling on a scooter and had hidden the poppy husk in a gunny bag kept in the scooter. When they were stopped at the checkpoint, the team recovered 12kg poppy husk from the bag,” sub-inspector Surinderpal Singh said.The accused were arrested and booked under Sections 15/61/85 of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. The police have also seized the scooter they were riding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-brothers-arrested-with-12kg-poppy-husk-in-ludhiana/story-I1SaGwPBGqgJPaM3owK6dO.html
18-04-2020||Chandigarh||During a lockdown, aerobics can be your best bet||About two years ago, after suspecting that my blood pressure was higher than normal I went to the doctor to have it checked. As expected, he gave me a prescription to control it, advising that exercise such as brisk walking will also work like medicine.Apart from adhering to the daily intake of the prescribed dose, I made it a routine to follow a combo of jogging-cum-walking for about 30 minutes daily. That helped, though I could not completely shed the dependency on medicine.I was eager to try various yogic/breathing exercises to control my blood pressure. Many videos and television programmes, particularly the one by Baba Ramdev, inspired me. I left jogging and started practising anulom vilom and kapalbhati (both breathing exercises).Instead of any perceptible benefit, to my dismay, the blood pressure level was elevated. When I talked about it to some friends, including a yoga teacher, all of them found fault with me and advised me to do it slowly, exercising patience. I felt discouraged and resumed my combo.However, recently, after the coronavirus menace forced everyone to remain confined within the four walls of their homes, I was deprived of my routine of jogging-cum-walking. Once again, the thought of practising anulom vilom and kapalbhati, came to my mind.This time, more determined to perfect the art of breathing, I watched all the videos once again and then switched to TV channels to take a good look at the yoga guru doing all sorts of exercises.Then, I started devoting my early mornings to yoga; performing the exercises with caution and precision. Alas! The outcome, once again, was rather discouraging. Soon I was desperately searching for an alternative.We had already exhausted the stock of shuttles and hence no game of badminton with my son was possible; the market was shut because of the curfew. But as you know, necessity is the mother of invention. I looked at the basketball ring that was fixed on the wall; then searched for the ball and luckily found and pumped some more air to get the desired pressure. Then, I started playing two games a day, one each in the morning and evening, managing to throw the ball in the basket at least 50 times. To account for the wear and tear of my joints in this age of 63 plus, I would pedal the stationary bicycle for about 20 minutes two times a day.The scheme worked; I felt very light and fresh and knew that my arteries and veins benefited from these aerobic exercises.My blood pressure levels too stabilised and the medicine dosage was reduced. Really, there is no dearth of alternatives provided you have the will to find the one.gursharansinghpau@gmail.comThe author is professor and former dean of postgraduate studies Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana. Views expressed are personal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/during-a-lockdown-aerobics-can-be-your-best-bet/story-Yg0qiIEnfGw3gXQBryi0LP.html
18-04-2020||Education||IIT Kharagpur builds disinfection tunnel for campus visitors in coronavirus time||The Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur has set up a disinfection tunnel for sanitizing visitors to the campus during the ongoing lockdown triggered by the coronavirus outbreak, an official said on Saturday.The tunnel has been installed at the sole entry point of the campus for essential services staff such those involved in cleaning operations and once the lockdown is lifted, it can be of use to screen visitors until the threat of COVID-19 is gone, he said.While passing through the tunnel, a visitor is sprayed with a disinfectant solution coming out of a high-pressure air compressor.The system to automate the process of disinfecting visitors was developed by Prof Mihir Sarangi, Associate Professor Mechanical Engineering, along with faculty and staff members from various departments.“The output material is like mist and highly effective as it covers a larger surface area unlike liquid disinfectant.Also, it does not need any drainage,” Sarangi said, This mechanism is, however, a supplement for hand washing or the need to wear face masks in public. Hand wash stations have been placed just outside the disinfection tunnel, he said.The product prototype has been built indigenously at the IIT Kharagpur in less than a week while the campus is under lockdown.The prototype is now fully operational at IIT Kharagpur and is used for all people entering the campus.The commercial model for the product has been estimated to be available for Rs 4 Lakh.IIT KGP Director Prof Virendra K Tewari said such technologies can be quickly built and employed at any location which has a daily influx of essential service providers. “Our campus is like a mini township which, in the current situation, requires automation of hygiene and safety protocols for essential service providers who are coming out of their homes every day to serve at the campus and also the campus community who are interacting with these visitors,” he said.Tewari said more such innovations to assist Indias fight against COVID-19 are underway. PTI SUS NN NN||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/iit-kgp-builds-disinfection-tunnel-for-campus-visitors-in-covid-19-time/story-RxxaeAQE9MXW3Fun3BseRJ.html
18-04-2020||City||Ahrtiyas choose profit over life, operate mandi illegally, four booked||Even after district mandi officer (DMO) Jasbir Kaur tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), arhtiyas continued to operate the mandi illegally till late Friday night, throwing all caution to wind and putting residents at risk for infection. The police, however, reached the spot following a tip-off and cleared the area.While the arhtiyas and their staff managed to flee the spot, police booked four persons who were buying vegetables from the mandi and impounded their vehicles. The four have been booked under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code.To reduce the rush at the mandi, the district administration has earlier decided to allow arhtiyas to sell the produce only to enlisted ward vendors and that too only between 4am and 10pm. However on Friday, the arhtiyas reportedly also sold vegetables to the street vendors. Ludhiana sabzi mandi arhtiya association has condemned the incident and sought strict action against the arhtiyas who were operating illegally to earn profits in the time of this crisis.Association president Gurkamal Singh said, “The arhtiyas are putting the lives of vendors at risk by running the market illegally. Strict action should be taken against them.” He added that thermal scanners should be put up at the entry point of the mandi and proper sanitising work must be carried out from time to time.Investigating officer ASI Raj Kumar said that the police had received a tip-off following which they conducted a raid at the spot. “No arhtiya or staff was found at the spot but police have booked four buyers who were carrying the vegetables to their vehicles.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ahrtiyas-choose-profit-over-life-operate-mandi-illegally-four-booked/story-e6BbQ19gBqc90EEZR4E6FJ.html
18-04-2020||Education||WB govt to issue reminders to schools that hiked fees in COVID-19 time||The West Bengal government will issue reminders to private schools that have not responded favourably to the state education minister’s request for not hiking fees in view of the COVID-19 triggered lockdown, a senior school education department official said on Saturday.The reminder notice would also be sent to schools that are seeking money from guardians under heads such as development fee or stationary fee, the official said.Education Minister Partha Chatterjee had on April 8 appealed to all private schools not to increase fees saying his department had received several complaints from guardians over fee hikes during this crisis.The school education department issued a notification in this regard two days later.“It is unfortunate that authorities of some private unaided schools affiliated to various boards have not only hiked their fees but also put pressure on guardians to pay during the lockdown period,” the notification said.It also asked those schools to refrain from effecting any decision to hike fees considering the case of those guardians who would find it difficult to pay the existing fee during the ongoing lockdown.The official said a few private schools in past one week have announced putting on hold the decision to raise fees, but several others have increased it and insisted that guardians pay the new fee by net banking within a stipulated period.“Some of the institutes which did not increase fees are asking the guardians to pay a specific amount of money under categories like development fee or stationary fee by May, though the schools will remain closed till June 10.“We are keeping a tab on all these developments and also got feedback from many guardians. We will send the schools concerned another reminder, if required. Then we will think about future action with the power vested on us,” he said.The official refused to name the schools saying it would not be proper.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/wb-govt-to-issue-reminders-to-schools-that-hiked-fees-in-covid-19-time/story-DKX3Dq7qoRhu4iAKxC3zTP.html
18-04-2020||Chandigarh||J&K’s village of mutes silently braces itself against Covid-19||Nestled in the lap of the Himalayas is Dhadkai, a village comprising of mostly deaf and mute people. As the world buckles under the onslaught of the novel coronavirus these residents have braced themselves to combat the deadly infection.The residents of this silent village, 260km north of Jammu, are as aware of the virus as their counterparts in other parts of the world and are taking all precautions to contain the spread of the virus besides adhering to the lockdown norms.Gandoh sub-divisional magistrate Dr Pritam Lal Thappa said, “A local teacher is raising awareness about the disease among residents through sign language. Some trained officials from the social welfare department have already spoken to the villagers once, another round will be conducted on Sunday.”Local teachers and officials have been briefing villagers about the importance of social distancing, maintaining personal hygiene and what one should do in case they experience flu-like symptoms.Bhalessa block development committee chairperson Mohammad Hanief, 60, has five deaf and mute children. He says, “Some residents may be deaf and mute but they are sharper than us. They are following lockdown norms and are not allowing outsiders to enter the village. They also maintain social distancing and can be seen discussing precautions in sign language.”“The administration has provided sanitisers and masks to villagers and has been raising awareness among the villagers about dos and don’ts,” he says.FIRST CASE OF DEAFNESS, MUTISM DETECTED IN 1901The first case of deafness and mutism was detected in 1901 and by 1990, the village had 46 such cases that rose to 120 over the years. Today, the village has 88 deaf and mute people.The village has a population around 5,000 people and two panchayats.NO SPECIAL SCHOOLSThe chairperson says, “It is unfortunate that the government has not opened any special school for such children.Dhadkai B village sarpanch Haji Mohammad Hanief said, “My panchayat has 55 families with deaf and mute members. However, they all know the infection spreads through coughing and sneezing.”35-year-old Ghulam Mohammad says, “Two of my brothers, Munir Ahmad and Mohammad Iqbal, are deaf and dumb but they also know about this fatal infection and keep asking me about latest updates.”“They know that this is a fatal infection that has already taken a heavy toll on human lives across the world. In fact, they keep tabs on infected areas in J&K,” said Mohammad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/j-k-s-village-of-mutes-silently-braces-itself-against-covid-19/story-OYIhKZ0NuBLMSYGNRKo1IK.html
18-04-2020||Patna||Khaini stays out of list of banned tobacco products in Bihar||The recent curbs on consumption of tobacco products, excluding khaini (chewing tobacco), at public places, has raised doubts on the efficacy of Bihar government’s recent order in a bid to prohibit people from spitting, which spreads novel coronavirus (Covid-19).In Bihar, 20.4% of adults take khaini, while 4.2% smoke bidi. Together, they are the two most commonly used tobacco products in Bihar, according to the latest Global Audit Tobacco Survey (GATS-II) survey (2016-17), released in May 2018.It is an accepted fact that khaini chewers spit more. Bihar has, however, kept khaini out of the ambit of the ban.Patna was the latest among 25 districts out of Bihar’s 38 to extend the ban on tobacco at public places on Friday.“Implementation of the ban has to be effected by respective district administrations. It is not the job of the health department,” said health minister Mangal Pandey.“Khaini being pure tobacco is outside the purview of food safety and standard act of India. If you mix tobacco with something edible, like gutka, then it can be banned. I know it’s a bit counter intuitive but that’s the law,” said principal secretary (health) Sanjay Kumar.Sources said, decision not to ban khaini is more “of a political nature than anything else.”Bihar has been proactive to issue orders banning liquor, pan masala and other tobacco products, but is silent on banning khaini. The state has, however, failed in implementation of the several ban orders, said a pan shop owner, an income tax payee, who requested anonymity. “Like liquor, pan masala and tobacco products continue to be sold through the vegetable vendor channel, despite the nationwide lockdown,” he said. “A particular brand of pan masala, which costs Rs 750 for a pack of 50 small sachets, is being sold at Rs 1,100. It is absolutely ridiculous if the government thinks it can prohibit people from spitting by banning tobacco products, which are sold with impunity,” he added.As per the April 13 order, a person could be fined Rs 200 and/or imprisoned up to six months if s/he was found to be consuming tobacco, including cigarette, bidi, gutka, pan masala, or tobacco at public places, which included roads, government and private offices, health facilities, educational institutions, police stations. The GATS-II report also said that 23.5% of adults in Bihar use smokeless tobacco and 43.4% of men, 6.9% of women and 25.9% of all adults either smoke tobacco and/or use smokeless tobacco.“Consumption and use of tobacco poses threat to public health... Spitting can cause serious diseases like coronavirus, encephalitis, tuberculosis, swine flu, etc., as it induces secretion of saliva in the mouth,” said Bihar’s principal secretary (health), Sanjay Kumar.“In terms of number, 2.5 crore population of Bihar in the age bracket of 15-49 years consume tobacco in different forms,” he added.“As per the GATS II report, Bihar’s overall adult tobacco had reduced from 53.5% to 25.9%, a significant reduction by more than 50%. However, consumption of smokeless tobacco was still very high, with 23.5% adults out of the 25.9% who consume tobacco, indulging in chewing different forms of tobacco, which is major cause of spitting in public that leads to spread of Covid-19,” said Deepak Mishra, executive director of Socio Economic and Educational Development Society (SEEDS), which is also the technical support partner of state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/khaini-stays-out-of-list-of-banned-tobacco-products-in-bihar/story-GuLQApL7ouIc1z50i8gFAM.html
18-04-2020||City||Rain, strong winds lash parts of Delhi, Noida||Heavy rain, accompanied by strong winds, hit many parts of Delhi and the neighbouring Noida on Saturday evening. The city recorded a maximum of 37.3 degrees Celsius, normal for this time of the year, and a minimum of 22.6 degrees Celsius.The weather station at Palam recorded a maximum of 38.4 degrees Celsius, the highest in the city.Humidity levels oscillated between 36 and 58 per cent.Some areas in Delhi received heavy showers.The city’s air quality index recorded at 4pm was 98, which falls in the satisfactory category, according to the Central Pollution Control Board.On Friday too, light rain brought down the temperature in Delhi.The weatherman has predicted a partly cloudy sky and thunder on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rain-strong-winds-lash-parts-of-delhi-noida/story-Ct2dWGaiBcgNh4MdLr69nI.html
18-04-2020||City||Working in the times of pandemic:Government should provide insurance cover to vegetable, fruit vendors, says Ludhiana wholesaler||With a big share of public service workers getting covered under a health insurance cover, vendors who are living hand to mouth should also be covered by the government, said Rakesh Bhatia, a fruit wholesaler based in vegetable market, Jalandhar Bypass. “Similar to the government staff such as health workers and sanitation staff, vegetable and fruit sellers, including wholesalers and vendors, are also playing an important role amid the ongoing lockdown. As vendors come in contact with a large number of people on regular basis, the government should also take responsibility of their health,” he said.Bhatia, who along with his 71-year-old father Vijay Kumar Bhatia used to operate the wholesale shop, said he has not let his father come to work since the lockdown was imposed due to the coronavirus (Covid-19) outbreak. The trader also says that as elderly people are at more risk of the virus’ outbreak, his father stays at home, while he visits the vegetable market from 7am to 8am daily. “I largely stay at home as chances of getting infected in the vegetable market are extremely high,” he said.43-year-old Bhatia, who is a resident of Civil Lines, also said that some of the wholesalers have decided not to operate their business for this week. The wholesalers’ move comes after assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Anil Kumar Kohli who was posted in the vegetable market tested positive for coronavirus and passed away on Saturday.‘MISUSE OF PASSES A CAUSE OF WORRY’Talking about his business nowadays, Bhatia said they suffered huge losses due to the “misuse’ of ward-wise pass system started by the district administration. “We have suffered huge losses since the lockdown was imposed. I have personally suffered a loss of Rs 4 lakh as not many people are purchasing fruits these days,” he said. The news of the ACP testing positive made us close down our business for sometime as our priority is survival and not money, he said.Besides running a wholesale business, the Ludhiana resident also runs a non-governmental organisation (NGO) ‘Waheguru Blood Seva’. Earlier this week, they conducted a blood donation camp at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital and collected 62 units of blood. “The camp was held amid all the preventive measures against the infection,” he said. On being asked what he does during his spare time, the city-based trader said he watches Ramayana and Mahabharata with his family and plays carom with his two children to beat the lockdown blues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/working-in-the-times-of-pandemic-government-should-provide-insurance-cover-to-vegetable-fruit-vendors-says-ludhiana-wholesaler/story-5nq85KWvdZ21C1a4EjinHK.html
18-04-2020||Delhi||Delhi: 26 of Jahangirpuri family test Covid-19 positive, area now containment zone||After 26 of family in Delhi’s Jahangirpuri tested positive for coronavirus on Saturday, the area has been declared as containment zone, taking the tally of total hot spots in the national capital to 69. “26 members of a family have tested positive for coronavirus in Delhi’s Jahangirpuri. It is now a containment zone,” chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said.The 69th zone was identified a day after Delhi’s count for hot spots reached 68. With four more fatalities reported, the death toll from COVID-19 in Delhi has jumped to 42, while the number of coronavirus containment zones here were increased to 68.New zones were added in various areas, including in Malviya Nagar and Jahangirpuri, the authorities said.On Friday evening, eight more lanes and blocks in separate localities of Delhi were sealed and notified as containment zones on Friday, taking the total number of such areas in the city to 68.The eight new containment zones are in L Block of Sangam Vihar in South Delhi, two lanes of Tughlakabad Extension in South East Delhi, B and C blocks of West Delhi’s Hari Nagar, K Block in North Delhi’s Jahangirpuri, a House in Savitri Nagar in Malviya Nagar, K2 Block of Nihal Vihar and a lane in C block of Nangloi in West Delhi, the government said in a statement.Containment zones are areas that are sealed and subjected to stricter quarantine, isolation, sanitisation, tests and door-to-door health checks to prevent the spread of coronavirus. Containment zones in the Capital range from apartments and plots to lanes and entire blocks within localities. There are areas from where cases of Covid-19 are recorded (usually three or more) and the chance of transmission is assessed as high.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-26-of-jahangirpuri-family-test-covid-19-positive-area-now-containment-zone-says-cm-kejriwal/story-EDSSmxZeWXPwwIMvIluSGJ.html
18-04-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Three of family hurt in attack||Three members of a family were injured in after they were attacked by stone pelters at Azad Nagar in Model Town on Friday night.The complainant alleged that a person who lives on the adjacent street and has ties with a political party, had been misbehaving with his wife for the past several days. “Whenever my wife passed through the street, he made lewd gestures at her. I had warned him several times, but he did not stop. So on Friday, I, along with some neighbours, went to his office and confronted him. He apologised but later at night, he came with his supporters and started pelting us with stones,” he said. He added, “My wife, son and I were injured . We also threw stones at them in retaliation and informed the police.”Model town station house officer, inspector Pawan Kumar said some residents have been rounded up and police are investigating the matter. No case was registered at the time of the filing of the report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/three-injured-as-two-groups-clash-in-ludhiana-s-azad-nagar/story-IHvCL7ZUtKZwEL1qWLUvjJ.html
18-04-2020||City||Ludhiana: BCM Arya students make cards for frontline heroes||With an objective to sensitise the students and give them an opportunity to pen down their feelings, BCM Arya Model Senior Secondary School, Shastri Nagar, organised ‘we are the warriors’ activity for the kindergarten and primary wing. Students came up with different messages to fight Covid-19. They made PowerPoint presentations, posters, composed poems and songs to express their feelings during the lockdown. They also celebrated Baisakhi with full zeal and fervour. The class WhatsApp groups were flooded with pictures of performances, food presentations and family celebrations. The children expressed gratitude to the frontline heroes through short messages and e-cards. Principal Paramjit Kaur lauded the efforts of the students and their parents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-bcm-arya-students-make-cards-for-frontline-heroes/story-zmZp2FQxp0oKfmeDwPQeFM.html
18-04-2020||Mumbai||Now, an app to record wildlife movement during lockdown||The Wildlife Institute of India (WII), Dehradun has developed a mobile application, ‘Lockdown Wildlife Tracker’, where people can upload data of wildlife movement near human-dominated zones during the lockdown. The application was developed in response to numerous unverified reports on social media of animals and birds being spotted in human settlements. The app lets people upload past as well as real-time records of such incidents on one platform.“The idea is to understand and document human-wildlife interface during the lockdown. Though it is an extremely difficult period due to the Covid-19 outbreak, the opportunity of such a study has also never arisen in the past,” said Dr Dhananjai Mohan, director, WII. “While our forest staff is already on field as part of essential services and can document changes in the wild, we request citizens to adhere to social distancing norms and not step out or violate lockdown rules for their submissions,” he added. Currently available for only Android phones, the app has options to upload an existing image or take a picture, add the name of the species and what the animal, bird or reptile is called in their regional language and the global positioning system will collect the coordinates. WII will then study the data’s authenticity and add it to their records.After the lockdown is lifted, the wildlife body plans to share this data with state governments and also publish detailed state-specific and national reports.The app will be made available on Google Playstore next week and is currently available at https://wii.gov.in/lockdown_wildlife_tracker.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/now-an-app-to-record-wildlife-movement-during-lockdown/story-u0gIL6OsQyIT69oB3QNLpJ.html
18-04-2020||Chandigarh||Faridkot’s Covid-19 survivor meets newborn son for the first time||After recovering from novel coronavirus (Covid-19) disease, the district’s first coronavirus patient met his newborn son, whose birth he had missed while undergoing treatment, for the first time on Saturday. The patient, Anand Goel, was in the isolation ward of Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital in Faridkot when his son was born on April 12. The 35-year-old had been admitted to the hospital on April 2 after he tested positive for the virus. Goel has tested negative for the virus twice since.Elated about his recovery, Goel said, “It was an emotional moment for me when I saw my son in person for the first time. It felt amazing to hold him in my arms. I am grateful to the doctors, who worked hard on my recovery. ”“After I contracted the infection, I was worried that I will not be able to support my pregnant wife. However, I was relieved when my wife, mother and daughter tested negative. I was not there on the day he was born, I only saw him through video call. The birth of my son lifted my spirits, I just wanted to meet him as soon as possible,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/faridkot-s-covid-19-survivor-meets-newborn-son-for-the-first-time/story-eQMJhShw7JvDpm2CocACaJ.html
18-04-2020||Education||Rajasthan: Lockdown hits school girls’ access to sanitary pads, say Officials||The aim to ensure menstrual hygiene, especially among school girls in remote areas of Rajasthan, has hit a roadblock due to the lockdown amid the COVID-19 pandemic, said officials on Saturday.The Rajasthan State Child Rights Commission has initiated an inquiry into the matter after the issue was raised by various stakeholders that sanitary pads were not available to girls due to closure of government schools and aaganwadi centres amid the lockdown. “The issue has been brought to my notice that sanitary pads are not available to school-going girls in remote areas as schools are closed due to lockdown. I have asked officials to inquire into the matter and submit a report to take further action,” Sangeeta Beniwal, chairperson of Rajasthan State Commission for Protection of Child Rights told PTI.  The Rajasthan government had launched a sanitary pads distribution scheme among school-going girls of the state in respective schools and aaganwadi centres to promote menstrual hygiene. Experts said the problem has risen in almost all districts of the state due to lockdown and poses a risk of infection among girls. “The menstrual hygiene is a big issue and can be ensured if the state government releases directions in this regard to district collectors. The problems is being faced in almost all districts of the state and girls are being forced to use clothes pieces,” said Dharamveer Yadav, the state program manager, Child Rights and You (CRY).  He said a few district collectors have issued directions to the Education Department to release the stock under the Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) so that the sanitary pads be delivered at door steps.  Union Minister Smriti Irani, during a video conference, has directed state authorities to ensure that sanitary pads are made available at grassroots level, he added.  The entire state is under lockdown from March 22 and massive survey and screening is underway to trace the contagion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/rajasthan-lockdown-hits-school-girls-access-to-sanitary-pads-say-officials/story-Eh1EqZXOIhobeTadalCWBL.html
18-04-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal DGP warns against misuse of curfew passes||Director general of police Sita Ram Mardi on Saturday issued a warning to those misusing curfew passes for transporting people from one place to another.Appealing the panchayats to report outsiders, he said, “Three people have tested positive today. The two people, who had tested positive in Hamirpur, had not stepped out of their houses,” he said, adding that police were collecting cal details to ascertain how community spread took place in Hamirpur.At present, there are 21 active cases in Himachal Pradesh. He also thanked chief minister Jai Ram Thakur for releasing around ₹2 crore for purchasing PPE Kits, sanitisers and face mask for policemen.TRAVEL AGENTS ASKED NOT MAKE BUS BOOKINGSMardi also warned agents against sending people links to bus tickets from Shimla to Delhi.Meanwhile, the Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) spokesperson said public transport was not operating any transport services within and outside the state till further orders. He said the general public was advised not to trust such rumors or information provided by any other sources or messages on social media.He said all existing advance reservations have already been cancelled indefinitely and advance reservations on online booking portal www.hrtchp.com of the HRTC and other private booking portals had been stopped from 21 March until further orders.He also clarified that HRTC does not ask for bank details, credit/debit card information, UPI information, passwords, mobile numbers or OTPs through phone calls, WhatsApp, SMS and emails for online bookings.The corporation only allows advance reservations through its online booking portal, mobile app and the process of payment is only through the linked payment gateways, where the customer has to make the transaction on their own.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-dgp-warns-against-misuse-of-curfew-passes/story-Ciw1YvIEIB7UYhreR83U7H.html
18-04-2020||Pune||Police trace 22 Tablighi Jamaat members; 2 test positive||The Pune district administration including the city and rural police have traced all the 22 persons who were among the 182 persons from Pune division who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat in New Delhi in February. According to DCP ( Special Branch ) Mitesh Gatte, “All 22 underwent tests for the Sars-Cov-2 virus and two have tested positive. They have been admitted to the Naidu Hospital.”The central intelligence agencies had shared mobile phone call data with the state police which made the search easier, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/police-trace-22-tablighi-jamaat-members-2-test-positive/story-5lHrRyM0U6QhyRqsPOm4bP.html
18-04-2020||Chandigarh||J&K to screen all Rohingyas for Covid-19||A day after the ministry of home affairs’ (MHA’s) missive to states and UTs, the Jammu and Kashmir government on Saturday decided to dovetail its efforts to trace and screen Rohingya Muslims and their contacts in Jammu and Samba districts.The home ministry has asked states and UTs to screen Rohingya Muslims and their contacts.“At least ten Rohingyas, who either had a travel history to Nizamuddin or had come in contact of those who had attended the markaz were quarantined in Nagrota and their clusters are under constant surveillance,” said a top official.He also said that many clusters of the Rohingya Muslims fall in the red zones of Jammu.“Their major clusters are in red zones, including Bhatindi and Sunjuwan,” he said.Samba district’s deputy magistrate Rohit Khajuria said, “As per our records, there are 431 Rohingya Muslims in Samba district. We have sent surveillance teams to their clusters. We will try to conduct on-the-spot tests with rapid-testing kits and if it does not work out then we will go for standard tests.”The deputy magistratesaid their movement was restricted and no one was being allowed to move out of their clusters.In Samba district, Rohingyas largely live in shanties by the railway tracks in Bari-Brahmana area.A senior police officer in Bhatindi area, however, said no screening or testing of Rohingyas had been initiated.“Ten Rohingyas and locals were quarantined a few days ago but no screening or testing has started yet”, he said. As per the official estimate, 5,700 Rohingyas have settled in and around Jammu.However, in contravention to government statistics, UNHCR on April 27, 2017 had told HT that there were 7,000 Rohingyas in J&K.According to the home ministry, there are around 40,000 Rohingya refugees residing in different parts of the country, including in Delhi, Jammu and Hyderabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/j-k-to-screen-all-rohingyas-for-covid-19/story-ewquOHOpsBqFS87eJIGfFL.html
18-04-2020||Pune||Rising deaths at Sassoon compelled me to complain against dean, says Arvind Shinde||Congress Party’s leader in Pune Municipal Corporation, Arvind Shinde, said he had complained to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and Deputy Chief minister Ajit Pawar against Sassoon Hospital’s dean, Dr. Ajay Chandanwale, in view of the high number of deaths of Covid-19 patients at the hospital.“As the death ratio in Sassoon Hospital is high and there were many complaints from patients about the facilities, I filed the complaint a few days ago,” he said.Shinde said the Sassoon Hospital was located in his ward and since many patients were from the central part of the city. Complaints had been received from them and from some Sassoon staffers which compelled him to take the matter further with the chief minister and deputy chief minister, he said.He said while he didn’t want to politicise the issue or criticise the medial facility in view of the Covid-19 crisis, he had to raise the issue as lives of patients were involved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/rising-deaths-at-sassoon-compelled-me-to-complain-against-dean-says-arvind-shinde/story-fG8qVaUDJAy9z3mz76hoEL.html
18-04-2020||Chandigarh||Khattar govt appeasing e-commerce firms at cost of small shopkeepers: Surjewala||Senior Congress leader Randeep Surjewala on Saturday accused the BJP government at the Centre and in Haryana of appeasing e-commerce companies at the cost of ruining businesses and livelihoods of 10 lakh small shopkeepers in the state. He said the government is giving a monopoly to e-commerce firms in selling non-essential goods by denying the same to small shopkeepers. Addressing the media via video conference, Surjewala said the anti-trader and anti-shopkeeper decision of the BJP-JJP government should be reconsidered. He demanded protection to the small shopkeepers by permitting them to deliver goods in their local areas at the doorsteps of customers via contactless home delivery. This will help in achieving the goal of social distancing, while supporting economic revival for the country, he added. Highlighting the woes and problems of retailers, Surjewala said the stalled businesses during the lockdown has resulted in huge losses for the entire MSME sector. The shopkeepers and local traders have made heavy investments in their businesses and goods worth lakhs of crores were lying in their shops and godowns. Despite the closure of the business, the shopkeepers are paying their rents, fixed electricity bills on commercial rates, commercial taxes and heavy interest on their investments.After April 20, the e-commerce companies will be free to sell fridges, TVs, computers, mobiles, textiles, jewellery, and other non essential goods, but the shopkeeper’s business has been stalled until May 3, Surjewala said.Surjewala asked the Khattar government to answer if it would waive off shopkeepers’ electricity bills, commercial taxes and give them special exemption in GST.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/khattar-govt-appeasing-e-commerce-firms-at-cost-of-small-shopkeepers-surjewala/story-F7PZggmvIQTwgQoLAFmKZN.html
18-04-2020||Delhi||Lockdown rent woes for students living in PGs and rented accommodation||As a result of the ongoing lockdown, students living in rented accommodation and PGs are struggling to pay rent. Even though the MHA (Ministry of Home Affairs) has issued an order according to which landlords cannot demand rent from students, workers and migrant labourers for a month. The order by MHA states, “Where ever the workers, including the migrants, are living in rented accommodation, the landlords of those properties shall not demand payment of rent for the period of one month.”The order also states, “If any landlord is forcing labourers and students to vacate their premises, they will be liable for action under the Act.” Still, students are being asked to pay rent, even for rooms that are presently unoccupied as students are stuck in other places. Mayank Yadav, a student of Delhi University, says, “I have paid the rent for the month of April. I initially requested my landlord to suspend the rent for a month but they did not. Making an issue about this will just get me kicked out from here and I cannot afford this right now. I cannot travel back to my home town in Uttar Pradesh. My parents have been sending money for my rent and expenses, but in this time of crisis, it is difficult for them as well to manage everything on time.”Chon Beno, a student preparing for UPSC in Delhi, says, “I have been asked to pay the rent for April and I have paid it. Nothing in my PG has changed since the lockdown and it’s the same. We all have been asked for the rent. My roommates might have asked for suspension of rent or reduction in the amount but we have all paid the full amount .”Many who were not in Delhi during the lockdown are also being asked by their landlords to pay the rent for the unoccupied room. Surjkanta Saikhom, student of Delhi University’s Shaheed Bhagat Singh College, who is in Manipur presently, says, “Even when I got back home they called me twice a day for the rent. Though I left Delhi on 20th March and I paid the rent on March 28th. None of us are staying there and still we are being hounded to pay the rent.”Follow HT Life&Style for more updates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/lockdown-rent-woes-for-students-living-in-pgs-and-rented-accommodation/story-gQkhRF0GKsuDgf8sKkAv3I.html
18-04-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal receives rain, snow; temperature drops by seven degrees||With the higher reaches of the state in Kullu, Kinnaur and Lahaul and Spiti receiving snowfall, the maximum temperature of the hill state dropped by seven degree Celsius. The lower and middle hills of the state were also lashed by heavy rainfall on Saturday. State’s meteorological department director Dr Manmohan Singh said due to a fresh western disturbances, snowfall and rainfall were likely to continue till April 24.Minimum temperature dropped by three to four degrees while maximum temperatures dropped by six to seven degrees.State’s Meteorological department has issued a yellow warning for Chamba, Kangra, Mandi, Kullu and Shimla for April 19 and 20. Shimla, the state’s capital, received 18.8 mm rain and recorded a minimum temperature of 7.2°CKufri received 13mm rainfall and recorded a minimum temperature of 3.3°C while Manali received 52mm rain and recorded a minimum temperature of 1.4°C. Dalhousie in Chamba district received 35mm rain and recorded a minimum temperature of 5.8°C. Dharamshala in Kangra district also received 11.6mm rain and recorded a minimum temperature of 10.8°C. Solan received 11.4 mm rain, Bilaspur received 14mm and Palampur received 25.2mm rain, respectively.Kalpa in Kinnaur district recorded a minimum temperature of 3.6 °C. Keylong in Lahaul-Spiti district received 8cm snow and at -0.1°C was the coldest in the state while Paonta Sahib in Sirmaur was the hottest as it recorded a maximum temperature of 34°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-receives-rain-snow-temperature-drops-by-seven-degrees/story-6qEmVbDoaqJi5aO41LXcLM.html
18-04-2020||Education||Bihar education dept to resume work from April 20||The education department, with all its directorates and offices, will resume work from April 20 based on a revised schedule in accordance with the guidelines from the Ministry of Home Affairs, officials said on Friday.While senior officials will be required to attend office every day, the junior staff and the contractual staff will be divided into three groups, with only one of the groups required to report on a given day.An office order in this regard was issued on Friday by additional chief secretary, department of education, RK Mahajan, with a clear directive that all safeguards, including the standard operating procedure (SOP) for social distancing, must be adhered to in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.As per the office order, the junior staff, divided into three groups, will report on specified days – one group from April 20-23, second from April 24 to 28, and the third from April 29 to May 3. The second phase of lockdown ends on May 3.Bihar State Educational Infrastructure Development Corporation (BSEIDC), which caries out construction work for schools, colleges and universities across the state, will also start working on projects in different parts from April 20. This will help create employment and develop necessary infrastructure.The functioning of the directorates will mean that the department will get fully functional down the line even as school teachers, appointed through the panchayati raj system since 2006, remain on strike for the last two months.Terming the appeal from education minister, Krishna Nandan Verma, to the teachers to join work as a ‘cruel joke’, they have been demanding talks with the government on their demands and withdrawal of punitive action against them. However, the government does not seem to be in a mood to hold talks at this time, when the state is grappling with the pandemic.Schools and colleges are unlikely to open in near future. The government has already promoted all the students of class 1-11. The class 10 board exams have already been completed in the state and the evaluation will be completed once the lockdown period ends, while class 12 results were announced before the lockdown was implemented.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/bihar-education-dept-to-resume-work-from-april-20/story-SU9tGVHazkYkLNGWHgCBwN.html
18-04-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana ACP dies of Covid-19, taking coronavirus toll in Punjab to 16||LUDHIANA: Assistant commissioner of police (ACP, north) Anil Kumar Kohli, 52, died of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Ludhiana on Saturday afternoon, taking the Covid-19 toll in Punjab to 16.He was admitted to the Satguru Partap Singh (SPS) Hospital after he tested positive on April 13.Hospital sources said he died due to multiple organ failure before the plasma therapy could be administered.This is the second Covid-19 death in Ludhiana in the past two days and the fifth since the pandemic struck.On Friday, a revenue official (kanungo), Gurmel Singh, died of coronavirus infection.Kohli’s wife, who also tested positive, is undergoing treatment at the hospital.Four officials, who were in contact with the ACP before he was diagnosed with Covid-19, are also hospitalised after they tested positive. They are sub inspector Arshpreet Kaur, driver Prabhjot Singh, assistant sub inspector Sukhdev Singh and district mandi officer Jasbir Kaur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-acp-dies-of-covid-19-taking-coronavirus-toll-in-punjab-to-16/story-kCG8w9v8HRPw5EBpaZ18gL.html
18-04-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka govt to encourage industries to re-open from April 20||The Karnataka government is keen that industries operating in rural areas reopen from April 20, Major and Medium Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar indicated on Saturday. He told PTI that he held discussions with industrialists in the district headquarters town of Dharwad in north Karnataka on Friday and would so with Bengaluru-based ones on April 20. Shettar noted that as per Central government guidelines, industries operating beyond city corporation and municipality areas have been allowed to reopen from Monday with certain norms and safeguards. In this background, industries in rural areas can restart operations. It will be helpful from economy point of view as well as employment to lakhs of workers, the Minister said. When Industry Ministers from states were consulted by the Centre a few days ago, he had stressed the importance of reopening industries with some restrictions in rural areas. He said the loss to various industries in the state because of the lockdown is yet to be estimated. Certain demands of the industries have been forwarded to the Centre as those issues come under the purview of the Union Government, Shettar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-govt-to-encourage-industries-to-re-open-from-april-20/story-0ZxSCxgdFMu78xlQmf9eyN.html
18-04-2020||Bangalore||12 new coronavirus cases in Karnataka, tally goes up to 371||Twelve more coronavirus positive cases were confirmed in Karnataka on Saturday taking the number of affected people to 371, the health department said. This includes 13 deaths and 92 discharges. “12 new positive cases have been reported from April 17, 5 pm to April 18, 12 noon,” the department said in its daily bulletin. Of the fresh cases, three are from Mysuru, two each from Kalaburagi and Bagalkote and one each from Vijayapura, Hubballi-Dharwad, Hirebagewadi in Belagavi, Gadag and Malavalli in Mandya district, it added. The department has appealed to the doctors who are willing to volunteer in the fight against COVID-19 to reach out to the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/12-new-coronavirus-cases-in-karnataka-tally-goes-up-to-371/story-mM47gPnkf9plqGlTgyUgEO.html
18-04-2020||Real||Covid-19 update: Bengal real estate body seeks govt help to bring labourers back at construction sites||A real estate developers’ association in West Bengal has sought permission from the state government to bring labourers back at the project sites after the Centre allowed to resume construction works with some restrictions during the ongoing lockdown, an official said on Saturday.The industry body urged the state government to allow movement of workers from their home towns and native villages after the Centre had given its nod to restart construction activities from April 20 on those projects where labourers are already available at the sites.“We have written to the state government seeking permission to start works at the construction sites and reopening offices in a partial and phased manner,” Credai West Bengal president Sushil Mohta told PTI.But the challenge with most of the projects has been availability of workers as many labourers hailed from districts and they left for their homes immediately after chief minister Mamata Banerjee had announced the lockdown, he said.“We have also urged the state to allow us to bring labourers back from their home districts such as Medinipur, Murshidabad, Bankura and other areas,” Mohta, also chairman of the Merlin Group, said.Citing a similar experience, National Real Estate Development Council, Maharashtra vice president Ashok Mohanani said majority of workers are migrant labourers and have returned to their native places at this time.“Reverse migration has hit the real estate sector which has resulted in a labour shortage,” he said.There are 8.5 million workers in India engaged in building and other construction activities.The guidelines issued for restarting economic activities during the lockdown “do not allow travel of labourers to construction sites”, an industry expert said. Labourers available at construction sites can commence work from April 20 in strict adherence to social distancing norms, he said.“We have committed to undertake sanitisation exercise at sites and ensure that social distancing norms are followed,” Mohta said.The industry has also sought permission to bring construction materials at the sites during the ongoing lockdown imposed to check the coronavirus outbreak, he said.Real estate sector has been passing through a challenging time due to financial crisis, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/real-estate/covid-19-update-bengal-real-estate-body-seeks-govt-help-to-bring-labourers-back-at-construction-sites/story-3283ccWvc2L6OINIE2BMII.html
18-04-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: The wedding and the coronavirus||It was to be a “sustainable wedding.” There would be no plastic, for instance. And everything was to be ethnic. The food would come from a traditional Old Delhi kitchen. Music would be provided by the Sufi qawwals from the shrine of Hazrat Nizamuddin Auliya. Out of 750 guests, a few were flying in from Germany, the groom’s country.All the venues were in Noida, where the bride lives.The reception was falling on Easter.And then the coronavirus gatecrashed, and Tanvi Misra’s wedding plans were cancelled.“Mom and Dad were heartbroken,” says Ms Misra, 29, chatting on WhatsApp from her home in Noida. Her parents were nevertheless determined to go on with the plans “but I realized that it was too risky since our guests included a lot of elderly folks and people with medical issues.”So, here she is, nursing her heart in Sector 31, while her groom, Nico Rittmann, is in faraway Hamburg where he works as a police officer. He is currently deployed in the city’s coronavirus emergency service. Ms Misra herself is pursuing a Master’s in the German city of Leipzig.For the moment the woman is trying hard not to suppress her spirits. She has a broad smile—the photos are taken through the mobile screen that connects her to this reporter. She gets up to show her framed portrait with Nico; it is placed beside the portraits of her parents and grandparents.Technically, she’s already married—they signed the legal papers late last year in a townhall in Copenhagen, Denmark. But without any friend or relative to share the joy.The April shaadi was to be the big thing, at least as suggested by Ms Mista’s ambitious plan for the festivities.She met Nico four years ago in Wustrow, a village in Germany where she was on a fellowship provided by the German government. The encounter took place in a bar. “Nico claims that he fell in love with me right there, as he heard me discussing the Rohingya crisis with a colleague who was leaving for Myanmar soon.”He moved to her pad within two weeks and the rest is history.Ms Misra flew back to India this February to prepare for the forthcoming celebrations. Nico was to arrive early this month with his family.Now her parents are aiming for the wedding ceremony in the winter, assuming that pandemic will be history by then.Despite the upheaval in her life, Ms Misra realises that disappointments caused to her by the coronavirus are too minuscule in relation to those of others, which range from job losses to starvation. “The cancellation of my wedding reception is a small inconvenience in the larger perspective,” she admits.And yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-the-wedding-and-the-coronavirus/story-EbayDvVkjPc3sgKDkgTSfP.html
18-04-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Private schools unable to pay teachers as parents yet to pay fees||Several private school teachers have written to Maharashtra minister for school education Varsha Gaikwad, pleading that schools are unable to pay their salaries because they have not got fees from students yet. The letter comes on the back of Maharashtra education department’s March 30 circular to all the private schools in the state not to compel parents to pay their children’s fees during the ongoing nationwide lockdown, which will be in place at least till May 3, to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.“Many private schools are not even receiving partial fee payments because of the state government’ circular. Private schools have been unable to pay their teachers in Mumbai and other parts of the state. The government can amend its circular and state that those parents, who can pay fees, or those who can make partial payments, can do so,” said Uday Nare, who teaches in Hansraj Morarji Public School in Andheri. On Friday, Gaikwad announced that those parents who wish to lodge a complaint about schools forcing them to pay, despite the government circular, can write to the district education officer.She made the announcement after several parents complained about private schools not adhering to the government’s circular about the exemption in payment of fees till the lockdown ends.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-private-schools-unable-to-pay-teachers-as-parents-yet-to-pay-fees/story-2fi3VPGz22lDtt9pbHSQxK.html
18-04-2020||Viral||Ranchi artists paint graffitis on streets to spread awareness on COVID 19||A group of artists painted messages and graffiti on the streets of Ranchi to spread awareness on COVID-19 on Friday.“We are urging people to stay at home and stay safe. There are a lot of people who still don’t not understand. We want the people to see these paintings and understand how important it is for them to stay at homes. We are doing this to spread awareness,” an artist said.According to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Jharkhand has 33 COVID-19 cases including two deaths.Jharkhand: A group of artists painted messages & graffiti on the streets of Ranchi to spread awareness on #Coronavirus. (17.4.2020) pic.twitter.com/FcQwql3ylrWith an increase of 991 COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, India’s total count rose to 14,378, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said on Saturday.Out of the total cases, 11,906 cases are active, while 1,992 people have been cured/discharged/migrated and 480 deaths have been reported, as per the ministry.As many as 43 deaths have been reported in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/it-s-viral/ranchi-artists-paint-graffitis-on-streets-to-spread-awareness-on-covid-19/story-2DMhwRMuhT8Bi0VuaXSvmM.html
18-04-2020||Delhi||Delhi Police chargesheets Sharjeel Imam for alleged seditious speech, abetting riots at Jamia Millia||Delhi police filed a charge sheet against Sharjeel Imam on Saturday for allegedly giving a seditious speech and abetting riots in Jamia Millia Islamia during a protest against the new citizenship law, officials said.Imam was arrested for instigating and abetting riots with his speech delivered on December 13.Two days after the speech, Jamia students clashed with police during a march against the amended law.A senior police officer said the first charge sheet in the case was filed against the rioters and sections 124 A IPC and 153 A IPC (Sedition and promoting enmity between classes) were invoked.A supplementary charge sheet has now been filed in the Saket court, the officer added. Imam was arrested from Bihar’s Jehanabad on January 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-police-chargesheets-sharjeel-imam-for-alleged-seditious-speech-abetting-riots-at-jamia-millia/story-8cDXofoUGjm0ukrUbT1GeO.html
18-04-2020||Chandigarh||11 days on, army man who fell into Sutlej still missing||Search for the lance havildar who fell into the Sutlej river in Himachal Pradesh’s Kinnaur district on April 7 continues. The havildar, Prakash Rella of Andhra Pradesh, belongs to the seventh Madras Regiment. He fell into the Sutlej, while crossing the river and a strong current near the Line of Acute Control, a demarcation line that separates Indian-controlled territory from Chinese-controlled territory, swept him away. A search operation was immediately launched to rescue him and the operation still continues despite increasing water levels, high silt content, strong currents and huge boulders in the river. Superintendent of police (SP) Kinnaur SR Rana said continuous efforts are being made to find the missing personnel.On April 7, ten member of the Indian Army went on short range patrolling from Khab base camp to Samoch in the Tashi-Ganj area along the Chinese border through Dhaga bridge. Only eight of them returned. The soldiers realised that two of their party were missing only when they were half way and doubled back to find the missing soldiers but could not find them. On April 8, one of the missing soldiers was found injured. He is undergoing treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/11-days-on-army-man-who-fell-into-sutlej-still-missing/story-wTBHMTIaG3MUBIuFzxW5RK.html
18-04-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand woman tests Covid-19 positive after giving birth, state tally rises to 35||A woman in Jharkhand who had given birth two days ago at Ranchi’s Sadar Hospital, tested positive for coronavirus on Friday, an official said. The number of Covid-19 cases in the state have gone up to 35.The new-born has been admitted to the isolation ward at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) hospital in the state capital, according to the Ranchi Administration, reports ANI. The infant’s samples were being sent to test for Covid-19 on Saturday, Dr V Kashyap, RIMS medical superintendent told the news agency.“The baby is under proper care and all precautions are being taken. A detailed discussion was held by experts and doctors and the baby has been allowed to be fed by the mother, after proper sanitisation. The baby’s sample will be sent for testing today,” Kashyap said. The Sadar hospital staff that attended to the woman will undergo tests, the administration added. With the latest case, the number of Covid-19 cases in Jharkhand have risen to 35, according to the Union health ministry figures released on Saturday morning. These include two deaths from the disease. One fatality was reported from Ranchi while the other from Bokaro district. Both were senior citizens. Expressing concern over the spread of novel coronavirus in the state, the Jharkhand high court on Friday observed that a “war like situation” has arisen. The court also wanted to know if the government was well prepared to deal with this situation. “Whether the government has a road map for this and sufficient man power and resources to handle the situation,” the court asked. It sought a detailed reply from the government by April 24, the next date for hearing.Defending the government, advocate general Rajiv Ranjan, said that Covid-19 hotspot in Ranchi, Hindpiri, has been sealed with corrugated sheets and all 15 entry and exit points have been blocked.He added that demands made by the government from the Centre to send masks, Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), testing kits, ventilators and rapid testing kits have not been complied with. The state has only 5,000 testing kits at its disposal, the advocate general said.(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-woman-tests-covid-19-positive-after-giving-birth-state-tally-rises-to-35/story-OJ5T9jw8ptYZapB7GhKiDO.html
18-04-2020||Lucknow||‘Samosa, gutka, pizza, paan’: Covid-19 helpline in UP gets these requests||It’s not yet dawn. A helpline set up after the coronavirus outbreak crackles into life. There are panic calls for essentials like medicines but some callers demand rasogullas, samosas, and even pan and gutka, admit officials. The chief minister’s helpline number 1076 gets a frantic call from Ram Ratan Pal, who suffers from high blood pressure, that his stock of medicines is exhausted. Officials manning the control room swing into action, arranging their delivery in Lucknow. In Gautam Buddh Nagar district, Shankar Singh dials the number for food essentials. The ration is delivered at his doorstep, officials say. Ram Ratan and Shankar are among the one lakh beneficiaries so far of the CM’s helpline. Uttar Pradesh’s police helpline recently got a strange call when an elderly person made an “urgent request” for rasogullas. The cop who answered the phone thought it was a prank. But when a volunteer delivered the sweets in Lucknow’s Hazratganj, it was found that the man in his 80s really needed them. He is diabetic and his blood sugar level had dipped sharply. But reports suggest that many demands may not be that urgent. Those answering the police helpline 112 have been baffled by requests for betel leaf, gutka and hot samosas (with chutney). The samosas were indeed delivered. But the man who made the call had to pay the price – he was asked to clean out a drain. Police were also not amused by a demand for pizza in Rampur, where district authorities are punishing those making such calls, reports say. Some callers have even asked for liquor. There have also been reports of house-bound children pleading with the invisible “police uncle” at the other end for chips, cakes, ice cream and pizza. Trained to enforce law and order, personnel deputed with police response vehicles (PRVs) are now also performing a new role during the nationwide lockdown. Thousands of them are engaged in providing emergency services sought through the 112 helpline, an official said. They fulfil demands for food and medicines and look into complaints about shopkeepers overcharging for essential commodities. There are 35,000 PRVs across the state. “Since the lockdown started, the PRV jawans have been working round the clock to meet the demands of people calling on the helpline number,” Additional Director General of Police Asim Arun, who is in charge of police emergency services, told PTI. Around 1,100 police personnel man the helpline phones. “There have also been calls for shifting pregnant women for delivery, and the aged and sick to hospitals. Policemen working with PRVs have helped them by arranging ambulances,” Arun says. The department has set up the infrastructure for women personnel on helpline duty to take the calls at their homes, the ADG says. The 112 helpline is also linked to fire and ambulance services and the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/samosa-gutka-pizza-paan-covid-19-helpline-in-up-gets-these-requests/story-ytmLcrXTkesxblID1VtGkO.html
18-04-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand witnessing ‘war-like situation’ due to Covid-19: HC||The Jharkhand high court on Friday expressed concern over the spread of novel coronavirus infection in different parts of the state, observing that a “war like situation” has arisen.Hearing a bunch of public interest litigations (PIL) on different aspects of Covid-19 pandemic, a division bench of chief justice Ravi Ranjan and justice Sujit Narayan Prasad wanted to know if the government was well prepared to deal with this situation. “Whether the government has a road map for this and sufficient man power and resources to handle the situation,” the bench questioned.It sought a detailed reply from the government by April 24, the next date for hearing.The bench asked advocate general Rajiv Ranjan to file a detailed affidavit mentioning government’s response on strict implementation of lockdown guidelines issued by the centre for Covid-19 hot spots.The bench also wanted to know the state’s preparedness to deal with the pandemic, especially in the ensuing holy month of Ramadan. It also took strong umbrage at news reports that highlighted how people were violating lockdown orders in Ranchi’s Hindpiri locality, the epicentre of Covid-19.The bench read out excerpts from a letter forwarded by one Arun Kumar Dubey on violation of lockdown orders in Hindpiri. Treating Dubey’s letter as a separate PIL, the court said that Hindpiri’s two contractors had attended a meeting of the water board at the Ranchi Municipal Corporation (RMC), while five residents of the area fled to Lohardaga when the entire locality was sealed.“How can people come out of their houses and wander on streets when the whole area has been sealed after being declared a potential hot spot?,” the judges observed, seeking the government’s reply.Citing another news report, the court sought the government’s explanation regarding action taken against Ranchi deputy commissioner for allegedly allowing buses to transport labourers to Sahebgunj and Pakur on instructions of a minister in the state government cabinet.The court wanted to know that whether the people, who had escaped at the instance of the deputy commissioner, were traced and tested for Covid-19.Advocate general Rajiv Ranjan, however, defended the government, arguing that Hindpiri has been sealed with corrugated sheets and all 15 entry and exit points have been blocked.Ranjan said that demands made by the government from the Centre to send masks, Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), testing kits, ventilators and rapid testing kits have not been complied with. The state has only 5,000 testing kits at its disposal, the advocate general said.The bench also queried with regard to the preparedness of doctors and facilities available at RIMS and other government hospitals in the state.While dealing with a PIL filed by Gulab Chandra Prajapati on the issue of cremation and burial of Covid-19 positive patients, the advocate general informed the court that a separate burial ground was identified in the city’s outskirt area of Bundu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-witnessing-war-like-situation-due-to-covid-19-hc/story-U1zK9EvRlYXvojw5bKPC4O.html
18-04-2020||Bangalore||DBT not possible for unorganised sector in Karnataka: Report||Amid fears that people from the unorganised sector are running out of cash to meet their daily expenses, the Karnataka government said there was no data available for such labourers, who can be provided financial assistance under the direct benefit transfer (DBT) scheme.“The government does not have data of people in the unorganised sector such as drivers, farmers, domestic help and others. If we have to deposit directly into their account, we need data..,” State Labour Minister A Shivaram Hebbar told PTI.The minister said a situation borne out of the Covid-19, where the entire nation has been lockdown was never anticipated. To him, the pandemic has given an opportunity to gather information about the unorganised sector. “This Covid-19 has taught the department and the workers a lesson that we should be prepared for a situation like this. We have learnt that all the information about labourers should be available with the labour department,” Hebbar conceded.The minister opined that the the department should have had the list during the good times but nobody bothered to have it.“During the good times nobody bothered about it -- neither they (beneficiaries) asked for it, nor we thought of it.,” Hebbar said.Now that the pandemic has struck, the government is focusing only on not letting anyone starve to death. A three-level preparation has been made -- at the village level, Taluk level and the city level, the minister said. Village anganwadis have been stuffed with food items to be cooked for the needy, whereas in Taluk level, government hostels have been turned into shelters for the labourers, he said noting that lakhs of philanthropists in cities have come forward to feed the people from unorganised sector. “The basic objective of our government is no one should starve to death. The issue of organised or unorganised sector comes next,” he explained.On the fear of large-scale retrenchment, the minister said notices have been served on all the industries that no one should be expelled from the job.However, Hebbar underlined that the industrialists today are as much in distress as the workers and his department was taking into account everyone’s concern. A decision will be taken in this connection by the government in the next two days, to provide assistance to small enterprises to keep them afloat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/dbt-not-possible-for-unorganised-sector-in-karnataka-report/story-EuaJtR8i4u07jAqn8ooGMP.html
18-04-2020||Chandigarh||Prominent J&K hotelier booked for defying curfew||Jammu and Kashmir police have registered a first information report (FIR) against Mushtaq Chaya, a prominent hotelier, and others for allegedly defying coronavirus disease (Covid-19) lockdown orders and driving from Jammu to Srinagar, a distance of 270 kms, using the official car of a person of influence.HT has accessed a copy of the FIR registered on Thursday under Section 188 (disobedience of order promulgated by a public servant) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 3 (disobedience of an order promulgated under) the Epidemic Diseases Act .Chaya owns hotels in Jammu and Srinagar and his Facebook profile mentions that he is chairman of the PHD Chamber of Commerce in Kashmir.A senior police officer who requested anonymity said: “We have initiated an investigation. Our first priority is to quarantine them at Srinagar. We have contacted Srinagar police and asked them to quarantine them. Yes, they have reached Srinagar from Jammu.”The police officer declined to identify the person of influence in whose car Chaya and others drove to Srinagar. “No one would confirm it at this stage”, the officer said.When reached for comment, Chaya’s son Wasim Chaya said the matter had been sorted out. He said his father would speak on the phone in a few minutes, which he never did.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/prominent-j-k-hotelier-booked-for-defying-curfew/story-CpwT8L0Te481Ga3JQ71THP.html
18-04-2020||Patna||With 2 new Covid-19 cases, Bihar’s tally rises to 85; death toll at 2||With two more positive cases reported, the total number of coronavirus cases in Bihar rose to 85, an official said on Saturday.Principal Secretary, health, Sanjay Kumar, said one patient is a 17-year-old youth from Bihar Sharif while the other is a 42-year-old man from Begusarai, according to news agency PTI.Test reports of both patients came late on Friday night and authorities are now trying to trace the people they came in contact with, he added. Bihar had reported 83 cases of the virus, after three of a family, including a six-month-old girl, from Munger tested positive late Thursday evening, taking the number of cases in the family to nine. The other two were a 55-year-old man and a 21-year-old woman. The state has reported two Covid-19 deaths so far. A 37-year-old coronavirus patient from Vaishali, who was being treated at AIIMS-Patna and reported to be critical, died on Friday. Earlier, a 38-year old driver from Munger who returned from Qatar died at the AIIMS on March 21.Thirty-seven patients have been cured in the state, according to the latest figures released by the Union health ministry.Meanwhile, Bihar’s chief minister Nitish Kumar has appealed to the people to stay indoors and said the government is working round-the-clock to help those living in the state and outside as well through its disaster relief centres. He said the number of such centres will be increased whenever required.“Please stay wherever you are. If you have any problem, please get in touch with the control room of the disaster management department or the resident commissioner office at the Bihar Bhawan in New Delhi without any inhibition any time. All possible help will be extended,” Kumar said on Friday.Also Read: 7 Bihar labourers hired a cab to sneak out of Delhi, to go home. Their storyIn another development, the Nitish Kumar-government allowed opening of eateries, restaurants and hotels along the highways in the state from April 20 to help drivers and other transport workers of goods vehicles, officials said on Friday, reports PTI.However, the opening of the eateries will be subject to certain conditions, said Transport Departments Secretary Sanjay Kumar Agarwal.Roadside eateries, located at least at a distance of 10 km from the district headquarters, will be allowed to function, Agarwal said, adding that the district administrations will decide where these joints will be allowed to operate. Stating that social distancing and sanitation must be ensured at the outlets, he said that there will be no sitting arrangements and the workers will have to have food inside their vehicles.India reported 991 new Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 14,378, and 43 deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry on Saturday morning.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/with-2-new-covid-19-cases-bihar-s-tally-rises-to-85-death-toll-at-2/story-CZWQhCXR8yPj0J4GwF2pXN.html
18-04-2020||Lifestyle||City’s nightlife faces the blues amid the pandemic||Nightclubs, bars and lounges have all shut down. The outbreak of coronavirus has adversely impacted the business of these outlets. After it was announced that all nightclubs will be shut down in the face of the pandemic, professionals employed at these places are having a tough time — be it the one who’d prepare your favourite concoction, belt out the hottest music tracks or the bouncers who ensure your safety.Mohit Chopra, a mixologist, feels that the nightlife business has been impacted big time, as compared to other businesses. “As our business depends on the daily inward stream of people, we would be paid half the amount. Some daily workers have been asked to go back to their home towns,” he says.Bartenders, servers and other professionals are feeling the pinch of the impact of Covid-19 on the hospitality industry. Udit Nagar, a bouncer, says, “The worst affected are people like us, who are part-time workers. With a constant stream of income, we tend to live a certain lifestyle, and now all of that has gone for a toss.” Satish Daggar, another bouncer, adds, “We can’t be sitting at home for two weeks or till whenever this gets contained...we will die of hunger. We need to pay our rent.” A post shared by DJ AJ (@djajmumbai) on Feb 10, 2020 at 5:38am PSTPopular DJs echo the sentiment. Mumbai-based DJ AJ feels due to the shutdown, there’s a cascading effect, because it’s also affecting the servicing industry and inventory management. He says, “My performances for April and May which were to take place in Italy, Maldives, Turkey, Beirut and Bali, are on hold. They are not yet cancelled, but we don’t know the (new) dates yet. But looking at the positives more than the negatives, it’s a good way to spend some family time.”Read: It’s the time to (virtual) disco as DJs take their music onlineTalking about the financial impact, DJ AJ says, “It depends on the kind of gigs I do, which range from a non-contractual gig for 90 minutes for ₹75,000 to ₹1 lakh, and performances at private events and weddings that go up to ₹1.5 lakhs, which are on hold at the moment.”However, some believe that now is the time is to re-energise and rejuvenate. Delhi-based DJ Sumit Sethi says, “There were several gigs of mine that got cancelled in the month of March due to the closure of nightclubs and other gatherings. But I’m taking this space and isolation to create music, focus on content and studio, connect with my inner self to improve skills.”Interact with author/@sanchita_kalra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/more-lifestyle/city-s-nightlife-faces-the-blues-amid-the-pandemic/story-Mi6LueMuKPPAvtqSmdv2DI.html
18-04-2020||Lucknow||‘I have been busy writing to create a bank of episodes’||Screenplay and scriptwriter Rahil Qazi, who has co-written films like Do Dooni Chaar and the TV series ‘Rang Rasia,’ ‘Madhubala’ and ‘Ishq Subhanallah’, feels it’s difficult as a writer to do justice to his craft when one is at home in such a scenario. “It is impossible to sit down and let the writer in you lead from the front. Locked inside home with family, we are expected to share household chores and also spend time with kids. So, actually there is not much time, to pen down your thoughts, like I used to have earlier,” said the UPite over the phone.Talking about the ongoing circumstances which have put all the industries including entertainment on long hold, he said, “It’s no doubt a very difficult phase for the entire world. And there is no solution in sight for now so the only way is to follow social distancing and listen to our government. Like everyone else, I too was almost set to go ahead with my work when the lockdown was announced. Since then, I am home and am creating a bank of episodes for one of my ongoing show. In such times we have realized the importance of having some backlog to bank on.” Writer of ‘Ekkees Toppon Ki Salaami’ and digital series ‘Chinese Bhasad,’ Qazi is also busy co-writing another script for a film which is expected to go on floors later this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/i-have-been-busy-writing-to-create-a-bank-of-episodes/story-Mm2k4W3R8x7vB65Gvd10lK.html
18-04-2020||Lucknow||‘It’s time to show our gratitude towards all the daily wagers...’||Writer, poet, screenwriter and lyricist Gaurav Solanki, is making most of his time in quarantine by writing and scripting his upcoming projects. “As writers always ask for isolation, many out there think that this is a fruitful phase for my clan. But I don’t agree with it because, like everybody else, I am missing my outdoor life. Suddenly, an urge to go out and meet people normally like before has cropped up in me too but like all I can’t help it,” he tells over phone.So has the writer in him taken a back seat? The young writer from Baghpat, Uttar Pradesh is quick to revert with a big no! “Nothing can take away the writer in me. I am writing pieces everyday — some for online and much for future work. Like, I am working on a script of a film and a web show. I am a bit slow and letting all what is happening around the world to seep in me to use it for future references in my stories. Like, World War II gave maximum real-life tales to the writers to forward them to upcoming generations, it will be ver much similar after this outbreak fades.”He wants all the big celebrities to come forward and help the daily wagers in various industries, “This is the time when they need us the most and I am proud of my colleagues and actors who are doing so much for the daily wagers. It’s time to give them back and show our gratitude.” Solanki is looking forward to his web-series slated to release soon. “Yes, it has big names from Bollywood associated with it but it’s in the post production stage. As a writer I have tried adding number of emotional and political elements to the story. Also, I am awaiting the release of the OTT film ‘Freedom’ that I co-wrote with Dibakar Banerjee. Then penning down my own script is also in pipeline.”His last co-written release ‘Article 15’ did give him fame and award both. “Like any other creative person, I too love to be known for my work. Getting award is like an icing on the cake but still for me my audience’s reaction matters most as it’s for them that I write,” says the IIT-Roorkee graduate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/it-s-time-to-show-our-gratitude-towards-all-the-daily-wagers/story-2n2JIRUzKwpOfcetb70DCL.html
18-04-2020||Lucknow||Music is the best source of positivity: Namit||Actor-singer Namit Das is fully engrossed in music these days. A self-confessed “accidental actor and a hesitant musician”, he is currently busy doing Insta live shows and listening to classical albums on the turn table. “On acting front everything is on hold, so it’s time for music and sharing the household load chores is taking my time. In the lockdown when everyone seems to be so helpless, music is the best source to maintain positivity. When you listen and sing it does elevate your mood! And, in my case, it’s my passion and best pastime,” says, ‘Wake Up Sid’ actor, over the phone.The actor of late shot for Mira Nair’s series ‘A Suitable Boy’ in Lucknow which is expected to release later this year.Sharing about his love for music, he says, “For last many years my routine starts by listening to one classical album LP records of an artiste on my turntable. I started collecting records sometime back and currently I have 281 LP and have a target of creating a library of 17,000 LPs in next 15 years.”His wife Shruti also joins in the musical sessions. “She sings but she is more into writing. Shruti has recently written a beautiful poem ‘Hum’. We did a session also in which she recited the poem and I was doing music and singing,”Das is also sharing the house-hold work. He confesses, “I am doing ‘jhadu-pocha’and I don’t want to romanticize it. Honestly, I don’t enjoy it but it’s the need of the hour. Yes, I have learnt mixing-and-matching breakfast which I never done before.”Besides, he is doing dubbing and sound recording for his next OTT series ‘Arya’. “We are using technology to do whatever possible. Rest, we just don’t know how long it will take to get back on track,” he says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/music-is-the-best-source-of-positivity-namit/story-MhfMDB7Oz4RvJKCmwveO5I.html
18-04-2020||City||5-member teams to dispose of Covid-19 victims’ bodies||The district administrations have been told to form five-member teams for the disposal of bodies of coronavirus victims in the state.The Haryana government has decided to pay each member ₹2,000 per body. It has also instructed not to allow family members of the deceased to cremate or bury the body.In this regard, revised directions have been issued to all the deputy commissioners, municipal commissioners, civil surgeons and secretaries of municipal councils and committees.As per the letter issued by additional chief secretary to Haryana urban and local bodies, the district administrations and municipal corporations have been directed to ensure that the trained teams dispose of the bodies and each member is paid ₹2,000 per body. PPE kits will also be provided them.The order mentioned that the affected bodies are not to be handed over to the family members of the deceased and should be cremated or buried by the concerned teams.Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Yadav told HT, “Following the instructions, we have already formed the teams and a separate ground for the disposal has also been identified.”He said that as per the instructions, the family members will not be allowed to cremate or bury the bodies and the same will be done only by the designated team members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/5-member-teams-to-dispose-of-covid-19-victims-bodies/story-A2B4gfMLlU7NsNkp0ENIpK.html
18-04-2020||Lucknow||Sealing, sanitizing, tracking: How UP’s Maharajganj became coronvirus-free||A multi-pronged strategy enabled Maharajganj in eastern Uttar Pradesh to script a turnaround in the battle against Covid-19 and emerge triumphant to become the state’s second district to become coronavirus- free, officials said on Friday. Pilibhit was the first district in the state to shed the corona tag earlier this week.The carefully drawn plan involved sealing affected areas, sanitization, tracking the contacts of Tablighi Jamaat members and those who travelled in the same train coaches with them, besides keeping a tight vigil on the porous India-Nepal border in the district. The strategy paid off when all six Covid-19 patients in Maharajganj tested negative for the Sars-Cov-2 virus for the second time. There was no fresh coronavirus case in Maharajganj at present and the reports of 36 family members of the six patients were also negative, said district magistrate Ujjwal Kumar.The district administration decided to discharge all six patients from hospital and shifted them to a quarantine facility for observation, according to state government guidelines.To make sure that no other person was infected with coronavirus in the remaining villages, health department teams collected five samples at random from the villages and sent them for tests, the district magistrate said. “All the samples tested negative; it was a major relief for us,” he said. A fortnight ago, Maharajganj was in the news after Tablighi Jamaat members, who attended the congregation organised in Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi last month, arrived in the district. Soon, the district police raided dozens of villages near Kolhui town, where many of them were staying. The Tablighi Jamaat members and their family members were taken to a quarantine facility in a school at Kamhariya Bujurg village. Subsequently, the district administration collected information about their travel details. Four villages and the market area of Kolhui town were sealed.The health department and police teams surveyed 7,500 people and screened 40,000.The villages and markets were sanitised and people were directed to stay home and follow social distancing norms,Kumar said. After Tablighi Jamaat members arrived in Maharajganj by train, officials alerted the Gorakhpur, Kushinagar and Deoria authorities as people of these districts had travelled in the same coaches as some of the infected patients. All the passengers were tracked and screened, but they tested negative, Kumar said.The porous India-Nepal border in Maharajganj was sealed and samples of villagers nearby were collected for tests, he said.“We are keeping our fingers crossed, the population of Maharajganj is around 25 lakh. A majority of the people are settled in the rural areas. There is a large movement of the migrant population from neighbouring Bihar and Nepal. Vigil has been tightened, mandis (markets) are being opened in the morning. Public places are being sanitised,” Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/sealing-sanitizing-tracking-how-up-s-maharajganj-became-coronvirus-free/story-8SOTQslSEasG8qxv4gOG6O.html
18-04-2020||Education||Private schools in Bihar withhold salaries of teachers, cite low fee collection||While the government’s order to private schools for waiving fees for the months of March and April brought some respite to parents, scores of teaching and non-teaching staff in the state capital are facing the fallout of the order as they have been denied full salary this month. The authorities of several private schools cited low fee collection this month as the reason behind the pay cuts. Some schools have even asked their employees to wait for their salaries till additional fund is arranged. A TGT science teacher complained that half amount of his salary has been denied by the school despite engaging in online classes. He said, “I had worked till March 19 as school was open. After lockdown, the school management engaged all teachers in preparing online study materials and lectures. However, I received only 50% of my salary.”A PGT teacher of English said that he received 40% of his salary adding that the school management promised him to pay the remaining amount by April-end.Another PRT teacher said the school management has been keeping a mum on payment of employees. She said, “School has not released the salary of March yet, despite working for 15 days. I am doubtful that the school may deny salary of April implying zero working day owing to the lockdown.”HT has deliberately not disclosed the identity of teachers to protect their interests.On the other hand, principal of a private school, pleading anonymity, said, “Due to low fees collection and very few new admissions, the school is facing financial constraint. The school management has withheld a certain amount of employees with handsome salary in order to pay non-teaching staff. However, the arrear amount would be released in the upcoming month, depending upon financial condition of the school.”On April 13, the state education department instructed all private schools not to take any fee, including transportation charges, for the lockdown period of March and April. However, schools conducting online classes have been allowed to charge tuition fee. Following the government’s decision, Private Schools and Children Welfare Association (PSCWA) wrote to the chief minister on April 14 to reconsider the fee waiver decision. Shamael Ahmad, national president of PSCWA, said, “The private school owners are having a tough time in paying hundreds of their employees without any income. Apart from teachers, the school needs to pay to their non-teaching staffs and rent as well. Without fees collection, meeting all expenses would not be possible, especially for small schools.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/private-schools-in-bihar-withhold-salaries-of-teachers-cite-low-fee-collection/story-aolnBAXmCZJRg21Z1x3MsI.html
18-04-2020||Mumbai||3 workers die while cleaning septic tank in Mumbai’s Virar, 1 critical||Three labourers suffocated to death and another was injured after inhaling toxic gases while cleaning the septic tank of a private bungalow in Virar on Friday. Despite the Covid-19 lockdown, the bungalow owner identified as Hemant Gharat had hired the four labourers to clean the septic tank behind his bungalow at Ranpada, Boling in Virar (West). The four men identified as Nayan Bhoye, Jayendra Mukne, Tejas Bhate and Nitesh Mukne entered the septic tank without any safety gear with Gharat supervising the work from outside. The men complained of uneasiness inside the tank and Gharat managed to pull them out. He rushed them to a private hospital where three of them were declared dead before admission. The hospital informed the Arnala Coastal police.The condition of Nitesh is said to be serious and he is being treated at the Sanjeevani Hospital in Virar. He was at the topmost area of the tank while the other three had ventured inside it to carry out cleaning work.“We are in the process of registering a case of causing death due to negligence against the bungalow owner and also Sections 188 (disobedience) and 296 (spread of infection) of IPC, Epidemic Diseases Act,1897, and Disaster Management Act, 2005,” said a police official. “We are also investigating if the workers were sent to the bungalow by a contractor,” the official added.A case of accidental death was registered on Friday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/3-workers-die-while-cleaning-septic-tank-in-mumbai-s-virar-1-critical/story-fKU9Na58A60W6id50Bk9LK.html
18-04-2020||Mumbai||Conditional resumption of some activities from April 20, says Maha CM||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday said some industrial and commercial activities will be restarted from April 20 based on compliance with norms which are in place to combat coronavirus.The decision had been taken to ensure that the economic cycle moves on, he said in a statement.However, the decision to restart businesses will not be applicable to coronavirus containment areas, he said.There would be no relaxation in rules which make use of face masks, social distancing and hygiene compulsory, the chief minister added.People will get essential supplies but crowding for shopping will not be allowed, he added.As per the revised guidelines to mitigate hardship caused by lockdown, select activities have been allowed subject to strict compliance of existing guidelines, he said.Educational, training and coaching institutions shall remain closed, but they can resort to online teaching, Thackeray said.MNREGA works will be allowed with social distancing and use of face masks, and priority will be given for irrigation and water conservation works, the chief minister said Activities related to supply chain of essential goods, whether in manufacturing, wholesale or retail trade of essential goods through local stores, large brick and motor stores or e-commerce companies, will be allowed, except in containment areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/conditional-resumption-of-some-activities-from-april-20-says-maha-cm/story-BhTZICOjoK8MFfRvENUMIK.html
18-04-2020||City||Lockdown in Ludhiana: BJP, SAD leaders highlight ‘bias’ in ration distribution||Accusing the administration and local Congress of uneven distribution of ration among migrant workers, former cabinet minister and BJP leader Satpal Gosain and local Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) councillor Gurmail Singh Jajji held separate protests in their respective areas on Friday.While Gosain initiated a three-day, relay hunger strike at his house in Kidwai Nagar, Jajji sat on a protest near the Bhagat Singh statue installed on Bahadurke Road. Jajji said he will continue the protest for three days, and if the administration failed to solve the matter, he will proceed on hunger strike outside the deputy commissioner’s office on Monday.Gosain said a large number of migrant labourers and underprivileged people had gathered outside his house 10 days back, following which he contacted deputy commissioner (DC) Pradeep Agrawal and municipal corporation (MC) commissioner Kanwalpreet Kaur Brar to distribute ration among the needy. MC secretary Surinderpal showed up a few days later and demanded a list of beneficiaries. Gosain said though they handed over two lists of over 450 families three days ago, ration has not been distributed among the needy.Jaggi accused the district administration and Congress party of adopting pick-and-choose policy in distributing ration.He alleged that while the state government was supplying ration for the poor, the administration, in connivance with local Congress leadership, was giving it to a leader of the party. This Congress leader, he alleged, was providing the supplies only to the families supporting him, while a considerable fraction of migrant workers and their families were left fighting hunger. The workers had been gathering outside his house for food, which forced him to hold a protest in their support, he said.Jajji further alleged that the MC had provided supplies only once, and they were also sanitising the ward on their own with little to no support from the civic body.BJP LEADERS MEET DC Five BJP leaders, including former deputy mayor RD Sharma, former councillors Inder Aggarwal and Amrik Bhola, Deepak Sharma and Rohit Sikka, also met the DC over improper distribution of ration among the underprivileged. Sharma alleged that the administration was distributing ration through Congress leaders, including MLAs and ward-level leaders, only to the party supporters. However, workers, whose list was provided by BJP leaders, had been left out. Aggarwal urged the DC to ensure the administration supplied ration to all people on the lists provided by respective councillors.On his part, DC Pradeep Agrawal said sector officers deputed by the administration were distributing the ration. “The concerns raised by BJP leaders will be addressed and the administration will ensure that the supply reaches every needy person in the district,” he added. Mayor Balkar Sandhu said the civic body had distributed ration once, and now the DC’s office was handling the distribution. He said anyone in need of food can contact the administration via its helpline numbers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lockdown-in-ludhiana-bjp-sad-leaders-highlight-bias-in-ration-distribution/story-OEqhJ0HdtoDpiXstSXjv8O.html
18-04-2020||City||Three Ludhiana cops testing Covid-19 positive sends ripples in police department||The news of four contacts of ACP Anil Kumar Kohli testing positive for Covid-19 sent the police department in a tizzy on Friday, prompting it to place the entire staff of Basti Jodhewal police station under home quarantine. Among the four patients are three cops – Basti Jodhewal SHO sub-inspector Arshpreet Kaur, her driver ASI Sukhdev Singh and ACP Kohli’s driver constable Prabhjot Singh. Residents of the police flats near Sarabha Nagar police station were left jittery after SI Arshpreet, who lives there, tested positive. Disinfection was promptly carried out at the flats, while the Basti Jodhewal station was sanitised twice.The SI has no travel history, but she was deputed at the vegetable market, along with ACP Kohli and other cops. She was also part of the team tracing Tablighi Jamaat members, who had attended the Markaz event in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area.District mandi officer (DMO) Jasbir Kaur, the fifth confirmed patient on Friday, had attended many meetings with ACP Kohli, besides others with deputy commissioner Pardeep Agrawal, commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal and cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu.ROW OVER QUARANTINED COPS BEING SENT TO NATIVESPlaced under quarantine at their government quarters on Club Road, four security personnel, two readers and the driver of ACP Kohli were asked by their neighbours to return to their home towns. Following objections by the residents, who are also police staff, the cops left for their natives in Khanna, Moga, Ferozepur and Sangrur, inviting controversy for the police department. Panchayat of Chowas Jakhepal village in Sangrur took exception to the police personnel being made to travel when they were supposed to be in quarantine. The Sangrur health department also wrote to the Ludhiana police commissionerate objecting to the decision.Ludhiana commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal said the cops attached with ACP Kohli were sent to their home towns following protocol. They were informed about the precautions to be taken and quarantine notices had been pasted outside their houses. The police chief said all police personnel were asymptomatic, and hence been placed only under home quarantine. “They will receive better care back home,” he added.PANIC GRIPS COMMISSION AGENTSPanic gripped commission agents at the vegetable and grain markets of the city as they had been conducting meetings with DMO Jasbir Kaur for issuance of wheat procurement coupons for farmers and making other arrangements at the markets.President of the Sabzi Mandi Ahrtiya Association, Gurkamal Singh, said several agents and other workers left the markets as soon as the DMO’s news spread. He said thermal scanning should start at the entry point of the market and the area should be properly disinfected.Market committee chairman Darshan Lal Baweja said the markets will remain open, and he had sought a substitute for the DMO from the Punjab Mandi Board. No other board officials were quarantined in Ludhiana, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-ludhiana-cops-testing-covid-19-positive-sends-ripples-in-police-circles/story-2gI2j31SilP3xURDy8TCgP.html
18-04-2020||Mumbai||To keep an eye on home quarantined, Mumbai cops appoint society residents as ‘monitors’||With an increased work-load on police personnel as they are forced to concentrate more on high-risk red zones, cops have roped in society residents to ensure that those ordered home quarantine do not step out of their houses. Home quarantined people are those who may have been exposed to the Sars-Cov-2 virus which spreads Covid-19 and are isolated to see if they develop symptoms of the disease. Mumbai police have identified ‘monitors’ in hundreds of residential societies across the city where over 46,332 home quarantined people are staying. Each home quarantine person has a Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) stamp on their hand. “Since we need to focus more on enforcing movement restrictions in containment areas and at the same time also check the movement of those home quarantined, we have turned residential societies’ chairmen, secretaries as ‘monitors’ to see if home quarantined are not stepping out of their homes. We have shared contact numbers and have asked them to inform us if any home quarantined person steps out,” said Viresh Prabhu, additional commissioner of police (central region). The senior officer added that police personnel are also posted at the gates of these societies, even security guards and watchmen have been asked to be more vigilant. “The concerned police station regularly co-ordinates with the personnel and check status. Our patrolling staff also look for suspects on the street and check their hand for home quarantine stamp. Surprise checks are also being conducted to ensure that nobody steps out,” Prabhu said. In the city, 12 first information reports (FIRs) have been registered for violation of home quarantine orders, police said. Around 11,368 people finished their quarantine period while over 3,271 are in institutional quarantine facility in Mumbai. (With inputs from Faisal Malik and Mehul Thakkar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/to-keep-an-eye-on-home-quarantined-cops-appoint-society-residents-as-monitors/story-q68wXZYYMt0LLkqFYSLgjM.html
18-04-2020||City||Kanungo is fourth Covid fatality in Ludhiana; four contacts of infected ACP, district mandi officer also positive||Gurmail Singh, the 58-year-old revenue department Kanungo, who tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday, died after suffering a cardiac arrest on Friday afternoon, becoming the fourth person to succumb to the disease in the district. The official was rushed to the Dayanand Medical College and Hospital on April 14 after he complained of fever, cough and difficulty breathing, and was confirmed positive for coronavirus disease on Thursday night.According to the health department, Gurmail, a resident of Payal village in Khanna, last attended work on March 21. Even as the department has started the process to trace his contacts, it is unsure how Gurmail contracted the infection as he did not have any travel or contact history.After Gurmail was tested positive, the health department had sent his parents, mother-in-law, wife, son and daughter to the isolation ward of the Ludhiana civil hospital.THREE COPS AMONG FIVE NEW CASES, DISTRICT COUNT 19The district also reported five fresh cases, which along with the Kanungo, have connection with the city’s main vegetable market that has turned out to be the Covid hotspot in the district.Four of the five new cases are primary and secondary contacts of assistant commissioner of police (ACP, north) Anil Kumar Kohli, 52, who tested positive on April 13. He was posted at the vegetable market.The fifth patient is district mandi officer (DMO) Jasbir Kaur.The ACP’s contacts who tested positive are his wife Kajal (50), his driver constable Prabhjot Singh (28), Basti Jodhewal SHO sub-inspector Arshpreet Kaur (28), who was also deployed at the market, and her driver ASI Sukhdev Singh (46).Commissioner of police Rakes Agrawal said samples of 26 contacts of ACP Kohli, including 22 police personnel, were sent for testing, of which four were found positive, including his wife and three cops. Remaining 22 samples are negative.Around 50 people, including some from the police department, who had come in contact with the infected persons have been sampled and quarantined. The results are awaited.Besides, the police flats near Sarabha Nagar police station, where SI Arshpreet lives, were disinfected.Sources said ACP Kohli’s condition was serious and doctors were treating him with plasma therapy at the SPS Hospital in Ludhiana.With the five new cases, the district count of Covid-19 patients has reached 19. While 16 patients are residents of Ludhiana district, three patients are admitted here from Jalandhar, Barnala and Ferozepur.ANXIOUS MOMENTS IN ADMINISTRATIVE CIRCLESDMO Jasbir’s positive results has sent the police and administration echelons in a tizzy, as top officials, including the deputy commissioner (DC) and commissioner of police (CP) have been attending meetings with the DMO. Though the vegetable market was closed down on March 31 as a precautionary measure, the officials had been reviewing arrangements and taking rounds of the market to take stock of the supply over the past several days.On Friday, the DC, CP and the municipal commissioner got tested through rapid testing kits, and were given the all-clear.KANUNGO CREMATEDKanungo Gurmail Singh was cremated later on Friday at his native Payal village. His son, along with two other relatives, were allowed to attend the cremation under the supervision of health and administration officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kanungo-is-fourth-covid-fatality-in-ludhiana-four-contacts-of-infected-acp-district-mandi-officer-also-positive/story-uy38pXo21sakqjqumjUJpM.html
18-04-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra govt readies to partially lift curbs as cases rise to 3,321||The Maharashtra government has started to allow relaxation of rules in several areas of the state. The new rules will come into effect from April 20. The state has decided to allow construction work in cities, including Mumbai and Pune, with a rider that prior permission from civic authorities will be mandatory. According to the order issued by chief secretary Ajoy Mehta on Friday, the state has given permission for all urgent pre-monsoon works. It has also decided to allow industries to operate in all rural areas of the state; manufacturing and other industrial establishments in special economic zones; industrial townships in non-containment areas, except Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) and Pune Municipal Corporation limits. It has further allowed construction activities of roads, buildings and irrigation projects outside the municipal corporation limits. “The state government is opening up major areas from the lockdown. This is the beginning of economic recycle,” said a senior government official.Meanwhile, after 25 days of lockdown, the case count of coronavirus in Maharashtra stood at 3,321. On Friday, 119 new cases were recorded. The death toll of the state rose to 201, with seven more deaths. Among the patients who died, five are from Mumbai and two Pune.The cases in Mumbai rose by 12 to 2,085.The mortality rate of the state was 6.05%, higher than the national mortality rate of 3.26%, till Thursday, when Maharashtra’s toll was 194 against 437 in the country, according to data of the state medical education department.Of the total cases, over one-third cases are in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region with 2,507 cases. Mumbai’s count rose to 2,085 as 12 new cases were recorded in the city. The death toll of the city was 122. The state health department has conducted 61,740 tests at various public and private facilities till date, in which 56,964 people have tested negative. The state currently has 330 active containment zones. Around 5,850 survey teams comprising doctors and assisting staff have screened more than 20.50 lakh people. Around 331 patients have been discharged from the hospitals after their recovery from the infection. It has also kept 6,376 suspected patients at government quarantine facilities, while 74,587 are home quarantined. “The continuation of works in construction projects within the limits of municipal corporations and municipalities will be allowed where workers are available on site and no workers are required to be brought in from outside (in-situ construction). However, in Mumbai and Pune, with the permission of municipal commissioner. Industries operating in rural areas are also allowed to operate, but outside the limits of municipal corporations and municipalities,” states the order.“Manufacturing and other industrial establishments with access control in special economic zone, export oriented units, industrial estates and industrial townships are allowed, but only in containment zones. These provisions shall not apply to MMR and Pune Municipal Corporations limits. These establishments shall make arrangements for stay of workers within their premises as far as possible or in adjacent building for implementation of standard operating procedures (SOP). The transportation of workers to work place shall be arranged by the employers in dedicated transport by ensuring social distancing,” it further says.However, no worker from hotspots or containment zones will be permitted to come to work place, it added.The order also said that construction of roads, buildings, irrigation projects and all kinds of industrial projects including MSMEs in rural areas are allowed outside the limits of municipal corporations and municipalities. The government has also allowed operation of ecommerce companies and ecommerce of all goods and commodities including food, pharmaceuticals, medical equipment, electrical and electronic appliances.Meanwhile, the state government on Friday issued an advisory to all landlords across the state not to collect rent from those leaving on rent in their houses. It has also instructed them that no tenant should be evicted from the rented houses for non-payment of rent during the lockdown period. The cabinet sub-committee comprising seven senior ministers, in a slew of decisions, has decided resume online registration of the properties and permit the use of 25% district planning fund for health services among others. It has also allowed to release the remaining part of the March salary of doctors, police with immediate effect.The sub-committee headed by deputy chief minister and finance minister Ajit Pawar in its meeting held on Monday has given nod to more than a dozen proposals. The state government had deferred the payment of elected representatives and government employees for March due to dwindling revenue collection in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak. Doctors, police, homeguards who are the frontline warriors in the war against the pandemic too were due to the decision owing to the deferment of 25-50% of cut the salary. The sub-committee has decided to release the remaining part immediately. To avoid the loss of the revenue coming through stamp duty and registration due to the lockdown, the decision of resuming the registration online was also taken.To make funds for health services easily available, the government also decided to allow the district administration to spend 25% of the district planning committees’ funds on Covid-19 related infrastructure. This would facilitate district administrations to spend around ₹245 crore at their level. The sub-committee also decided to give an insurance cover of ₹20 lakh to the employees from rural development department involved in Covid-19 related services. It also decided to ease restrictions on agricultural activities and facilitate grain supply to community kitchens and selling the grapes to the wineries directly. It will also allow e-commerce delivery of all goods and commodities, including food, pharmaceuticals, medical equipment, electrical and electronic appliances.The state has also asked parents to complain to the district education officer if schools insist on paying fees during the lockdown period. State school education minister Varsha Gaikwad made the announcement. “We have issued a circular asking schools not to ask for fees considering the current situation. However, I’m getting several messages from parents across the state alleging that schools still asking for fees to be paid. We urge the parents to register their complaints with the concerned district education officer so that the circular can be implemented in letter and spirit,” Gaikwad said, in a video message on Friday.The circular of the school education department was issued on March 30.With the support of the state government, a telemedicine helpline was also started from Friday. The helpline will let people to know if they are infected or not, guide them about the epidemic and will also clear their doubts, if any. All this will be done with the help of expert doctors. ”A person will only have to call on 9513615550. The interactive voice screening system will ask 3-4 questions to the person based on the replies, it will be routed to the relevant doctor who will call back the person and guide him after taking more details,” said Kartik Sahoo from Maharashtra State Innovation Society. The project is started in association with National Health Mission, Maharashtra State Innovation Society, a group of start-ups named ‘Telemeds Versus Covid’ and Pune Platform For Covid Response.The state government has also allowed cane cutters who have migrated from one district to another for work within the state to return to their villages. There are over 1.31 lakh cane cutters who are stuck in other districts due to lockdown and are currently staying at 38 sugar factories. The order that was issued by chief secretary Ajoy Mehta states, “The sugar factory owners will have to make all the travel arrangements to drop them at their respective villages. Prior to this, the cane cutters have to go through medical check-up for symptoms of pneumonia, cough, cold and fever.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-govt-readies-to-partially-lift-curbs-as-cases-rise-to-3-321/story-3GQDddP49YJof2Ip95KAjO.html
18-04-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh industry stares at layoffs, pay cuts for sustainability amid Covid-19 lockdown||The industry and businesses in Chandigarh have started resorting to sharp salary cuts amid government instructions not to fire employees.Salary cuts by at least 30% to 50% will be enforced by the industry as it looks to reduce its expenditures to sustain during the nationwide lockdown.There are around 3,000 medium and small scale manufacturing and service sector units in the city’s twin industrial areas employing around 30,000 workers.“More than 90% industrial units have paid salary for the month of March to their workers as was directed by the advisory of the central government. But from April, most the factory owners are not in a position to pay more than 50% of the salaries to all levels of workers,” said Naveen Manglani, president, Chamber of Chandigarh Industries.Industrialists say while factories were operating till March 22, in April, these will remain closed for the entire month.“With Chandigarh identified as a hotspot and categorised in red zones, it is unlikely that factories will start working even in May. This is an unsustainable situation for the industry where no income is being generated for such long period. Unless the government intervenes, most of the factory owners will not be able to pay its workers,” said Pankaj Khanna, president, Chandigarh Industries Association.At least 50% of wage cut, say industrialists, is allowed in case of layoffs. “Labour laws allow the industry to pay 50% in case of layoffs for 90 days, when the factory is closed for at least 15 days. So, at least this much salary cuts will be banked upon by the industry. The 50% that we can pay should be allowed to be compensated in the form of working overtime on Sunday and holidays in the coming year,” said Manglani.Industry insiders say April is very crucial for the industry’s sustainability. “These are tough times for all sectors including IT. If there is no financial package from the government, then major layoffs and pay cuts will be a natural option for the industry,” said, Sarvjeet Singh Virk, managing director, Finvasia.GOVT INTERVENTIONS ON INDUSTRY WISHLISTIn a letter to the director industries, Chandigarh, the industry bodies have demanded, “The principle of ‘compensatory off’ should be applied to all the employees across the board for all the non-working days due to Covid-19 in the financial year 2020-21. Alternatively, lay-offs as provisioned in existing labour laws should be allowed.”Also, industry representatives have requested employer’s contribution for EPF and ESI during 2020-21 should be compensated by the government. MSMEs should be appropriately incentivised for paying wages without work during the lockdown period.“These concessions have to be made for the industry so as to not only sustain it but also its workforce,” said Khanna.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-industry-stares-at-layoffs-pay-cuts-for-sustainability-amid-covid-19-lockdown/story-1R4qMb0bHkJXbCy0ngSpcJ.html
18-04-2020||Mumbai||After overcharging plaints, more price caps for private hospitals treating coronavirus patients in Mumbai?||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) may add further caps to the price of Covid-19 treatment at private hospitals after receiving complaints of inflated bills from patients and doctors. While experts have welcomed the move, some private hospitals have raised concerns because they are running at financial loss.Additional municipal commissioner (health) Suresh Kakani said he has received complaints of overcharging and will soon meet with representatives of private hospitals to discuss the issue. “Along with private hospitals, I have also received complaints about private laboratories who are charging extra for personal protective equipment (PPE) kits. We are looking into the matter and trying to bring a standardised price rate,” he said. A doctor, who works in a BMC-run isolation ward, has filed a complaint with the civic body and state health department on the issue of inflated charges at private hospitals. “There is need to bring regulations on the daily usage of PPE,” she said.In March, the BMC allowed 12 private hospitals to set up isolation wards to treat Covid-19 patients. These hospitals can charge either Rs 4,000 per day or restrict bed charges to 50% of the total bill. However, the guideline did not mention costs of testing, safety kits and diagnosis. Patients have since complained that private hospitals are overcharging. A 56-year-old resident of Dadar and her husband tested positive for Covid-19 and were admitted to a private Hospital in south Mumbai on April 3 and April 4 respectively. When they were discharged on April 12, their hospital bill was Rs 4 lakh. “We didn’t know it costs around Rs 20,000-Rs 30,000 per day. They [the hospital] included the price of safety kits in the bill,” said the woman.Private hospitals point to the sharp rise in the price of PPE (each kit costs between Rs1,200 and Rs1,500). A doctor can wear the PPE for four hours at a time. This along with medicines and bed charges results in high costs. “Private hospitals have to buy their own PPE and if the municipal corporation wants to put a blanket on the bill price, they should provide the safety kits to hospitals free of cost. Hospitals across the state are facing monetary loss. So they can’t afford to shoulder the responsibility of PPE,” said Dr Avinash Bhondwe, president, Indian Medical Association (IMA), Maharashtra.However, Kakani said, “There is no need to use a single PPE kit for an individual patient. They can treat several patients wearing the same safety kits. So, it is unfair to charge each patient separately.”Health experts have welcomed the move to standardise the price of Covid-19 treatment at private hospitals. “This is a pandemic situation so there is need to bring a standardised price rate not only for PPE, but also for medicines, ventilators and other services. If we keep the service charges open-ended, private hospitals will exploit it to meet their own financial needs,” said health expert Dr Anant Bhan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/after-overcharging-plaints-more-price-caps-for-private-hospitals-treating-coronavirus-patients-in-mumbai/story-nWEp0eA68QtPEI0AFy42UJ.html
18-04-2020||City||Coronavirus lockdown: 3 travel by internal road to reach Gujarat, lynched near Mumbai||Three people were lynched by a mob of around 200 tribals at Kasa in Palghar district late on Thursday after they had taken an internal road, owing to the lockdown, to reach Gujarat. The police have arrested around 100 people in the case and they will be produced before the Jawhar court on Saturday. According to assistant police inspector Anandrao Kale of Kasa police station, the tribals from Gadhchinchale village mistook the victims — two priests and their car driver — to be thieves and attacked them with stones, sticks, sickles and knives. “The priests — Sushilgiri Maharaj, 30, and Chikne Maharaj Kalpvirkshagiri, 70 — were travelling to Surat in Gujarat to attend the funeral of another priest. As the Mumbai-Ahmedabad National Highway has been closed owing to the lockdown, their driver Nilesh Telwade, 30, took the internal roads to reach Surat,” said Kale.When the van reached Gadhchinchale village, the mob stopped the vehicle and questioned the driver on where they were going. Finding them to be suspicious, the mob dragged the three outside and attacked them. “Telwade managed to make a call to us, after which we rushed to the spot. We tried to save the three but the mob began pelting stones on us also. Bhagwat Sonwane, deputy superintendent of police, Jawhar, had to fire in the air to control the mob,” said Kale.Six police personnel have also sustained injuries and the police vehicles have been destroyed. “We rushed the victims to the government hospital but they were declared dead before admission. Their post-mortem reports are awaited. We have registered cases under sections 188 (disobedience), 307 (attempt to murder), 302 (murder) and 353 (obstructing government servant on duty) of the IPC against the accused as well as under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897,” said Kale. This is the second such attack in Kasa in a week. On Monday, Kale and three policemen were injured, while the car of skin specialist Dr Vishwas Valvi was destroyed at Saarni village in Kasa, when they were attacked by 250 tribals. The team had been to the village to distribute food.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-lockdown-3-travel-by-internal-road-to-reach-gujarat-lynched-near-mumbai/story-9d2ZHo2LeqH4LjtV2MyXVM.html
18-04-2020||Mumbai||26 staffers of Wockhardt Hospital in Mumbai test positive for coronavirus, count touches 82||The total number of coronavirus-infected medical staffers at Wockhardt Hospital in Mumbai Central reached 82 on Thursday, after 26 more employees were found positive for the virus in the second slot of testing. Fifteen of them are nurses, while the remaining ones are other staff members. Wockhardt Hospital now has the most number of Covid-19 positive staff members in the state.“The staff members who were detected positive were already quarantined at the hospital. As per protocol, we ran a second set of test on them and found 26 new patients. All these patients have been kept in the isolation ward of the hospital,” Dr Daksha Shah, deputy health officer, BMC, said. The hospital is also awaiting the reports of 58 other staffers. Wockhardt Hospital’s outpatient departments and non-emergency services had closed operations and it was declared a containment zone last week after 56 of its staffers were diagnosed with Covid-19. As the hospital was sealed, several patients have been also quarantined inside it. Their relatives are now worried. A man who’s wife is quarantined at the hospital told HT that nurses continued to attend her despite being asked to remain in quarantine. “The hospital has played with the lives of patients by letting the infection spread among staffers. I can’t even take my wife out of the hospital,” he said. Meanwhile, head of the hospital, who has also been diagnosed with Covid-19, has been shifted to Nanavati Hospital after his condition started deteriorating. According to sources at Nanavati Hospital, his condition is stable now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/26-staffers-of-wockhardt-test-positive-for-coronavirus-count-touches-82/story-PYVu4MmjK6zPYhZOiihnOO.html
18-04-2020||City||Mumbai’s Dharavi area sees 15 new coronavirus cases, 1 death||Even as the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) claimed the city saw 77 cases, its lowest in 12 days, Mumbai’s emerging hotspot, Dharavi, saw 15 new cases on Friday, bringing the total count to 101. Also, a 62-year-old man from the area was declared dead at Sion hospital, pushing the toll to 10. Before this, the lowest count for the city was 72, reported on April 5.The slums in Dharavi are spread across an area of more than 240ha and house around 8.5 lakh residents. With a population density of 66,000 per sqkm, it is one of the most cramped areas of the city. Of the 15, three new cases were reported in Matunga labour camp, Muslim Nagar and Indira Nagar, two at Social Nagar and one each at Dr Baliga Nagar,Laxmi Chawl, Janata society and Sarvoday Society, said a BMC official. BMC officials confirmed that most cases found in Dharavi were high-risk contacts of positive patients and have been quarantined.Of the total cases, the highest (21) have been reported in Muslim Nagar, followed by Mukund Nagar (18) and 10 in Social Nagar.On Thursday, Dharavi saw its highest spike in the number of patients, with 26 new cases. The first case in Dharavi was reported on April 1, following which there has been a rapid surge in the number of positive cases, which may soon pose a challenge for civic authorities. There are fears that the number of cases could be higher, as many people with symptoms may not have been tested yet.Kiran Dighavkar, assistant commissioner of the G-North ward, said. “Till date, we have almost screened 33,000 patients and marked 34 containment zones with six red zones. We are screening almost all high- and low-risk contacts of the patients.” Meanwhile, the BMC plans to ramp up testing, with measures such as more testing centres, fever clinics, drive-through centres, parking lots and private lab testings. The BMC has completed 35,500 tests across the city so far, an average of 2,697 tests per million. It has traced 57,700 contacts of positive patients, of which 2,120 have tested positive. While 57,700 people have been advised home quarantine, 11, 368 people have completed the 14-day quarantine period. The civic body said that it has started seven Corona Care Centres - Level II, which have a capacity of 519 beds, and 473 patients who are positive, but asymptomatic are isolated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-s-dharavi-area-sees-15-new-cases-1-death/story-jqtoyjjrxTwuBkvKxJxk4M.html
18-04-2020||Mumbai||Two Covid-19 patients give birth; babies safe||Two pregnant women, who have tested positive for Covid-19, have delivered babies who tested negative for the disease, at BYL Nair Hospital. Both the babies are healthy and have been shifted to a different ward to avoid any possible infection.According to the hospital, the women tested positive after taking admission in the obstetrician gynaecology department of the hospital for delivery. “As per the new protocol, it is essential to do Covid-19 test before delivery. They did not know that they are carrying the virus till the report came out,” said a doctor from the hospital. Soon after the babies were born, samples were taken from them for testing. “The reports of both the babies have come negative. However, we will again do their testing after a week to avoid false reporting,” said Dr Ramesh Bharmal, dean of the hospital. These newborns will be fed milk from human milk bank as their mothers will have to recover completely before breastfeeding the babies. Meanwhile, a resident doctor from the department has been diagnosed with Covid-19 on Friday. She has been admitted in the isolation ward of the hospital. Four of her contacts have also been quarantined.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/two-covid-19-patients-give-birth-babies-safe/story-E0DQXjnGWcDQ9d0wq4IXMP.html
18-04-2020||Mumbai||Raheja Hospital flouted safety rules, alleges staff||Days after a dialysis patient was found Covid-19 positive at Raheja Hospital, medical staff complained that the hospital has violated government rules by not closing the unit for fumigation. The staff further alleged that the hospital administration didn’t carry out the compulsory testing of staffers who were exposed to the patient. The hospital, however, has refuted the allegations and claimed all safety measures were taken and that staffers were wearing personal protective equipment (PPE) hence they didn’t require testing.A patient, suffering from kidney ailment, had visited the hospital on April 7 for routine dialysis. But after the procedure, he complained of breathlessness and fever. The patient on April 10 tested positive for Covid-19 and was immediately admitted in the Covid-19 intensive care unit (ICU) at the hospital. The hospital claims that the unit was sanitised after the patient was shifted. According to ‘Expert guidelines for dialysis centres in Covid-19 pandemic’ released on April 8, “if any staff or any patients of dialysis centre is found positive for Covid-19, then this dialysis centre should be closed for one day (24 hours) and the centre should be fumigated...All the patients and staff of the concerned dialysis centre should be tested.” “We refuse to go home until the hospital runs a Covid-19 test on us. After repeated protests, the hospital has given us an accommodation on the sixth floor of the hospital. My son keeps requesting me to come back home but I cannot in a bid to maintain their safety,” said a staff of the dialysis unit. The hospital, in a statement, said, “A patient had come to the hospital for routine dialysis on April 7, post completing his Dialysis the patient complained of breathlessness and fever. We had him tested for Covid-19, and as per protocol the dialysis machine and the artificial kidney division (AKD) was immediately sanitised. The patient was reported to be Covid-19 positive on April 10, and he was immediately admitted in the Covid-19 ICU facility at the hospital. The patient has now tested negative on two successive test reports and is fit to be discharged.”One of the patients has also filed a complaint with the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) seeking action against the hospital. A copy of the complaint is available with HT. “When I called the hospital to complain, the officer insulted me and asked me to visit civic-run hospitals for dialysis. The hospital is already at a loss due to the lockdown so they don’t want to shut their dialysis centre which is an important source of income for them,” said the patient. According to the hospital, they have taken all required precautions and hence it is not required to test or quarantine asymptomatic staff even if they may have come in contact with any Covid-19 positive patients, as long as they are wearing the mandated PPE kits. The hospital also said, “At the time of the said patient’s last dialysis at the AKD, all AKD staff including technicians, nurses and housekeeping staff were wearing appropriate PPEs as per hospital protocol. All staff members in the AKD were continuously monitored and none of them developed any symptoms. Two nurses who reported to have some cough were duly tested, and both have tested negative for Covid-19.”On accusation about sanitisation of the unit and testing of staff, the hospital said, “All dialysis machines and the entire artificial kidney division is sterilised after every use; all protocols that have been laid down are rigorously followed. With strict infection control processes in place, we are committed to the war against Covid-19, and are taking all necessary precautions to safeguard the health of all patients and caregivers. Also, as per hospital policy, all the patients are screened for Covid-19-related symptoms before they are admitted. With all these precautions in place, it is not required to test or quarantine asymptomatic staff if they may have come in contact with any Covid-19 positive patients, as long as they are wearing the mandated PPEs.”Hospital issues statement, denies the allegations A patient had come to the hospital for routine Dialysis on April 7th, post completing his Dialysis the patient complained of breathlessness and fever. We had him tested for COVID-19, and as per protocol the Dialysis machine and the Artificial Kidney Division (AKD) was immediately sanitized. On April 10th the patient was reported to be COVID-19 positive, he was immediately admitted in the COVID-19 ICU facility at the hospital. The patient has now tested negative on two successive test reports and is fit to be discharged.At the time of the said patient’s last Dialysis at the Artificial Kidney Division (AKD), all AKD staff including the technicians, nurses and housekeeping personnel were wearing appropriate PPEs as per hospital protocol. All the staff in the AKD were continuously monitored and none of them developed any symptoms. Two nurses which reported to have some cough were duly tested, and both have tested negative for COVID-19.All Dialysis machines and the entire Artificial Kidney Division is sterilized after every use; all protocols that have been laid down are rigorously followed. With strict Infection Control processes in place, we are committed to the war against COVID-19, and are taking all necessary precautions to safeguard the health of all patients and caregivers. Also, as per hospital policy, all the patients are screened for COVID-19 related symptoms before they are admitted. With all these precautions in place, it is not required to test or quarantine asymptomatic staff if they may have come in contact with any COVID-19 positive patients, as long as they are wearing the mandated PPE’s.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/raheja-hospital-flouted-safety-rules-alleges-staff/story-Ia5sEhuBvy3fgguNOdNugI.html
18-04-2020||Pune||On the frontline: Police personnel guard containment zones in battle against Covid-19||Police Naik Sagar Waghole has been manning the check-post near Green Park in Kondhwa which is a containment zone in the city for Covid-19 (coronavirus) caused by Sars-Cov-2 virus. The entrance and exits of sealed off areas are guarded by the police personnel. Waghole speaks to HT about his role.1) What exactly is your role in this pandemic?We ensure enforcement of the lockdown which has been announced to contain the spread of Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes Covid-19. There are additional check-points in containment areas. The entrance and exits of sealed off areas are shut and are covered by us. We make sure people follow the lockdown rules in the containment zones.2) How does your day begin and roll out?My day begins at 6am and ends around 9pm every day. I wear all the required safety gear while leaving from home. We make sure the rules of lockdown are strictly followed by the residents, but it is for the benefit of all. Some volunteers bring food packets for us but that is not daily. I carry my tiffin every day. 3) What precautions are you taking?We have been given masks and gloves. Some people got the use-and-throw masks, some of us got these cotton gloves that can be washed. We have been given instructions to not touch anyone or anything that can cause transmission of the Sars-Cov-2 virus. While on duty I ask for valid documents and look at them for verification but maintain distance.4) What is your view of the Covid-19 situation in Pune?Most of the city streets are empty after the lockdown was announced on March 24, but some people do not follow the rules and are on the streets for no valid reasons. ‘Police Mitra’ help us in such circumstances, but now there are so many seized vehicles at the police station that there is no space to accommodate anymore.5) What gaps do you see in healthcare and relief work?The persons in the healthcare sector are working non-stop during this time of crisis. We cannot comment on them from here. Our day is spent in enforcement and we see various people providing relief to the needy who have been affected due to the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/on-the-frontline-police-personnel-guard-containment-zones-in-battle-against-covid-19/story-DsW6JUyAWCYTQDBEZpscDO.html
18-04-2020||Pune||36 out of 44 deceased did not have foreign travel history: PMC data||As per data from the Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC’s ) health department, out of the 44 patients who died due to Covid-19 (coronavirus) virus, 36 did not report any foreign travel history. Dr Ramchandra Hankare, chief of PMC health department, said, “International flights have been stopped in the country almost 15-16 days ago so there is no question of infection through foreign travel. Most of the deceased are those who are close contacts of the infected person, maybe family members and in slums neighbours too. Travel history is no more a criteria now for the spread of infection.”As of April 17, 49 deaths have been reported in Pune city and rural areas and 33 have been discharged after full recovery.Out of the 45 deaths reported as of April 16, maximum, 15 were from Bhawani peth, 5 each from Kasaba-Vishrambaugwada, and Wanowrie-Ramtekdi area, three each from Shivajinagar, Hadapsar, Yerawada and Dhole Patil road and remaining from other areas. Currently, most of the patients are being reported from the red zone, but the officials are unable to trace the origin of the infection. With regards to hospital, out of the 49 deaths, Sassoon reported 40, one was reported from Aundh civil hospital, one from Naidu, two from Noble hospital, one from Inamdar, one from Jehangir and one from Sahyadri hospital at Karvenagar and two deaths were reported in rural hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/36-out-of-44-deceased-did-not-have-foreign-travel-history-pmc-data/story-Dk6GNOP7RBAjGCLpmXxn8N.html
18-04-2020||Pune||Standing committee allows corporators to spend Rs 5L from ward devp funds||The standing committee of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Friday allowed corporators to spend Rs 5 lakh each from ward development fund for providing food and essential commodities to daily wage workers and poor in the cityHemant Rasne, standing committee chairman, said, “We have approved the expenditure of Rs 5 lakh from ward development fund. Now, the municipal administration will forward the proposal to the state government, who will have the final say. Post their approval we will execute the scheme.”Rasane said, “Due to the lockdown many poor families are suffering and our approaching the elected members for help. Considering this, the Rs 5 lakh approval was given. With the help of regional ward office, the elected members can distribute essential items to the needy.”Maharashtra Navnirman Sena member Vasant More had placed the proposal before the PMC standing committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/standing-committee-allows-corporators-to-spend-rs-5l-from-ward-devp-funds/story-7kE44ibPylFoeMZK1wkONM.html
18-04-2020||Pune||Lockdown gameplan: Footballer Hiba Faquih plays it cool as she juggles workout, baking||Sport has always been a priority in my life”, says 24-year-old Hiba Faquih who stays near NIBM road. Faquih started playing football at the age of 14. In the last edition of the Indian Women’s League (IWL), she represented Baroda FA. She has also represented the Maharashtra state women’s team for seven years. Faquih, who is extremely passionate about the game said, “I cannot begin to state how much I have learned from football and in order to do my bit and give back to the sport, I decided to pursue my masters in sports management from Loughborough University, UK”.Faquih has also acquired the AIFF D and AFC C Football Coaching licenses and has coached a few girls’ teams in Maharashtra. At a very young age, she has worked with some of the professional sports league events around the globe. Daily routineWorking on several sports events requires me to travel frequently. Some of the leagues I have worked on previously include the ICC Champions Trophy and Women’s World Cup, Indian Super League, Indian Premier League, Premier Badminton League, ICC Cricket World Cup. Anyone who works in sports will surely agree and understand the difficulty of having a daily routine as you are required to work odd hours as well as on weekends. As I cope with the hectic schedule, I try and play as much football. Luckily for me, there is always a friend who is organising a small five-a-side game. I also participate in several competitive leagues around the year which includes the IWL and few other local tournaments.Lockdown routineI really struggled at the start as I am someone who is always on the go. However, I decided to make the most of this time to spend time with my family and have a regular workout routine. It took me a little while but I finally came up with a time-table in which I spend the first half of my day working from home. After wrapping up work, I have dedicated an hour or 90 minutes to a work out regime, comprising of various stretches and floor exercises.In the evening I cook and do household chores. The whole family has dinner together and then we play some board games or watch TV before going to bed.No gymSince I am unable to go out and play football like I usually do, I try and work on my fitness and strength, as that is something I usually do not get the time to do. With the time I have, I follow several home workout routines every day. I do some bodyweight exercises as well. Since I do not have access to gym equipment, I have to make the most of what I have at home, so sometimes I use a backpack filled with books as weights, and go up and down the stairs to include cardio in my lockdown routine.HobbyI do have a creative side in me which finds peace and happiness in painting, gardening, and baking. I dedicate some time of the day to either one of these activities as it helps me keep my mind off things. I believe it is very important for people to spend some time doing what they enjoy. I hope all of us can continue doing the same even after the lockdown comes to an end in the future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/this-footballer-plays-it-cool-as-she-juggles-workout-baking/story-ldCgtUbtPDAlJSBcLzH9UI.html
18-04-2020||Pune||Sassoon Hospital staff upset over dean’s transfer||Resident doctors, nurses and other staff of the state-run Sassoon General Hospital on Friday expressed their displeasure over transfer of dean Dr Ajay Chandanwale amid the coronavirus pandemic.Representatives of the Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors (MARD), nurses, Class III and IV employees assembled at the main premises of the hospital and registered their displeasure over Chandanwale’s transfer. He was transferred from the post of the hospital’s dean to joint director, directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER).In the letter, MARD states, “The transfer of the dean at this crucial time of fight against Covid-19 stands baseless and we strongly oppose it.” MARD representatives denied of any protest and said that the hospital staff had gathered to bid adieu to the dean who was leaving on Friday morning. “It was only a gathering not a protest and all staff ranging from class four to class one had gathered to bid farewell to Dr Chandanwale. We wore black bands to condemn the transfer but did not stop any operations as it would hamper the treatment of patients. Dr Chandanwale has always taken care of the staff and the hospital. The high mortality at the Sassoon hospital is because the patients come at a critical stage with severe co-morbid conditions such as diabetes, hypertension, chronic liver and lung ailments or have been refereed from a different hospital,” said Dr Prashant Munde, General Secretary of MARD Pune wing Divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar said, “A group of doctors and health officials had come to me on Friday with a few demands which also included their objection to the transfer of Dr Ajay Chandanwale. I have asked them to send their objections to me in a written format and I have assured them that I would do whatever is possible in my authority and forward the remaining complaints to state government.”Nurses face issuesThe Maharashtra State Nurses Association (MSNA) has written a letter to the Sassoon hospital stating the difficulties while working with Covid-19 patients. The letter states that less PPE kits and no access to essential items makes working there difficult. A member of the organisation requesting anonymity said, “We are given pizza and burgers which were ordered from outside. This is unhealthy. Nurses are the ones who are in close proximity with the patient and hence we should at least be given decent food. There is also lack of safety equipment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/sassoon-hospital-staff-upset-over-dean-s-transfer/story-XUxIH3htsvHr2AxAz1fcJN.html
18-04-2020||Pune||Pune police tie up with NGO’s to set up central kitchen to feed needy||The Pune Police in association with 160 non-government organisation (NGO’s) and Indian Railways Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) has set up a central kitchen to cook food for at least 40,000 people in the city.According to police, this move will help the NGO’s to distribute food to the needy without the hassles of volunteers running from pillar to posts during the time of lockdown.Commissioner of police K Venkatesham, said, “We want to reduce the number of volunteers out on the streets and we are taking the help of the NGO’s to provide us with the raw material and the cooked food which we will distribute using the police force.”“We have set up a social policing cell at the commissioner’s office where we have three officers and 20 constables handling the phone calls from people who need food,” he said.He also said that there are five vehicles specially allotted for collecting the food and distributing in five zones of the city. Samairah and Vaishali Patkar who have been co-ordinating for many volunteer groups discussed the issue with the commissioner of police K Venkatesham and thus it was decided to establish a central kitchen.“The lockdown imposed due to Covid-19 (coronavirus) has impacted the labourers, needy and those in hostels and through this central kitchen may can be feed,” said Samairah.“IRCTC was already running the kitchen, hence we thought of using their platform to help make more cooked meals and serve the needy. We also realised that there was duplication of ration or the essential raw materials and people were stocking that instead of using it,” said Vaishali, hence the team derived at opting for cooked meals for the needy across the city.The staff strength at the IRCTC kitchen is 25 people working in a 2,000 sq ft kitchen. Piyush Farkande, chief supervisor, IRCTC, said, “The lockdown has drastically impacted livelihood patterns, with the poor struggling to even get daily meals. We provide bulk cooked food in paper plates, which is collected by volunteers from various NGO’s.”According to PI Prakash Khandekar who is part of the social policing cell, “There are many people in need of food in areas like Kondhwa, Katraj Ambegaon, Bhosari, Chakan, Wagholi, Parvati and Dhanori, where our vehicles will take the food and we will serve them.”Samairah said, “We have received donations from NGOs like Hope for Children foundation, an NRI PhD Student with her group has raised Rs 2 lakh and Mahindra and Mahindra company Chakan has donated Rs 5 lakh so far for the cause.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-police-tie-up-with-ngo-s-to-set-up-central-kitchen-to-feed-needy/story-pdjfYk86gLheEV4WQs4UgO.html
18-04-2020||Chandigarh||Now, Chandigarh residents can get tested for Covid-19 at private lab for ₹4,500||Any resident who wants to get tested for coronavirus can now get it done at a private lab in Chandigarh at a subsidised rate.This was decided in the daily review meeting chaired by Punjab governor and UT administrator VP Singh Badnore on Friday.The development comes on the day Chandigarh witnessed two new cases — a 50-year-old Dhanas man working as a sanitary attendant at the PGIMER and a woman in her 50s from Sector 30 — after a four-day lull, taking the total to 23, while a 30-year-old man from Sector 21 became the tenth patient to recover.SRL Diagnostic in Sector 11 has been authorised to collect samples and test them at subsidised rates of ₹4,500 per patient.On the criterion set for the test to be undertaken, Arun Gupta, principal secretary, UT administration, said, “If a person fulfills our criterion, then the government is committed to do the testing free of cost. But no criterion has been set for private testing.”For conducting the test, a private lab will require three documents from a person requesting a Covid test—prescription from a qualified physician, government photo-identification and a filled specimen referral form.Currently, the testing is being done at three government facilities—PGIMER, GMCH-32, and IMTECH, Sector 39.4,800 RAPID TESTING KITS FOR UTGupta said the central government has also dispatched 4,800 rapid testing kits, which will be utilised after consultation with the medical team. “As per protocol of the ICMR, only persons with influenza-like symptoms for more than seven days will be tested with rapid testing kits,” added Gupta.Also, UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida said baby milk food will be provided to mothers with small children. While the administration has been supplying cooked food and ration, there were demands that children were not getting enough milk, he said.MC commissioner KK Yadav said all traders in Sector 26 market have been directed to keep sanitizers with them at all times. He said all delivery boys have been mandated to wear gloves and masks so that there is no risk of infection while distribution of ration and vegetables.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/now-chandigarh-residents-can-get-tested-for-covid-19-at-private-lab-for-4-500/story-GTw1Agd4BUmIodp5wTC4QK.html
18-04-2020||Delhi||Migrants stuck in city suffer as porta cabin shelters turn ovens||The rising summer temperatures in Delhi has added to the woes of thousands of migrants who are stuck in the city after the nationwide lockdown was announced on March 24, to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), was extended till May 3. Hundreds of them who are living in porta cabin shelters have to contend with the unbearable heat as these box-like metallic structures have turned into ovens due to lack of ventilation. The mercury had crossed the 40 degrees Celsius mark three days ago, which is four notches above the season’s average. The city recorded a maximum of 37.8 degrees Celsius, two notches less than that recorded on Thursday, and a minimum of 23.8 degrees Celsius.Besides 259 regular shelter homes for the homeless in the city -- of which 112 are porta cabins, 111 in buildings and 36 in tents -- the government has converted 256 school buildings into shelters for migrant workers. As many as 1,435 school buildings have been converted into food distribution centres. Sitting outside a blue porta cabin shelter in Yamuna Bazar, which has been his home for the past 20 days, Anil Kumar Jatav said it becomes suffocating inside during the day as the roof heats up. “It is difficult to spend the day inside as the shelter feels like a furnace when the sun is at its peak. Although the shelter has ceiling fans, they hardly have any effect in the absence of ventilation,” said Jatav, a rickshaw puller who hails from Bhind in Madhya Pradesh. He had stayed back in the city for his arthritis treatment at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences but he later learnt that the out-patient services have been suspended. Shiva (who goes by first name), 27, housed at a porta cabin near Paharganj, said he keeps washing his face and head to beat the heat. “I was brought here by the police when the bus services were cancelled after the lockdown. I used to live in a rented room. I had no idea the heat could be so harsh in here. Back at the room, we had a cooler also. I hope that the government does something to help us survive the heat till the lockdown is over,” he said. Shiva used to work at an eatery at West Delhi’s Janakpuri and belongs to UP’s Hardoi.Officials in the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB), the nodal agency for arranging shelters for the homeless in the city, said by next week, roofs of porta cabins will be painted white to control the heat. They said they will also install air coolers inside shelters and provide drinking water to its inmates. Bipin Rai, member, DUSIB, said, “We had a meeting to discuss the measures for a summer action plan. We have already placed an order for at least 500 air coolers. The shelters run from buildings already have air coolers and we are repairing and cleaning them for use. Also, we will place earthen pots at all shelters so that inmates get clean, cold drinking water.”The situation was better at shelters in buildings, which are better ventilated. “It does feel hot in the day but we sit in the compound under the shade of trees. We are able to sleep well in the night with fans running. After some days, we will need coolers, when the heat becomes unbearable,” said Ram Nath, 53, who lives at a shelter run from a school building in New Rajinder Nagar. Nath is from Bihar’s Muzaffarpur and used to work at a bag-making unit in Paharganj. However, social activists working with the homeless said every year, many homeless people die of extreme heat and dehydration. “This year, with a larger number of people being housed at shelters because of the lockdown, it becomes imperative that authorities ensure there are adequate arrangements to prevent heat strokes. They should also ensure availability of drinking water as well as medical aid,” said Sunil Kumar Aledia, founder, Centre for Holistic Development (CHD) and national Convener of National Forum for Homeless Housing Rights. He added that many people have to wait for a long time to even get drinking water delivered to them. “This situation needs to be addressed with the utmost urgency to ensure that people don’t suffer during the lockdown,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/migrants-stuck-in-city-suffer-as-porta-cabin-shelters-turn-ovens/story-6sZo1ZLKNiFGNjVVNut2xJ.html
18-04-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt to give Rs 100 per swab as incentive to teams collecting community samples||To incentivise collecting samples from Covid-19 clusters for community testing, the Delhi government has decided to pay each team involved Rs 100 per sample. This sum would be divided among members of the team with a highest share going to persons actually engaged in collecting the swab.The incentive would retrospectively be payable from April 12, when the teams started collecting samples from hot spots in the city-state. Till Friday, April 17, 2,983 samples had been collected.“The incentive, per team, would be worked out in such a way that the person exposed to maximum danger will be given the greater share of the incentive. For example, if there are eight members in a team with two persons taking the samples then the total amount (number of samples x Rs 100) would be divided by 10 (to create 10 parts of the sum) and the two sample collectors would receive two parts each,” according to an officer order by Delhi’s health department. Earlier this week, the government had decided to start testing people in containment zones to understand the spread of the disease. In the absence of rapid testing kits at the time of taking this decision, the government had decided to go ahead and conduct 20,000 RT-PCR tests in these areas. Not only is the test more expensive, it also puts healthcare workers at a higher risk.“For an RT-PCR test, the healthcare workers have to take a swab sample from the back of the throat. When that is done the patients tend to cough releasing aerosols that might contain the virus and infect the healthcare worker. The healthcare workers have to be in complete protective gear. It is much more difficult that simply taking the blood for an antibody test,” said another official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-to-give-100-per-swab-as-incentive-to-teams-collecting-community-samples/story-PQliTPEW0KO1qLhzaEvpgI.html
18-04-2020||Delhi||7 Bihar labourers hired a cab to sneak out of Delhi, to go home. Their story||As thousands of migrant workers flocked to east Delhi’s Anand Vihar late last month in the hope of catching a bus back to their hometown, seven had remained oblivious to the developments and had stayed put inside their house in west Delhi’s Raghubir Nagar. These seven daily wage labourers had then missed out on the slim opportunity.Nearly three weeks later, on Thursday evening, they thought they had a fresh opportunity. After days of convincing, the men had managed to convince a Toyota Innova driver to drive them to their village in Vaishali district of Bihar. By evening, they were ready with two bags stuffed with one set of clothes each, two kilos of beaten rice, some jaggery and two water bottles. Around 11pm, the men packed themselves into the six-seater Innova and set out on an arduous and uncertain journey towards home.They had barely driven for an hour through the inner lanes of the city when their journey came to an abrupt halt. A police picket in south Delhi’s Kotla Mubarakpur area had spotted them. The car had to stop.“Our hearts sank at that moment,” said 18-year-old Barun Kumar.“The seven men were moved to a shelter home in Kotla Mubarakpur, where they were provided bedding and meals. The police also ensured that the advance they had paid to the driver was refunded, “ said Atul Kumar Thakur, deputy commissioner of police (south).The men were let off without any legal action, but the driver, Shakeel Ahmad, has been booked under the Indian Penal Code and the Epidemic Act.DIDN’T KNOW HOW LONG THE LOCKDOWN WILL LAST“We don’t know how long the lockdown will last. It may continue for three months or may go on for six months,” said 40-year-old Anil Rai. The men had decided to return to their village after the lockdown would end on April 14. Their house owner had waived off their rent and helped them with rations. But on Tuesday when Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that the lockdown was going to be extended till May 3, the desperation grew. They visited Labour chowk near their home, but couldn’t find any work. “Back in our village, the wheat crop is ready and waiting to be harvested. It would go waste if we don’t return home. Every year, we spend two months in the village to harvest the crop, but this time we couldn’t make it. Our families kept urging us to return home,” said Rai.After the lockdown was extended,they started looking for any vehicle that would take them home. On Thursday, they found one driver, Shakeel Ahmad, who was willing to drive them home. He wanted Rs 37,000 for 1,000-odd ride to Patna. From there, they were ready to walk the next 30-40 km to their village in Vaishali.BORROWED MONEY“We borrowed money on interest from someone in our village. He transferred the money to a shopkeeper in Raghubir Nagar and we paid a commission to him to get the cash,” said 28-year-old Teni Rai. An advance of Rs 7,500 was paid to the driver, with a promise to pay the remaining amount once they reached Patna.“In all, we had Rs 500 cash in our pockets,” said Rai. The seven hadn’t really thought through their plan. For one, how would they get past the many check-posts that have been erected along the national highways and state roads. “The driver told us that it was his responsibility (to get us through the police checking,” said Teni. They wanted to believe him. They did.According to a senior police officer, the driver had planned to steer clear of the main roads and drive through the city’s colony lanes at night.“He planned to take offbeat routes while travelling through Haryana and Uttar Pradesh,” said the police officer. It would probably add some 200 km to their journey. So be it, they said.They had planned to mainly travel at night to avoid detection. They had calculated that it would take them three days to reach home. It seemed worth it.“Right now, we are just thankful we didn’t lose the advance we paid to the driver,” said one of them, Karu Rai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/seven-labourers-try-taking-cab-back-to-bihar-stopped-at-kotla-by-cops/story-vovbImPZrId583GGn1LYsM.html
18-04-2020||Pune||Provide PPE and other safety equipment: MSNA writes to Sassoon management||As the medical staff are at the forefront in the fight against Covid-19 (coronavirus) and tirelessly working to save patients affected due to Sar-Cov-virus nurses they struggling to get necessary safety equipment.The Maharashtra State Nurses Association (MSNA) has written a letter to the Sassoon hospital management requesting to provide all necessary facilities and safety equipment for the doctors, nurses and cleanliness staff actually working at the Covid-19 patients’ ward.Recently three nurses working at the Sassoon hospital tested positive and it is alleged by the association members that it was due to lack of good quality PPE kits given to them.In the letter given by the MSNA dated on March 31 it was stated that, “While fighting against this deadly disease it is important to provide all the necessary safety equipment to doctors, nurses and cleanliness staff at the hospital working at Covid-19 patients ward. The safety of doctors and other medical staff is of utmost importance and our request to the hospital authorities is to take our responsibility and provide high quality PPE kits, masks, hard scrub and hand sanitizers.”Since the operations began at the Sassoon Hospital, initially the working staff of nurses which included both male and female nurses were given residential accommodation within the hospital premises. Later on they were shifted to nearby two hotels in Mangalwar peth area.“Initially the nurses were using the safety kits which are used for HIV Aids patients and that were not appropriate while working on the Covid-19 patient ward. All the three nurses who tested positive were the same who worked in the initial phase with these kits and now they are infected with the disease,” said one the members of the association who didn’t want to reveal his name. “Similarly we are not even provided with healthy food. Our demand is the state government should look in to the matter and provide us with the necessities,” he said.Pune divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar under whose authority the Sassoon Hospital administration comes said, “Today I held a meeting with the staff of Sassoon Hospital and we discussed on various issues. Especially about the PPE kits, now a committee has been formed within the hospital which will check the PPE kits which are donated or bought by the hospital from various sources. It should be according to the guidelines given by the ICMR and if not they will be rejected.”“Apart from that about the issues which nurses are facing about food and residential problems at the hotel, I am personally monitoring it and have discussed it with the Pune district collector. Soon we are going to work on solutions on all these issues and address it,” he said. 37 of 44 deceased did not have any foreign travel history||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/provide-ppe-and-other-safety-equipment-msna-writes-to-sassoon-management/story-cWQfoOo9948hWJFMJs5yGL.html
18-04-2020||Delhi||Govt tells private schools to charge only tuition fee during lockdown||The Delhi government on Friday asked private schools in the city not to charge parents anything other than tuition fees till the educational institutes reopened after the Covid-19 lockdown.Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia said private schools will not be allowed to increase fees without the government’s permission. He also asked these schools not to charge three months’ tuition fees at a time.The overall fee structure of a private school is usually divided under various heads — tuition, transportation, developmental charges and annual charges.HT on Wednesday reported that several private schools in the city revised their fee structure amid the lockdown without seeking prior approval from the government.“We have got several complaints about schools hiking fees and also levying charges for transport, which is not even being utilised during the lockdown...Schools cannot charge anything beyond the tuition fee,” Sisodia said.He said the rule will be applicable to all schools, irrespective of whether the institutes are built on government land or private.“No school can charge three months’ tuition fee (at a time); the fee has to be collected monthly,” he said.Sisodia also said private schools cannot deny students access to online classes in case parents are not able to pay fees during the lockdown.Though schools and colleges are closed owing to the ongoing lockdown, they are conducting online classes. An umbrella group of around 400 private schools partly welcomed the Delhi government’s directive. “We agree with the government’s decision of not charging transport fee during the lockdown. And schools are in agreement with the payment of fees on a monthly basis,” said SK Bhattacharya, president of The Action Committee of Private Unaided Recognised Schools in Delhi.“However, we don’t agree with the decision of not charging the annual fees amount component because majority of schools have fixed expenditure that cannot be met without the annual charges. We can take the annual charges in instalments, if needed,” he said.The annual fee is a sum schools charge over and above the tuition fee, and which they generally use for the maintenance of electricity, water and other essentials on the campus. While majority of schools charge it once a year, some take the payment every six months or every quarter. The Delhi government’s Directorate of Education (DoE) on Friday also issued a notice to this effect to private schools, directing them not to charge parents anything other than the tuition fee.“No fee, except tuition fee, shall be charged from parents, till further orders. Heads of the schools shall not demand and collect tuition fees from parents on a quarterly basis. The fee shall be collected on a monthly basis,” the order said.“The schools shall, in no case, deny access to online education to any student who is unable to pay fees due to financial crisis arising out of the ongoing lockdown,” it said.The DoE further asked schools not to revise the fee structure in the 2020-21 session till further orders.All private schools were also asked not to stop the salaries of their teaching and non-teaching staff members citing unavailability of funds. “Arrange funds in case of any shortfalls from the society or trust running the school,” the DoE order said.The DoE has warned schools that action under Disaster Management Act , which has been enforced in the city in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, can be taken in case of non compliance.Amita Wattal, principal of Springdales School in Pusa Road,said that the schools can manage till the lockdown with the tuition fee but annual fees and other components will be required immediately after re-opening. “The government should immediately lift these condition after the schools reopen. Otherwise, the schools will face major financial issues,” she said.Meanwhile, the All India Parents Association (AIPA) welcomed the Delhi government decision. “The government has taken a very balanced decision taking into consideration interests of parents, schools and teachers and other staff working with schools,” said Ashok Agarwal, president of the association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/govt-tells-pvt-schools-to-charge-only-tuition-fee-during-lockdown/story-dbZ9qQeVFIY3IyHRn6vAvK.html
18-04-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Tablighi Jamaat head says he has joined Delhi Police probe, asks for copy of FIR against him||The head of the Tablighi Jamaat, Maulana Saad, has written to the Delhi Police seeking a copy of the first information report (FIR) against him and seven others. Police had filed a criminal case against Saad and six other top officials of the Jamaat on March 31 for defying a series of government directives, which curbed religious and large gatherings, issued to contain the spread of the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease in the Capital.In the letter, Saad has asked the police if they have added any new Indian Penal Code sections to the FIR.Delhi Police officers, requesting anonymity, had on Wednesday confirmed that they had added Section 304 in the FIR against Saad.Section 304 of the IPC, related to culpable homicide not amounting to murder, is a stringent section, unlike the other sections of Epidemic Diseases Act which had been levied in the FIR initially. A person convicted under Section 304 of the IPC could be sentenced to a maximum of ten years’ imprisonment. In a letter to the case investigating officer, Saad has written that he had joined the investigation by replying to the police’s two e-mails sent earlier this month. Saad’s lawyer Shahid Ali confirmed that they wrote to the police on Thursday. “We have given a letter to the Delhi Police stating that we have replied twice to the notices issued to us. We also asked them about media reports related to a particular section that has reportedly been added to the FIR. We also sought the copy of the FIR. We have reiterated that we are always available for cooperation in the investigation. We have not received any notices or summons to join the investigation except for some information they asked of us in their two letters.”The FIR, filed March 31, was first registered under sections of the Disaster Management Act as well as IPC sections which included criminal conspiracy (120 B), a negligent act likely to spread disease (269), malignant act likely to spread infection (270), disobedience to quarantine rule (271) and defying prohibitory orders (188). The maximum punishment, if convicted, under those sections is a two-year prison term with a fine or both. Last month, police officers and state government officials had evacuated more than 2,300 persons from inside the Markaz building in Delhi’s Nizamuddin, the headquarters of the Tablighi Jamaat, where they had gathered for a religious congregation of indeterminate length. The meetings continued despite orders by the Delhi government banning all religious events (March 13), restricting gatherings to 200 people (March 16), and then putting a four-person limit (March 21) on all gatherings. The Nizamuddin area was also declared a containment zone after the evacuation. At least 21 evacuated persons had then tested positive for the Sars-Cov-2. Earlier this month, police had sent two questionnaires to Saad, containing 29 questions related to the Tablighi Jamaat and the gatherings between March 10 and 15. In the first notice, which had 26 questions, sent on April 1, the investigating officer had sought details of CCTV cameras inside the building and had asked Saad to preserve the footage. The police had asked for details of all the people, including foreigners, present in the building last month. There was also a question on the steps taken by the management to disperse the gathering after the government had issued the prohibitory orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tablighi-jamaat-head-writes-to-delhi-police-seeking-copy-of-fir-against-him/story-jKb5lKsDopbwz7YaRZjXtJ.html
18-04-2020||Noida||Juvenile Justice Board wants police to release detainees from police stations amid Covid-19 lockdown||The Gautam Budh Nagar juvenile justice board (JJB) wants the police to release detainees directly from police stations in light of the observation homes being emptied to avoid any transmission of coronavirus (Covid-19).The Supreme Court on April 3 had instructed that juveniles in detention homes be sent back to their families amid the ongoing nationwide lockdown. The decision was taken for the welfare of the juveniles and to avoid an outbreak of Covid-19 in enclosed spaces. According to officials, the Gautam Budh Nagar observation home located in Phase 2 had 184 detainees of whom 58 have been released on interim bail, so far, in the care of their families.“Two juveniles were sent to us recently for a serious and heinous crime, respectively. One of them, a 15-year-old boy, was released on Thursday. He is from Jhansi and was brought in by the Ecotech 3 police in connection with a case of theft. We have instructed the investigating officer to make the necessary arrangements for the boy to be sent home,” said Aneet Singh Bhagel, JJB member, GBN.He said the board wants that juvenile detainees with a sentence of less than seven years be directly granted bail from the police station, which anyway is a provision.“Any new juveniles who are coming in are being kept in quarantine for a few days before they are allowed to mix with the other juveniles as a precautionary measure. We are taking all measures to ensure that there is no outbreak in the home and the detainees are all doing well. There are frequent inspections. Currently, we have 127 juveniles who are staying with us and we are working on the release of more of them. It would be better if the detainees who have a sentence of less than seven years were granted bail directly from the police,” said Baghel.The detainees are released after an undertaking is signed by a parent or guardian and action will be taken against the signatory in case the juvenile violates the conditions of release.Police officials, meanwhile, said that no order has come to them so far.“In any case, if there is a sentence of less than seven years, they can be granted interim bail directly by police. However, in case of an arrest, we have to produce them within 24 hours in front of a juvenile justice magistrate and then whatever the court decides will happen,” said deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, Sankalp Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-juvenile-justice-board-wants-police-to-release-detainees-directly-from-police-stations/story-MIn2D3p3p1NIUaRixin4XM.html
18-04-2020||Noida||Teen kills self for failing to get enough likes on TikTok||An 18-year-old man allegedly took his own life on Thursday at his house, which falls under the Sector 39 police jurisdiction. Family members alleged that he was unhappy because he failed to receive enough likes on his social media content. No note was recovered from the spot.According to police officials, the teenager lived with his father. Both of them worked in a private firm in Noida. Due to the ongoing lockdown, the youth was mostly at home and was making videos and sharing them across the popular social media platform, Tik Tok.“It seems that for the past few days, he had been troubled that there weren’t enough likes on his videos. He had even shared this with his father,” said Shailesh Tomar, station house officer(SHO), sector 39 police station.He said that police officials got a call on Thursday evening from the father who said that his son had hung himself from a fan in their house.“A team was rushed to the spot and the body was sent for an autopsy. No suicide note was recovered from the spot and a preliminary investigation revealed the reason of death was most possibly receiving less fewer likes on social media. The father was in no condition to provide any more details,” said the SHO.Police officials spoke to a few neighbours, who confirmed that the youth had been upset for the past few days and was staying up at night to make videos. The victim’s body was handed over to the father following the autopsy.“The police team had to break down the door to recover his body. From what the family and neighbours have said it seems that he was depressed because his videos were not getting enough likes for the past few days. That could be why he took such an extreme step even though no suicide note was recovered from the spot. A probe in the matter is underway,” said additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, Kumar Ranvijay Singh.The family is from Malda district in Nadia. Police officials suspect that the youth may have been under peer pressure for fame on social media but so far the father has not filed any official complaint against anyone.Gautam Budh Nagar does not have a dedicated helpline to deal with such situations. A few major suicide prevention helpline numbers in India are +914066202000 from ‘Roshni’ (Hyderabad-based) and +914424640050 from Sneha India Foundation (Delhi-based).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-teen-kills-self-for-failing-to-get-enough-likes-on-tiktok/story-I4uTsEgqHlsiIF3lLEsGUO.html
18-04-2020||Noida||Coronavirus lockdown causes crime to cower in Gautam Budh Nagar district||Crime has significantly dropped in the Gautam Budh Nagar district during the first phase of the nationwide lockdown this year between March 25 and April 14, as compared to the same period in 2019. In the first two weeks of April crime figures dropped by over 83% compared to last year.This has also helped to bring down the total crime in the district till April 15 this year.GB Nagar commissioner of police (CP) Alok Singh said that, along with the lockdown that has restricted people’s movement and strict vigil by the police, the introduction of the commissionerate system in the district in January too helped. “The new system was implemented on January 16. From that day, 794 cases relating to different crimes have been registered so far in the police stations of the district, which is only 66% of the cases registered during the same time last year. The cases related to rape and POCSO Act have been reduced to 24, which is less than half than the figures of these crimes during that period last year,” he said.The CP said they have improved interpersonal skills of the force, which will further check the crimes in the district. “We are leaving no stone unturned to make the policing more people-centric, so that people can get more responsiveness at their police stations concerned,” he said.Former Delhi police commissioner Ajai Raj Sharma agreed that the new system infused professionalism into the force.“Before the commissionerate, the circle officers (COs) used to supervise cases. But, now senior IPS officers have come in place of those COs. It is obvious that with more professional and competent staff, number of crimes will go down significantly. What is really expected now is that the police must move quickly to reinforce and maintain these numbers, while anticipating and preventing new crime tendencies and opportunities,” he said.Kumar Ranvijay Singh, the additional DCP, who has worked in GB Nagar in both the police system, said, “The more focussed ‘beat’ policing has virtually paralysed the movement of criminals from neighbouring districts. Earlier, they used to enter the district from some transit points. After committing the crime, they often used to return their respective places. With the introduction of new police system, which has more personnel who are well-equipped, criminals have feel it will impossible for them to give them the slip. Lockdown has worked as the last nail in the coffin,” he said. Supreme Court lawyer and criminologist Rajesh Kumar said that although the numbers look good now, the force must keep their vigil even during the lockdown. “Crime science and criminology pays particular attention to crime opportunities and how they are affected by lifestyles of people and routine activities. For example, when a person goes out, he or she experiences more interpersonal crimes, like snatching or an assault, while at the same time, their unguarded home is more vulnerable to burglary. As people are living in their homes, rate of these crimes has reduced substantially,” he said.But, this need not always be the case, he added.“South Africa has reported that dozens of schools have been burgled, trashed or burned to the ground and state-owned utility Eskom reported an increase in cable theft and vandalism during their lockdown. It also increases the risk children and elderly face in the confines of the homes. Lockdown can also cause greater friction in the family relationship and divorce rate is likely to goes up just after the lockdown ends. Wuhan has reopened to see its divorce rate double, with family experts saying the rush for couples to separate is because of rising conflicts caused by the 70-day-long quarantine enforced in the Chinese city,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/corona-causes-crime-to-cower-in-noida/story-3SQQTAXNLjldNaRRZrcLGL.html
18-04-2020||Noida||Noida skips foundation day celebrations, employees donate Rs 86 lakh to fight Covid-19||Noida observed its 44th foundation day without fanfare on Friday, with a focus on fighting the outbreak of the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease. Since its inception, the Noida authority and the Uttar Pradesh government have celebrated the foundation day of this industrial town with cultural events every year, but this year the celebrations were shelved as the focus is to take effective measures to contain the spread of Covid-19.“We congratulate residents on the occasion of 44 years of establishment of Noida. The Noida authority, which is associated with the establishment of the city, is committed to make Noida a smart city. During this Covid-19 pandemic, we are taking multiple effective steps to ensure food distribution to the needy,” said Ritu Maheshwari, chief executive officer of the Noida authority. Permanent employees of the Noida authority on Friday took an inspiring step and donated a total of ₹75 lakh towards the fight against Sars-Cov-2. The authority gives a certain amount as reward to their employees annually on the foundation day of the city.“On this foundation day, we decided to donate 50% of this amount (₹75 lakh) towards operations to fight Covid-19,” said Rajkumar Singh, president of NEA.They donated a total of ₹40 lakh to the chief minister’s Covid Care fund and ₹35 lakh for food for the needy.’“Permanent employees donated a total of ₹35 lakh for arrangements of food to be distributed among daily wage workers, homeless, dependent and other needy people in the city. The money has been given for the Meals on Wheels project, under which 1,50,000 food packets will be distributed daily to the needy till May 3, beginning Friday,” said Ashok Sharma, vice-president of Noida employees association (NEA), a registered organization for employees.The contractual staff donated a total of ₹11 lakh to the chief minister’s Covid Care fund.The authority has deployed three low-floor CNG buses to transport 15,000 food packets daily to needy in the city till May 3, 2020.According to officials, the authority, since March 23, has been distributing at least 85,000 food packets daily. Now, from Friday, the authority will distribute 1,00,000 food packets.“We needed to increase the number of food packets. And the contribution of NEA has helped us in arranging 1 lakh food packets to be distributed daily till May 3,” said Maheshwari.The authority’s employees and the Noida Metro Rail Corporation had earlier donated a total of ₹51 lakh in the chief minister’s Covid Care fund.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-skips-foundation-day-celebrations-employees-donate-86-lakh-to-fight-covid-19/story-SkxjA6LOJBDudoy9amHitJ.html
18-04-2020||Noida||RBI’s repo cut evokes mixed response from developers, factory owners||The Reserve Bank of India’s (RBI) move to cut repo rate has evoked a mixed response from developers and factory owners in Noida and Greater Noida. The RBI has taken the step to address liquidity issues of banks and housing finance companies, which may impact the real estate sector and industry at large.The move may not address all prevailing financial crisis that the real estate sector is facing currently, said experts.The RBI on Friday announced a series of measures to infuse liquidity in the system and provide relief to borrowers amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. The RBI has cut the reverse repo rate by 25 basis points — from 4% to 3.75% — encouraging banks to “deploy surplus funds” and lend more, a move that will, in turn, result in cash in the hands of the borrower. One basis point is a hundredth of a percentage point.Repo rate is the rate at which the RBI lends money to commercial banks in the event of a shortfall of funds. The reverse repo rate is a mechanism, wherein the RBI borrows money from banks, in case of excess liquidity in the market.The RBI has made available an additional ₹50,000 crore liquidity for National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (Nabard), Small Industrial Development Bank of India (Sidbi) and National Housing Bank (NHB).“₹10,000 crore additional funds will be available for real estate projects with the banks after the RBI’s decision. But it will have limited impact because the RBI is yet to allow restructuring of existing loans taken by builders. Via video conferencing with minister of state (independent charge) of the ministry of housing and urban affairs, on Friday, we demanded that existing loans should be rescheduled and, developers should get additional time to repay the remainder and fresh loans should be provided to fuel growth,” said RK Arora, president of the Uttar Pradesh chapter for National Real Estate Development Council (Naredco), a builders’ group.The RBI has made available ₹25,000 crore, of the ₹50,000 crore, to rural areas and ₹15,000 crore for industry, besides the ₹10,000 crore for real estate sector.“The benefit of rate cut must be passed on to retail customer by banks. The rate cut will provide some liquidity to banks, but the RBI must issue strict instructions that the actual benefit must be passed on to retail customers,” said Getambar Anand, ex-national president of the Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (Credai) and the chairman and managing director of ATS Group.Noida Entrepreneurs’ Association, which has least 10,000 factory owners as members, said that the new announcements will not help them deal with the crisis caused by the pandemic. “When every big or small business is shut and funds’ liquidation is stopped completely, the recent announcement has no meaning as we are failing to repay existing loans. The recent announcement only allows banks to give more loans, whereas we require interest-free loans and permission to start our businesses,” said Vipin Malhan, president of NEA.However, CREDAI president for West UP, Prashant Kumar Tiwari, said, “The RBI’s move will address the liquidity crisis being witnessed by the real estate sector. We hope that the government will take more decisions to boost growth in this sector.” CREDAI members had also interacted with Puri via videoconferencing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/rbi-s-repo-cut-evokes-mixed-response-from-developers-factory-owners/story-EUD6yOY3TB20hrSSXarszM.html
18-04-2020||Noida||Ghaziabad’s government blood bank runs dry amid lockdown||The only government blood bank at MMG District Hospital in Ghaziabad is running very low on inventory as the Covid-19 lockdown has badly affected the donation drives usually conducted by medical facilities and social organisations in the district. As only 10 units of blood were available with the MMG Hospital on Friday, the health department is planning to set up mobile units for doorstep collection of blood, officials said. According to the officials, the government blood bank has capacity to store 500-600 units at any given time and about 100-150 units are generally available to meet daily requirement in normal days. Last month, there was collection of 223 units and issuance of 231 units, the officials said.“The number has come down drastically this month. Till April 16, only 64 units were collected and 60 units issued. Donations have been severely affected due to the ongoing lockdown imposed to contain the spread of Covid-19. People are not willing to come out, though we have appealed through social media for blood donation,” said Dr Dipti Varshney, in-charge of the blood bank at MMG Hospital.According to drug inspector Puran Chand, the Ghaziabad district has a total of 17 blood banks, of which 16 are with the private medical facilities. “Till April 16, we had a stock of 634 units of blood. For blood donation, the guidelines say that every donor be tested for coronavirus,” Chand said.“We are checking donors for any symptoms, and asking if they have any contact with Covid-19 patient or travel history. The other five mandatory tests, including HIV and hepatitis, are being done,” Varshney added.According to the officials, they are reaching out to people through the social media and making calls to pursue them for donating blood. Some voluntary donors who received the messages for blood donation said that they were ready but moving out is a major issue.“There is restriction on movement of people during the lockdown. In present times, people are also avoiding to go to any health care facilities in order to avoid any infection. So, some mobile units can be roped in by the health department for doorstep collection of blood,” said Namita Gaur, a resident and voluntary blood donor from Crossings Republik.State surveillance officer Dr Vikasendu Agarwal did not take calls despite repeated attempts.However, chief medical officer Dr NK Gupta said that the low inventory of blood units available at the blood bank is cause of concern.“We cannot hold blood donation camps as they will encourage public gathering. So, we have been asked to send mobile units for collection of blood. We have told our staff not to take blood from people who have any symptoms like fever, cold, etc and properly ask their history or if they have any contact with Covid-19 positive patients,” Gupta said.Dr AK Paliwal, the state programme manager from National Health Mission for Uttar Pradesh, said that it becomes vital for testing of every blood donor for coronavirus in present times.“However, there is a problem that test reports of Covid-19 generally takes three to four days to arrive after sampling. In such a case, the donor may not wait. So, we can use rapid test kits for detection of any infection. These kits give fast results probably within an hour. Though such kits are not available in Ghaziabad at present, they will be available soon. I will direct health department officials to make use of these kits and compulsorily test every donor beforehand,” Paliwal said..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/lockdown-effect-govt-blood-bank-runs-dry-in-gzb-testing-of-donor-a-major-issue/story-7OzHLhuXJbNXEO5FMGBkxN.html
18-04-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra lost Rs 4 lakh cr: IIT-B||An Indian Institute of Technology Bombay (IIT-B) and ministry of human resource development initiative has calculated that the gross state domestic product (GSDP) — a monetary measure of the volume of all goods and services produced in a state — lost during the 21-day lockdown in India is Rs 4,86,710 crore or 3.46% of the country’s gross domestic product (GDP), which is the value of all goods and services produced in the country. The income lost by marginal and migrant workers due to the lockdown is almost 0.41 % of the GDP. Consumption expenditure has also fallen, including expenditure on entertainment, food and beverages. Lost consumption expenditure in 21 days of lockdown amounted to 0.56% of the GDP. In case of a two-month lockdown, the income lost by migrant workers may increase to 3% of the GDP and the GSDP loss could soar to 11% of the GDP. Maharashtra would lose the most in terms of production of goods and services, found the study.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-lost-rs-4-lakh-cr-iit-b/story-Qin83I4vCsxTDrP3jkxg3M.html
18-04-2020||Education||IIT- Gandhinagar to undertake study to find out survival of coronavirus in human waste||In an effort to build an early warning system for Covid-19, the Indian Institute of Technology Gandhinagar (IIT-Gn) has joined a global consortium of 51 premier universities and research institutes to undertake surveillance of sewage water to help determine and quantify excretion of the Sars-Cov-2 virus, which causes Covid-19.On Friday, the group submitted their viewpoint paper to Environmental Science and Technology, a scientific peer-reviewed journal published by the American Chemical Society, underlining the need to survey wastewater for virus RNA during the ongoing pandemic that has affected more than 2 million people across the world.The aim of wastewater-based epidemiology (WBE) is to help policy makers monitor the transmission of Covid-19 within a community. “The critical point here is that while it takes three to 14 days for an individual to exhibit symptoms, its occurrence in wastewater can been seen early and therefore it can be used as a warning sign, especially in densely-populated clusters,” said Manish Kumar, collaborator and assistant professor, department of earth sciences, IIT-Gn.The COVID-19 WBE Collaborative – a partnership between Sewage Analysis CORe group Europe (SCORE) network and the Global Water Pathogen Project – has laid out a standard protocol to ensure uniformity in data collection and inference.Recent studies have reported that in 27% to 89% of patients, the infection is accompanied by persistent shedding of virus RNA in stool. “Wastewater has been used in forensics for a long time – to check for the presence of narcotics, for instance. However, Covid-19 is tricky because we don’t know how long the virus survives in water. But it is worth knowing its presence in wastewater because the virus has an incubation period during which it gets excreted in some way,” said Kumar.Researchers said limited capacity for diagnostic testing coupled with individuals who are asymptomatic and oligo-symptomatic (displaying few symptoms) that go undetected leads to significant uncertainty in the estimated extent of the Covid-19 infection.Kumar will now seek permission to collect waste water samples from government authorities in Gujarat, and partner with Indian collaborators to extend the scope of the work across India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/iit-gn-to-survey-sewage-for-virus/story-AUCDzWvc5CpjG5PHGwJn3N.html
18-04-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram’s BPTP Park Serene takes care of its maintenance staff during lockdown||From adopting and following the usual set of rules to restrict deliveries, make purchase of essentials more organised and time-bound to ensuring that the staff that helps them keep functioning like a well-oiled machine is well fed and protected, residents of BPTP Park Serene in Sector 37D have mastered the art of being in a lockdown. In view of the lockdown, now extended till May 3, the apartment has cut down the strength of its non-essential staff and provided all essential staff members with boarding and lodging facilities within the condominium to reduce the chances of exposure with the world outside the premises. Hemant Kumar, member of the condominium’s working committee which is coordinating all pandemic-related efforts, said that 23 staff members, including 10 security guards, had been housed within the condominium complex to meet the essential services.“We are functioning with bare minimum staff involved in the running of essential services such as water supply, sewage treatment plant and electricity. They are ensuring that the needs of the support staff providing essential services within the complex are met and they can work optimally in these unprecedented times. “We have accommodated our staff in two 4BHK flats, which have been bifurcated to ensure that optimum physical distance is maintained between them. Since they work in shifts, no more than 10 people occupy the two flats at any time. We have asked the building management to ensure that health check-ups of these workers are regularly conducted,” said Kumar.Residents at the condominium have also started a kitchen service for the staff.“One of our residents, who runs a tiffin service, has taken the responsibility of preparing food for all the staff and we are providing her with the necessary resources through contributions from residents,” said Kumar.He added that residents voluntarily contribute towards a fund which is being used to provide food to the staff residing within the complex. “People are stepping forward to donate funds which are being used to provide cooked meals to the staff. The complex has created a make-shift kitchen where food is prepared. We have made arrangements for preparation of food within the compound,” said Kumar.“I prepare breakfast, lunch and dinner for the workers and the menu is decided based on the availability of vegetables or ration that we are able to procure. The menu keeps changing after every few days,” said Priya Gupta, who cooks the meals.In line with the guidelines issued by the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram, the condominium RWA has barred the entry of part-time domestic help, such as maids, cooks, drivers, car cleaners, and dog walkers, among others. They have allowed the entry of domestic help in special cases where the occupants are either physically challenged or are senior citizens living alone. “Since we don’t have any senior citizen who lives alone, we asked one of the families that did need help with their elderly parents to house their help within their apartment for full time till the lockdown continues,” Kumar said. Entry for external vendors such as food delivery persons, meanwhile, takes place at the tower entrance. Residents are required to collect the belongings from the tower. All persons entering the building with deliveries are scanned for their body temperature and mandatorily sanitize their hands. Since the lockdown started, the condominium has been maintaining a record of every person moving in and out. “We are keeping a record of every individual’s movement, be it a resident or an outsider. Through record-keeping, we get an idea about the number of people from the condominium employed in essential services and need to step out. Besides, it helps us understand the other reasons due to which people are venturing out. We want to understand why people are going out so that a solution can be found, and the need addressed,” said Kumar.Though the condominium does not have permanent shops within the complex, it has made arrangements and put in place a makeshift shop with help of a resident who runs a grocery store in the vicinity. To ensure that physical distancing is followed at all times, in the area around the general store and other commonly used areas, barricades have been placed at a distance from each other besides circled markings. “Residents have been told to stay at an arm’s distance from each other and barricades have been placed so that people can maintain a gap while they queue for purchasing essentials. We have also made circled markings on the floor at a distance of 2 metres from each,” said Kumar.Besides, some other grocery and vegetable shops are located just outside the condominium and routinely deliver requirements to residents. “Some people prefer to buy their basics from shops outside the complex. For such people, we have set up a window during which they can order and get their requirements delivered. This is being done to curb unnecessary movement,” said Kumar.The need for cash has also been addressed as the nearest ATM is 3km away, making it impossible to walk down amid restrictions on movement. Residents had reached out to the administration after facing a cash crunch following which a mobile ATM has started visiting the location. Nikesh Goel, a member of the condominium’s working committee, said though residents were struggling to get cash, a more acceptable mode of payment, when the lockdown first started. “The situation has improved with the mobile ATM comes twice a week. Residents line up to withdraw cash, up to ₹20,000 per day, while adhering to physical distancing norms. Most importantly, it has helped us to curb unnecessary trips outside the complex,” said Goel.The condominium has also roped in a private firm that comes to sanitise the complex on a weekly basis. In addition, residents had reached out to the MCG which has also initiated sanitization drives. “Our society doesn’t fall within the MCG limits but we reached out to them and now sanitisation drives in the common are carried out in 3-4 days,” said Kumar. The condominium has also purchased a spray machine, similar to the one used by MCG, with which it has ramped up the frequency of sanitisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/bptp-park-serene-works-for-its-workers-conducts-regular-medical-check-ups-to-keep-them-healthy/story-xFFv487glLvw7L83PZipqN.html
18-04-2020||Mumbai||To keep an eye on home quarantined, cops appoint society residents as ‘monitors’||With an increased work-load on police personnel as they are forced to concentrate more on high-risk red zones, cops have roped in society residents to ensure that those ordered home quarantine do not step out of their houses. Home quarantined people are those who may have been exposed to the Sars-Cov-2 virus which spreads Covid-19 and are isolated to see if they develop symptoms of the disease. Mumbai police have identified ‘monitors’ in hundreds of residential societies across the city where over 46,332 home quarantined people are staying. Each home quarantine person has a Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) stamp on their hand. “Since we need to focus more on enforcing movement restrictions in containment areas and at the same time also check the movement of those home quarantined, we have turned residential societies’ chairmen, secretaries as ‘monitors’ to see if home quarantined are not stepping out of their homes. We have shared contact numbers and have asked them to inform us if any home quarantined person steps out,” said Viresh Prabhu, additional commissioner of police (central region). The senior officer added that police personnel are also posted at the gates of these societies, even security guards and watchmen have been asked to be more vigilant.“The concerned police station regularly co-ordinates with the personnel and check status. Our patrolling staff also look for suspects on the street and check their hand for home quarantine stamp. Surprise checks are also being conducted to ensure that nobody steps out,” Prabhu said.In the city, 12 first information reports (FIRs) have been registered for violation of home quarantine orders, police said. Around 11,368 people finished their quarantine period while over 3,271 are in institutional quarantine facility in Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/to-keep-an-eye-on-home-quarantined-cops-appoint-society-residents-as-monitors/story-ClypkyyUjM0HOfw6ZNKN6J.html
18-04-2020||Gurugram||Manesar industries likely to resume operations from April 20||Industries in Gurugram outside municipal limits shall be allowed to operate from April 20 onwards, while strictly following social distancing norms, the Haryana government said late Friday. Deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala said Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) in this regard will be issued for the entire state on Saturday that each industry would have to strictly follow.Financially starved due to a sharp dip in revenue collection owing to the lockdown, the Haryana government inched closer to resuming commercial and manufacturing activity in the state from April 20, the day designated by the Central government for operationalising the enterprise.The industries and commerce department and labour department of the state government held consultations with industry representatives on Friday evening.Additional chief secretary, industries and commerce, TVSN Prasad, said they would issue guidelines for resumption of manufacturing operations on Saturday.“We have constituted district and block level committee to process approvals and monitor containment requirements including social distancing,’’ Prasad said. These committees will evaluate which factories or industries can be permitted to carry out operations.When asked about the opening of industrial units in Gurugram, which has been designated a red zone by the state government, Chautala said that only areas falling within the municipal limits of Gurugram had been categorised as such. “Industries in areas that are outside the municipal zone in Gurugram and aren’t categorised as a containment zone will be allowed to resume operations, with some riders. We will issue SOPs for statewide operations on Saturday,” he said. There are six containment zones in the district, as of Friday evening. The development means that around 2,000 units based in Manesar, including auto major Maruti Suzuki, could resume manufacturing Monday onwards, but at a limited capacity. On the other hand, Udyog Vihar, which falls within municipal limits, may have to wait longer to resume operations.A number of Manesar-based industrialists have repeatedly asked the government over the last few days to allow the resumption of industry, after the nationwide lockdown was extended, and threatening to plunge the economy and industries further into turmoil. “We are ready to start work and have already worked out SOPs for safe working, while maintaining social distances,” said Manmohan Gaind, vice president, Manesar Industries Welfare Association. A Maruti spokesperson when asked about the matter said they could issue a statement only on Saturday, after the SOP is released. As per government directions, manufacturing units will be allowed to work with 50% staff, who will have to maintain a six-feet distance from each other within the units. The factories will have to ensure that entry and exit of workers happen in a staggered manner. The workers will have to wear masks and arrangements will have to be made to provide food inside the units. The union government has divided districts across the country into red, orange and green zones based on the number of Covid-19 cases in these areas. As per the government order, 170 districts have been marked red zones, 207 have been identified as orange zones, out of the country’s 720 districts. The red zones in Haryana are Gurugram, Faridabad, Nuh and Palwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/manesar-industries-likely-to-resume-operations-from-april-20/story-N9Od4nSHF7vs3Q8HGvJebO.html
18-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjabi singer held with 30gm opium||The Mohali police on Friday arrested a 29-year-old Punjabi singer Gurinder Pal Singh, popularly known as Vada Garewal, after 30 gram opium was recovered from his possession.Police had booked the accused at a hospital in Sohana, where the latter was admitted due to drug overdose. On the information of the hospital authorities, police reached the spot and started the investigation.A case was filed against the singer after police recovered 30gm of opium from him. To ascertain what drug had been consumed by the accused, the hospital authorities took the blood samples and sent them for forensic examination, the report of which is still awaited.Mohali deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Ramandeep Singh said that police had received information from the hospital regarding Gurinder’s admission owing to drug overdose. “It was after the doctors declared him fit that the accused was arrested and sent to jail,” said DSP.Amid all this, a picture of the accused in the hospital was shared by another Punjabi singer Elly Mangat, who is also a close friend of the accused. Through the social media post, Mangat said that the accused was hospitalised due to some medical complications. He requested his fans to not believe in rumours that Grewal was hospitalised due to drug overdose.Vadda Grewal hailing from Sangrur had started his singing career in 2014 with the song “Rooh,” the lyrics of which were also written by him. Grewal has been a part of a few Punjabi films and web series including Gangland (2018), Shooter (2020) and Zindagi Zindabaad. He also made an appearance in the movie Nikka Zaildar 3.Garewal’s name had even been under Punjab Police’s radar for being too proactive on live videos during the Elly-Rammy Randhawa spat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjabi-singer-held-with-30gm-opium/story-YpaJjNJ8KV5oIYC5VDRStO.html
18-04-2020||Gurugram||10% of Gurugram’s biomedical garbage is related to Covid-19||In just one month since March 16 when Gurugram reported its first positive case of Covid-19, biomedical waste associated with the suspected and positive Covid-19 patients has come to account for about 10% of total quantum of biomedical waste generated in the district. The district is presently producing about 400 kilograms of Covid-19 related biomedical waste per day (against 3,800 kilograms of biomedical waste generated from other medical services) from 36 health care facilities, isolation wards and testing centres, and quarantined homes. This is according to data provided by Biotic, the district concessionaire for biomedical waste management.While the concessionaire directly collects Covid-19 waste from hospitals, testing centres and isolation wards, suspected or confirmed patients under quarantine have been provided yellow bags to dispose of possibly infected waste, such as head caps, masks, and tissues. The civil surgeon’s office is coordinating collection from these homes and quarantine centres, officials said. The waste is then sent to any of four collection centres in the district, where two Biotic vehicles dedicated only to collecting Covid-19 waste make pick-ups from. About 30 drivers and workers are involved in the collection of biomedical waste in the district. The waste is then incinerated at a common biomedical waste treatment facility in Sector 37, at temperatures of over 800 degrees Celsius. Another 30 plant operators and sanitation workers are involved in this process. “The usual municipal waste collector is not involved in collection and treatment of Covid-19 related waste,” said Neeraj Yadav, deputy medical superintendent, Gurugram.With non-essential surgeries being deferred and out-patient departments functioning at a decreased capacity, the quantum of routine (non-Covid) biomedical waste has dipped. “While the district was earlier producing about 5.5 tonnes of routine biomedical waste per day, this has now dipped to about 3.8 tonnes per day,” said Vikas Gahlot, spokesperson for Biotic.Quantum of covid-19 waste set to increaseThe National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) have issued guidelines for the safe handling and disposal of Covid-19 related waste. With India having expanded its testing criteria and capabilities for Covid-19, and experts predicting that the outbreak’s peak is still a few weeks away, the quantity of biomedical waste generated due to the pandemic is set to increase manifold. Dr Sushila Kataria, an internal medicine specialist at Medanta hospital who was involved in the treatment of 14 Italian tourists who were brought to the city from Jaipur, said, “Treatment of a confirmed Covid-19 case generates about 15 times more waste than an average patient. From what they wear to the plates you serve them food in, everything gets disposed.”In Wuhan, which is the epicentre of the coronavirus outbreak, the total amount of biomedical waste shot up by six times in the wake of the pandemic, explained Sourabh Manuja, an environment and waste management fellow at The Energy Research Institute (TERI). “We have also been seeing reports from the US and Italy, which are struggling to deal with the mountains of Covid-19 related waste,” said Manuja. However, Biotic’s Gahlot said, “There is no cause for alarm yet. Our facility in Gurugram can handle an intake of up to 20 tonnes of biomedical waste, Covid-19 and routine, per day. At the moment, we are operating at only 20 to 25% capacity per day, so for the foreseeable future we are equipped to handle an increase.” Lack of PPE for collection staff There are other issues, which have begun to plague the district’s biomedical waste management system. These include a shortage of personal protective equipment (PPE) for those involved in collecting and treating waste, and an increase in operating capital.“We have a staff of close to 60 people, including drivers, collectors and waste handlers. We have had to pay them incentives to keep working in a high-risk scenario. With routine waste being reduced, and with costs of PPE going up, we are expecting a 30% dip in revenue for April,” Gahlot explained.Three-ply surgical masks, which Biotic was earlier purchasing at a wholesale price of 62 paise per unit, are now being purchased at Rs 11 per unit. Similarly, the cost of one unit of PPE has increased from Rs 400-Rs 600 to Rs 900-Rs 1,400.“More worryingly, there is a shortage of PPEs in the market. We only have stock for another nine or 10 days. After that, we will require some assistance from the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram to procure PPEs. We have written to the MCG and to the chief secretary, Haryana, to help us procure them at cheaper prices through government channels. So far we have been buying PPEs independently,” said Gahlot.Challenge to waste managementExperts have said that both biomedical and municipal waste management systems in Gurugram, as with the rest of the country, will be challenged by the Covid-19 outbreak, particularly given their poor compliance with Central guidelines, such as the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016, and the Biomedical Waste Management Rules, 2016.“Only half of all health care facilities in Gurugram are following the necessary barcoding procedure, which helps us track how much waste is generated and how much is treated,” said an official in the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB), who requested anonymity. Such a flaw in the system, according to TERI’s Manuja, may lead to inadvertent ‘leakages’ of hazardous waste, which, in turn, poses adverse health impacts for waste and sanitation workers.Equally worrying, experts said, is the fact that many households are now producing biomedical waste of their own, which may cause further transmission of the virus through surface contamination. A study, recently published in New England Journal of Medicine, states that the Sars-Cov-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, may continue to live on cardboard for up to 24 hours, and on plastic and stainless steel for up to 72 hours. “These are all materials commonly found in household waste,” said Natasha Zarine, a solid waste management expert from Aurangabad, Maharashtra, who is working with the municipal corporation there to improve working conditions for waste pickers during the outbreak. “Without proper segregation, one might be putting the lives of sanitation workers, waste pickers, and health workers at risk. Municipal authorities need to ensure full protective gear for these people,” Zarine added. Dr Rajib Dasgupta, associate professor at the Centre of Social Medicine and Community Health, Jawaharlal Nehru University, said, “While household items, such as fabrics and other surfaces, can be washed and disinfected, tissues, face masks and single-use applications which may contain nasa-pharngyeal secretions will remain infectious for some time, and must be disposed keeping this in mind. Those involved in sanitation work should be given full protective gear as they are more at risk.”With this in mind, experts have advocated for a third level of segregation to ensure that possibly infectious waste does not make its way into the general municipal waste system. “Given the general state of waste collection in India, the system will come under pressure. A third level of segregation is imperative to contain the outbreak, especially if the waste is infectious,” said Swati Sambyal, an independent waste management expert and former head of the Centre for Science and Energy’s waste monitoring programme.Both the NCDC and CPCB guidelines state that, for those practicing ‘home care’, all biomedical waste must be collected separately in yellow bags and handed over to authorised waste collector until it is picked up by the biomedical waste facility.What district administration saysAccording to health officials, such segregation is being enforced in homes where residents have either tested positive or have been advised to self-quarantine. Meanwhile, for other households at large, an advisory has been issued by the district administration to dispose of single-use items (such as masks) separately, and with adequate care. The advisory also clearly states that possibly infectious waste should be left alone, “in a tightly knotted plastic lined dustbin where it can be left for 48 hours to avoid spread of the virus”. In a press release issued on April 14, deputy commissioner Amit Khatri said, “Just as it is necessary to wear a face mask to avoid coronavirus infection, it is also necessary to safely dispose face masks after use. Anyone wearing the mask should take care to not touch the front of the mask, as it may contain germs. All the district residents should understand these methods of disposal to keep themselves and others around them safe.” While representatives of multiple private hospitals in the city declined to comment, or did not respond to requests seeking comment for this story, JS Punia, chief medical officer, Gurugram, said, “All medical waste must be handled and disposed of in accordance with the Centre’s biomedical waste management rules, which are adequate.”Meanwhile, Ecogreen Energy, the MCG’s concessionaire for solid waste management, is also taking precautions to protect general waste collectors from contracting Covid-19. A spokesperson for Ecogreen said, “Our waste collectors who are going to other homes have been provided masks, hand sanitizers, and briefed on how to stay safe. Garbage is being collected from people’s homes regularly and with great caution. Thermal scans and health check-ups are also being provided for all employees. Garbage cars are also being sanitized three times a day.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/covid-19-waste-accounts-for-10-of-gurugram-s-biomedical-refuse/story-Zf4FZR0UuPM8MIwrlPBvdP.html
18-04-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram businessman held for shooting at neighbour’s dog for ‘barking too much’||A 44-year-old man was arrested on Thursday for allegedly shooting at his neighbour’s dog with a pellet gun at a gated township in Sector 47, Gurugram. The police said the man allegedly shot at the dog because it was barking “too much”. The dog’s condition is reported to be stable and it sustained minor injuries. According to the police, the arrested man is a resident of a gated township in Sector 47 and is a businessman. In the police complaint, the owner of the dog alleged that her dog, of the St Bernard species, was shot at in the middle of his eyes on Tuesday. She further said the suspect allegedly shot it while he was standing in his balcony. “I am very shocked and dismayed at the brutal nature of our neighbours,” she added. The complainant said she had submitted ‘photographic’ evidence to the police regarding the incident. The police said they recorded the statement of the dog owner and filed a case against the suspect. A police officer privy to the investigating said, “We arrested him on Thursday. We are investigating the case.”A case was registered against the suspect under section 11 (treating animals cruelly) of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act and Section 428 (whoever commits mischief by killing, poisoning, maiming or rendering useless any animals or animal of the value) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Sadar police station on Thursday. Police said that the arrested man was later granted bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-44-year-old-businessman-held-for-shooting-at-neighbour-s-dog-for-barking-too-much/story-lbJ6uHbgvgsukQEspmh5EL.html
18-04-2020||City||E-learning the way ahead for all students during lockdown, say HT Chandigarh readers||Experiment with e-learning options for the futureOne can access educational videos through WhatsApp, Facebook and YouTube on smart phones. Authorities should hand out such devices free to needy students after enlisting the voluntary help of companies that manufacture them. It will be their historic contribution to a good cause during the lockdown. This expenditure would be peanuts compared to the huge sums of money squandered on building, infrastructure, and equipment in schools, which have a dismally low utilisation index. In fact, this has major scope for an experiment of far-reaching consequences. Its success would encourage the powers that be to test its validity as a sensible replacement for classroom taching. It would be “adventurous” digital learning that intelligently utilises electronic technologies to access educational curriculum outside of a traditional classroom. In successful cases, it could point to a wholesome course, programme or degree delivered completely online. SS BhattiGet students to work together, support each otherAllow students to work together. One student may be good at writing while another may be more creative so they can support each other. Trying out new technology trends can actually be fun for not just the teachers but students too. As teachers adopt new approaches, they will find it gives new life into material and creates excitement among their learners. The significant benefits of integrating technology into the classroom are that it offers a certain degree of flexibility not found in the traditional model of education.Kirti Dhall, PanchkulaCompanies, NGOs must step forwardPost Covid-19 there a need to make children from both the economically and financially wrecked communities fit enough to continue with their right to education. NGOs, education assistance app companies and other major companies out there have an obligation in arduous times like these to divert their CSR budgets towards bringing the right e-learning resources and accessibility to the less privileged. The government is working a lot for the country and acting like a shield from the onerous world emergency in the wake of the Covid-19 and it is the duty of NGOs and financially brawny firms to lend a hand and help the country come out of the current catastrophe or else it’ll be curtains for our nation. Digital learning equity needs the much needed attention at the earliest.Rajesh Bansal, PanchkulaCommon, larger medium will workChildren from all strata of society can access e-learning if they are educated through a much common and larger medium. Schools and authorities can do this by broadcasting video lectures for students on All India Radio or Doordarshan and various other radio stations on specified time for specified classes. Time schedules should be circulated through various radio stations. NCERT books should also be translated into audio and video form.Saikrit GulatiTrain the teachersTeachers should be given adequate training for online teaching. Secondly, computers and smart phones should be provided to all the students. Thirdly, all villages and remote areas should have access to wifi. Fourthly, fast net speed and data resource should be ensured. Gurdev Singh, MohaliGive laptops to students in govt schoolsDigital learning for those who cannot afford mobile phones or laptops is possible only if each student gets a laptop in government institutions and teachers there are also given training in e-learning.Gurpreet S Malhotra, KansalCompanies should step forward to helpGiven that the fight against Covid-19 the coronavirus is going to be a long one, both the government and private school managements have a critical role to play in the digital empowerment of less privileged students and teachers. Companies producing digital equipment such as mobile phones, tablets and laptops should produce extra pieces for people who need it. NGOs and civil societies too should help the poor access digital classes. The government should also start digital classrooms for the lower strata so they do not lack in knowledge. The taxes paid by the aware citizens of India should be spent in this social cause and for the empowerment of less privileged students and teachers.Ishita Nara, Panchkula.Government schools should facilitate e-learningStudents of the lower strata join government schools where fees are exempted and food etc are provided free. Some of these schools lack basic facilities such as boards and chalks for even writing or even class rooms so it would be unreasonable to expect them to have digital learning mediums. Let the government educational institutes get all the digital means to teach them at their premises (with social distancing rules in place) and ensure they are exposed to learning that matches with the quality of education in other top schools.Suresh VermaTime to create special devices, softwareEconomically weaker people, bereft of even the three Rs, have access to network with cheap mobile sets. Digital distance learning is in vogue with many a university such as IGNOU, for higher classes. The focus now has to shift for imparting instruction at the primary level. For this, need of the hour is to design cheap mono-frequency-module mobile sets with audio-visual feature and in-built hard disc having flexible software containing study material separately for each class to obviate its misuse. These can be distributed free to EWS-children. Contact numbers of consultant teachers can be publicised. To start with, the above mobiles can be designed for nursery to Class-5. Post-Covid-19 era would warrant a sea change in our lifstyle.Lalit BharadwajStart with educational TV programmesWhile most of the children are able to access online lectures via the internet on smart phones or on desktops/laptops, there is still a group of children left behind, especially those who study in government schools. The government should start with certain television channels through which poor children can have access to education as now most of the families have television sets at home. The channels should have bifurcation according to different classes and lectures/programmes can be telecast during school timings. Priyam Aggarwal, ChandigarhLend students a helping handThe governments should provide digital facilities to needy students and teachers. The NGOs and civil society have not taken a keen interest in promoting digital classrooms in government institutions. It’s time everyone realised the critical role digital education can play for both teachers and students for ensuring the better future of the nation. It’s high time all key players came together to give especial attention to poor and government school going students.Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, MohaliConduct English and technology classesIn the present scenario, it is very difficult to make lower strata people become tech savvy because either they don’t have smart phones, laptops or they are unable to handle apps like Zoom, Skype etc. Moreover, many are unable to understand the lectures in English. Audio recordings of lectures in Hindi can be sent to them. Those who are unable to access this facility can be taught later on when the schools reopen after the lockdown. For future e-learning, the government can provide them cheap smart phones at easy installments. The government should also make e-learning mandatory for specific topics to ensure teachers and students are familiarised with this process.Abhilasha Gupta, Mohali||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/e-learning-the-way-ahead-for-all-students-during-lockdown-say-ht-chandigarh-readers/story-biLEQBiER8gGhqsSXwh9mJ.html
18-04-2020||Mumbai||State clears plan for evacuation of over 1.3L intrastate labourers||The intrastate sugarcane migrant labourers stuck in districts away from their villages can finally head home as the state government cleared an evacuation plan on Thursday.As many as 1.31 lakh sugar cane cutters, largely from Marathwada, working for 38 factories have been stuck amid lockdown.The state government has allowed these workers to go back to their villages after they clear a health checkup by authorised medical officers and get a clearance certificate from them. The health checkup, transportation back to their villages as well as food along the way, the order says, has to be organised by the factories. The district collector will approve a list of workers willing to return home. The GR issued by chief secretary Ajoy Mehta stated that Maharashtra Sugar Co-operative Federation had informed the government of the stranded labourers who need to return to their own farms to harvest rabi crops. Social justice minister Dhananjay Munde tweeted, “The plan for your return to home has been approved and the government has issued directions for the same...”Meanwhile, the BMC announced that public toilets in Mumbai will be free for users during the lockdown as migrant workers are stranded in the city. ‘Did Shah call other CMs after protests?’ Maharashtra Congress chief and state revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat raised questions over the migrant crisis at Bandra. During a video conference, Thorat said, “Shah called up Uddhav Thackeray immediately after migrant workers flocked at Bandra on Tuesday. There were protests by migrants in Surat, Hyderabad and Kerala. Did Shah call the CMs in those states?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-clears-plan-for-evacuation-of-over-1-3l-intrastate-labourers/story-ao78eIPxq4uK4v7y2AvpfI.html
18-04-2020||Delhi||Traffic cop who had tested positive for coronavirus released||A 49-year-old Delhi Police assistant sub-inspector, who was admitted to Safdarjung Hospital on April 7 after testing positive for the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease, was released on Friday released after his test reports showed no signs of the infection. The police said that six of the ASI’s family members, who had been quarantined at Rajiv Gandhi Hospital in Shahadra, were also released after a medical examination.The policeman, who was posted with the Hauz Khas circle traffic unit, was placed in isolation and home-quarantine on April 2. He had gone for a check-up at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), where he was not recommended for a Covid-19 test due to few symptoms.However, as his condition deteriorated later, he had undergone testing at a private facility and was subsequently admitted to the Safdarjung Hospital. “He got his tests conducted at a private lab in Safdarjung Development Area and was found positive for Covid-19. Therefore, he was immediately admitted to Safdarjung Hospital for treatment. On April 9, his wife, who was also having a fever, three sons, a daughter-in-law and another woman who was staying with the family were quarantined at Rajeev Gandhi Hospital in Shahdara,” said a senior officer, who did not wish to be named.The deputy commissioner of police (South East), RP Meena, said the ASI’s family members were taken to LNJP Hospital on April 8 in a government ambulance and their tests were conducted the next day at the facility. A few neighbours of the family, who were in touch with the ASI, were also asked to quarantine themselves at home and report any symptom, Meena said.However, on Friday, the ASI’s test reports were negative for Covid-19 and he was discharged from the hospital. “His family members who were in Rajeev Gandhi Hospital were also discharged after their reports were negative,” he said. Officials of the hospital could not be reached for comment.Six other Delhi Police personnel — three ASIs, two constables and a head constable — have tested positive for Covid-19 so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/traffic-cop-who-had-tested-positive-for-coronavirus-released/story-ldodENfRiqKGFe9vmigY2H.html
18-04-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s second drive-through testing centre opens at South Delhi’s Select Citywalk mall||The Capital’s second drive-through coronavirus (Covid-19) testing centre was opened in South Delhi’s Select Citywalk mall by Dr Dangs Lab on Friday.Those wanting to get themselves checked for Covid-19 can drive through the mall’s rear side for the tests, said a spokesperson of the mall.The opening of the testing lab is a timely measure to test South Delhi residents. As of Friday, 72 people have tested positive for Covid-19 in South district and eight containment zones have been identified. The process of drive-through testing involves filling out an online form, driving to the designated collection centre, displaying an identity proof, rolling down the car window, tilting the head back to allow the collection of swab samples from throat and nose, and then driving away. “We are located in the heart of south Delhi and accessible across a large catchment area. Our aim, currently, is to be of service to the community in the fight against Covid-19, and access to adequate testing is a must for so many people. The initiative by Dr Dangs Lab is a simple, easy and convenient way for people to come for testing, and minimises contact in the best way possible. We do hope this drive through the testing facility will be a help to many who need it urgently,” said Arjun Sharma, director, Select Citywalk.Dr Arjun Dang, the chief executive of Dr Dang’s Lab — one of the eight private labs approved in the city — said the decision to expand the number of drive-through centres was taken due to high demand at its first facility, in West Delhi’s Punjabi Bagh.“The West Delhi centre in Punjabi Bagh opened just last week and we have conducted approximately 150 tests there till now. To get a test done, the patient has to follow similar guidelines as with any other testing facility. The documents required will be a doctor’s prescription recommending the test, government-approved identification, and a TRF/proforma request form available online on the website. The person will also have to provide details of the car and registration number to ensure smooth facilitation. To ensure maximum safety and minimum exposure to both the patient and the medical staff collecting the samples, only one car can pass through the stretch at a time,” said Dr Dang. Each station has a dedicated sample collection officer for the procedure. The samples are collected from inside the car, through the window of the station by the designated medical officer. A series of signage is provided to guide visitors through the stations. The entire process, at the facility, is completed within 10-12 minutes. The reports are e-mailed and available on Dr Dang’s website within 24-36 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-second-drive-through-testing-centre-opens-at-south-delhi-s-select-citywalk-mall/story-xdfghWPsRMaf0a9ZU5sirK.html
18-04-2020||Pune||Covid-19: To prevent delay, conservancy staff assists with cremation in Pune||The delay of almost one and a half hour in the cremation of a Covid-19 victim on Friday could have extended further had it not been for assistance from three sanitary workers, on contract, who were on the premises of the Vaikunth crematorium.The workers were provided with personal protective equipment (PPE) and persuaded by Pune municipal employees to assist a civic staffer, who was only involved in disinfection measures, and another person on contract, at the crematorium with carrying the body.Previously, two cremations at the Vaikunth and Yerawada crematoriums had suffered delays of almost four hours due to shortage of manpower. After those delays, Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) officer incharge of crematoriums, Shrinivas Kandul, had said that steps were being taken to address the delays.A total of 49 persons have died of the Covid-19 disease in Pune as of April 17.On Friday evening, a Covid-19 body was brought to the Vaikunth crematorium from KEM hospital and as just two employees were present at the gas-fired crematorium, nothing could be done for almost one and a half hour .While the relatives maintained a safe distance as per the protocol, civic officials at the crematorium asked three sanitary staffers to put on the PPEs and assist in carrying the body to be placed in the furnace.Kandul acknowledged the delay said the situation needs to be fully appreciated. “We are trying our best to provide adequate staff. But the employees are also reluctant and unwilling to touch the body in spite of being provided with PPEs. The gas-fired furnaces are run by a contractor who has been told to increase the manpower for all the three shifts. He has assured to do so even as the PMC is making alternate arrangements,” Kandul said.Kandul said the issues at the Yerawada crematorium had been sorted out and there were no complaints of delays from there.He said that although six gas-fired crematoriums at different locations in the city had been linked to hospitals and earmarked for Covid-19 cremations, relatives had their preferences which was also a cause for delay.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-to-prevent-delay-conservancy-staff-assists-with-cremation-in-pune/story-8ITIu12ogT0cHwoHfaSQoJ.html
18-04-2020||City||Stop using cancer institute as covid facility: Harsimrat||Union minister for food processing industry Harsimrat Kaur Badal, on Friday, said that she will write to the PM Modi regarding the Punjab government’s decision to use the Advanced Cancer Institute (ACI) as a Covid-19 facility.Harsimrat told HT that the presence of Covid patients at the ACI will pose a serious threat to cancer patients due to their low immunity. “The state authorities should have selected some other hospital to take care of coronavirus patients. MPLAD funds can be used to upgrade facilities needed for Covid treatment. But converting ACI as an isolation centre is a bad decision,” said the minister.Last week, HT had highlighted that due to covid facility, ACI had to shift ICU patients to other rooms and patients requiring chemotherapy will have to use a dharamshala on campus. Also, 40 beds on the third floor of the ACI have been earmarked for Covid isolation facility.The minister accused the Congress-led Punjab government for poor distribution of dry ration among the underprivileged.MC commissioner Bikram Shergill said that 11,874 families have been provided dry ration kits between March 29 to April 16. He said the voluntary organisations have provided essential food items to 8,750 families till yesterday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/stop-using-cancer-institute-as-covid-facility-harsimrat-to-punjab-govt/story-gbtF4SiIJQybXuVQhSYlbI.html
18-04-2020||Education||Panjab University offers online counselling to students amid lockdown||In the wake of lockdown due to coronavirus outbreak, Panjab University (PU) on Friday launched an online health and wellness facility for students. The new initiative by the university aims at addressing issues related to emotional and physical wellness besides taking up the current challenges being faced by students during the difficult times.In its press release, the university mentioned, “Through these helpline students will get an opportunity to call or send Whatsapp messages for help or advice to experts in the field.” The counseling facility will deal with various issues such as emotional imbalance, depression, stress, issues concerning physical fitness, nutrition and diet care, tips of naturopathy, yogic exercises, motivation and encouragement for personality development, attitude building and lifestyle management.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-offers-online-counselling-to-students-amid-lockdown/story-W2zyLtCIftczj2QfddywaN.html
18-04-2020||Chandigarh||Zoom controversy: Institutes look for options amid reports of hacking, popping of objectionable links||City’s students and teachers had turned to US-based Zoom application for online classes amid the Covid-19 lockdown. However, Zoom was soon discovered to have many security loopholes. With the Union ministry of home affairs issuing an advisory on Thursday stating Zoom was not a secure videoconferencing platform, schools and colleges have started taking precautions. A student of Punjab Engineering College, requesting anonymity, said, “During an online class, a third party accessed the system window with a pornographic name and objectionable content was displayed. We think the system was hacked during the Zoom call.”KB DAV School principal Pooja Prakash said, “We have issued instructions to the parents regarding the Zoom App. We are using our school website to disseminate the content to the students. We are also trying to create our own software, which will be ready soon.”Vineeta Arora, principal of Bhavan Vidyalaya, said, “We are making our own audio-visual lessons. We are also using the Snap app, Skype and occasionally zoom. We are also going introduce the Next Education software.”She said, “We had anyway minimised use of Zoom from the beginning of the month.”PU issues advisory In wake of the MHA advisory, Panjab University (PU) on Friday issued an advisory to all its departments to avoid using Zoom.“There is a concern among the teachers regarding the Zoom application now. We are evaluating other options for online teaching,” said Tejinder Pal Singh, associate professor at University Business School of PU.Besides issuing advisory to departments, an online webinar was also cancelled by the university. Teachers evaluating other options However, teachers at Panjab University are evaluating other online platforms for teaching purpose. Professor Jatinder Grover of department of education, said, “There are other options which can be used for videoconferencing. Yesterday I had taken a class on Zoom, but now I have turned to WebEx wherein around 100 people can interact at one time.”Vishal Sharma, assistant professor at forensic science department of PU, said, “We are evaluating other platforms which can be used for online teaching. I had told the chairpersons on Thursday about various safety measures too.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/zoom-controversy-institutes-look-for-options-amid-reports-of-hacking-popping-of-objectionable-links/story-VzflCj1OE61upDMoNZVkhP.html
18-04-2020||Pune||7 members of Khadki family, Sassoon doctor and civic water dept employee among Covid-19 +ve||Seven family members of a Covid-19 positive patient in Khadki, a senior chest physician from Sassoon Hospital and a civic employee from Parvati water works were among those who tested positive for the Sars-Cov-2 virus on Friday.The total number of positive cases on Friday rose to 501 in Pune and 52 in Pimpri-Chinchwad.On Friday, seven family members of a Covid-19 positive patient tested positive for the coronavirus infection in Khadki Cantonment, after which the entire area was sealed for the next three days as a precautionary measure.Khadki Cantonment Board (KCB) officials said a resident of the area had approached the Bharat Ratna Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Cantonment Hospital on April 7 with complaints of cold and cough. His swab samples were referred to Aundh Chest Hospital for the Covid-19 test which came positive on April 16. Eight family members were then put under quarantine, even as six tested positive for the virus. The remaining two family members have been advised home quarantine. None of them had a travel history outside Pune district.While swabs samples of other residents in the area were being collected for testing, the entire area was sealed on Friday. The total number of positive cases from Khadki Cantonment area is now eight.At Sassoon General Hospital, a senior chest physician tested positive two days after four nurses treating patients at the Covid19 ward in the hospital were quarantined for Covid19 infection.The doctor’s report came on Wednesday night and he was quarantined in the same ward where he was attending and treating patients along with the three nurses. District Collector Naval Kishore Ram confirmed the development and said the doctor was in a stable condition.“Since he is a pulmonary expert he got himself tested as soon as he got mild symptoms including sore throat and cold. He is now being quarantined at the hospital to continue his treatment,” Ram said.At the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), an employee working at the Parvati water works tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. The PMC then worked on a war footing and replaced the staff.PMC water department head Aniruddha Pawaskar confirmed the development and said, “We made alternate arrangements immediately and replaced the staff.According to Pawaskar, the employee had gone to visit a sick relative who was found to be Covid-19 positive. The PMC health department therefore took swab samples of all the family members and found that PMC employee was also positive, he said.Swab samples of all the employees who had come in close contact with this Covid-19 positive employee have been taken and the other employees have been asked to remain in quarantine, he said.Pawaskar said since a high number of positive cases are emerging from Bhavani peth area, he took a review two days ago of how many employees at Parvati water works were from Bhavani peth and other high risk areas. Accordingly, 20 employees were asked not to stay at home, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/7-members-of-khadki-family-sassoon-doctor-and-civic-water-dept-employee-among-covid-19-ve/story-g42gFfeTPTBJxzFJRGNBOI.html
18-04-2020||Chandigarh||HC asks Haryana to provide food, shelter to migrant labourers in Panipat||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday directed government to immediately examine and provide food and shelter to the migrant labourers stranded in Panipat. The directions in this regard were issued suo motu by the bench of chief justice RS Jha and justice Arun Palli acting on a plea in this regard. The matter was brought before the court by Indian Federation of Trade Unions (IFTU), a labour union in Panipat, which had alleged that 4,314 migrant labourers in Panipat working in various factories were waiting for government help.The government had told the court that for providing food and shelter to the migrant labourers, nodal officers have been appointed. Helpline number 1100 has been notified and those migrant workers, identified by government teams, are being given ₹1,000 per week for a period of one month. As many as 29,533 labourers got themselves registered and after verification, 131,82 people, who were found eligible, have been granted the benefit under the government scheme, the court was told.The nodal officers are also monitoring the fair distribution of dry ration/cooked food and 772 people are residing in the 10 shelter homes set up in Panipat, the court was told, adding that any person in need of assistance even today can approach the authorities with his/her grievances and the same would be considered immediately.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hc-asks-haryana-to-provide-food-shelter-to-migrant-labourers-in-panipat/story-0odCvquzYwIc3sqtbSbdFM.html
18-04-2020||Pune||Examine referral chain to investigate rising Covid-19 deaths at Sassoon, says Dr Arun Gadre||The abrupt transfer of the dean of BJ Medical College - Sassoon General Hospital, Dr Ajay Chandanwale, at a time when the Covid-19 death toll is mounting in Pune, is a misplaced step, public healthcare crusader, Dr Arun Gadre, has said.Rather than blame the hospital for the high number of deaths, the ‘referral chain’ needs to be investigated to identify weak links and reasons why patients were coming in an advanced/critical condition to the hospital, said Dr Gadre, a public healthcare crusader and coordinator of Sathi, a voluntary group for advocacy and training in health initiatives.The Maharashtra government, on Wednesday night, abruptly removed Dr Chandanwale as dean of Sassoon Hospital and he was transferred to Mumbai as Joint director of Directorate Medical Education.As of April 16, 46 deaths were recorded in Pune due to the Sars-Cov-2 virus of which 38 occurred in the Sassoon Hospital.While city politicians such as senior Congressman Arvind Shinde said he had complained to the government about alleged mismanagement by Dr. Chandanwale, the ousted dean had explained that most of the patients admitted to Sassoon were being brought in a very serious or critical stage with co-morbidity conditions such as diabetes, heart disease, high blood pressure and asthma. “These patients come to Sassoon only when their condition is very serious and their survival becomes difficult despite our best effort,” he had said in an interview.About his transfer, he said, he would respect the order. The hospital, in a statement, had said that it was well-equipped with medical equipment, doctors and staff dedicated to the treatment of Covid-19 patients.Dr. Gadre said, “Late admissions could be one of the causes for the high deaths at Sassoon. It is my experience of 30 years that most government hospitals are used as ‘dumping grounds’ wherein patients are brought in at the very last stage. I would not like to use that word but that is the reality,” he said.Dr. Gadre noted that public hospitals like Sassoon and King Edwards Memorial Hospital (KEM) were heavily over-loaded with patients and were doing enormous work compared to their capacity. “Their image is unnecessarily being tarnished,” he said.About Dr. Chandanwale’s abrupt transfer he said, “As a doctor I felt that the fire was somewhere and the fire-fighting was being done somewhere else.”“The referral chain is weak somewhere. All the links in the chain- right from the testing stage to bringing the patient to the hospital- needs to be examined to find out where is the delay happening; why are patients coming late to Sassoon,” he said. Dr. Gadre felt that almost half the patients who had died could have survived had they come to Sassoon at an early stage. “This is what the government and the administration needs to tighten. If that is not done, the death toll at Sassoon is not going to reduce. This is the key issue that needs to be addressed and is not being addressed,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/examine-referral-chain-to-investigate-rising-covid-19-deaths-at-sassoon/story-3mI1E1bBZHyPVHva9R9iWN.html
18-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab govt issues show-cause notice to LPU for violating Covid-19 lockdown norms||Days after a 21-year-old woman student and hostel inmate of Lovely Professional University (LPU) near here tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the Punjab government issued a show-cause notice to the private institution for violating lockdown norms.In the notice issued on Thursday, the state higher education and language department asked Phagwara-based LPU, which also has foreign students on its rolls, to explain within seven days on why the no objection certificate issued to it should not be withdrawn for violating government orders and endangering the lives of 3,200 people, and many more.When contacted over phone, LPU additional director Aman Mittal said, “We have received the letter of the Punjab government and will file the reply.” He declined to comment further.‘IGNORED GRAVITY OF SITUATION’The notice said that the Punjab higher education minister had ordered the suspension of teaching in all institutions, including private ones, on March 13. “It has now come to light that in spite of the instructions, ignoring the gravity of the situation and jeopardising the lives of about 3,200 people and thousands of others to which infection can spread, you did not shut down completely,” the notice said.“Considering the highly infectious nature of the disease and despite the fact that there was sufficient time for you to send all students to their respective homes from March 13 to March 22, but for no reasons you continued with the functioning of the university and the hostels and made no effort to send them to their homes,” it said.MISLED LOCAL ADMINISTRATIONThe notice said: “It might be argued by you that the movement of students was not possible in the light of the complete lockdown. There is no denying the fact that norms about maintaining social distancing were flouted and the administration was informed that the university was shut and vacated, while that was not the case. It is amply clear that you did not pay any heed to instructions of the district administration on March 23 and kept it in dark. When the world is battling this deadly virus and the only remedy is complete isolation, your administration threw all instructions to the winds and put hundreds of lives at risk.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-govt-issues-show-cause-notice-to-lovely-professional-university-jalandhar-for-violating-covid-19-lockdown-norms/story-j6XlEzUjLgPFuJOTE09hpO.html
18-04-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 update: Bootleggers resort to innovative ways to smuggle liquor into Delhi-NCR||Ever since the 21-day nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) began on March 25, bootleggers are trying different ways to smuggle liquor from other states into the national Capital. Among the many who attempted to smuggle liquor defying prohibition, there was a sanitation worker who misused his curfew pass, a vegetable supplier’s driver who had covered liquor bottles with vegetables in his truck, and an Uttar Pradesh resident who tried to smuggle alcohol in milk canisters fitted to his bike.Delhi Police personnel, especially those posted at the Delhi-Haryana border have been instructed by their superiors to be extra vigilant and check for suspicious vehicles entering the city. In Dwarka’s police district, which shares its border with Haryana, the police have busted 17 cases of illicit liquor smuggling since March 25.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe police said that they have registered at least 60 cases under Excise Act since March 25.The government has ordered liquor shops across the city to shut down during the nationwide lockdown. It has not been included in the list of essential services, such as grocery, milk or medicines. Over the past one week, two break-ins have been reported at two liquor shops in Mundka and Roshanara Road. Though police officers did not reveal details of the Mundka case, in the Roshanara road case, the police suspect the theft is the work of amateur thieves. The thieves, an officer said, stole only a few crates and did not touch most of the liquor inside the shop. Click here for the latest updates from the coronavirus outbreakA senior Delhi police officer, who did not wish to be named, said that most of the illicit liquor is being smuggled from Haryana. “We busted an interesting case last week. At Bhalswa Dairy, we stopped a suspicious vehicle carrying vegetables to the Azadpur vegetable market. Movement of vehicles carrying vegetables is allowed because they come under the essential goods. Our two constables at the spot found the vehicle driver suspicious and signalled him to stop. On checking the mini truck, we found 70 cartons that had around 3,360 small bottles of liquor hidden under raw vegetables,” the police officer said. Over the last two weeks, the police have also arrested one of their own for smuggling. An assistant sub-inspector, who lived in Haryana, was caught on Monday while trying to smuggle around 1,432 small bottles of liquor from Haryana into Delhi. The police said the man wanted to make some money by selling liquor at a higher price.The police said that interrogation of many illicit liquor smugglers have revealed that the smuggled liquor is being sold in Delhi for at least three times its manufacturer’s retail price (MRP).In at least three cases, the police have also found people misusing the curfew passes. Two men, who were issued curfew passes for their vehicles as part of the municipal agency’s sanitation department, were arrested in Mundka for smuggling liquor. The police say that the two were carrying the liquor for their own consumption.“There were some who were desperate alcoholics and were smuggling it for themselves or their friends but in most cases, the smugglers were professional liquor smugglers. Because shops are closed in Delhi they are using this time to make money,” said an officer of the crime branch.In the case of a milkman who was arrested with seven liquor bottles last week at South Avenue near Rashtrapati Bhavan, the man had hidden the liquor bottles in four milk canisters. His interrogation revealed that he was carrying the liquor to Bulandshahr for his cousin’s birthday.Additional commissioner of police MS Randhawa said police officers across the city, especially those at the border, have been told to be extra vigilant to ensure there is no smuggling of liquor. “Smuggling of liquor is an offence. Our officers at the borders are checking suspicious vehicles since the lockdown was enforced. Apart from ensuring that only vehicles under essential services enter the city, our officers are also checking suspicious vehicles. Over the last few days, we have also busted many cases of illicit liquor smuggling.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/bootleggers-resort-to-innovative-ways-to-smuggle-liquor-into-capital-60-cases-filed/story-8ApbfR1a7Qpv0RQZKXkwAK.html
