19-04-2020||City||Fake FB page offers home delivery of liquor in Panchkula, unidentified persons booked||Police have booked unidentified persons for posting messages assuring home delivery of liquor in Panchkula through a fake Facebook page. Officials said the person handling the Facebook page claimed it belonged to a liquor vend in Panchkula’s Sector 7 . Regular posts informing people that they would deliver liquor at home have gone viral on social media.The matter came to the fore when a cyber cell official came across the posts. Inspector Lalit Kumar, the Sector 5 SHO, said a cyber cell official deputed to monitor social media found the Facebook page where the handler assured delivery of liquor at the door step. The matter was then taken up with senior police officials.“Amid the lockdown, all liquor vends are closed and no one can sell or buy liquor. The number mentioned on the Facebook page was found to be of Odisha, and as per initial investigation, the page was found to be fake,” the SHO said. A case has been registered under the Information Technology Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fake-fb-page-offers-home-delivery-of-liquor-in-panchkula-unidentified-persons-booked/story-Ej4xqsk6y3ks5uFLILgNvI.html
19-04-2020||Chandigarh||DIG to probe scribe’s detention in Chandigarh, Press Club condemns incident||The police on Sunday ordered an inquiry against Jasbir Singh, station house officer (SHO), Industrial Area, for allegedly harassing and misbehaving with a journalist working in a city-based newspaper.Deputy inspector general of police (DIG) Ombir Singh Bishnoi will be probing the incident to determine what led to the detention of the journalist who was on his way to office on April 18.“Chandigarh police respects the fourth pillar of the democracy and considers media helpful in fighting against the outbreak of Covid-19. Keeping in view yesterday’s incident in which a senior journalist… alleged … harassment, an inquiry has been initiated against the officials concerned,” said an official statement from the police.“Strictest action will be taken if the official concerned is found guilty after a fact finding probe,” Ombir Singh said.The Chandigarh Press Club on Sunday also condemned what it said was the unlawful detention of the journalist.The matter would be taken up with the UT administrator VPS Badnore, Press Club members said.The journalist was on his way to work when he was stopped at the Sector 29-30 crossing at 4.30pm and detained for “violating curfew rules” even though the media is in the essential list of services allowing journalists to move to carry out their professional commitments.The journalist was carrying his identity card and even had a curfew pass, but despite being shown the valid documents the Chandigarh Police took him to Industrial Area, Phase I, police station and let him go after almost one hour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/dig-to-probe-scribe-s-detention-in-chandigarh-press-club-condemns-incident/story-UDeekDjIxwIovbDXICFt7M.html
19-04-2020||Chandigarh||PGIMER to conduct programme on Covid-19 management for SAARC nations||The Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) will conduct a 10-day online capacity building programme on Covid-19 management for SAARC health professionals, from April 27 onwards.Senior professionals from Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Maldives, Mauritius, Nepal, Seychelles and Sri Lanka will participate in the programme.PGIMER officials will educate them on the most effective practices being followed in India to contain the spread of Covid-19.Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a video conference with leaders of SAARC nations on March 15, where he suggested that their healthcare professionals could come together to jointly fight the Covid-19 pandemic.PGIMER director Jagat Ram spoke on the importance of the programme in the current scenario. He said that the programme, spearheaded by Dr Sonu Goel from department of community medicine and school of public health, will help SAARC nations manage the pandemic effectively in their countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pgimer-to-conduct-programme-on-covid-19-management-for-saarc-nations/story-iXTpIqmrjkr2maAG6Ut91I.html
19-04-2020||City||Gzb records 12 new Covid-19 cases in single day, gets 1,000 rapid test kits||Ghaziabad: The district on Sunday recorded 12 new Covid-19 positive cases, the biggest rise in number of such cases in a single day. Health officials said that 11 of the positive cases were linked to people who attended various religious congregations, while one case was of a 71-year-old man from Indirapuram.With the 12 new cases, the total number of Covid-19 patients in Ghaziabad has gone up to 42, and 10 of them have been discharged from different hospitals. On Sunday, three Covid-19 patients undergoing treatment were discharged from the L1-category hospital at Muradnagar after being cured.“Ghaziabad recorded a total of 12 Covid-19 positive cases on Sunday. Eleven of them are the ones who attended religious congregations. Their second test reports have come positive while their first reports were negative. From now, we will be conducting tests only after at least seven days. The 11 are primarily from the Pasonda area in Sahibabad. They were brought to the quarantine centre after being picked up by police and health teams early this month,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer (CMO), Ghaziabad.Meanwhile, the district has received 1,000 rapid test kits (RTKs), which will be used in conducting random tests in containment zones from Monday, the officials said. “One of the 12 patients tested positive on Sunday is a 71-year-old man who was on chemotherapy at a hospital in Noida. He is a resident of Indirapuram. We are preparing documents so that he can be shifted to L3 category hospital at Meerut Medical College,” the CMO added.Most of the 11 Covid-19 patients are native of Ranchi in Jharkhand, and had been in hiding at Pasonda, Gupta said. Till Sunday evening, the health department was awaiting reports of 443 samples.“Majority of the cases in Ghaziabad have come from areas of Masuri, Pasonda and Islam Nagar which have now become hot spots of the infection. We will now be conducting random tests in these areas from Monday with the help of 1,000 rapid test kits which we have received,” Gupta said.The district administration on Saturday night sealed street number 4 at Islam Nagar after a woman, who delivered a child on April 16, had tested positive for coronavirus.“The area, which houses about 100 families, has been sealed. The health department teams were taking up sanitization and other procedures as per health protocols. The administration has also removed two high-rises -- KDP Grand Savana at Raj Nagar Extension and Girnar Apartment, Kaushambi -- from the list of hot spot areas,” said Shiv Prakash Shukl, city magistrate.District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey also confirmed that the two high-rises were moved out of the hot spot list.In another development on Sunday, a group of private doctors and health care persons lodged at a quarantine centre at Dasna took to social media and alleged lack of facilities at the centre.The group has majority of people from different private health establishments who had tended to the 25-year-old woman who delivered child on April 16 and was declared corona positive on Saturday.“We had to take to social media as there were dumps of garbage at the quarantine centre, besides dusty surroundings. There are mosquitoes and no tea or food was provided to us till Sunday afternoon. So, our group prepared videos and posted them on the social media,” said one of the doctors from the group.When asked, the CMO said that some areas were not clean and there was some delay in provision of food.“After the videos got viral, we rushed teams and garbage was cleaned and food was also provided. There was some delay in providing food to the quarantined persons. We will take up the issue with agency, which is tasked to provide services here,” he said.So far as the use of RTKs are concerned, officials of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) have said that such kits are not meant for diagnosis but should ideally be used for surveillance purposes to establish trends.ICMR has recommended that since the gold standard frontline test for Covid-19 is real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test, which is aimed at early detection, the rapid antibody test could not be a substitute for it.Unlike the RT-PCR, which detects the virus’ genetic material (RNA) in swabs to diagnose a current Covid-19 infection, rapid tests detect antibodies in the blood and indicate if a person has been infected in the past and has developed immunity to the virus. The rapid tests can show results within 30 minutes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gzb-records-12-new-covid-19-cases-in-single-day-gets-1-000-rapid-test-kits/story-ssnDmgzHeooXbr7sjcagIJ.html
19-04-2020||City||1,300 members of Mahanubhav Panth sect shifted from Latur to Pune||Around 1,300 members of ‘Mahanubhav Panth’ a sect worshiping lord Krishna, stranded in their Latur-based ashram in Maharashtra due to the lockdown, were on Sunday shifted to their main base at Junnar in Pune district.The members were brought in 40 buses and following social distancing norms after the state government issued a special order in view of the damage caused to the ashram by unseasonal rains at Latur where around 4,000 members had gathered. The ashram at Latur district was in open field away from main town. The Disaster Management, Help and Rehabilitation department on April 17 had issued a special order instructing the Latur district administration to make special transport arrangements to shift all the 1,341 followers of Mahanubhav Panth. These members were brought to Devdatta Ashram in Junnar, which is their main base having capacity to house around 4,000 people, said district collector Naval Kishore Ram.“We have followed all norms while bringing them here. These 1,341 followers were brought to Devdatta Ashram in Junnar in 40 buses on Sunday,” said an official from district administration on anonymity.According to officials, these sect members went to another ashram at Nilanga in Latur district, 400 kilometres from Pune, on February 26 for a religious congregation. However, the lockdown prevented them from coming back to Pune in March.The order issued by the state government stated, that local administration at Latur was asked to carry out health check-up of all these members following which the journey was allowed.“Due to lockdown, all these people could not return to their original ashram in Pune district. Meanwhile, rain and thunderstorm caused heavy damage to the ashram in Nilanga and the accommodation of the occupants became an issue. So the district administration was instructed to carry out health check-up of all these followers before allowing them to board the buses,” the order stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/1-300-members-of-mahanubhav-panth-sect-shifted-from-latur-to-pune/story-L6bGlXseDdYM7uApUaOJ0I.html
19-04-2020||City||Thane family writes to PM, district authorities to seek treatment for son suffering from skin allergy in UK||A city-based family has sought help from the central government and the local MLAs to provide medical aid to their 20-year-old son who is studying in the United Kingdom (UK) and suffering from a skin allergy. The family is a resident of Vijay Garden, Ghodbunder Road.The father, Shashi Yadav, 53, said that his son Vishal Yadav has a skin allergy since a week which has caused red patches on his body. Moreover, he is unable to get the medicines prescribed by his doctors in India. He added that medical stores in South Shields, UK, where his son is staying in an apartment, are demanding a prescription from the local doctors to provide the medicines. The local doctors have also denied an appointment without a registration in the local bodies. The family has written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for help and forwarded the request to district authorities and MLAs in the area.“My son is stuck in an apartment in South Shields with three to four other students. He went there to pursue a course in Nautical Science. Last week, he developed a skin disease which caused painful red patches on his body. He had this skin problem in India too for which a doctor had prescribed a medicine. He went to the local medical stores in UK with the prescription, however, was denied,” he said. He added that the medical store asked him to get a prescription from a local doctor. “Local doctors are not ready to give an appointment without registration with local bodies, who in turn claim to be busy with the outbreak to provide any new registration. I want the district authorities to contact the local bodies in the UK to provide treatment to my son.”Rajesh Narvekar, district collector, said, “We will forward the request to the state and try to contact the consulate to provide him medical aid.”Local MLA of the area, Pratap Sarnaik also said that he will approach the chief minister to forward the request to appropriate authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-family-writes-to-pm-district-authorities-to-seek-treatment-for-son-suffering-from-skin-allergy-in-uk/story-Mr6xQJVI4iLTG7U8UUwkzL.html
19-04-2020||Mumbai||Students stuck in Sweden, IIT seeks help from alumni||The Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B) has requested its alumni in Sweden to help six students, from four IITs, who are stuck there owing to the international lockdown due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. The students had gone for a semester exchange programme. “The students are from IIT-B, Madras, Delhi and Roorkee and are currently residing in Stockholm, Sweden. They are running out of money as well as accommodation facilities,”said Subhasis Chaudhuri, director, IIT-B. Chaudhuri has requested alumni of all IITs in Sweden to help these stranded students in any way possible.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/students-stuck-in-sweden-iit-seeks-help-from-alumni/story-aqkSJHSrvbknEleNl8ujsK.html
19-04-2020||City||Noida: With no ration, people looking for food not getting through the helplines||Noida: Though the district administration, the police department and the authorities had launched helpline numbers for residents to call on in case they need medical or essential items, or in case of emergencies, many intended recipients say the service has fallen short of its goals.Many from impoverished backgrounds, who are in need of assistance the most as several of them have lost their sources of livelihood due to the nationwide lockdown imposed to curb the outbreak of the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease, allege that either the wait to get through to an operator on the helpline is too long or their pleas for help go unattended.“We are a cluster of nearly 30 jhuggis (shanties) and for almost a week, we have been scraping the bottom of the jars for food. We have been trying to contact anyone who can help us and tried several numbers of government helplines that we got from people. However, there was no response at all. If a call finally did go through, the operator gave us another number to call. I heard from a neighbour that we could get rations at a police post. I approached a constable on duty at a barricade in Sector 76 but she did not provide any help. Then I contacted one of my employers who gave me the number of a police officer who then gave me the number of a police response vehicle (PRV), who then gave me a number of the chowki. All of them kept saying that help will come but it never did,” said Rukmani, who worked as a domestic help and lives in a cluster in Sector 75.She said that eventually, the families in the area were helped out by the intervention of citizens who provided them with basic groceries.“Most of the calls are going to the control room now but if we come to know through someone about genuine needs, the local police does provide help,” said Dharmendra Sharma, station house officer, Sector 49 police station, under whose jurisdiction the area falls.There are others who allege that despite several attempts, their calls are not going through.“I must have tried calling the number of the control room at least five to six times but to no avail. We even tried calling at odd hours to avoid a busy network but that didn’t work either. I work as a security guard in Sector 63. We are from Deoria district but were not able to go back home. My family is struggling to make ends meet because of a lack of basic necessities and with no sign of any help on the way,” said Abbas, who is staying at a plot in B block, Sector 63.Another family residing nearby had a similar story to share. “A dog bit me and I went to the district hospital for treatment when I came across this number. We got through after several days and we were assured that help would reach us. Today, finally after three days, we received rations and that too through the help of someone from the media that we contacted,” said Neelam Devi, whose husband used to run a tea stall in the area before the lockdown.On Friday, a Noida PRV had helped out a cancer patient in Kannauj district by sending medicine from here. While on one hand the administration and the police department say they are reaching out to the needy and helping them, the ground level reality is different, with people being redirected from one department to another, coupled with engaged lines and endless wait, among others.The police department had earlier appointed nodal officers while the authorities had also issued contact numbers for emergencies.“There are many helpline numbers. But we are also receiving calls on a daily basis at the police helpline number -- 112. Depending on the emergency, we either contact the health department or the police take action themselves if the need is for food or medicines,” said Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 1.The Gautam Budh Nagar administration had even formed an integrated, ‘all in one’ control room model where all departments such as the district administration, the health department, the police, and the three development authorities could be reached through a single helpline number - 18004192211. Officials had said that they are capable of handling as many as 30 calls at one go.“Many calls are coming in. If there is an issue with the lines being engaged, we will look into it immediately,” said Anand Kumar, sub-divisional magistrate (judicial), one of the officials managing the integrated control room.When HT tried calling the helpline on Saturday evening, the line became engaged at the food services option after going through the automated menu. On Sunday afternoon, all channels were busy and callers were asked to stay on hold repeatedly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-with-no-ration-people-looking-for-food-not-getting-through-the-helplines/story-MMZwyQ8qJLtQoZzAmvLMAO.html
19-04-2020||City||Corona crisis: Residents can pay water bills by June 30||NOIDA: In view of the ongoing nationwide lockdown, the Uttar Pradesh government has asked the Noida and Greater Noida authorities to allow residents to pay water bills of March, April and May by the end of June, instead of paying them every month. The government has postponed payment of water bills after residents demanded for the same.“Residents can pay these bills by June end, 2020, as we have postponed the payment in view of Covid-19 pandemic,” said Alok Tandon, principal secretary with UP infrastructure and industrial department. Tandon, who is also chairman of Noida and Greater Noida authorities, communicated the decision with the residents.Recently, the Confederation of NCR Residents Welfare Association (CONRWA), a residents’ body, had through a letter requested for postponement of paying water bills.“We had requested the postponement of the bill payment because many residents cannot pay the same via online and they cannot visit the water department or the other department of the authority physically due to nationwide lockdown,” said Brigadier (retired) Ashok Hak, convenor of CONRWA (Noida chapter).“As of now, the residents are under immense strain as their jobs are affected, and they cannot move out of their houses amid Covid -19 safety issues. So, the government should not put any such burden,” said PS Jain, president of CONRWA.In Gautam Budh Nagar district, there are about 78,000 and 80,000 water consumers under the jurisdiction of Noida authority and Greater Noida authority, respectively. Most of them are yet to pay the dues, the officials said. Even before the lockdown came into effect, the two industrial development authorities have struggled to recover water bills from their consumers that include builders, private firms and individuals. The state government has already extended date of payment of water bills for industrial, institutional and commercial units in the two industrial authorities’ jurisdiction due to Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/corona-crisis-residents-can-pay-water-bills-by-june-30/story-oHjKe2nciFjUtgphKZnxUP.html
19-04-2020||City||Man arrested for selling tobacco products in Greater Noida||Greater Noida: The police on Sunday arrested a man for selling tobacco products, in violation of the lockdown norms, in Dadri. Deshpal Singh, a sub-inspector who filed a complaint against Kumar in Dadri police station, said police received information that a number of customers had gather at a kiosk that was open in the neighbourhood. “The crowd soon dispersed when the police team reached the spot. The police inspected the kiosk and found the shopkeeper Kumar was selling cigarettes, beedi, and other tobacco products, in violation of the rules of the lockdown,” he said.The sale of liquor and tobacco products during the nationwide lockdown is banned, as per the Union home ministry’s directives. The suspect was identified as Sanjeev Kumar, a resident of Brahmpuri area in Dadri.The shopkeeper told the police that most shops in the neighbourhood are shut due to the lockdown that has led to a surge in the demand for tobacco products.Dinesh Singh, station house officer, Dadri station, said the police team seized the tobacco products. “We have registered a case against him under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life.) of the Indian Penal Code. The suspect will be produced before a magistrate and sent to judicial custody,” he said.Noida traffic police are also conducting strict enforcement at different places to ensure compliance with the lockdown. Rajesh S, deputy commissioner of police, (traffic) Gautam Budh Nagar, said police personnel are deployed at the Noida-Delhi and Noida-Ghaziabad borders, as well on the streets to keep people indoors. “We are trying to ensure that people follow the lockdown and stay home. The movement of providers of essential services is allowed. Only one person on a motorcycle and maximum two persons in four wheeler is allowed, that too if they have valid reason for commuting,” he said.Noida police teams are conduction checking at 200 spots in the district. On Saturday, Noida police registered 11 FIRs and arrested 34 persons for lockdown violations. The police also checked 776 vehicles and issued fines to 237 of them for violation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-arrested-for-selling-tobacco-products-in-greater-noida/story-oOZJ1ml5UnZabncqoHHI0I.html
19-04-2020||City||After video conference with CM, Ghaziabad decides against partial lifting of lockdown||The Ghaziabad district administration has decided to continue with the ongoing lockdown and not allow the opening of any commercial, industrial and educational offices or any finance-related activities from April 20. The decision was taken after Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath held a video conference with all the district magistrates and senior officials of the administration on Sunday evening.On April 14, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced that the countrywide lockdown will be extended till May 3. “In Ghaziabad, we will maintain the status quo and no activity will be restarted from April 20. This decision has been taken due to a higher number of cases in the district,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate.“Only the industrial units, which are manufacturing or supplying essential items, will continue their operations like before. There will be curbs on movement during the lockdown. If anyone is found moving around without passes authorised by officials, legal action will be taken under provisions of the Disaster Management Act and relevant sections of the IPC,” he added.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath, during the video conference on Sunday, told the district magistrates that there would be no easing down of the lockdown in hot spot areas. He also asked the principal secretary (health) not to open the 19 sensitive districts which have 10 or more Covid-19 cases in the state.The CM directed the district magistrates to take a call on lockdown relaxations while urging the DMs of 19 districts to decide on the basis of “awareness and alertness” after intimating the government.A couple of days ago, Awanish Awasthi, UP’s additional chief secretary (home), had said that the work for expressways, highways, roads, construction of medical colleges and big housing projects could take off from April 20 if required protocols are followed and permissions are obtained.According to officials of the industries department there are about 32,000 different categories of industrial units in Ghaziabad, which also include about 350 registered export-oriented units.Nearly 600 units, which are involved in production of essential items, are presently in operation.“The number of coronavirus cases in Ghaziabad rose sharply on Sunday. On Saturday, we had a total of 30 positive cases but 12 more cases were reported on Sunday. This is by far the sharpest spike in the number of coronavirus positive cases that have emerged in a single day in Ghaziabad. We will now intensify our containment efforts and real-time monitoring in a more aggressive manner,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer(CMO).From Saturday night, the Ghaziabad police also initiated a seven-day special drive in order to enforce lockdown in a stricter manner. “The cops have been directed to penalise and issue challans to people if more than one person was found riding a two-wheeler. The maximum number of persons permitted in a four-wheeler is two,” said Neeraj Kumar Jadaun, superintendent of police (rural).By Sunday evening, the police had issued challans to 3,800 people and also seized 117 vehicles as a part of the drive.Till Sunday evening, Ghaziabad had a tally of 42 positive cases, with 10 patients being discharged from different hospitals. In UP, the number of cases crossed the 1,000 figure mark and stood at 1,084, of which 108 cases were discharged from hospitals.“We have ramped up sampling and testing. More than 2,000 samples are being tested every day. Till date, we have tested 2,8447 samples of which 27,363 turned negative. Of the cases emerged so far, we have 78% related to men and 22% related to women,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, UP’s principal secretary (health).The officials also said that 18.5% cases were in age group of 0-20 years; 47.3% in the age group 21 to 40 years, 24.7% in the age group of 41-60, and 9.4% cases were in the age group of over 60 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/after-video-conference-with-cm-ghaziabad-decides-against-partial-lifting-of-lockdown/story-iD7u8BsiWgZOkKqG9uQ2tJ.html
19-04-2020||Mumbai||BMC to put high-risk contacts on anti-malarial drug||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Sunday announced its decision to treat high-risk contacts of Covid-19 patients, with doses of hydroxychloroquine (HCQ), an anti-malarial drug.Hydroxychloroquine is an anti-malarial drug being used to prevent the spread of the Sars cov2 virus which is causing Covid-19. However, there are several side-effects to the drug which include headache, dizziness, ringing in ears; nausea, vomiting, stomach pain, loss of appetite, weight loss; mood changes, feeling nervous or irritable; skin rash or itching, and hair loss.The civic body also clarified that it will not put those residing in containment zones on HCQ, citing medical complications. Last week, it was decided that the BMC would give HCQ to citizens residing in Covid-19 hotspots like Worli and Dharavi. However, the decision has been put on hold.For the past two weeks, the BMC had put frontline staffers on a seven-week dosage of HCQ, and is testing them for the coronavirus. HT had reported on March 29 that the frontline staff will be put on the drug to improve their immunity and tackle the threat of the virus. The decision was taken as a precautionary measure after many countries such as Spain, Iran, and Italy, reported that their doctors and medical staff tested positive while attending to infected patients.Municipal commissioner Praveen Pardeshi said, “As of Saturday’s protocol, the BMC has decided to give HCQ to all high-risk contacts of Covid-19 positive patients. BMC has already given HCQ to frontline staff, doctors, nurses, supporting staff of hospitals, sanitary workers, BEST employees, police personnel and civic officers.” The civic chief clarified that HCQ will not be given to all persons in containment zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-to-put-high-risk-contacts-on-anti-malarial-drug/story-Ao6SlpXcIk7rfqqmUImUMJ.html
19-04-2020||Mumbai||Barber in the gym in this society||Over the past three days, around 40 society members of Mahindra Park at Ghatkopar have got haircuts and shaves after almost a month’s gap. “A lot of our society members were complaining they wanted to go out to get a shave and haircut, but couldn’t because of the lockdown. Which is when we decided that our gym can be converted into a salon,” said Dr Abdul Ghani Khan, secretary of the society.A barber from the neighbourhood was stationed at the gym in Mahindra Park. Before bringing him in, all necessary precautions were taken and the barber was provided gloves and masks, added Khan. “The gym, where this barber was stationed, was sanitised twice to thrice a day so that no one gets infected,” said Dr Dyaneshwar Mahajan, chairman of the society.The 440-member society has also distributed around five kilograms of rice, two kilograms of dal and one kilogram of sugar to 1,200 underprivileged people in neighbouring slum areas. Around 200 members from the society have contributed around Rs 4 lakh so far and another donation drive may be organised again.“There are around 70 Muslim families in the society. We had a discussion with them and they can donate their zakat money [traditionally intended for alms] for needy slum dwellers, which can be distributed irrespective of religion. Some other members of our society have also shown keen interest in participating,” said Khan. Mahindra Park’s committee has also a makeshift store at the society office where essentials such as milk, groceries and vegetables are sold at wholesale rates to society members. Supplies like rice, dal, wheat and milk were procured from the wholesale market through a society member who is associated with the markets held by Agriculture Produce Market Committee.“The elderly are provided essentials at their doorsteps, and for younger residents, only five people are allowed at a time around the society office,” said resident Ashish Mehta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/barber-in-the-gym-in-this-society/story-eZFPjEy2AXKvFGx0Te6zlM.html
19-04-2020||Mumbai||Recovered Kasturba staffer gets a warm welcome in her society||The first two medical staffers at Kasturba Gandhi Hospital who contracted Covid-19 through cross-transmission got discharged on Sunday. Almost 200 medical staffers across the city have tested positive for Covid-19 so far.In the first week of April, a 40-year-old midwife stationed at the isolation ward got diagnosed with the infection. Soon after, another class IV employee, who worked as a sweeper in the same ward, contracted the infection. After both of them tested negative on two consecutive tests, they were discharged on Sunday.Neighbours welcomed the midwife back home by showering her with flowers while some blew conch or rang bells to laud her for her service. Talking to HT, the woman said, “I was really overwhelmed with the response. I am thankful that people didn’t stigmatise me.” She said upon learning that she was given duty at the Covid ward of the hospital, she insisted that her husband and son move to their hometown to avoid any possible chance of infection. “I knew it was my duty, but I didn’t want to expose my family to it so I forced them to go,” she said. Meanwhile, a 40-year-old ward boy stationed at the out-patient department (OPD) has been quarantined at the hospital after developing symptoms such as cough and fever. “We have taken his swab sample and sent it for testing. We will get the report by Monday,” said a doctor from the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/recovered-kasturba-staffer-gets-a-warm-welcome-in-her-society/story-LadfHm9is3iRnVKCTqF1RM.html
19-04-2020||Mumbai||BMC directs doctors to resume private practice for non-Covid-19 patients||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Sunday asked private doctors to keep their clinics open to treat non-Covid-19 related health issues. Considering all BMC hospitals are struggling under the weight of both, Covid-19 and non-Covid-19 patients, the civic body decided to distribute some of the burden to private hospitals and clinics.The directive was issued during a meeting between municipal commissioner Pravin Pardeshi and representatives of private clinics and nursing homes. The civic body, under orders from chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, has created a special screening mechanism.“Many private clinics have shut down for lack of protection to health staff due to a shortage of personal protective equipment (PPE). Now the civic body has decided to address the problems of all private clinics so that they can open and take over a load of non-Covid-19 patients,” said Pardeshi.The BMC has also suggested that doctors and paramedical staff above the age of 60, and those with underlying medical conditions should avoid practising.Joint commissioner of police Vinay Choubey (law and order in Mumbai) was also present for the meeting and assured that travel passes would be issued for private health staffers. BMC’s move came immediately after chief minister Uddhav Thackeray in his Facebook address on Sunday morning clarified that private doctors will resume their practices, especially for non-Covid related diagnoses and treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-directs-doctors-to-resume-private-practice-for-non-covid-19-patients/story-Ios0TSbp1SgEz79AfWoPbN.html
19-04-2020||Mumbai||Shiv Sena reaches out to Governor even as Raut slams him over CM nominations||On Sunday, when senior Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut indirectly criticised Governor B S Koshyari over delay in nominating chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to the Legislative Council, two party leaders met the latter at Raj Bhavan. The development assumes significance in the context that Thackeray has to become a member of one of the two houses of the state legislature within six months of taking oath as the CM, the deadline of which ends on May 28. Koshyari has not yet responded to the cabinet’s recommendation to nominate the CM to the Legislative Council, which has made the Sena top brass restless. Thackeray will have to resign if he does not become a legislator by the stipulated date. “Raj bhavan , governor’s house shouldn’t become center for political conspiracy. Remember ! history doesn’t spare those who behave unconstitutionally (sic),” Raut tweeted on Sunday, referring to the delay in the Governor’s decision on Thackeray’s nomination.On the same day, two senior Sena leaders — CM’s close aide Milind Narvekar and party’s south Mumbai MP Arvind Sawant — called on the Governor at Raj Bhavan. Both met Koshyari separately. Sawant confirmed the meeting but said it was a personal call. “We have worked together in Parliament and I know him well, it was a personal call,” he said. Narvekar was unavailable for comment.A top Sena leader said the party leadership has reached out to the Governor so that Thackeray’s nomination happens smoothly. “At a time when Thackeray and the entire state machinery is busy fighting the Covid-19 pandemic, it will be better to avoid any unnecessary political controversy. That’s what we are trying to do,” he said, on condition of anonymity. Raj Bhavan sources confirmed the developments on Sunday. An official said the Governor has sought legal opinion on the issue. Thackeray had planned to contest a by-election to the upper house of the state legislature, scheduled in April but was postponed due to the novel coronavirus outbreak. Thus, the state cabinet on April 9 recommended the Governor to nominate Thackeray to the council. State BJP, however, slammed Raut for his comment.BJP spokesperson Keshav Upadhye said: “I am sure the Governor will take a decision as per the constitutional provisions. The Sena leaders should wait for his decision instead of criticising him.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-reaches-out-to-governor-even-as-raut-slams-him-over-cm-nominations/story-Eu0gudV7VyMtHZkTmlFCtI.html
19-04-2020||Gurugram||Bhondsi Jail warder tests Covid-19 positive, cases in Gurugram touch 37||The head warder of Bhondsi jail tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the total tally of persons infected with the SARS-CoV-2 virus in the district to 37. At least 2,380 inmates lodged in the jail will now be screened and the samples of 18 staff who were in contact with the warder has been collected. Six others have been put under home quarantine. Officials say that the warder was deployed outside the barracks and had not been in close contact with any of the inmates.Jai Kishan Chillar, superintendent of Bhondsi jail, said the 40-year-old warder was on leave for the last one week. “The warder took emergency leave for three days to meet his wife in Bhiwani, who was unwell. He was on leave from April 10 and was to return on duty on April 13. He extended his leave by three days and returned on April 16. We followed the Covid-19 protocol, which states that anyone who goes out of the jail premises has to get tested for the virus before resuming duty. He had no visible symptoms but we asked the warder to get tested for Covid-19 at sector 10 Civil Hospital. He was admitted to the quarantine after giving his samples. He tested positive on Sunday. Later in the day, his wife too tested positive.”Gurugram is a ‘red zone’ for having a large number of Covid-19 positive cases, along with Nuh (57 cases), Palwal (34), and Faridabad (42). To prevent contamination, the jail premises and all the barracks have been sanitized by the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram ( MCG).The medical teams have also started the screening of all the inmates to check for influenza-like illness. Dr Jaswant Singh Punia, Gurugram chief medical officer, said, “The warder is undergoing treatment in Civil Hospital. Eighteen samples of his close contacts have been taken. All the people who met him, including a man who drove him on a motorcycle to Civil Hospital for getting tested, have been placed under quarantine. Our teams will be screening staff and inmates with the help of the medical team of Bhondsi jail.”Following the state jail department’s instructions, Bhondsi Jail officials on March 21 converted one of its barracks into a quarantine cell for new inmates who are to be kept there for 14 days before being transferred to their barracks. Chillar said that 80 inmates have come to Bhondsi Jail in the last one week and they have been shifted to the quarantine cell after medical tests. A separate quarantine room for jail staff has also been set up.Chillar said the meeting of inmates with their family members has also been cancelled till further orders and no outsider is allowed on the jail premises. “We have suspended visitations as the inmates live in close proximity and can be a threat to others. We are taking all precautionary measures and have directed the inmates to use the two landline service to make calls and to connect with their friends and family members till May 3,” he said.“Each inmate was has been given two cotton masks and has been directed to use them once out of their barracks. We have placed sanitisers at the entrance of each barrack and no one is allowed to enter without using it. The staff at the gate has been asked to monitor the temperature of all people entering the premises with a non-contact infrared temperature measurement gun twice a day,” Chillar, said.Jail inmates have also been refrained from gathering in large groups. All activities — such as yoga, music and other classes — have been suspended at the jail. The inmates, however, have been involved in the task of stitching cotton masks. Till now, they have made more than 45,650 masks — the largest number of masks stitched by jail inmates across the state.Till now, 37 Covid-19 cases have been reported in Gurugram. On Saturday, four cases have been reported from Sohna. Of these 37, two patients are from Agra, two from Sector 54, five from Pataudi, 10 from Sohna, who are Tablighi Jamaat attendees. Punia said, nine Jamaat attendees from Sohna were confirmed Covid-19 negative on Sunday after undergoing treatment in civil hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/bhondsi-jail-warder-tests-covid-19-positive-cases-in-gurugram-touch-37/story-qtKCzNhKlv1RMGQq1Bi0iK.html
19-04-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka govt extends coronavirus lockdown till April 21 midnight||The Karnataka government on Sunday issued fresh orders to continue the stringent lockdown measures issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs till the midnight of April 21.The government is considering lockdown relaxation after April 21, and the state cabinet that is scheduled to meet on Monday is likely to discuss this, sources said.Chief Secretary T M Vijay Bhaskar in his capacity as Chairman, State Executive Committee, has issued directions to all departments, district Deputy Commissioners, Superintendent of Police and other Heads of Departments that they shall continue to implement the measures presently in force in the state to contain the spread of COVID-19, till the midnight of April 21, the order said.Noting that the Union Home Ministry on April 14 had issued directions to states that lockdown measures will continue to remain in force upto May 3, it said, the Ministry with an intention of mitigating hardship of the public has allowed select additional activities from April 20, as per the guidelines.Hours after announcing that two-wheelers will be allowed to ply on roads and IT/BT companies can resume operations with 33 per cent strength after April 20, Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Saturday had rolled them back, citing public opinion as the reason.However, the decisions announced by Yediyurappa after a meeting of senior ministers on Saturday, which remain unchanged so far include- identifying containment zones and the activities to be permitted in non-containment zones.Also, appointing incident commander to each containment zone and giving them magisterial power; 33 per cent workforce of Government Departments will be allowed to work and they should come in contract buses, that would be hired exclusively for them; prohibitary orders will be continued till May 3; Malls, showrooms will remain closed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-govt-extends-coronavirus-lockdown-till-april-21-midnight/story-lNQXLig9AEsTOEKUol8NtK.html
19-04-2020||City||Sukhbir condemns police misbehaviour with scribe||Chandigarh: Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Sunday condemned the incident involving misbehaviour against senior journalist Devinder Pal by Chandigarh Police. He also demanded action against the policemen involved, while also pointing to another incident of assault on a journalist Gurupdesh Singh Bhullar, out for work, when some miscreants waylaid and looted him. “Detaining a journalist who has stepped out during curfew is condemnable and stern disciplinary action should be taken against the erring officials,” he added.Give insurance cover of  Rs 1 crore to journalistsThe Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Sunday condemned the incident of misbehaviour with the journalist. In a joint statement issued from party headquarters on Sunday, state unit president and MP Bhagwant Mann, Leader of Opposition (LoP) Harpal Singh Cheema, Kultar Singh Sandhwan and Aman Arora (Both MLAs) said the police conduct was unwarranted and uncalled for. The AAP leaders also sought an insurance cover of Rs 1 crore for journalists performing their duties, risking their own lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sukhbir-condemns-police-misbehaviour-with-scribe/story-0AJevpveuXhMpmmfmaZcYI.html
19-04-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Daily meetings help Tulip Ivory residents tide over lockdown hardships, beat Covid-19||From holding daily meeting on issues arising out of the Covid-19 lockdown to forming medical and housekeeping teams, Tulip Ivory in Sector 70 is doing whatever it can to make life easier for its residents. Besides, the residents’ welfare association (RWA) has set up a special care team for senior citizens living alone, as they are facing more problems due to the nationwide lockdown.The main aim of the care team is to ensure that no seniors step out of homes for any needs. The team has to call up all the 14 seniors living alone in the society twice a day. “Several senior citizens live without family in the society. We had to make sure that all their needs were met and they did not have to step out at all. So, the senior citizen team has been formed. The seniors let us know of any items they run out of,” said Ajay Sharma, a member of the RWA. Sharma said the society has tied up with a medicine delivery platform for speedy procurement of medicines for senior citizens. Colonel (retd) Balraj Singh Rathee, 62, lives with his 60-year-old wife at the society. The last time he stepped out of his home was on March 19. Since then, he and his wife have depended on online stores for delivery of essential commodities. “I have been able to get all my grocery and essential items online. RWA volunteers are always ready to help in case I am not able to get anything,” said Rathee. To streamline the functioning of all activities in the society, the RWA members hold a morning video conference from their homes. The meeting headed by the president discusses issues, updates and suggestions to make life easier for the residents. “The meeting starts at 9am and lasts about 20-25 minutes. It is attended by all the 10 RWA members. We update each other on sanitation, cleaning and maintenance works, among others. Suggestions and issues being faced by residents are also discussed. A final message about the outcome of the meeting is shared on the residents’ WhatsApp group later,” said Brigadier (retd) MC Pant, RWA president. The society, which houses around 220 families, has formed special teams for emergency, medical, housekeeping, food distribution, and hygiene. Each team consists of two-three residents. The medical team comprising three doctors residing in the society suggests the measures against coronavirus. The society is located near villages that have been declared red zones. Several of the staff employed at the society resided in these villages. To contain their movement in and out of the society, it accommodated close to 20 staff in two vacant villas. In each room, only two staff are allowed to stay. The staff members have now been provided with a gas cylinder, stove and dry ration for cooking their own meals. “Earlier, the residents had come together to provide meals to them. We carried this out till April 8, after which the staff were provided with cooking facilities,” said Sharma.To keep its residents engaged, the society shares activity videos on yoga and zumba with residents. Some are even dedicated to keeping children engaged. The society has stopped walks across its premises in any form. “Initially, it was difficult to enforce the no-walk policy because a few seniors and children wanted to come out. But gradually we have been able to make it work and the residents are complying,” said the RWA president. Pet owners have been given time slots of not more than 15-20 minutes to walk outside the society. Only two pet owners are allowed to go out at a time. The society is dependent on online marketplaces for its grocery needs now. However, in the beginning of the lockdown, it had set up a temporary store to cater to the needs of the residents. It has one vegetable store inside its complex that also sells dairy products. All essential deliveries are made to the tower lobbies as delivery executives are no longer allowed to make doorstep deliveries.If any residents wish to step out of the society, they have to inform their tower representatives. A record of the same, mentioning their duration and reason of outing, is being maintained. “When they return, they have to wash their hands before entering the society,” said Pant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-daily-meetings-help-tulip-ivory-residents-tide-over-lockdown-hardships-beat-covid-19/story-OPyujayV9tLQD3XvbUH0EP.html
19-04-2020||Gurugram||Expats use online groups to barter essentials, bust myths, exchange information on Covid-19||Far from their homes and locked up inside their homes in a country that is trying to control a raging pandemic, hundreds of expats living in Gurugram have found strength and hope at one place — their online WhatsApp groups. These expats often take the help of these WhatsApp groups to post about commodities or essentials that they are running out of. The response is usually swift, with a fellow expat often volunteering to supply of essentials — like medicines or milk — for those who can’t. Views are exchanged, myths are busted about Covid-19 and messages are forwarded to their native countrymen about how India is fighting back against the virus.Some are also using these WhatsApp groups as a platform to barter things they have at their home with fellow expats living near them.  Penny Mcluckie from New Zealand, who runs a management consultation agency and stays in sector 66, recently shared wine she and her husband had with other expats after she got a WhatsApp message of liquor running out at their homes. “I have been sharing with other expats stuff that they are running out of. We shared wine with people who didn’t have liquor. We recently ran out of dish washer soap and someone gave it to us. So, that’s how expats are supporting each other during the lockdown,” said Mcluckie. WhatsApp groups have become the go to place for expats if they are in a hurry to find things which are not easily available at their place. Luka Baldin, who is from Italy and has been staying in the city for the last one year, said these groups have turned out to be the only medium they look up to in case they need anything. “I needed a print out of an important document. So I had posted it in one of the expat groups and someone immediately helped me out with it. Similarly, I often write in the group that if anyone wants my help, then I am here to do whatever I can.”A handful of Japanese expats have also created a WhatsApp group, where they are busting myths about Covid-19 disease and telling people what they can do during the lockdown period. Seiko Uchida, one such Japanese expat who lives in M3M Golf Estate, said, “I have created a dedicated WhatsApp group for Japanese expats to keep them abreast with the latest developments during the lockdown. This initiative helps them overcome language and cultural barriers, while accessing the correct information. I have received numerous requests from expats regarding the purchase of medicines and I help them in sourcing details of pharmacists, so that they don’t have to go out during the lockdown. Since most expats here do not own a vehicle, I often drive them for their grocery shopping. However, we have stopped venturing out nowadays given the magnitude of the pandemic.” Gensei Asada, a Japanese student who has been staying in the city for the last six years, said he has created a WhatsApp group of Japanese people to share how India is dealing with the pandemic. “I am telling people through WhatsApp that people should not leave their houses. India has a strict law asking people to stay in their house, not like the one in Japan. India has been dealing with COVID-19 in an excellent manner. I have a YouTube account where I tell people about what is happening in foreign countries.”Besides this, there is an Irish expat who is helping out rag pickers in the city. Tara McCartney, co-owner of Duke Horse Riding Club, is making sure that these underprivileged people in the neighbourhood are well fed and looked after during the lockdown. McCartney grew up in Northern Ireland and has been living in the city since 2018. She distributes food items to a nearby locality every day. “We started with soaps, towels, sweet bread and gave grocery packs like rice, lentils, oil and vegetables to a group of people. I am also supporting a rag pickers community of 350 people along with 26 construction workers from Bihar and three families of flower pickers in sector 58,” said McCartney, who has obtained a curfew pass.Serbia-born Danijela Radonic Bhandari, who has been in Gurugram since July last year, has been conducting online counselling classes during the lockdown. “As a health coach, clinical hypnotherapist, and energy healer, I have been providing free online counselling and distant healing to those in need, both in India, and outside,” said Bhandari. She also participates in online group meditation and chanting sessions.Like Bhandari, Carina Bravo — who is from Argentina — is a teacher who is also conducting online classes daily for students. “I am busy taking online classes for students in Spanish. The lockdown period has been spent by making assignments for students and making sure they complete them,” said Bravo, who has spent 20 years in the city.Managing to give full salaries to their employees is also one way of asking people to stay indoors and that’s what Argentinian Mariano Martinez is doing. “I run a garments manufacturing unit in Udyog Vihar. Ever since the lockdown started, I have ensured that i give full pay to all the employees,” said Martinez.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/expats-use-online-groups-to-barter-essentials-bust-myths-exchange-information-on-covid-19/story-mvCHQLokbLVsNvc6zRSfZN.html
19-04-2020||Delhi||Emergency request prompts officials at Narela quarantine facility to stock sanitary napkins||Officials at a quarantine facility in North Delhi’s Narela were caught unprepared by a call from a quarantined person, who asked for sanitary napkins, early Saturday.The caller had said that sanitary napkins were unavailable in the storehouse of the facility, following which officials rushed to meet the requirement and also order stock for other female residents.Alok Kumar Mishra, a Delhi government teacher, deployed at the control room in Block A of the facility, said that they were initially unclear about the request as the caller asked for some “napkins”.“We thought he was asking for napkins that we use to clean our hands. We generally send them tissues and napkins with food. I told the person that it’s too early and we can only arrange it the time of the breakfast. The person then asked us that it’s urgent and they need ladies’ napkins. We could not understand that and he hung up,” he said.Mishra said that a female civil defence official who was at the call centre suggested him to call back and ask if they need sanitary napkins. “We were not even aware of the fact that the female residents might need sanitary napkins, on the lines of other essential commodities We searched our storeroom and found that we did not have any in our stock,” he said.The officials then quickly arranged for the same from a nearby medical store. “We also ordered stock to keep in our store. There are 23 women in our block. It’s a lesson for us. We cannot ignore women’s needs at the time of a crisis,” Mishra said.District magistrate (North) Shinde Deepak Arjun said that the authorities are making all possible efforts to help those in quarantine. There are around 366 people residing in the Narela facility at present.“We did not know that the lockdown would be extended for this long and hence, a few things were not stocked initially. We are now providing everything the residents are asking for. We have also stocked sanitary napkins now,” he said.Dr Surbhi Singh of Sachhi Saheli, an NGO, said that the authorities should take care of the menstrual needs of women. “It’s true that, during a crises like this, the first thing was to provide food and shelter to everyone. But now, authorities should also start considering the needs of women. We have also extended support to the district administrations in helping women to cope with the lockdown,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/emergency-request-prompts-officials-at-narela-quarantine-facility-to-stock-sanitary-napkins/story-LSB3fX8OQiajAqzFM5F4DM.html
19-04-2020||Patna||Six more test positive for COVID-19 in Bihar, total rises to 92||Six more people tested positive for COVID-19 in Bihar on Sunday, taking the total number of cases in the state to 92, a top health department official said.Of these six fresh infections, two were reported from Buxar district and four from Nalanda district.Two members of a family, a 30-year-old man and a 28-year-old woman, from Buxar tested positive for COVID-19, said Principal Secretary (Health) Sanjay Kumar.“Both persons (who are members) of a family from Buxar came in touch with a COVID-19 positive person who had travelled to Asansol,” he said.Buxar District Magistrate (DM) Aman Samir said the man and the woman are family members of two men who had tested positive for coronavirus on April 16. All of them live together.Earlier, the DM had said that the two men, aged 35 and 67, had returned home on March 30 after taking part in a Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Asansol, West Bengal. They are believed to have picked up the infection from infected delegates at the congregation.According to sources, the family hails from Naya Bhojpur village of Buxar.Four other people, aged 12, 18, 22 and 55, tested positive for coronavirus in Nalanda’s Biharsharif on Sunday, principal secretary Kumar said.The 55-year-old man had come in “close contact with COVID-19 positive man who had returned from Dubai,” he said.So far, COVID-19 has claimed two lives in Bihar, one each in Munger and Vaishali districts.Of the state’s total 92 cases, Siwan district has reported the highest number of 29 cases, followed by Munger (17); Nalanda (11); Begusarai (9); Patna (7); Gaya (5); Buxar (4); Gopalganj and Nawada (three each); Lakhisarai, Saran, Bhagalpur and Vaishali (one each), a state government bulletin said.Of the state’s 38 districts, only 13 have reported COVID-19 cases so far.According to the state health department, 42 COVID-19 patients have recovered till date and two have died.The number of active cases in Bihar, including those reported on Sunday, stands at 48, it said.A total of 10,130 samples have been tested in the state till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/six-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-bihar-total-rises-to-92/story-d9exFD6XE6xobb9GyKRqgL.html
19-04-2020||City||300 college staffers in Gurdaspur without salary for two months||Gurdaspur: Over 300 employees of Beant College of Engineering and Technology (BCET), Gurdaspur, have not been paid salary for the past two months. BCET Staff Welfare Association president Gurmukh Singh said this was a recurring issue with the staff as the college, set up to promote technical education in the border area of the state, had not been covered under the planned budget for technical education in the state since 2004. He claimed that polytechnics and ITIs were being covered under this head, even as two other government colleges in the state face the same fate as their institution. He added they had even met state technical education minister Charanjit Singh Channi in this regard, but the situation had not been remedied.Punjab technical education director Vimal Setia said, “The file of salaries of the staff of BCET, Gurdaspur, is with the principal secretary of the department, Anurag Verma. The BCET staff get salaries from tuition fee fund, which is not sufficient to pay salaries right now, thus the delay in payment.” Gurmukh said the delay in salaries was a huge mental stress for the staff, especially in times of the covid-19 pandemic. “The college has a lot of other heads with sufficient funds to pay our salaries,” he claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/300-college-staffers-in-gurdaspur-without-salary-for-two-months/story-KZQA4HEyqqO0ugr30wRFFK.html
19-04-2020||Delhi||Delhi Police to send notice to MLA, another man in Deoli suicide case||The Delhi Police on Sunday said they will be soon sending a notice to Deoli legislator Prakash Jarwal and another person (his aide), to join the probe and give their statement in connection with the death of a doctor who allegedly killed self at his home in south Delhi’s Deoli Saturday morning.A case of extortion and abetment to suicide was registered against the two after the son of the doctor, who was into the business of supplying water tankers to the Delhi Jal Board (DJB), in his complaint blamed the legislator and his aide for his father’s death. The doctor’s son had alleged that his father was tense and upset because the services of his five water tankers attached with the DJB had been suspended and a pending bill of around ₹10 lakh was also not being paid.“Our five tankers have been engaged with the DJB in supplying water since 2005. However, the services were stopped since March this year on the directions of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA, who had been demanding money to resume the service. My father’s business was running in losses. The MLA’s associate often came to our house or called us to the MLA’s office asking us to pay up,” the doctor’s son alleged, when contacted on his phone.He added that his father had written about the allegations in a diary that was found in an almirah. The doctor had also been threatened and the phone recording of the same has been given to the police along with the diary and other evidence, his son alleged.When contacted, the DJB refused to comment on the matter.Deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur said the allegations made by the doctor’s family are being probed and that the MLA and the other person will be asked to join the investigation soon.“Our investigation is in the initial stage. We are verifying the allegations. Further action will be taken accordingly,” DCP Thakur said.Reacting to the allegations, Jarwal had said Saturday he had received information through media that a doctor, who used to deal in water tankers, has killed self and has mentioned his name in his note.“I would like to state that I am innocent. I haven’t met or spoken to him in the last eight-10 months. In 2017, some news channels had done a sting against tanker mafias which featured his name following which all their vehicles were black listed. I have full faith in the judiciary and I am ready to face any investigation. I would only like to say that there have been attempts to trap me in the past and similar attempts are being made now too. Just like I have proved myself innocent in the past and I will do so now too. I am ready to cooperate with the police in any kind of investigation,” Jarwal had said in a statement Saturday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-police-to-send-notice-to-mla-another-man-in-deoli-suicide-case/story-D6LFhvElpYlaVwgPgnkkWI.html
19-04-2020||Delhi||North Delhi Municipal Corporation resinates Hindu Rao doctor||The North Delhi Municipal Corporation on Sunday reinstated Dr Piyush Pushkar Singh at Hindu Rao Hospital in Malka Ganj. The hospital administration had terminated Singh’s services on Thursday for allegedly “diverting” PPE kits and distributing them among doctors.Singh, however, had countered the allegations saying that he had procured the kits through an NGO and got them distributed. The DNB (Diplomate of National Board) student had alleged that he was being targeted for “highlighting the wrongdoings” in the system especially those related to the coronavirus pandemic. North Corporation’s standing committee chairperson Jai Prakash said, “The termination order of the doctor has been revoked. The hospital administration has also issued an order to reinstate the doctor.” He added that amid the coronavirus pandemic the system needs more doctors who fight on the forefront. “We were concerned that the morale of the doctors should not be hit in such times. So we took the decision,” he said.The issue of Singh’s termination had landed the corporation into a controversy after many in the medical community accused the North MCD of “wrongly targeting the doctor”. The matter had escalated to such a scale that Union health minister Harsh Vardhan intervened and asked the North Delhi Municipal Corporation commissioner on Twitter to reach out to the doctor and resolve the issue.The Hindu Rao Hospital is the biggest hospital under the North MCD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/north-delhi-municipal-corporation-resinates-hindu-rao-doctor/story-r2fnmJw4QPp0xg64bVwfZN.html
19-04-2020||City||State plans to increase area under cotton by 30%||Chandigarh: Punjab additional chief secretary (development) Viswajeet Khanna said on Saturday that the state agricultural department had chalked out a comprehensive strategy to switch the area from paddy to maize and cotton cultivation as part of its crop diversification programme. He added that in the kharif season, the state’s area under cotton was expected to increase by 30% to 12.5 lakh acre from 9.7 lakh acre last year. In 2018, the area under the crop was 6.62 lakh acre, which was increased to 9.7 lakh acre in 2019. If this year’s target is achieved, the area under cotton would almost double in two years. Khanna added 21.5 lakh packets of BT cotton seed had been arranged and that the department has also coordinated with the Cotton Corporation of India(CCI) to buy last season’s remaining cotton produce from farmers at the assured MSP. He added that for this, 19 markets in the cotton belt had been made operational.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/state-plans-to-increase-area-under-cotton-by-30/story-cE3pluxX9AHiZrxCCeiUnL.html
19-04-2020||Chandigarh||Second Chandigarh Police constable suspended for defying curfew orders||A UT police constable was suspended on Sunday after he left the police station in defiance of orders and was booked by the Himachal Pradesh Police for violating the curfew.Constable Mukesh Kumar was booked under Section 188 (disobedience of order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code on Saturday. According to police, Kumar was moving around without any pass or permission. “The act of Mukesh is a grave misconduct and dereliction of duty being a member of discipline force. The constable has violated the directions issued by the senior officers of not leaving the station at any cost while availing rest,” said the official statement of Chandigarh Police. Kumar was posted in the PCR staff. A departmental inquiry has been initiated against him. This is the second suspension of a cop in the city in the last three days. On April 17, constable Ram Avtar, posted at the Sector 36 police station, was suspended after he left for his native village near Narnaul in Haryana without permission during his weekly off on April 15. According to police, on reaching his village, Avtar started showing symptoms of cold and cough, and was taken to the civil hospital in Narnaul. His samples were taken but he tested negative for Covid-19. Only recently, UT senior superintendent of police (SSP) Nilambari Jagadale had ordered rest for 20% of the police force on the field on a rotational basis. The order had barred cops from leaving the city during this period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/second-chandigarh-police-constable-suspended-for-defying-curfew-orders/story-OE0mbfC2KM686V6tLtNtYO.html
19-04-2020||City||143 contacts of P’kula Sector 15 woman traced; 99 test negative, 8 positive so far||The district health department traced and tested 143 contacts of the 44-year-old woman post office agent, a resident of Sector 15, who tested positive for Covid-19 on April 14. Out of the total 143 contacts, 8 tested positive, 99 negative and reports of 36 persons are awaited.The list included her immediate contacts, a private doctor in Sector 11, paramedical staff, persons from her neighbourhood, her colleagues in post office, relatives and some secondary contacts.Panchkula civil surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur said 17 immediate contacts of the woman and 11 others, including the private doctor, his family and diagnostic staff tested negative. “Samples of woman’s in-laws were taken again, which however returned negative results. Also, 63 samples of woman’s other contacts, including those from neighbourhood, were taken and all of them have tested negative. Reports of some other samples including secondary contacts are awaited,” she said.Dr Kaur said that they have also initiated sampling of other patients that visited the private doctor in Sector 11 from April 6 to April 14 for OPD consultations and also advised them to home quarantine themselves. Meanwhile, the district reported no new Covid-19 case on Sunday, for the two consecutive days. A total of 12 persons tested positive from April 14 to April 17, taking the district’s count to 17.Panchkula deputy commissioner (DC) Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said samples of 952 persons have been taken by the district health department out of which 17 tested positive and 731 returned negative results. He said reports of around 175 persons are awaited and 745 persons have been quarantined at home, temporary shelters and other facilities in the district.Activities in Panchkula to remain same as per existing lockdown guidelinesAll activities in Panchkula will remain the same as per the existing lockdown guidelines, which were issued by the district administration.Ahuja said the administration has not allowed any additional activity and all essential services as per the existing guidelines for lockdown will remain in place till May 3.He said that no activity is permitted in the containment zone except for essential services and in non-containment zones, the standard operating procedures is to be followed and passes will be issued accordingly. “If a person will apply for industrial or commercial activities, the administration will issue passes, but only to those who fulfil the conditions and follow certain standard operating procedures as directed by the Union ministry of home affairs,” said the DC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/143-contacts-of-p-kula-sector-15-woman-traced-99-test-negative-8-positive-so-far/story-W8k1X4Kneq7G8Qm8qf72MJ.html
19-04-2020||City||No relaxations for Ludhiana yet||Hours after announcing a relaxation for commercial, industrial and service sectors in Ludhiana, deputy commissioner Pradeep Agrawal recalled his orders on Sunday late evening.In a statement issued in the afternoon, relaxations with due permissions were announced for various sectors, including health services, animal husbandry, industries, financial sector, distribution of food by anganwadi workers, MNREGA works, for inter and intra-state transport of goods/cargo, construction activities and movement of people in certain cases. The administration had decided to allow operations at commercial and private establishments, including IT and IT-enabled services, e-commerce companies, courier service, electrician and motor mechanic, but only after securing due permission. Shops selling and repairing air conditioners, air coolers and fans were also allowed to open. However, this order was recalled in the evening.The DC said that the decision to recall the order was taken to keep the situation under control. So far, the district has seen 19 positive cases and five deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-dc-announces-relaxations-for-industry-then-recalls-it/story-eCPMWlJbD3eZAB9xoUiOpO.html
19-04-2020||City||Haryana cop ends life||A 38-year-old Haryana Police inspector allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself from a ceiling fan at his house in Rewari, police said on Sunday.The cop was posted in the traffic police department of Gurugram.A police spokesperson said, “The inspector had returned home from his duty around 11pm on Saturday. After finishing his dinner, he went to sleep in another room. On Sunday morning, his wife found him hanging from the ceiling fan.” He is survived by wife and two children.Inquest proceedings are on under Section 174 of the CrPc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-cop-ends-life/story-6u4pAOr2kc2bYOLWQiZeJJ.html
19-04-2020||Chandigarh||Khattar’s nod to re-employ retired doctors||Haryana government on Sunday announced to re-employ on contract for one year and against vacant posts the retired government doctors, who are below 69 years of age.Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar has approved a proposal in this regard. The maximum age for applying has been fixed as 69 years so that the doctors could serve the department up to 70 years. The respective civil surgeons will be authorised to engage these doctors at their level.Meanwhile, the state government has granted permission to the directors of Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College, Karnal; BPS Government Medical College, Khanpur Kalan, Sonepat and Shaheed Hasan Khan Mewati Government Medical College, Nalhar, Nuh to fill 197 vacant posts of faculty on contractual basis from the retired doctors up to the age of 70 years for one year or till the regular incumbent joins, whichever is earlier.As many as 13 posts of professor, 29 posts of associate professor and 54 posts of assistant professor would be filled up in Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College.Eight posts of professor super speciality, seven posts of associate professor super speciality, eight posts of assistant professor super speciality, nine posts of professor speciality, 15 posts of associate professor speciality and 10 posts of assistant professor speciality would be filled up in BPS Government Medical College.10 posts of professor, 19 posts of associate professor and 15 posts of assistant professor would be filled up in Shaheed Hasan Khan Mewati Government Medical College.Health department officials said they would be paid remuneration as per the last salary drawn, minus pension.Rohtak PGIMS director has also been permitted to fill posts on contractual basis as per the approval of the state government.Notably, while 96 different posts of doctors will be filled on contractual basis in Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College, 57 doctors will be re-employed in BPS Government Medical College and 44 in Shaheed Hasan Khan Mewati Government Medical College.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/khattar-s-nod-to-re-employ-retired-doctors/story-AvblN8UML7zWVE17pjiZ7I.html
19-04-2020||City||Haryana’s ‘richest’ village donates whopping ₹10.5 crore to state Covid-19 fund||In a big philanthropic gesture, the Bal Jattan village panchayat in Panipat donated ₹10.5 crore to the Haryana Corona Relief Fund on Sunday.Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar thanked sarpanch Sarita Rani and other panchayat members for the huge donation and tweeted a photograph of him receiving the cheque from them.While the move garnered praise from the authorities, it also raised questions about the source of income of the village panchayat.Clearing the air, Sarita said that Bala Jattan is one of the richest village panchayats in the country as it still holds around ₹120 crore in its bank accounts and the annual interest on the amount is around ₹6 crore. Located in the Israna assembly constituency, Bal Jattan has a population of around 5,000 people and makes up for 2,500 votes.Sarita, who belongs to the Dalit community, had won the previous panchayat elections by a thin margin of about 200 votes.“Most of the panches and village elders were in favour of the donation as the country in dire need of financial resources to combat the coronavirus outbreak. We decided that the donation amount should be huge so that more panchayats and rich people get inspired to make similar contributions for the cause,” she said.According to Sarita, ₹10.50 crore is not a big amount for the village as it has huge income and most of the facilities have already been provided to the villagers. “Also, the country is above the money,” she said.Ranbir Singh, a local villager, said that around ₹700 acres of village land were acquired for the expansion of IOCL’s Panipat refinery in the year 2000, for which the panchayat had received a lot of money and ₹120 crore out of that amount were still lying in its bank account. “The villagers have made a big-hearted gesture by donating ₹10.5 crore in the state relief fund for coronavirus,” Singh said adding that the panchayat now has ₹380 acres of agriculture land which generates an annual income of over ₹1 crore.Appreciating the panchayat’s concerted efforts, Sarita said village panches Manju, Rajesh Kumar, Raja Nain, Sudesh Rani, Satyawan, Vijay Rathi and Naresh Sharma unanimously extended their support for the decision. “Now, we want the government to upgrade our middle school to high school so our children don’t have to go to other villages for studies,” the sarpanch said adding that they were also making efforts to set up a hospital and sports stadium in the village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-s-richest-village-donates-whopping-10-5-crore-to-state-covid-19-fund/story-sZDWgnlMnCjW6krNnpETpK.html
19-04-2020||Chandigarh||‘Most of infected patients in Haryana are asymptomatic’||Haryana has tested more than 11,800 people across the state since April 1 for Covid-19, which in last 24 hours has infected 18 more people. As per the official data, Haryana had collected only 817 samples of suspected coronavirus patients before April 1. The testing gained momentum after April 1 and till Sunday, more than 11,800 samples were collected and tested across the state. This means that about 621 samples a day were collected in Haryana in past 19 days.According to Dr Suraj Bhan Kamboj, director of Haryana health services, most of the Covid-19 positive cases in the state are asymptomatic.Dealing with asymptomatic cases, he admitted, was a challenge in itself. “There may be people who are asymptomatic and unaware about the presence of virus. Who knows where such people could be roaming...The coronavirus disease test is negative when the viral load is less. But, the test turns out to be positive the moment viral load is virulent in the very person whose test was earlier negative,” Dr Kamboj explained. “That is why dealing with asymptomatic cases is a big challenge,” he added. 18 new cases take tally to 250A warden of Bhondsi jail in Gurugram is among the 18 people — Ambala (4), Bhiwani (1), Faridabad (9), Gurugram (4) — who were found infected on Sunday. While one of the latest cases from Ambala included an ANM, who had worked in a containment zone in the district, the other three are members of a family hailing from Shahazadpur block near Ambala City.As per reports, three of them were taking treatment from a private doctor, who had initially treated a Panchkula patient. Ambala health department had collected the list of all local patients, who had availed treatment from this doctor.As per the health bulletin, the total number of active Covid-19 cases in the state on Sunday was 144, while 104 patients have been discharged.Nuh with 57 cases continues to be the worst-affected district, followed by Faridabad (42), Gurugram (36) and Palwal (34).According to the state health bulletin, of total 250 Covid-19 patients, 24 are foreign nationals and 64 are from other states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/most-of-infected-patients-in-haryana-are-asymptomatic/story-6OoL1Ihvax0OddP43pSc4L.html
19-04-2020||City||Coronavirus outbreak: Yamunanagar plywood industry seeks relaxation amid lockdown in Haryana||Plywood and related industry of Yamunanagar district is also not untouched by nationwide lockdown imposed by the Centre in view of the coronavirus outbreak.With the central government hinting at relaxations to be given to some sectors in the coming days, traders of one of Asia’s largest timber markets are also hoping to get some respite in their business. Despite the district being declared a green zone, the government’s move will not largely affect this industry as the units are scattered and most of them come under the municipal corporation (MC) limits.‘ALLOW US OPEN UNITS FOR 2-3 DAYS’All India Plywood Manufacturing Association president Devendra Chawla said, “The industrial units are spread across both Yamunanagar and Jagadhari cities. A large area comes under the MC limits and so does the plywood industries.” “We have asked the district administration to allow us open our units within the MC limits for two-three days so that we can check our raw material, including wood, glue and other chemicals,” he said. Nearly a thousand units, including plyboard and peeling factories, are operational across the district.Deputy commissioner Mukul Kumar said that as per the guidelines of the central government, there are a few standard operating procedures (SOPs) related to premises and labour that are to be followed by the applicants. “Industries within MC limits cannot operate as per the order, however, the request of the plywood industries related to the checking of their raw material has been forwarded to the state government for consideration,” he said.ONE LAKH PEOPLE LINKED TO INDUSTRYWith more than one lakh people directly or indirectly linked to the plywood industry in the district, the association has also urged the state government to help them during this economic slowdown. In an online meeting held few days back, the association asked the state government to waive off their fixed charges on electricity bills and refund Rs 200 crore collected from them as ‘licence fee’.“Governments of Punjab, Gujarat and Rajasthan have decided to charge electricity bills as per usage but Haryana government has only given us a rebate of Rs 10,000. We are demanding waive off of fixed charges, the remaining should be taken as per the usage and our pending bills of March and April be deducted from the security amount,” Chawla said.‘DEFER LOAN INSTALMENTS’Other demands of the plywood association are -- assistance from the central government to export Indian plywood and furniture to Middle East and European countries, deferment of loan instalments and waive off the moratorium period interest. State education and forests minister Kanwar Pal, who is also an MLA from Jagadhari, said, “Amid this global economic slowdown, we are already trying to help industries in the state. I will raise the issue of waiving off the fixed charges during the cabinet meeting with chief minister.” About the demand of licence amount, he said, “Our government had decided to do away with charging this fee and refund the amount to the industrialists. The matter is under process.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-outbreak-yamunanagar-plywood-industry-seeks-relaxation-amid-lockdown-in-haryana/story-ugY5bYfg2308VCMdSrMORN.html
19-04-2020||City||Use disaster relief fund to help the needy: Harsimrat to CM||CHANDIGARH Union food processing industries minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal on Sunday urged Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh to use Rs 6,000-crore grant received by the state government under the State Disaster Relief Fund to provide succour to the needy in the wake of Covid-19 crisis.In a statement here, she said it was of utmost importance to provide direct benefits to farmers, farm labourers, daily wagers and migrant labour, besides giving relief to the common man as well as the industrial sector.The minister pointed out that she had disclosed that the Centre had released Rs 2,366 crore to the Punjab government on account of GST compensation and arrears, besides money under other heads after March 20 when the COVID-19 pandemic broke out.Harsimrat also released the Centre’s communications listing out all the grants released for the state since March 20, including Rs 638 crore as a revenue deficit grant, Rs 247 crore for the first installment of disaster management grant for this year, Rs 41crore under the National Health Mission and Rs 71.87 crore as 100% assistance under the emergency response package announced by the PM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/use-disaster-relief-fund-to-help-the-needy-harsimrat-to-cm/story-dx4BJJGU51DLLck5yif97O.html
19-04-2020||City||Not getting coupons, farmers store wheat crop at houses||BATHINDA As the wheat harvesting is picking pace in the state, farmers who are not getting coupons to sell their crop in the grain markets are storing their produce at their houses to sell it later.To avoid overcrowding at procurement centres in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak, the state government is issuing limited number of coupons to farmers to bring their crop to mandis. The procurement started on April 15.Karamjit Singh, a farmer from Jeond village in Bathinda, said he has already stored the wheat crop harvested from five acres. “I have grown wheat over 60 acres and will have to store the entire produce at house if I don’t get the coupons,” he said.A farmer from Pakho Kalan village said he has stored crop harvested from 25 acres in his house as he did not get coupons to take it to mandi. He said that it will be extra financial burden on farmers to take back the crop to mandis for sale in the coming days.Bathinda district mandi officer Preet Kanwar Brar said they have to send many farmers back who bring their crop to mandis without coupons. “To ensure that overcrowding doesn’t take place we have to keep strict check on number of coupons being issued,” he said. “Coupons are issued three days in advance to farmers. In Bathinda, we have issued 32,840 coupons for procurement till April 21,”he said.BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan) leader Shingara Singh Mann said that farmers have no other option but to store the crop at their houses even as they will have to bear additional financial burden in the process.He said that farmers should be provided gunny bags so that they can keep the produce packed at their houses. They should also be provided an incentive for storing the crop. He added that farm unions will hold a protest at their rooftops on April 25 to press for these demands. To check overcrowding in the procurement centres, Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh has also written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, seeking incentives to farmers to sell their crop after April 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/not-getting-coupons-farmers-store-wheat-crop-at-houses/story-htTG0vLzxmV32BqYjnluPJ.html
19-04-2020||Mumbai||26 more Jaslok Hospital staffers test positive for Covid-19||A day before south Mumbai’s Jaslok Hospital was set to open up their services, 26 healthcare providers including five doctors tested positive for Covid-19, on Sunday. The total number of infected staffers at the hospital now stands at 57.At present, all the infected staffers have been isolated while two doctors whose condition have been kept under observation at the intensive care unit (ICU). Testing all quarantined staffers was part of the protocol laid by Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). The 26 new Covid-19 patients were asymptomatic.Last month, 21 nurses at the hospital had tested positive, following which the hospital authorities collected swab samples of 100 staffers and quarantined them at a hostel in Ballard Pier. Although most staffers had tested negative, they were quarantined for 14 days as is mandatory. BMC, as a precautionary, sealed the hospital. “Positive cases have come from the quarantined staff in the hostel who were tested again before they could resume work. The second round of swab testing showed that some staffers were asymptomatic but diagnosed positive for the virus. We are taking precautions to ensure the safety of our staff and patients. We have tested over 1,600 of our staff, nurses and doctors and adopted precautionary measures to ensure their safety,” said a hospital spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/26-more-jaslok-hospital-staffers-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-r422ILreQ5cmX74hnRZtOP.html
19-04-2020||City||Govt revokes order to use Bathinda cancer hospital as Covid facility||The Punjab health department has withdrawn its decision to continue using the Advanced Cancer Institute (ACI), Bathinda, as an isolation facility for Covid-19 suspects or patients, after a strong opposition by doctors and the families of those suffering from cancer for fear of infection. Bathinda civil surgeon Dr Amrik Singh Sandhu said the isolation facility will be relocated at the civil hospital by Tuesday. “The decision was taken by the high-ups after looking into various aspects. In case an infected patient requires treatment or ventilator support, they will be shifted to the Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital in the adjoining Faridkot district,” said Dr Sandhu.Also, he clarified that ventilators at the cancer institute will not be used for the Covid patients at the civil hospital. Sandhu said barricading has been planned at the civil hospital for restricted movement in the new Covid facility.On Sunday, seven coronavirus suspects were discharged from the centre as they were found negative for the disease. Earlier, HT reported as how the treatment of cancer patients was hit after Covid suspects were admitted at the isolation ward on the third floor. Oncologists had suspended surgeries and radiotherapy since cancer patients have low immunity and should not be exposed to possible infection. Also, the paramedic and technical staff at ACI was put on duty at isolation ward and X-ray test station and laboratory was also being used for Covid cases. Besides, Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal had said she will write to the Prime Minister about the state government’s decision to use the cancer institute as a Covid-19 facility. She had also written to the Punjab chief minister on the issue. Cancer institute medical superintendent Dr Deepak Arora said he got an informal communication for the relocation of the Covid facility. “We will sanitise the entire floor to make it fit for regular cancer patients,” he added. Till date, Bathinda has not reported any Covid-19 case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/govt-revokes-order-to-use-bathinda-cancer-hospital-as-covid-facility/story-fCYxpkNkipprVbpD2AoqNI.html
19-04-2020||Chandigarh||Amid labour shortage, PAU advises farmers to go for direct paddy sowing||Experts at the Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), Ludhiana, have advised the state’s farmers to opt for the direct seeding rice (DSR) variety of paddy in the upcoming kharif season to make up for an acute shortage of labour in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.The new variety, according to the PAU researchers, would save the farmers from two labour-intensive steps of the traditional paddy sowing — setting up of nurseries and then transplanting the saplings in the puddled fields.The PAU has developed a new DSR technique which was successfully tested during the last kharif season.“In this new technique, the fields are levelled, irrigated and good soil moisture conditions are created. Then, paddy is sown with the help of tractor-operated drills,” said PAU vice-chancellor BS Dhillon.“After harvesting and procurement of wheat, the next worry for Punjab farmers is paddy sowing. Amid the Covid-19 lockdown, labourers engaged in paddy transplantation have gone back to their native states. Now, Punjab farmers are left with no option but to adopt alternative sowing techniques,” Dhillon added.The PR-126 variety of direct seeding has shown the best results and the yield is as much as transplanted paddy, he added.“On the basis of the recommendations made by the PAU, we have started making preparations even as the deadline for paddy sowing is two months away. Also, it will help in the long run as it cuts one-third of the total water requirements,” said secretary (agriculture) KS Pannu.“At least 500 Korean and Japanese machines are available for direct sowing and as many additional machines will be developed in two months. These machines could sow paddy on 1.25 lakh acres. The government is offering 40% subsidy on these machines,” he said.‘Will also use paddy transplant machines’The PAU and the state government have some machines for transplantation of saplings at their disposal and they will be put to use in the kharif season. “We are getting more such machines manufactured,” Pannu added. In Punjab, paddy is sown on 70 lakh acres and paddy transplantation is not permitted before June 20 as per the state government’s directions to save subsoil water.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/amid-labour-shortage-pau-advises-farmers-to-go-for-direct-paddy-sowing/story-1NIlDYF8EeVSC0JHZpmxAO.html
19-04-2020||City||10 more test positive in Punjab, tally 244||Ten fresh cases of the coronavirus were reported in Punjab on Sunday, taking the total number of those infected in the state to 244.In Jalandhar, six more people, all male, tested positive, with the district’s tally reaching 47.Of the six, five patients are co-workers of a 40-year-old from the Raja Garden area who was found positive earlier. They are a 27-year-old resident of Pacca Bagh, a 29-year-old of Jyoti Chowk locality, a 36 -year-old of New Moti Nagar, a 39 -year-old of Santokhpura Mohalla and a 42 -year-old of New Dashmesh Nagar.The district administration started the process to seal these localities to control the virus spread.Also, 65-year-old man of Basti Danishmana area, who was suffering from severe acute respiratory infection, tested positive.Health department officials said the 40-year-old from Raja Garden has so far infected at least 8 persons, including his daughter and a one-year-old nephew.Of a total of 915 samples collected in the district, including some repeat ones, 675 have tested negative and results of 179 samples are still awaited.“We are tracing the close contacts of the infected patients,” a health official said.The district has the second highest number of cases in Punjab after Mohali, where 61 positive cases have been reported so far.2-month- old among 4 found positive in Mohali In Mohali, four members of a family, including a two-month- old girl, tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the district’s count to 61.The four are family members and relatives of a 30-year-old hospital attendant posted in the communicable diseases ward of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, who was tested positive on Friday.Those tested positive include his 26-year-old wife, two-month-old daughter, a 20- year-old brother-in-law and the mother-in-law aged 60. All stay in a one-room accommodation in Adarash Nagar locality of Nayagaon in Mohali district.The 26-year-old woman and her daughter are admitted to the PGIMER, Chandigarh, while her mother and brother were admitted to Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/10-more-test-positive-in-punjab-tally-244/story-BNBhYFzgA0qt7CuQh6PvnL.html
19-04-2020||Chandigarh||No special curfew concession for Ramzan: Amarinder||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Sunday ruled out any relaxation in curfew in the state, except as needed to ensure procurement of wheat till May 3, when the situation would be reviewed. He ordered all deputy commissioners to ensure strict enforcement of curfew, with no relaxation or concessions whatsoever. He clarified that no special curfew passes would be issued on account of Ramzan that begins this week. A government release added that there should be no relaxation, except already announced by his government with respect to harvesting and procurement operations, as well as those relating to operations of certain industries/brick kilns and construction activity.The CM has also ordered a health audit of mandis after reports emerged that some of these lacked proper hygiene. Over 185 lakh tonne wheat is expected to arrive in the mandis till June when procurement is expected to end. This will infuse around Rs 35,000 crore, including the Cash Credit Limit (CCL) payment of Rs 26,000 crore, received from the Centre, into the state economy, thus giving it the much-needed support for fighting the COVID-19 battle effectively. Acting on the CM’s directives, DCs have issued separate notification to maintain strict curfew restrictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-special-curfew-concession-for-ramzan-amarinder/story-QQgtvUi61Qi2YVedcljYnM.html
19-04-2020||City||Labour pangs hit hard: SAD MLA Ayali seen harvesting the field himself||With migrant labourers long gone, all big and small farmers in Punjab can be seen sweating it out in their fields to harvest their wheat crops. Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) MLA from Dakha constituency, Manpreet Singh Ayali was no different. The multimillionaire realtor-cum-farmer turned politician was seen harvesting his fields in Dakha area on Sunday. The MLA exhorted the youngsters of Punjab, particularly of his constituency, to help their brethren in the harvesting process.Ayali, who was seen using the harvester, urged residents, particularly the elderly in the villages, to involve the youngsters in the harvesting and farming process. “The entire world is going through a lockdown. Material things such as buying a new car or a motorcycle have taken a back-seat. Everyone wishes that there is enough food to eat in the house. I would urge youngsters, especially those associated with farming, to go out in the field and work. This is the best opportunity God has offered us and we should make the most of it,” said Ayali.He also advised residents of the villages to strictly follow social distancing measures while harvesting the crops.The MLA from Dakha also urged farmers not to sit at home after harvesting. “We have to continue working in the field even after harvesting for preparing fodder and transplanting of paddy crop. We should no longer be dependent of labour,” said Ayali.“Gurus have ranked farming above all the occupations. The first Sikh master Guru Nanak Dev had also carried out farming at Kartarpur Sahib. The lockdown has provided us an opportunity get back to manual labour. Besides, we should also help the farm labour toiling hard in the field,” said Ayali.He also urged the government to ensure timely disbursal of payment to farmers whose crops have arrived at the mandi.The Dakha MLA’s appeal has come at a time when Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) has predicted acute shortage of labour which could impede the process of sowing of summer vegetables and paddy crops transplantation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/labour-pangs-hit-hard-sad-mla-ayali-seen-harvesting-the-field-himself/story-sP4nYORfro4t7Tqt88ZbRO.html
19-04-2020||Patna||CM Nitish Kumar reviews schemes for creating employment for labourers||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Sunday reviewed steps being taken to contain the spread of COVID-19 and schemes to create employment opportunities during the lockdown period in the state.Kumar told officials to expedite work relating to seven resolves that include - providing piped drinking water to every household, pucca road and drainage, construction of toilets, renovation of ponds under Jal-Jeevan-Hariyali and MNREGA schemes.The state government intends to provide more and more employment opportunities to labourers so that they do not face any difficulties in getting work, Kumar said, according to an official release.He asked officials to expedite digging of ponds measuring less than an acre of land under MNREGA. He also asked them to expedite the Water Resources departments work being carried out for anti-erosion and embankment strengthening.These measures would provide work opportunities to people and labourers, the CM said, adding that local labourers should be used as per the guideline besides following the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP).He told the officials to expedite wheat procurement in the state as the state government has enhanced the procurement target so that more farmers can get fair price of their produce.Food and Consumer Protection Department officials informed the CM that at least 7 lakh MT of wheat will be procured this season. Kumar, however, stressed for procurement of more than 7 lakh MT of wheat.The door to door campaign (screening) is being carried out on the lines of Pulse Polio to identify COVID-19 infected people in affected districts, he said, adding that 1.84 crore people in 33.86 lakh households have been surveyed so far under the drive.Of the above figure, merely 980 people had symptoms of general disease like cold, cough and fever, he said.Kumar stressed the need for paying special attention to the quality of food being served at disaster relief camps in the state. If the need arises, the number of camps will be increased as there is no paucity of funds for the purpose because victims of disaster have the first right over states exchequer.The state government is helping out people considering it (COVID-19 pandemic) as disaster, Kumar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/cm-nitish-kumar-reviews-schemes-for-creating-employment-for-labourers/story-xpL9ot8Rsrr8diaxFRDQ9O.html
19-04-2020||Mumbai||Central Railway prepares for monsoon||With local and outstation train services non-operational during the nationwide lockdown, the Central Railway has started preparing for the upcoming monsoon. The railways have identified track sections that get waterlogged during monsoon and were severely impacted in 2019. Maintenance work of the tracks and the drainage alongside the tracks have begun. Cleaning of drains near Ghatkopar, Dadar and Byculla railway station have been undertaken. Cleaning of railway culverts and drains near Sion, Guru Tegh Bahadur Nagar (GTB) and Kanjurmarg railway station will be undertaken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/central-railway-prepares-for-monsoon/story-z4o2doLp8m1KRbSfyX9tLN.html
19-04-2020||City||Punjab’s stricter norms make industries uncertain||Chandigarh With the state government making norms for allowing industrial activities from April 20 more stringent amid the covid-19 crisis, most industries in Punjab are unsure about resuming operations.The stricter government guidelines, coupled with supply chain disruptions, retail still not being open and the prevailing business environment, have left a majority of them in doubt about restarting their production, according to industry leaders in different parts of the state. The Centre had announced the relaxations four days ago. The state’s home department, which imposed additional conditions on Saturday for permitting industrial activities outside the containment zones, has made it mandatory for all categories of industries and industrial establishments employing 10 or more persons to make boarding and lodging arrangements on their factory premises for workers, or provide transport.The Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) had, in its guidelines issued on April 15, imposed this condition only on manufacturing and other industrial establishments in Special Economic Zones (SEZs) and Export Oriented Units (EoUs), industrial estates and industrial townships. Additional chief secretary, industries, Vini Mahajan, said the government is being cautious to make sure the situation does not get out of hand. “We want to see industries restart operations, but have to focus on containing covid-19 spread at the same time. If necessary, some recalibration can be done,” she said.CHALLENGING SITUATION, TOUGH GUIDELINESRaman Batta, president, Bathinda Chamber of Commerce and Industries, said district authorities are not allowing industries to transport workers and asking them to be accommodated within factory premises. “How many medium-scale factories have the space and facilities for boarding and lodging 100-150 workers? In this situation, only 10-12% of units will resume production,” he said.Badish Jindal, president of Federation of Punjab Small Industries Association (FASII), and Upkar Singh Ahuja, chairman of Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertaking (CICU), said strict conditions, such as accommodating labour within the factory premises and holding the owner responsible if any worker contracts the infection, have also made many owners reluctant. “If authorities want industry to work, these guidelines will have to be changed,” Ahuja said.Of 2.52 lakh registered industrial units, roughly 2,200 – a tad less than 1% - have been running their operations after the state government, on March 29, asked industrial units to start operations with conditions related to boarding and lodging of labour, to prevent the exodus of migrant workers. Things have not been smooth for them. Ashok Sethi, director, Punjab Rice Millers and Exporters Association, said rice shellers started operations about 10 days ago at 20% capacity and faced many challenges, including operational difficulties, supply chain issues, cancellation of orders and payments. “We are only doing packing right now, but still it is tough. If I can achieve 50% of my production target this year, it will be an achievement,” said Sethi who is a member of the 20-member task force set up by the state government on covid-19.OFFICIALS HEDGE BETS ON RESPONSEInitially, state government officials expected 40% industrial units to resume operations from Monday onwards, but have scaled down expectations after the state home department’s order on consolidated guidelines with additional riders. “Our expectations were in line with the guidance given by the Centre, but the state guidelines were issued on Saturday. We will have to wait until Monday to see how many industrial units resume operations. Also, our hotspots and containment zones are mostly in industrial towns,” said industries director C Sibin, refusing to hazard a guess on the response.TWO-THIRDS OF COVID-19 CASES FROM INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTSSAS Nagar (Mohali), Jalandhar, Patiala, Ludhiana, and Amritsar districts, where most of the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) are located, account for two-thirds (66%) of 234 Covid-19 cases in the state to date. In Ludhiana, 650 of 95,000-odd units have taken permission in the past two weeks to operate. “Most of those granted permission are running their operations, but not many fresh applications for permission have been received,” a district official said. Of 12,000-odd units (mostly MSMEs) in Mohali, 65 are operational. HS Pannu, general manager, district industries centre (DIC), said he had received 10-12 queries in the past 24 hours. Mohali has the maximum number of 61 positive cases in the state.Strap/BlurbWAIT AND WATCH Initially, even govt officials expected 40% industrial units to resume operations, but have scaled down expectation after state home dept’s order on consolidated guidelines with additional riders||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-s-stricter-norms-make-industries-uncertain/story-KNeAB6CQcwqIA9gONhRPgP.html
19-04-2020||Delhi||Mandoli jail to accommodate 250 prisoners from Tihar, Rohini facilities to ensure social distancing in prisons||The high-powered committee formed by the Delhi government for decongesting prisons has resolved that 250 prisoners from the Tihar Jail and the Rohini Prison Complex will be shifted to the Mandoli Jail so social distancing norms can be followed. It also ordered the grant of emergency parole to inmates suffering from mental illness and serious physical ailments.The committee, headed by Delhi high court’s Justice Hima Kohli, was informed by the Director General (prisons) that some inmates can be shifted from the congested Rohini and Tihar facilities to Mandoli as its actual occupancy, as on date, was less than its registered holding capacity.He also apprised the committee that the total area of Tihar jail, its outlay and particularly the corridors and open spaces in front of individual cells and barracks can accommodate more prisoners than its registered holding capacity. Rohini Jail Complex does not have such open spaces to accommodate more prisoners than its holding capacity, he said. “Taking into account the jail population of Rohini Jail, Tihar Court Complex and Mandoli Court Complex, as well as their respective areas and outlays, the committee has unanimously resolved that transferring 200 prisoners from Rohini Jail and 50 prisoners from Tihar to Mandoli would sufficiently decongest Rohini and Tihar jails.“By doing so, the Jail administration would be in a position to implement social distancing among inmates of all the three jail complexes,” the minutes of the meeting read.The DG (prisons) submitted that 953 convicts have been released on emergency parole even though the orders were issued for the release of 1,109. He also said that while orders have been issued for the release of 1,877 prisoners, 1,777 inmates have so far been released; the remaining have decided to stay back because they hail from other states. Till April 18, 2,962 prisoners, including convicts, remission and under-trial prisoners, had been released.Kanwal Jeet Arora, member secretary of the Delhi State Legal Services Authority (DSLSA), informed that advocates empanelled with it and visiting jail premises on a daily basis, had drafted and filed bail applications for the under-trial prisoners as per criteria adopted by the committee.DG (prisons) informed that there are 11 convicts who have also become eligible for being released after the grant of remission, however, they have not been released due to the non-payment of the fine.Following this, the committee said, “Being conscious of Covid-19 pandemic…and…‘National Lockdown’ of 40 days, these convicts or their family members may have become incapacitated to deposit the fine.“It is accordingly resolved…that these 11 convicts who have completed their substantive sentence can be released on furnishing an undertaking…to the effect that they shall deposit the fine within ‘15 days of lifting of Lockdown’ failing which they shall surrender to serve the remainder of the sentence (imposed on them in default of payment of fine),” the committee resolved.It also said that considering the advisory of the Indian Council of Medical Research prisoners suffering from HIV, cancer, chronic kidney dysfunction (UTPs requiring dialysis), Hepatitis B or C, Asthma and TB are more prone to the risk of the virus, inmates suffering from any of these diseases should be given emergency parole.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/mandoli-jail-to-accommodate-250-prisoners-from-tihar-rohini-facilities-to-ensure-social-distancing-in-prisons/story-JJlBuPmjccz5ZO0hPyJPxL.html
19-04-2020||Chandigarh||Dowry death: Daily wager booked after wife kills self in Panchkula||Police have booked a 22-year-old man after his wife committed suicide in Indira colony in Panchkula’s Sector 16.The victim’s mother Rekha, 42, a resident of Saketri village in Panchkula, told the police in a complaint that only last year, her 20-year-old daughter had married the accused Raju, a daily wager who lived in Indira colony. She said Raju had been harassing her daughter to bring dowry and regularly thrashed her after getting drunk.“He is an addict and would forcibly take money from my daughter after beating her. On Saturday also, he did the same and gave her nothing to eat. She was so harassed that she ended her life,” the complainant told the police.Sub-inspector Jagdish Chander, the investigating official in the case, said that on Saturday, Raju’s elder brother informed police that Raju’s wife had hanged herself in room, following which a team rushed to the spot. “The woman’s mother has submitted a complaint and the accused has been booked. Investigation is underway,” said the official.A case has been registered under Section 304-B (dowry death) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/dowry-death-daily-wager-booked-after-wife-kills-self-in-panchkula/story-I4yznqmBVy2lUXbj5aLIIJ.html
19-04-2020||City||Coronavirus: Residents must donate wholeheartedly, says DC||In view of the coronavirus outbreak, if anyone wants to contribute towards the relief measures being undertaken by the district administration, he/she should contact the secretary of District Red Cross Society, Ludhiana, on his phone number 9417376655 or send an email on redcrossldh@yahoo.com, deputy commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal has said.An individual can easily make a donation by clicking on the link–https://ircsl.getekart.com/ircsl/ircslpay/payment/zi1QSRVaAMQla7CJyWn2KA–provided by the district administration. The donors will need to fill in their names, email IDs, mobile numbers, and PAN card numbers. They can donate any amount ranging from ₹50 to ₹500,” the DC said. “The bank account of District Red Cross Society is in HDFC Bank (account number 50100330412872). The IFSC Code is HDFC0001320,” he added.“In this hour of need, cooked food and dry ration is being supplied to the daily wage labourers with the support of several NGOs and other organisations. I appeal to the residents to donate wholeheartedly for the benefit of maximum number of people,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-residents-must-donate-wholeheartedly-says-dc/story-X2wDlVpKaM3hktuVacrJQO.html
19-04-2020||City||Online national-level quiz on Ganga for CBSE students from April 22||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has asked the affiliated schools to encourage the students aged 10 years or above to participate in the second edition of Ganga Quest, an online national bilingual (Hindi and English) quiz on Ganga, to be held from April 22 (World Earth Day) to May 22 (World Biodiversity Day).A circular in this regard was uploaded on the board website on Saturday. The winners of the quiz will be announced on June 5 (World Environment Day). Winners will be awarded prizes and the schools with maximum participation will also be duly recognised.The quiz is jointly organised by the National Mission for Clean Ganga (NMCG) under the Government of India which implements the Namami Gange programme, and TREE Craze Foundation (TCF), a not-for-profit organisation committed to Ganga, rivers, and the environment. Bandana Sethi, principal of Bhartiya Vidya Mandir School, Udham Singh Nagar, said, “We have circulated information regarding the quiz to the students aged 10 years and above. Many of them have shown interest in participating in the quiz. Apart from online classes and other activities, students will get more exposure by participating in these online contests.”A Class 6 student, Gagan Virk, said, “I am participating in this quiz as it is an interesting topic. The school authorities have also asked us to participate so that we may enhance our knowledge about the theme.” Besides enhancing students’ knowledge about Ganga, the quiz aims at evaluating their status of awareness about the river. The objectives include knowledge-building, awareness, orientation, knowledge-gap assessment, and baseline determination. ABOUT THE PROGRAMMEThe Namami Gange Programme is an integrated conservation mission to accomplish the twin objectives of effective abatement of pollution, conservation and rejuvenation of river Ganga.ELIGIBILITYStudents aged 10 years or above are eligible to participate. Participants should register on the website www.gangaquest.com with a valid ID, such as Aadhaar card, passport or birth certificate.Mass registration is available for schools. Students must mention the correct details of their schools or they may get disqualified. To take the quiz, each participant must have a computer and internet connectivity with a minimum speed of 512 kbps.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/online-national-level-quiz-on-ganga-for-cbse-students-from-april-22/story-nIFPPdlVmV4uodwm7XuxyI.html
19-04-2020||Chandigarh||Record identities of sick persons or face action, Chandigarh pharmacies, doctors told||The UT administration has directed pharmacists in the city to keep records of identity of those buying medicines for cold, cough and flu. The move comes after Chandigarh was identified as a hotspot and declared a containment zone by the administration. With the Union health ministry declaring the UT a Covid-19 hotspot (red zone) on April 15, the UT administration has decided to test all those with influenza-like-illness (ILI) for the novel coronavirus. The symptoms include fever, cold, cough etc. The administration decided to adopt the testing protocol of Indian Council of Medical Research which was updated on April 9. The district magistrate Mandip Singh Brar in his order has stated that it has come to notice that pharmacies including jan aushdhi shops, as well as doctors, particularly general physicians, running private clinics in Chandigarh, are selling and prescribing medicines to persons for flu-like symptoms.All pharmacies including jan aushdhi shops and doctors are to maintain a record of the name, phone number and address of those buying medicines for fever, cold, throat, infection, flu and similar symptoms, and provide it to the director health services (DHS) on a daily basis via email or whatsapp.The DHS on will formulate and execute a plan to collect data from pharmacies and general physicians on daily basis and track patients with Covid-19 symptoms and taken necessary action to control the outbreak. Any violation of this order will invite action under Section 188 of Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/record-identities-of-sick-persons-or-face-action-chandigarh-pharmacies-doctors-told/story-qNEHxuO84cntqYVkdF76EN.html
19-04-2020||City||APMC fruit market to start from Monday with restrictions||Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has planned to shift the vegetable market of APMC to the circus ground at Khanda colony to avoid overcrowding. The APMC wholesale fruit market will start functioning once again from Monday. Giving details of the decision to start the market, APMC fruit market director Sanjay Pansare said, “Only 250 vehicles will be allowed in the market to bring all the fruits. The vehicles will start arriving from 8pm in the night and the unloading has to be completed by 5 am.”He added, “At 7am, the retailers will be given entry to the market and their vehicles can come in for taking deliveries from 8 am. To restrict the number of retailers, only those who purchase a minimum of Rs 15,000 fruits will be given access to the market.”Pansare said, “The trade will take place till 1 pm. The customers have to maintain social distancing and all business talk should be undertaken with a separation of at least 3 feet and other precautions. Thereafter, the traders can do their accounts and other work and the market will shut at 5 pm.”He appealed, “We are requesting the retailers to not come to the market and instead give the orders to us on phone. We will deliver them to their markets.”PCMC civic chief, Ganesh Deshmukh, said, “Despite many guidelines, people were not adhering to social distancing. A lot of crowd was observed every day hence it has been decided to shift the market to a bigger place, where proper barricading is done. It will also be ensured that those who visit the market follow social distancing norms.”The fruits and vegetable market which will be operational from Monday at Circus ground in the Khanda colony would have 100 stalls. The civic body has made arrangements for mobile toilets, water, and electricity among many.The market had shut down last week and though the other markets had started, the fruit market traders had been reluctant to start operations in the wake of the Covid 19 scare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/apmc-fruit-market-to-start-from-monday-with-restrictions/story-lLXfROdCyxixOFwgyrPjWK.html
19-04-2020||Ranchi||Five more Covid-19 cases in Jharkhand, count rises to 38||Five more people have tested positive for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours in Jharkhand, taking the total number of cases in the state to 38, officials said on Sunday.Three people have tested positive in Ranchi district while one person each tested positive in Dhanbad and Simdega districts, they said.According to Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), Ranchi, Director D K Singh four samples have tested positive.The officials said that while three people are from different places in Ranchi district, one hails from Simdega district.A news report quoting Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner Amit Kumar said the samples of a railway trackman working with the East Central Railways tested positive for the disease on Saturday. The man, a resident of a Railway Colony in Hirapur area, was being treated at the Divisional Railway Hospital here for fever, he said.He had visited his in-laws’ house at Chas in neighbouring Bokaro district to meet his pregnant wife and returned to Dhanbad on a bicycle on March 26. He complained of fever the next day, health officials said.The first positive case in Dhanbad district was reported in Kumardhubi in Gyarahkhund block near the West Bengal border on April 8.The total number of cases in the state was 38, which includes two deaths, one each in Ranchi and Bokaro districts, an official said.Ranchi district has the maximum number of Covid-19 cases at 21, followed by Bokaro (9), Hazaribagh, Simdega and Dhanbad (two each) and one each in Koderma and Giridih districts. PTI COR PVR RG KJ||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/five-more-covid-19-cases-in-jharkhand-count-rises-to-38/story-PeKVjYP47QwTDBZvjQjbQJ.html
19-04-2020||City||Punjab govt releases ₹90cr assistance for registered construction workers through DBT||Punjab government released the second instalment of interim relief of Rs 90 crore to registered construction workers on Sunday.Labour and health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said Rs 3,000 each in the saving bank accounts of 2,82,576 registered construction workers had been transferred through direct benefit transfer (DBT).Sidhu said as the construction workers had been rendered jobless amid the Covid-19 lockdown, the Punjab government was providing them with financial assistance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-govt-releases-90cr-assistance-for-registered-construction-workers-through-dbt/story-IHjOCc0JIHQrEeEQW83SnI.html
19-04-2020||Bangalore||Covid-19 death toll rises to 16 in Karnataka; six new cases confirmed||Two more COVID-19 fatalities were reported in Karnataka on Sunday, taking the death toll in the state to 16, as six new cases were confirmed in the state, taking the total number of infections to 390, the health department said.A 65-year-old woman, who is a city resident and a 50- year-old woman from Dakshina Kannada with Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) died at designated hospitals in their respective districts, a department bulletin said.Cumulatively, 390 COVID-19 positive cases have been confirmed in Karnataka so far, which includes 16 deaths and 111 discharges, it said.Out of the 263 active cases, 260 (including a pregnant woman) are in isolation at designated hospitals and are stable, while three are in Intensive Care Units.Among six new cases, four are from Mysuru and two from Dakshina Kannada, including the 50 year-old woman who died.While two men from Mysuru (aged 46 and 20) had a travel history to Delhi, the other two (a 39-year-old man and 23-year old woman) are from Nanjanagudu in Mysuru and contacts of patients already tested positive.The other person from Dakshina Kannada is a 30-year-old woman, the wife of a patient who already tested positive.Contact tracing has been initiated and was in progress for all the cases, the department said.Nine out of 390 cases detected and confirmed in Karnataka so far are transit passengers of Kerala.Bengaluru topped the state in most number of infections reported with 89 cases, followed by Mysuru with 84 and Belagavi with 42.Out of total of 111 patients discharged so far, the maximum of 44 are from Bengaluru, 24 from Mysuru, eleven from Dakshina Kannada, the department said.Among the deceased, four are from Bengaluru urban, three from Kalaburagi, two each from Chikkaballapura and Vijayapura, and one each from Belagavi, Bagalkote, Gadag, Dakshina Kannada and Tumakuru.A total of 21,367 samples have been tested so far, out of which 2,181 were tested on Sunday alone.So far 17,662 samples have been reported as negative, of which 2,004 were on Sunday alone.In 31 fever clinics of BBMP (Bengaluru civic body) till date 4,387 people have been screened, while in 438 fever clinics of the state 60,177 people have been screened till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/covid-19-death-toll-rises-to-16-in-karnataka-six-new-cases-confirmed/story-p3CibNle3W9zE72iLT5SfL.html
19-04-2020||Delhi||Constable, 26 others test positive for Covid-19 after random screening||A Delhi Police constable and 26 public persons, among the 45 people from west Delhi’s Tilak Vihar who volunteered for random community testing at a DDU dispensary on Friday, have tested positive for the Coronavirus disease (Covid-19), Delhi government officials said Sunday.By Sunday evening, the Delhi government added Tilak Vihar in Tilak Nagar to the list of containment zones, a total of 80 locations in the city-state.The constable, who was asymptomatic, was posted at the Tilak Vihar police post. A multi-tasking staff (MTS) of the police post was also among the 45 people tested but his report confirmed he was not infected. “At least 15 staffers of the post have been asked to quarantine themselves at home,” deputy commissioner of police (west) Deepak Purohit said.An official, who is part of the team of district magistrate (west), said that 27 people tested positive for Covid-19 out of the 45 people tested. “Results came after we did random community testing,” said the official, who did not want to be named.The police, however, insisted that only 18 Covid-19 positive cases had emerged from this exercise.According to DCP Purohit, the random screening was done following announcements made in the areas around the police post. “The constable showed no symptoms of the disease and he voluntarily went for the screening. On Saturday, his test report confirmed he was infected with the disease,” he added.The constable’s family members living in Kirari, too, has been advised to remain in isolation, DCP Purohit said, adding that contact tracing is being done to ascertain how the constable got infected.With the constable’s case, the total number of police personnel infected with the disease, as on April 19, rose to 10. Of these, one assistant sub-inspector with the traffic police was released from a hospital on Friday after his test reports showed no signs of the infection.This is the third case of a policeman testing positive for Covid-19 between Thursday and Saturday. Active cases of Covid-19 among police personnel include three constables from the Chandni Mahal police station, which has been sealed and all its staffers, including the station house officer (SHO) are under quarantine. Two deputy commissioners of police (DCPs) of the south-west district and as many as 300 police personnel, who had come in contact with the infected personnel during duty are also in home quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/constable-tests-positive-for-covid-19-total-cases-in-delhi-police-ranks-rises-to-10/story-VnNl97n0lJ6P8gSiEcdHnJ.html
19-04-2020||City||Residents fearful after jail in green zone Tarn Taran made quarantine centre||Residents of Tarn Taran district, one of the three in the state with no covid-19 case so far, are fearful of the spread of the infection with the state government turning a sub-jail in Patti, 24km from district headquarters, into a quarantine zone for new inmates. The sub-jail is located in a residential area and the decision was taken on Thursday. Fifty-one new inmates are already inside the jail that has a capacity of 205. A government doctor, not wishing to be named, said, “Three of these new inmates, who were suspected to covid-19 patients during screening, were taken to the Patti civil hospital on Saturday as they had fever. After a few hours, their fever subsided and they were sent back to the jail.”Advocate Deepak Arora, a resident of Patti city, said, “The creation of a quarantine zone inside the jail has increased the chances of spread of the infection, not only among jail and health staff, but also among citizens.” Another resident Lucky Kumar said such a move could be disastrous, as infection could spread quickly. Punjab jails minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa had said the preventive step to create a quarantine zone was meant to ensure the disease did not spread in the state’s jails. Barnala sub-jail was also turned into a quarantine zone. Patti Congress MLA Harminder Singh Gill, however, has threatened to start a sit-in against his own government if the decision was not revoked by Monday evening. “I have requested the jails minister and senior officials to revoke the decision, to no avail. If a single case comes through this new jail, who will be responsible? Such a facility should be shifted to the Kapurthala Open jail,” Gill said. Patti sub-jail superintendent DSP Vijay Kumar said that they had been taking in the new inmates only after proper screening. “People should not panic, as extra precautions are being taken,” Kumar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/residents-fearful-after-jail-in-green-zone-tarn-taran-made-quarantine-centre/story-Emcm4aHLG1htgsl1LahN4K.html
19-04-2020||Chandigarh||No frontline duty for cops above 55 in Punjab||Punjab director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta on Sunday directed that cops above 55 or those with pre-existing medical risk be not deployed on frontline duty in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak.He also ordered strict compliance of his order to ensure weekly off/rest days of all police personnel on frontline duties. He directed all commissioners of police and senior superintendents of police to follow a rotational system of providing a weekly off/rest to the frontline personnel so that two days of rest can be provided to all the personnel after every 10 days.He directed that police personnel above 55 or those with pre-existing and enhanced medical risk factors such as hypertension, cardiac problem, asthma or suppressed immune system should not be deployed on the frontline, as far as possible.To ensure protection of police personnel, the DGP requested the chief secretary to direct the state health department to provide a minimum of 4,050 personal protective equipment (PPE) kits/suits and 18,000 N-95 masks on urgent basis. The DGP said the police officers deployed at hotspots, containment zones, clusters, isolation wards and Covid hospitals need PPE suits, which are certified by the Union ministry of health and family welfare. The police personnel who have to come in close contact with either confirmed or suspect cases of coronavirus also need PPE kits, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-frontline-duty-for-cops-above-55-in-punjab/story-TCVgYD7krRaRW38rL3enGO.html
19-04-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana to resume economic activity in phased manner||Haryana government on Sunday decided that industrial and commercial establishments, information technology (IT) and IT-enabled service units will be unlocked in a phased manner April 20 onwards.Establishments which are outside the containment zones notified by the state government will be allowed to operate as per the central government guidelines.The state implementation rulebook for permitted activities during the lockdown issued on Sunday by the revenue and disaster management department stated that for industrial, commercial and private establishments (excluding IT and IT-enabled services) having workforce requirement of more than 20 persons, 50% of the workforce will be allowed to be deployed. Units having workforce requirement of less than 20 persons will be allowed 100% deployment. For IT and IT-enabled services units seeking deployment of more than 20 persons, 33% or 10 persons, whichever is higher, will be allowed and for units wanting to deploy up to 20 persons, 50% of the workforce will be allowed. For in-situ construction projects where workers are available on site and are not required to be brought from outside, operations will be allowed with 50% of the total workforce. However, no movement passes will be issued.For non in-situ construction projects like roads, irrigation, building, all kinds of industrial projects, including micro- small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) in rural areas and projects in industrial estates, operations will be allowed with 50% of the total workforce with issuance of blue passes. School books, air conditioners are essential goodsKeeping in mind the onset of summer season and new academic session, the state government has allowed sale of air conditioners, air coolers, fans, opening of their repair shops and distribution of books to school and college students, treating them as essential goods and services, the guidelines said.The opening of shops, dhabas on the highways and movement of self-employed individuals will be strictly governed by the ministry of home affairs (MHA) guidelines. “These will be regulated by the block, town and city-level committees in consultation with the labour department,” an official said. Process to resume activityEstablishments willing to resume operations will have to apply on SARAL Haryana portal to obtain permission and movement passes. Passes for interstate movement of vehicles can be obtained from a central government website ( www.covidpass.egovernment.org). The applicants from industrial and commercial establishments will have to give an undertaking of adhering to the standard operating protocols (SoPs) — wearing masks, availability of hand sanitisers, social distancing, gap between shifts of workers, disinfecting the premises, special transportation for workers, thermal scanning and medical insurance. The applicants will also have to make arrangements for the stay of workers within premises or adjacent buildings and arrange transportation of workers to their workplace in a dedicated vehicle while ensuring social distancing.District and block-level committees headed by deputy commissioners and other district officers have been constituted to scrutinise and approve the applications received from industrial and commercial establishments.TVSN Prasad, additional chief secretary, industries and commerce, said the entire process of scrutinising and granting permissions will be issued in a phased manner through SARAL Haryana portal. “The phasing will be done in each district as per social distancing norms and strict containment requirements. Approvals will be given in a phased manner strictly on first come first serve basis. Emphasis is on strict containment and arresting the spread of infection,” he added. Movement passesDistinct movement passes – special and ordinary – will be issued to the industrial and commercial establishments after scrutiny. Triangular red coloured special passes will be issued only to essential service providers to facilitate entry into containment zones or outside such zones to cater to the demand of essential goods and services. Rectangular green and blue coloured ordinary passes will be issued to non-essential service providers. The green pass will be for the industrial workforce and the blue for the construction workers. The ordinary pass holder will not be allowed to enter the notified containment zone. Registration of properties allowedThe state government has also allowed registration of instruments pertaining to transfer of property from April 20. Additional chief secretary, revenue, Dhanpat Singh, in an order issued on Sunday said delivery of copies of revenue records, registration deeds, entries and attestation of mutations, affidavits and issuance of Scheduled Caste certificates, Backward Class certificates, residence certificates, domicile and income certificates will also be allowed from Monday. The work related to registration of sale deeds will be undertaken from 2pm to 4pm on working days. The work pertaining to delivery of copies of revenue records and certificates will be carried out from 4pm to 5pm on working days. There will no requirement of any lambardar or advocate to identify the executants of the sale deed and Aadhaar cards or any photo identity card issued by the government will be sufficient.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-to-resume-economic-activity-in-phased-manner/story-UbY9O8usTvArMaPgvLGlLI.html
19-04-2020||City||4 of PGIMER attendant’s family test positive for Covid-19, live in Mohali’s crowded Nayagaon locality||District authorities were worried after four persons, including a two-month-old baby girl, related to a Covid-19 patient working as an attendant at Chandigarh’s Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), tested positive on Sunday. They were living in a crowded building in a heavily populated area in Nayagaon, leading to concerns about many others getting infected.With this, Mohali’s count has gone up to 61, even as two patients were released from Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur, health officials said on Sunday.The four family members of the 30-year-old PGIMER male staffer, who was diagnosed with the disease on April 17, include his infant daughter; wife, aged 26; brother-in-law, aged 20; and mother-in-law, aged 60; all living together at Adarsh Nagar in Nayagaon.“The mother and daughter are admitted at PGIMER, where the attendant staffer is also being treated. The mother-in-law and brother-in-law are admitted at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur,” said Dr Manjit Singh, civil surgeon, Mohali.40 rooms in building where family livedAbout 611 families living in the area, declared a containment zone, had also been tested and samples of 13 were negative, he added. The building in which the family lived had 40 rooms, all rented.Though the PGIMER attendant is asymptomatic as of now, doctors at the hospital are investigating the source of the investigation, said Girish Dayalan, deputy commissioner .About 640 persons were under quarantine with 1,874 successfully completing the quarantine period, Dayalan added.Eight persons had been discharged from hospitals and two had died.No fresh case in Jawaharpur villageOf the 61 cases, 38 were from Jawaharpur village in Dera Bassi, declared a containment zone, though no fresh case has been reported from there in the last five days.The patients discharged from the Banur hospital include a 64-year-old woman from Sector 91 and a 62-year-old resident of Sector 68 in Mohali, who were admitted on April 4 and April 6, respectively. The former reportedly picked up the infection from a 69-year-old woman from Ludhiana who died after testing positive on March 31. The latter attended the Tablighi Jamaat Markaz in Delhi last month, Dr Singh said.“We are in process of discharging patients and in a week’s time, around 10 admitted at Gian Sagar Hospital will go home. If two consecutive samples return negative, we will discharge the patient. The good news is all patients are responding well to the treatment,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/4-of-pgimer-attendant-s-family-test-positive-for-covid-19-live-in-mohali-s-crowded-nayagaon-locality/story-nYNrhtwF5HsrPViJcckWyM.html
19-04-2020||City||No additional activities to be allowed from April 20 in ‘hotspot’ Mohali||In the wake of the rising number of Covid-19 patients in Mohali, district magistrate Girish Dayalan, exercising powers conferred under the Section 144 of the CrPC, has ordered that the curfew imposed in the district shall remain in force and “operation of any additional activities (not already allowed under previous orders/ exemptions) shall not take place without specific exemptions granted by (his) office.”The activities shall be determined based on the essential nature of the activity, the mitigation of hardship to the public and ensuring continuity of government business. Stricter measures have been enforced keeping in view the emergent nature and potential magnitude of the pandemic and for the purpose of ensuring health and safety of human life.Any violations shall invite criminal proceedings under the relevant provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and the Indian Penal Code.The revised guidelines issued by the ministry of home affairs, Government of India (MHA, GoI), have allowed certain additional activities to be opened in the country from April 20. But, it has also been categorically stated that these guidelines shall not apply to containment zones created in ‘hotspots’ (areas of large outbreak of Covid-19 or clusters with significant spread of Covid-19 as determined by the guidelines of the ministry of health and family welfare).Dayalan said as of April 19, the number of Covid positive cases in the district is 61, highest in the state and the tricity area.In such circumstances, he said, where the district has not yet reached a stage of 14 days without a positive case, the threat of the pandemic spreading can yet not be ruled out.WHAT’S OPEN IN MOHALIBANNEDTransport, private buses, taxis, auto-rickshaws, e-rickshaws, all flights, inter-state buses, trains, commercial establishments, factories, workshops, offices, godowns, daily bazaars, entry from borders , religious placesALLOWEDOffices charged with law and order, magisterial duty, police, healthcare facilities, fire services, electricity, water, municipal services, print and electronic media, ATMs, telecom, internet and postal services, milk plants, takeaway/home deliveries, petrol pumpsRESTRICTEDAny congregation of more than 10 people||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-additional-activities-to-be-allowed-from-april-20-in-hotspot-mohali/story-mMkJIXqdqhm2tbVlYF7dSO.html
19-04-2020||Chandigarh||Students enrolled under Panjab University’s ‘Earn while Learn’ scheme await payments||As the varsity’s administrative functioning took a hit amid the Covid-19 lockdown, many students who have worked under Panjab University’s ‘Earn while Learn’ scheme for months are yet to receive remuneration.Shubham Bharti, a student of University Institute of Chemical Engineering (UICET), who works at the varsity’s AC Joshi library said, “I started to work under this scheme since January, but I have not received any remuneration.”“We have submitted our bank account details, but money has not been transferred,” said Bharti, who hails from Jharkhand. The ‘Earn While Learn’ scheme was launched by the university in 2018 under which students are paid Rs 100 per hour and each student is allowed to work for a maximum of 40 hours in a month. The scheme is aimed at providing opportunities to the students of economically weaker sections. The scheme did not see a positive response from the students last year as students from only one department had opted to avail the scheme. But this year, the varsity took measures so that more students can benefit. “I have been working under the scheme since December and I have submitted the documents in January. We have been told that the payment is under process, but we do not know when the amount will be released,” said Umakant Dubey, a student of University Institute of Engineering and Technology (UIET).However, the university successfully disbursed the salaries of its employees on time.The finance and development officer of the university, Vikram Nayyar, said, “It may be under process at the department levels, but from our side there has been no delay.”Dean of students’ welfare (women), Neena Capalash, was not available for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/students-enrolled-under-panjab-university-s-earn-while-learn-scheme-await-payments/story-M1hKQnT2k0me1R4iYggw3M.html
19-04-2020||City||Mohali’s NIPER focusing on cutting-edge Covid-19 research||In a race against time, faculty members of the National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research (NIPER) are, for the first time, researching models to identify drugs to treat Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome – Coronavirus -19 (SARS CoV-2).Options are also being explored to set up a virus research lab on campus.The pharmacoinformatics faculty of the institute has initiated research work to model and simulate technologies that can help in the prevention and diagnosis of Covid-19 and also identify new drugs.NIPER has also joined a consortium that includes the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education & Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, and The Central Drug Research Institute (CDRI), Lucknow, to repurpose existing medicines.A biosafety level-3 lab specifically designed to work on deadly viruses while maintaining safety of scientists working on these is also being set up on the NIPER campus.“This is for the first time that the institute is doing research on viruses. A multi-centric proposal has already been filed under The New Millennium Indian Technology Leadership Initiative (NMITLI) project, which is focused on developing new delivery mechanisms for therapeutic agents, being used currently in Covid-19 treatment,” said Professor Saranjit Singh, acting director of NIPER Mohali.NMITLI is the largest public-private-partnership effort within the R&D domain in the country.Singh said the institute was mainly focused on delivering drugs through inhalation as Covid-19 affected the lungs.On other initiatives, he said a few faculty members had joined national and international groups fighting against Covid-19. “One of our faculty members was recently invited to join a corporation in California, as part of their team for analytical work in a Covid 19 project that is being submitted for US Food and Drug Administration approval. The institute has already received proposals for a memorandum of understanding which is being reviewed,” Singh said.The institute was also initiating work in the ambitious area of discovering new drugs for anti-viral treatment. This is a long term goal as discovery of new medicine can take anything between six to 10 years. NIPER hopes to work in collaboration with the pharma industry to synergise the discovery of new drugs for viral diseases, he added.Established in 1994 on 130 acres in Sector 67, NIPER is an Indian Public Pharmacy Research University and a part of seven schools under the Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilisers, government of India.Isolation ward set upThe National Bioavailability Centre (NBC) at NIPER has also been prepared as an isolation/quarantine facility for Covid-19 patients. Every residential housing type (from 2 to 6) has nodal officers in charge equipped with personal protection equipment (PPE) kits, including masks, gloves and protective wear for head, eyes and feet for use in case anyone tests positive. The nodal officers have also been trained in wearing and removal of the items.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/niper-focuses-on-cutting-edge-covid-19-research/story-hLY9EW4ONCW0hPq7HIg26M.html
19-04-2020||City||Mumbra shops to operate only for four hours thrice a week as Covid-19 cases mount||With the rising number of cases in Mumbra, the Thane Municipal Corporation has decided to keep the shops of essential commodities in Mumbra open only for three days a week and for four hours from April 21. Along with Mumbra, restriction on movement is also imposed in Vartak Nagar, which has the next highest cases after Mumbra.Moreover, the shops or individuals who do not abide by these norms in Mumbra will be booked for obstruction under section 353.In the TMC jurisdiction, Mumbra has the highest number of 36 cases out of the total 130 cases registered in the city, followed by 23 in Vartak Nagar and 20 in Majiwada-Manpada ward.Manish Joshi, deputy municipal commissioner of TMC said, “From Tuesday, April 21, we have decided to keep the shops of essential commodities open only on Wednesday, Friday and Sunday between 12pm to 4pm. The shops will be closed on all the others days and time apart from these three slots. There will be a complete shut down in Mumbra apart from these three slots on three days of the week.”The shops include milk and dairy suppliers, vegetable, grocery and meat shops. Joshi added, “The shopkeepers are also responsible to maintain social distancing on the days when the shops are operational. We have asked the police to take action against the shops who violate these orders.”Charusheela Pandit, assistant municipal commissioner of Vartak Nagar said that they have also restricted the movement of people in the ward. Pandit added, “We have declared six zones in the ward as containment zones where the movement of the people are completely restricted. Only one member of the society is allowed to take a list of essentials and get it for others. The person will also be distributing it in the society. We have also asked local vegetable, fruits and grocery shops to provide home delivery to decrease the crowd on the roads.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbra-shops-to-operate-only-for-four-hours-thrice-as-covid-19-cases-mount/story-U6WGnmmH1AqcYk8zEO8z6M.html
19-04-2020||City||People suspicious, we are not treated well, say NRIs in Punjab||Non-resident Indians (NRIs) unable to fly back to their countries because of the countrywide lockdown amid the Covid-19 crisis are facing a hard time in the district because of locals’ misconception that they brought the disease to the village.Mohinder Bath, on a visit to his native village, Rurki, from the United Kingdom (UK), said he was stopped by the security guard from entering the Capital Small Finance Bank last week as he was an NRI.“Though I spoke to the bank manager, I had to fill the voucher outside the bank while a local resident was allowed inside to collect my cash,” Bath said. Mandeep Kaur, also from the UK and currently in Cheema village, said she was already stressed because she was unable to fly back home, and on top of that the neighbours were afraid to talk to her. “They accuse us of spreading the virus,” she says.The NRIs also allege that a well known Punjabi singer’s song on YouTube blaming them as irresponsible carriers of the coronavirus, which had been tweeted by a top Punjab police official, was the reason behind people’s wrong perceptions.With the death of Baldev Singh, Punjab’s first Covid-19 fatality, who had returned to India from Germany via Italy, “Most people, especially in the rural areas, believe that NRIs in their neighborhood are a threat. The government should spread awareness among people and save NRIs from mental tension,” said Satnam Singh Chahal, executive director, North American Punjabi Association.Parminder Kaur, a Goraya resident who returned from Canada last month, said that local councillor and a person working with the administration posted the quarantine notice outside her house on March 29, “asking me to stay quarantined till April 14 ,“even though I showed them documents proving that I came here with my children on March 10.”She said the locals were not behaving well with her and her children who had accompanied her to India did not want to come back again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/people-suspicious-we-are-not-treated-well-say-nris/story-r8sQSQJbth7gca53UJ883M.html
19-04-2020||City||Devotees stranded in Indore return home||Around 80 devotees from Punjab who were stranded in Indore, Madhya Pradesh, amid the lockdown have returned home.Fatehgarh Sahib MP Amar Singh said, “On their journey back home from Shri Hazur Sahib gurdwara in Nanded, Maharashtra, around 80 devotees who hailed from Fatehgarh Sahib constituency got stuck near Indore.” The administration had made arrangements for their stay at different places.“These devotees comprised of children, women, some patients, and senior citizens, who were facing problems for the last few days,” he said.Singh has appealed to the residents of Punjab, stuck anywhere in the country due to the lockdown to contact the Punjab government so that efforts can be made for their return. He also urged the residents to stay indoors and follow all the directions issued by the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/devotees-stranded-in-indore-return-home/story-4qT1fKzXGJ8ir3FUYoAh2I.html
19-04-2020||Viral||UP minister gives a haircut to his children in home, amuses netizens. Watch||With barbershops closed due to the coronavirus lockdown, an Uttar Pradesh minister decided to wield the scissors and give his children a haircut. Satish Dwivedi, the minister of state for basic education, said the hair of his son and daughter had grown long and messy and he decided to give them a haircut. “It did not go well for my four-and-a-half-year-old daughter Sukriti. However, it looked fine on my eight-year-old son Kartikeya,” Dwivedi said. A video showing him cutting the children’s hair has gone viral on social media, drawing a number of reactions. “The video was made by my wife to show my act to family members and relatives. Later, when I saw the video, I shared it,” the minister said.बचपन में पिताजी की 24 इंच की हरक्यूलिस साइकिल से कैंची चलाना सीखने के बाद जितनी खुशी मिली थी उतनी ही आज अपने सुपुत्र का बाल काटने से हुई।#LockdownEffectStayHomeStaySafe pic.twitter.com/LFSrm0ZOGu Salons in Uttar Pradesh like elsewhere have been shut since March 25 when the entire country went into a lockdown imposed to curb the spread of coronavirus. Asked how the children reacted to the new skill he has developed but not yet perfected, the minister said they were happy. “I was apprehensive but the children were happy. In fact, my daughter said, ‘no problem, father’. The son did not want his hair to look weird but now he tells everyone he got a haircut from his father.” About his daily routine at home, Dwivedi said it begins with yoga and watching Ramayan on TV. “After this, I speak to workers in my assembly constituency Itwa. Since March 24, I have been connecting with people daily from 11 am to 12 noon on Facebook Live. Then it is time for Mahabharat.” Then again from 1 pm to 6 pm, he remains in touch with the people of the district. “People of Siddharthanagar, especially the labourers who are in Ludhiana, Pune, Mumbai, Bangalore, Hyderabad and other places, call up and narrate their problems. The location and phone number of a person among the callers is noted and shared with the nodal officer appointed for the respective state by the UP government and their problems are redressed,” the minister said. Towards night, Dwivedi, also the in-charge of Sonbhadra district, seeks the day’s report and feedback from officials and party-office bearers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/it-s-viral/up-minister-gives-a-haircut-to-his-children-in-home-amuses-netizens-watch/story-R3u5fWD1x7fnYZShfh0uKO.html
19-04-2020||Pune||After 11,000+ meals for poor, NGO seeks corporate funds for lockdown 2.0||After having served meals to 11,900 marginalised poor and supplied grocery essentials to 2,600 needy families in the city, Saad Pratishthan Pune Trust has appealed to corporates for sponsorship to help additional 1,500-2,000 families with ration kits.Marginalised people such as migrant labourers, homeless destitutes, scrap pickers, jobless daily wagers, commercial sex workers and others were the focus of attention for the relief work.The trust received about Rs 50 lakhs in donations from individuals and organisations for relief work during the 21-day lockdown. Funding of Rs 5 lakhs from National Association of Software and Service Companies (Nasscom) was used to distribute 1,000 health kits to waste-pickers and policemen.With the lockdown having been extended the NGO has appealed to new donors, especially corporate sponsorship. The trust volunteers fan out in different areas of the city and distribute ration kits and meal to the deserving poor and the needy.On Friday, a car loaded with meals and ration kits meandered through the arterial areas of the city, distributing meals and ration kits to the poor. The distribution was undertaken near Sardar Vallabhai Patel Cantonment General Hospital where the hungry and the homeless were fed. The joy of the receivers knew no bounds upon receiving the food packets from volunteers Chinmay Damle and Sai Tamhane.Speaking of the two worlds that exist in Indian society- one of abundance and the other poverty, Sai Tamhane said, “There is a need to bridge the gulf between the haves and have-nots in the society. Our mission is to ensure that the vulnerable sections of the society don’t stay hungry.”Damle said meals and rations were being distributed after due diligence and verification as per a list provided to them by credible NGOs.Amit Dhole, trustee, Saad Pratishthan said. “Our focus has been on reaching out to people whose names are not in the voters’ lists and people who don’t have ration cards. While local corporators or MLAs often and to a large extent, take care of their voter base, this other section of the urban poor is the most vulnerable. Most of them are migrants and have no line of credit at the local store nor any formal channel through which they can access the government ration shop.”Saad has served 850-1,100 cooked meals daily with the help of Tiranga Bhuvan, Kothrud; Poona Guest House, Urban Foundry and Westin Hotel. Daily, around 400 ration kits weighing 30 kg each have been distributed across Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad. These kits contain 10 kg rice, 10 kg wheat flour, 5 kg mix dal, 2 kg besan, 2 litres oil, ½ kilo spices , 1 kg salt and soap.The trust has obtained police permission for four trucks and five private cars and a group of young men and women have been serving as volunteers. Some NGOs have provided assistance by identifying the most needy. Precaution is being taken in terms of hygiene and avoiding mass gatherings.The trust was founded by Suhas Dhole, chairman, UGC Supply Chain Solutions Pvt Ltd as a social foundation to work towards humanitarian causes in Pune district.“We are grateful to our donors for enabling us to help the poorest of the poor in these testing times. With the funds ,we have collected so far, we hope to feed around 5,000 people. We plan to continue the initiative till a week after the lockdown ends,” Suhas Dhole said.BOX: Issues and Challenges• Many beneficiaries attended to by Saad Trust unable to access government’s food distribution network due to absence of ration cards* Received support from NGOs like Robin Hood Army, Mashal, Samapathik Trust, Saheli, Janaseva Foundation, Manoday Vyasan Mukti Kendra and others.* Marginalised communities which need attention: Potraj (Khadimachine chowk, Hadapsar SRA), Rajgond (Gosawi vasti), Pardhi (Bopodi), the LGBTHI (Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Hijara, Intersex) community across Pune through Samapathik Trust; Commercial sex workers (with the help of Saheli NGO and Faraskhana Police station), various nomadic tribes and daily wage labourers, migrant workers.* Areas of operation: Sangvi,Yerawada, Pimpri, Charholi budruk, HInjewadi, Hadapsar, Sasanenagar, Vimannagar, Lohegaon and Katraj, among others||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/after-11-000-meals-for-poor-ngo-seeks-corporate-funds-for-lockdown-2-0/story-OhHI1aq58omeAnlBFvV5tK.html
19-04-2020||City||23-year-old Ludhiana woman ends life over low IELTS score||Under depression over low IELTS score, a 23-year-old woman committed suicide by hanging herself from a ceiling fan in Arsh Enclave Colony of Lalton Kalan on Saturday late. Her family members got to know about the mishap later when they went to her room on the first floor of the house and found her lifeless body hanging from the fan.On being informed about the incident by the family, the Lalton Kalan police reached the spot and began the investigation. They also found a suicide note left behind by the woman in her room. “In the note, the 23-year-old said that she was ending her life as she could not get desirable bands in the IELTS exam,” said police.In his complaint, the victim’s father, who works as a carpenter, said that the deceased was the oldest among his five children (four daughters and a son). He said that his daughter wanted to go abroad for which she had been preparing for an exam. However, when she failed to get the desirable results, she took the extreme step, he added.The father further said that the deceased was mentally disturbed and wanted to give it another try. However, on Saturday night, she went to her room and hanged herself, he said.Based on the father’s statement, the police have begun inquest proceedings under Sections 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC). Assistant sub-inspector Harmesh Singh, who is also the investigating official, said that the woman in her suicide note had mentioned about wasting her father’s money and her failure to clear the test. The body of the deceased was handed over to family after postmortem at the civil hospital, he said.LABOURER HANGS SELF WITH BELTIn another case, a 26-year-old labourer ended his life by hanging himself with a belt at his rented accommodation in Dashmesh Nagar at Gill road, where he lived alone.Police said the reason behind his extreme step is yet to be ascertained. On finding the victim’s body hanging with a hook in the ceiling, the locals informed the police about the incident. Police said they further informed the family of the 26-year-old in Uttar Pradesh about the mishap.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/23-year-old-ludhiana-woman-ends-life-over-low-ielts-score/story-SXJeKipxJtICVd4FyEfe4M.html
19-04-2020||Chandigarh||BSNL launches Covid helpline in Chandigarh||Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL), Chandigarh, has started a Covid-19 helpline “1075” for Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh and augmented its pre-existing helplines in the tricity by adding more lines. Besides, the infrastructure has been upgraded to deal with 1.5 times the traffic of a normal day to aid work from home requirements. Requests for changing landline, broadband and mobile connections can be sent via e-mail or by contacting 94170-44088 for north Chandigarh, 94175-55522 for south Chandigarh, 94658-41119 for Mohali and 94631-11492 for Panchkula. For mobile related issues, contact 94172-36600.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bsnl-launches-covid-helpline-in-chandigarh/story-wjRneb9NPjMHSWJOg3xhVM.html
19-04-2020||City||Ludhiana: Health dept traces 300 contacts who came in touch with 5 recent cases||Following the deaths of assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Anil Kohli and revenue department kanungo Gurmail Singh due to coronavirus (Covid-19) disease, the health department is racing to trace their primary and secondary contacts. While police identified 26 primary contacts of deceased ACP Kohli, as many as 70 people living in Payal Town, including 10 primary contacts, came in touch deceased the kanungo. So far, the health department has prepared a list of 300 persons who came in contact with the five recent positive cases, of which two are dead, in the district. The contacts include children as small as nine months old and elderly over the age of 80.Of these 126, are persons who came in contact with the Jodhewal station house officer Arshpreet Kaur and 53 of her driver, ASI Sukhdev Singh. It is suspected that these cops came in contact with positive persons when they were deputed at the vegetable market. The police officers were also deployed at Jodhewal Basti to nab the Tablighi Jamaat members who had attended Nizamuddin congregation, to which a number of cases are linked.The health department is also trying to trace the contacts of ACP Kohli’s driver Prabhjot Singh, who had managed to reach his native village after he, along with other cops, were asked to vacate their houses. District mandi officer (DMO) Jasvir Kaur had also tested positive for the virus recently. Her contact list has left the health department worried. Besides coming in contact with the chairman of New Sabzi Mandi Darshan Lal, his son Arun Kumar, the office bearers of grain markets at Khanna, Doraha and Sahnewal, the DMO had also attended a religious ceremony at her residence on Ferozepur road last week. She had also met deputy commissioner Pradeep Agrawal, who has now gone into self-quarantine. He has, however, tested negative in rapid testing results. The DMO’s daughter, who is a revenue department employee posted in Doraha, has also been kept under quarantine. Meanwhile, cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu and his wife Mamta Ashu also tested negative in rapid tests, conducted on Sunday. On being contacted, civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said that samples of all the people coming in contact with the positive patients have been collected.The health department sent 77 samples for testing on Sunday, whereas the reports of 110 samples are pending so far.MY FATHER WASN’T PROVIDED PROPER  TREATMENT: KANUNGO’S DAUGHTERTwo days after Kanungo Gurmail Singh lost battle to the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease, his daughter Jaspreet Kaur has alleged that Singh wasn’t provided proper treatment at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital. She stated that her father was not even provided food or water.The hospital’s dean (academics) Dr Rajoo Singh Cheena said that the doctors and paramedical staff were hard-pressed in this crisis and were risking their lives to save the lives of others. “People should refrain from discouraging the medical staff in these challenging times,” said Dr Cheena.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-health-traces-300-contacts-who-came-in-touch-with-5-recent-cases/story-eMOL9UTMWYNrswhekvMj8M.html
19-04-2020||City||Another gas agency employee robbed of Rs 8000, 3rd incident during lockdown in Ludhiana||In yet another incident, another employee of a gas agency here was robbed of Rs 8,000 by motorcycle- borne miscreants on Sunday.It is the third such incident during lockdown when employees of gas agencies have been targeted.Amarnath, an employee of Azad Gas Agency, was returning to the agency godown on the Chuharpur Road after delivering cylinders to customers.He said, “Three unidentified miscreants intercepted my way and asked me to hand over all the money I had. When I resisted, the accused flashed a sharp-edged weapon and threatened to kill me. The accused fled after snatching Rs. 8,000 from me.”After the accused left the spot, he said he informed the Haibowal police. The police have registered a case against unidentified accused and initiated investigation.On April 8, motorcycle-borne miscreants robbed a gas agency employee of Rs 10,500 near Mukand Singh Nagar.On March 31, two persons on a motorcycle had robbed a delivery man of a gas agency at gunpoint on the Kakowal Road. Before robbing the delivery man, the accused had also attempted to rob an employee of another gas agency, but he foiled the bid and fled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/another-gas-agency-employee-robbed-of-rs-8000-3rd-incident-during-lockdown-in-ludhiana/story-wMkAPP5Whmgypuewrm20YL.html
19-04-2020||Chandigarh||At 158, Srinagar, Bandipora make up for nearly half of J&K’s Covid-19 cases||Two districts of the valley – Srinagar and Bandipora – constitute nearly half of the Covid-19 cases reported in Jammu and Kashmir.With 80 such cases, Bandipore has surpassed Srinagar as the district with highest Covid-19 patients in the northern region comprising J&K, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh. Nuh in Haryana is now the third district with the maximum positive cases in the region.While it’s not clear why the two Kashmir districts have the most number of cases, health experts believe it could be due to the lack of early detection and the cases related to Tablighi Jamaat. “The surveillance at airport in the early days or the cases of contact tracing going wrong or being ineffective could be the reason for the spike in the cases Srinagar and Bandipora,” said a senior officer who was privy to the government’s response in the initial days of cases being declared in J&K. Srinagar has 78 positive cases with 60 active cases, as 17 patients have already recovered and one has died. Out of Bandipora’s 80 cases, 68 are active Covid-19 patients and 11 people have already recovered.Srinagar deputy commissioner Shahid Choudhary said that many steps were taken to control coronavirus in Srinagar and results have been encouraging. “From tracking of cases with hidden or undeclared travel history and launching of web app Talaash, case detection has been effective. A total response in 10 days was 889,” said the DC adding that of the 889, 573 belonged to Srinagar.Most cases in Bandipora come from three red-zones – Hajin, Gund Jahagir and Bandipora. “Over that 1,000 people are under quarantine and we are collecting more samples,” sub-divisional magistrate Shahnawaz Bukhari told HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/at-158-srinagar-bandipora-make-up-for-nearly-half-of-j-k-s-covid-19-cases/story-KyWLxGInAoQDdmhwQKeeLM.html
19-04-2020||City||PM Garib KalyanYojana: Ludhiana industrialists urge govt to relax norms for all business establishments||The city industrialists have urged the government to relax norms for all establishments and cover all categories of employees under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY).Under the scheme, the government has decided to pay the employees’ provident fund (EPF) contribution both of employer and the employees (12 per cent each) for the next three months. However, the financial relief measures under PMGKY concerning PF as announced by finance minister Nirmala Sitaraman on March 26 is applicable to the establishments with less than 100 employees. Moreover, an establishment can avail the scheme only if 90% of its employees have an average salary of ₹15,000/ month or below.Ludhiana Punjab Dyers Association that represents around 300 dyeing units in the city has recently written to the ministry of labour and employment urging the latter to relax the norms, so that every unit can avail the benefits at the time of financial crisis. “If the government is keen on helping the establishments during the lockdown, it must extend PF benefits to all the categories of employees irrespective of their salary structure and number of employees in an organisation. Due to the conditions laid down by the ministry, we have not been able to avail the services even though we are in dire need of them,” told Bobby Jindal, president of Punjab Dyers Association. Jindal, whose dyeing unit is on Tajpur Road, said his unit has around 100 employees, out of which 50 are paid above ₹15,000 per month. “Many of our workers, including dyeing master and knitting master, earn above ₹15,000, which is why we will not be able to avail this scheme. We request the ministry to help us. Relaxing norms will help the government save millions of jobs,” told Jindal. Similarly, Bahadur K Textile and Knitwear Association that comprises over 5,500 units in Ludhiana has also asked the ministry to ease the norms and include all establishments. “The provision of employers earning less than ₹15,000 per month will force many business establishments to go for salary cuts. Why the government is laying down such conditions at the time of global health emergency? It is a defunct scheme and will help no one? Did I make a mistake if I employed more than 100 employees in my firm? Bigger units are facing more losses during this lockdown. Government is ignoring our plight” said Tarun Jain Bawa, president of Textile and Knitwear Association.Bawa claimed that presently the employees’ state insurance (ESI) department has surplus of ₹84,000 crore, while there is unclaimed amount of ₹40,000 crore with the provident fund department.“The government should use these surpluses to help both big and small establishments and not burden us with PF deposits right now,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-industrialists-urge-govt-to-relax-norms-for-all-establishments-under-pm-garib-kalyanyojana/story-P8z6vo3FM29iumXu9aCEDJ.html
19-04-2020||Mumbai||In a first, 76 booked for not wearing masks||The Mumbai Police has started registering cases against people for not wearing masks, especially in containment zones, from Saturday. The move comes after the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation on April 8 made it mandatory for everyone to wear standard or home-made mask in public places, workplace or while moving in vehicles. The police have so far registered 76 FIRs in such cases under section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Pena Code (IPC). Of these, 35 are from central region and 30 are from western region. Both central (Byculla-Ghatkopar-Wadala TT and Mumbai Central-Mahim) and western region (Bandra-Goregaon) have a majority of Covid-19 cases in Mumbai and hence a majority of containment zones are in this regions. North region (Goregaon-Dahisar) has reported six such cases and south region five cases. No cases were reported from east region. A total of 163 FIRs were registered in the city, of which 84 are for gathering in one place. In all 266 people were booked and 162 arrested on Saturday. Two held for smuggling liquor in essential services vanThe Bandra excise department on Sunday arrested two residents of Khar Danda for smuggling country-made liquor in the city from Maljipada Naigaon, Palghar. Around 2am, the officials apprehended the accused near Dahisar toll naka. The duo claimed they were vegetable vendors but they were found to have hidden around 280 litres of liquor bottles behind vegetable sacks. The accused are Kunal Mhadik, 27, and Shankar Sahani, 58. TikTok ‘stars’ arrested for ridiculing Mumbai Police Dongri police arrested two men for uploading a video on social media app TikTok making fun of the Mumbai Police for the action taken by the police against lockdown violators. The accused Hasan Shaikh, 24, and Asif Shaikh, 19, are from Pydhonie and Dongri respectively, and have thousands of followers on the platform. The video had gone viral,. Sandeep Bhagdikar, senior inspector, Dongri police station, confirmed the arrest. Locals claimed the two men were roughed up by police personnel ad were made to make another video apologising for their act. FIR against woman reporting dog’s death Goregaon police on Wednesday lodged an FIR against a woman for violating lockdown orders by coming to the police station to lodge a complaint against another woman from her neighbourhood for running over a street dog. A police officer said, “The accused woman who ran over the dog was facing an emergency. Her father got sick and she was rushing to buy medicine when she ran over the dog by mistake. We have lodged an FIR against her as well. But the woman, who filed the complaint, lives in a containment zone and hence she violated lockdown orders by visiting the police station. She should have called number 100 or post on Twitter to lodge a complaint.” 301 arrested for assaulting/obstructing cops in state Since the lockdown started, a total of 105 FIRs have been registered across Maharashtra till Saturday for assaulting or obstructing on-duty policemen. 301 accused have been arrested. Meanwhile 40 police personnel including 32 constables and eight officers have tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/in-a-first-76-booked-for-not-wearing-masks/story-N1k09xjFARtp35PovSlYMJ.html
19-04-2020||City||Shop owner arrested for black marketing santisers, gloves in Ludhiana||The owner of surgical instrument shop, Standard Surgical, was arrested for black-marketing sanitisers, gloves and infrared thermometer amid the coronavirus outbreak on Saturday.The accused was identified as Damandeep Singh of South City.Inspector Amarjit Singh, station house officer of Division number 6 police station, said that they had received information that the accused was hoarding medical products at cheap rates and was further selling them at higher prices.“The accused was on his way to Pahwa Hospital to deliver infrared thermometer, sanitisers and gloves in his car, when he was stopped at a check point at Pahwa crossing. The team recovered the medical products and the accused was arrested for black marketing these products,” he said.He said, “The accused was selling thermometer for ₹14,000, while its actual price is only ₹800. Similarly, he was selling masks, gloves, sanitisers at high prices. He has been sent to judicial custody in Barnala jail”The inspector added that the car used by the accused was also seized.A case under Sections 420 (cheating), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the India Penal Code (IPC); 7 of The Essential Commodities Act; and 53 of Disaster Management Act was registered at Division number 6 police station.Apart from this, 12 other residents were arrested for violating the curfew. Some of them were roaming on the roads without any permission while some were arrested for making on-counter sales from their shops. They were booked under Section 188 of the IPC at different police stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shop-owner-arrested-for-black-marketing-santisers-gloves-in-ludhiana/story-M8dURSZtDslEXyRNAbKBpI.html
19-04-2020||Chandigarh||In J&K, 13 militants eliminated in April so far||Despite Covid-19 lockdown, there has been no let up in anti-terror operations of the security forces, especially of the army, across Jammu and Kashmir.At least 13 terrorists have been eliminated in April so far.“With the killing of four terrorists in the two recently conducted successful operations at Sopore and Kishtwar, the overall tally of militants killed by the Army in April has reached 13,” said a senior officer of the Northern Command.The army has ensured that terrorists remain on their toes and their numbers as well as leadership remains at the lowest ebb, he said.The security force has consistently dominated the Line of Control as well as hinterland, eliminating the terrorist cadres and the leadership. “Moreover, with increased support from locals, security forces have been able to get hard intelligence about the presence and movement of terrorists and therefore launch operations successfully. The dwindling numbers of cadre and their leadership was the reason behind recent cowardly acts of attacking civilians and adopting hit-and-run tactics,” he said.The senior officer informed that the army has neither lowered its guard nor allowed terrorists to achieve their sinister designs.“The ground report suggests that the people of Kashmir are at ease with regard to the developing positive security environment and feel assured about peace to sustain during this summer season,” he added.Two HM terrorists were killed in an encounter in Shopian and two other HM terrorists were eliminated in Kishtwar on April 17.Earlier this month, nine terrorists were eliminated on April 4 and 5 in two separate operations.However, the Army lost five commandoes of the elite Special Forces along the Line of Control (LoC) in Keran sector of Kupwara district on April 6 and the CRPF lost three of its personnel in another attack in Sopore town on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/in-j-k-13-militants-eliminated-in-april-so-far/story-iMZFRDIcCITqzWqQSz34yK.html
19-04-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19 lockdown 2.0: GoAir, SpiceJet announce leave without pay for its employees||Low-cost carriers - GoAir and SpiceJet have announced leave without pay for its employees owing to the extension of the lockdown from April 14 to May 3. While GoAir informed its employees of their decision on Saturday, SpiceJet employees are expected to receive an official communication soon.Exempting its lowest-paid workers, GoAir had earlier announced pay cuts to most of its employees. On March 17, the airline initiated a short term and temporary rotational leave without pay (LWP) program in which around 35% of its employees (from each department) were asked to go on LWP.Workers involved in cargo operations (including both- ground staff and crew members) received their salaries for the number of days they worked last month.“The lockdown has been further extended till May 3, and with this extension, our fleet continues to be completely grounded. Hence, we are constrained to request you to proceed on leave without pay’ till May 3. We may, however, have to extend the period of LWP for a further term, if so required,” stated the GoAir email on Saturday. GoAir spokesperson has also clarified that LWP is not for all employees.Similarly, SpiceJet, another low-cost carrier too has also decided to send their staff on LWP for one month on a rotational basis which will initially be implemented for the coming three months (from 16 to 15 of every month) which could be extended depending on the situation.According to senior airline officials, employees might receive their salaries based on the number of duty days. SpiceJet too has exempted its staff with less than Rs 50,000, from the rotational LWP policy and might come up with other alternatives for them.“No company-wide decision has been taken on the issue of salary cuts or leave without pay at SpiceJet for the month of April 2020. A limited staff from the engineering team has been put on leave without pay for a month each on a rotational basis,” said SpiceJet spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/goair-spicejet-announce-leave-without-pay-for-its-employees-owing-to-lockdown-extension/story-aP7YbjvGOZ5k2jQqLnCdiL.html
19-04-2020||City||Over 9.4 lakh tonne foodgrains, vegetables transported from Punjab in 28 days||Over 9.4 lakh tonnes of goods, including foodgrains, potatoes, peas and other vegetables, have been transported by the Ferozepur division of Northern Railways to different states in the last 28 days. Since March 22, no passenger trains have been running, but the Railways are continuously operating goods trains to supply foodgrains and vegetables in the entire country. On an average, 20 goods trains are running daily to transport foodgrains and vegetables.Besides, on April 3 as many as 10 special parcel trains were also started for transporting essential commodities, including medicines, surgical instruments and grocery products.During the past 16 days, around 150 tonnes of essential products have been transported, whereas 915 tonnes of medicines, cheese, surgical instruments have been received from different states via these special trains.The division, which covers over 70% of Punjab, has found an increase in the demand of foodgrains from states such as Assam, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal. As per officials, on an average, 11 goods trains were running in December to February but, now, 20 goods trains are operating daily.Divisional railway manager (DRM) Rajesh Agarwal said as there was no traffic on the tracks as passenger trains have been suspended. “We have joined two rakes in a train and now goods are being transported in 84 wagons instead of 42 wagons. This method of transporting goods is not only saving the cost, but also saving time and manpower,” he said.As of now, the division has run three long-haul trains to Assam and will continue to run them as per the demand of goods.He added, “Besides contributing in providing essential commodities to different states, we are taking care of our staff as well. We ensure that proper social distancing is maintained and, for the safety of loco pilots and guards, several steps have been taken. A foot pedal-operated hand wash machine has been installed at the New Model Running Room in Ludhiana.”RELOADING OF PARCELS AT INTERMEDIATE STATIONSThe railway board has allowed the transshipment of parcels at intermediate stations to maintain the supply chain of essential items throughout the country.Earlier, the transshipment of parcels from a train and reloading the same into another train at any intermediate station was not permitted but, observing the prevailing condition in the country due to coronavirus, the board has given permission for the same, but only till the restoration of passenger trains. For instance, as of now parcels for Madras were not being booked as there was no special train but, now, one can book the parcels to be transported to Madras. Now, the parcels will be transported to Delhi and from there, these will be reloaded into another train running towards Madras.The DRM said, “During these emergency days, the Railways has flexible rules regarding transportation of essential items to different states. So, if any company is interested to avail the service, they can contact us,” he said.As of now, 10 parcel trains running to and fro stations of Ferozepur Division to Howrah, Bombay, Hyderabad and New Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/over-9-4-lakh-tonne-foodgrains-vegetables-transported-from-punjab-in-28-days/story-42Ta5fEBJbXoyUwIuFF6uJ.html
19-04-2020||Delhi||Man claiming to be Corona patient threatens to jump off Safdarjung Hospital’s third floor||A man claiming to be suffering from coronavirus climbed onto a window ledge on the third floor of Safdarjung Hospital here on Sunday and threatened to jump off, leading to a tense situation.Police, however, said the man is not suffering from coronavirus and is mentally challenged.A call about the incident was received at 2.42 pm, fire department officials said.In a video shared by the fire department, the man can be seen sitting on the window ledge on the third floor of the hospital building. He threatens he would jump off if anyone comes near him.A senior fire official said the man had a blade in his hand and claimed to be a coronavirus patient. He threatened that he would cut his hand and spill his blood onto anyone who came near him to “spread the virus”.The man also spat on the firemen while they were trying to rescue him, he said.The fire department finally managed to bring him down using a ladder around 4.15 pm, he added.Police said the man is mentally challenged and undergoing treatment at the hospital.They said he is not suffering from coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/man-claiming-to-be-corona-patient-threatens-to-jump-off-safdarjung-hospital-s-third-floor/story-ORPARks0QUGIubkxro169L.html
19-04-2020||Mumbai||Charges on Ajaz Khan of waging war against country dropped||In just about 24 hours after actor Ajaz Khan of Big Boss fame was booked and arrested for promoting enmity between two groups and for waging war against the country on Saturday, Khar police officials dropped the stringent section 121 of the Indian Penal Code against the actor.Khar police officials informed a magistrate’s court that they had initially added the section based on the complaint filed by a local resident but investigations into the case found the section 121 of IPC was not applicable, and hence was dropped.According to Khar police, Khan, who is still in police custody, made objectionable comments on Facebook live following which he was called to the police station on April 18 for inquiry and was later arrested. Khar police had booked him under sections 153A (Promoting enmity between different groups), 121 (Waging, or attempting to wage war, or abetting waging of war, against the Government of India), 117 (Abetting commission of offence by the public or by more than ten persons), 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 501 (Printing or engraving matter known to be defamatory), 504 (Intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) and 505(2) (Statements creating or promoting enmity, hatred or ill will between classes) of the Indian Penal Code.Gajanan Kabdule, senior inspector, Khar police station, said, “We booked him under section 121 IPC as the complainant had mentioned the section in his complaint. But after our initial investigation we found that this section was not applicable so we informed the court when produced him,” said Kabdule.Khar police told the court that they wanted to investigate why he had posted the video, and who were the people behind him. While his advocate Nazneen Khatri opposed the custodial interrogation, the court remanded Khan to the custody of Khar police till April 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/charges-on-aijaz-khan-of-waging-war-against-country-dropped/story-gGRQaqxuxuhZo6a3wvmfdJ.html
19-04-2020||Gurugram||Haryana’s Bhondsi Jail warden found Covid-19 positive after returning from leave||A warden of Gurugram’s Bhondsi Jail was found COVID-19 positive after he reported to work following a leave, during which he had travelled to his home in Bhiwani.“The warden went to his home on April 9. After he returned from his home, the jail administration conducted a test for coronavirus where the warden was detected with the virus,” Gurugram Chief Medical Officer Dr JS Punia said on Sunday.After the result came out, the warden was not allowed to come in contact with anyone in the jail.The Bhondsi Jail colony is now being sanitised to prevent any possible spread of the disease.Meanwhile, India’s tally of COVID-19 cases has climbed to 15,712, according to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/haryana-s-bhondsi-jail-warden-found-covid-19-positive-after-returning-from-leave/story-KBsMiUnaaaU4iUoda33pcP.html
19-04-2020||Mumbai||Kapad Bazaar shut due to non-compliance of lockdown orders||In a bid to deal with the non-compliance of lockdown orders and social distancing norms in G-North ward, Niyati Thakkar, DCP of zone 5, has asked the ward office to shut down Kapad Bazar at Mahim as it was leading to crowding. Locals, however, said the crowding was not because of them but because of the people coming from Dharavi and Worli which have been sealed as containment zones due to the high number of Covid-19 positive cases there.Irfan Machiwala, a social worker, said Kapad Bazar was allowed to function from 8am to 11am every day like other markets in the city. “Most Mahim residents buy their groceries and essentials from Kapad Bazar as it is economical and has fresh produce. The local police was monitoring the area and residents also cooperated by maintaining social distancing and limiting their visits to the market. However, the market was ordered to be shut down on April 15,” said Machiwala. He said that locals, upon inquiring with the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), were informed that the market was shut based on a letter by the DCP of the zone. BMC order stated that the market was to shut down as social distancing norms were not being maintained. Machiwala said while the April 15 order had directed shutting of the market for only three days, on April 18 they came to know that the civic body has extended the order it till further notice as the situation has not improved. DCP Thakkar said, “People coming to the market were not following social distancing norms and were creating unnecessary crowd. We reported this to BMC, following which the order was issued to close the market.”She further said shopkeepers have been asked to offer home delivery as 80% of their customers are from the same locality. “We have been allowing passes to their delivery boys. As of now, no complaint have come for shortages of groceries or any crisis situation. We are monitoring it closely and if any such situation arises, we will take a decision accordingly” said Thakkar.A resident who is a lawyer said, “The decision is harsh but it had to be taken as the market was inundated by residents from Worli and Dharavi which have been sealed.” He also said there were few instances of joy shoppers who visited the market unnecessarily. He cited an instance wherein a family of six had come to the market and said there was no need for all of the family members coming to market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/kapad-bazaar-shut-due-to-non-compliance-of-lockdown-orders/story-B3uX3okGLNpPSKe851F87K.html
19-04-2020||City||TMC creates task force of specialists to treat critical Covid-19 patients||The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has created a task force of specialists and renowned doctors from various hospitals across the city to assist medical professionals and devise a treatment method if any Covid-19 patient’s condition turns critical.The task force will consist of epidemiologists, neurophysicians, cardiologists, urologists and anaesthetists among others. This comes after a 52-year-old man seeking treatment for the novel coronavirus at Horizon Prime Hospital, suffered a stroke and died on Saturday. This is the second Covid-19 related death in the city.Vijay Singhal, TMC commissioner, said, “Most patients are being treated at Thane Civil Hospital, Sapphire Hospital, Horizon Prime and Jupiter Hospital. We have decided to create a task force of senior and reputed doctors who can consult and guide in case of critical patients. This will help in preventing deaths to some extent. We will also include doctors from Rajeev Gandhi Medical College and other reputed hospitals.”The corporation has also asked hospitals to inform them in advance if any of their patients’ condition turns critical so that efforts to treat them swiftly can be made.“If the hospitals realise any of their Covid-19 patients is critical or unstable, they will have to contact the health department of the TMC. We will then help in providing better treatment through experts to the patient,” added Singhal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tmc-creates-task-force-of-specialists-to-treat-critical-covid-19-patients/story-E1tV71SB4aOl9jQX7VkUFM.html
19-04-2020||Chandigarh||HP Cong demands resumption of trade in state||Amid the ongoing coronavirus lockdown, Himachal Pradesh unit of the Congress has urged the government to start trade in the state after proper assessment of commercial and industrial businesses. In a letter to chief minister (CM) Jai Ram Thakur, state Congress president Kuldeep Rathore said, “Fortunately, Himachal Pradesh is probably one of the safest states. We have to continue with the same level of precautions in the future and at the same time, plan for restrictions on all commercial/business activities in a phased manner after April so that people can start earning their livelihood.”Reiterating the party’s commitment to the Union and the state government in the fight against Covid-19, the Congress leader also demanded procurement of the adequate stock of apple cartons for next season.OPT FOR MASS TESTING: CONG TO GOVERNORMeanwhile, former CM Virbhadra Singh, leader of opposition Mukesh Agnihotri and Rathore visited governor Bandaru Dattatreya at Raj Bhawan and highlighted the difficulties being faced by industrialists, common people and farmers.A memorandum submitted by the delegation mentioned that mass testing of the Covid-19 be carried out on war footing, and number of test labs and isolation centres should be increased. Other demands raised by them are – allowing stranded people to go to their homes, conversion of tourism hotels and government guesthouses into quarantine centres and grant of relief package to corona warriors. “The state government should also announce to pay ₹1 crore to the families of victim warriors and offer employment to a family member,” the memorandum read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hp-cong-demands-resumption-of-trade-in-state/story-gx2sM4ljl04POVQd4JUWrI.html
19-04-2020||Chandigarh||Amid no checks during lockdown, wild mushroom ‘smugglers’ have a free run of Kashmir forests||Taking undue advantage of the lockdown, smugglers are having a field day collecting morel mushrooms (gucchi) in the forests located in different areas of Kashmir.Fayaz Ahmad, a resident of Machikrand village in Uri town, said that the smuggling of wild mushrooms was rampant in the area. “This has become a new source of income for the villagers. They are selling it illegally for higher prices,” he said.“The government must tighten the noose on these people as there are no checks on them in the lockdown period,” said Mir Wali Mohammad, sarpanch of Barnate village in Boniyar tehsil of Baramulla district.“Last year we booked three persons and an FIR was also registered against the smugglers. A huge quantity of illegal mushrooms was also recovered from them,” said a forest official posted in Boniyar range, requesting anonymity.Boniyar SHO Tariq Ahmad Shah said a 50-year-old man had recently died after slipping from a mountainous area where he had gone to collect the wild mushrooms.”“Some villagers hunt for morel mushrooms in the forests of Doodpathri area,” said Tahir Ahmad Najar, a resident of Chadoora village in central Kashmir’s Budgam district.“I believe that people are compelled to go to the forests to collect the mushrooms because of the prevailing situation under which many don’t have food or income to survive,” said Raja Abdul Hamid, sarpanch of Dildar village in Karnah tehsil of north Kashmir’s Kupwara district.“We are jobless and have no other source of income. Our families rely on these mushrooms only,” said an Uri resident who often goes to collect the morels.In south Kashmir, these sought-after mushrooms grow in the forests of Daksum and Margun top areas.Chairman of J&K RTI movement and an environmental expert Dr Ghulam Rasool said, “These mushrooms are sold at around ₹20,000 per kg due to their medicinal properties.”Morel mushrooms grow mostly in forest areas in the higher reaches of the valley. It is said that they grow naturally whenever it rains and thunders. They grow in conifer forests across temperate regions, and the cool foothills of the Himalayas, in Himachal Pradesh, Uttaranchal and Jammu & Kashmir are an ideal territory for them.As edible as button mushrooms, gucchi variety possesses immunostimulatory and anti-tumour properties. With the valley witnessing continuous rains, production of these mushrooms has gone up considerably. The annual production of gucchi goes up to 400 kg here. People are also making the rounds of the forests to collect timber, wild vegetables and hunt wild birds.Baramulla senior superintendent of police (SSP) Abdul Qayoom said that they had lodged several cases last year for smuggling of wild produce. “More cases are likely to surface as this season proceeds further,” he said.Kashmir chief conservator of forests Syed Farooq Gillani said people may be collecting the mushrooms in view of the prevailing troubled situation. “But as of now, we have not received reports of any major damage to the forests and its resources,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/amid-no-checks-during-lockdown-wild-mushroom-smugglers-have-a-free-run-of-kashmir-forests/story-UXYOeiBxbgWtrANZ4avSgL.html
19-04-2020||City||72 joggers booked in Navi Mumbai for violating lockdown orders||htmetro@hindustantimes.comThe Navi Mumbai police on Sunday booked 72 people for violating lockdown orders after they were found strolling and jogging. Most of the violators were middle-aged men, said police.The morning joggers were caught and detained from different sectors in Vashi and Rabale, on Sunday, between 6am and 9am. Out of 72, 63 persons were booked at Vashi police station, while nine others were caught by the Rabale police.“Some of them were not even wearing masks. There were a few women and some are in their early thirties. A few men aged close to 60 were also booked,” said an officer from Vashi police station.The violators were booked under the Indian Penal Code and Epidemic Diseases Act. They have been served a legal notice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/72-joggers-booked-in-navi-mumbai-for-violating-lockdown-orders/story-yvBylrkw8Jixq29lRsKp7H.html
19-04-2020||Chandigarh||Construction work, mobile repairs, e-commerce delivery allowed in HP from April 20||Activities such as construction by local labourers and distribution of select items by e-commerce companies, permitted under revised home ministry (MHA) guidelines, will be implemented in Himachal Pradesh from April 20.These will be subject to certain conditions by state and district authorities.An order to this effect was issued by the revenue department and undersigned by chief secretary-cum-chairman of the state executive committee (SEC) Anil Khachi, under section 24 (e) of Disaster Management Act .The order states that additional activities permitted by the MHA will be implemented in a phased manner after arrangements are made for strict implementation of lockdown guidelines, which will be implemented by executive magistrates appointed by district magistrates (DMs).Construction of medical and health facilities will be carried out only by locally available labour with no travel history. Timings of shops distributing ration, hygiene items, fruit and vegetables, meat, poultry, fish and other items as well as the public distribution system, will be notified by the district magistrate (DM) concerned.Delivery of essential items like medicines will be allowed by e-commerce companies.Information technology repairs (for mobile phones too) will be allowed twice a week during hours fixed by the DM concerned.All kind of construction works for roads, irrigation projects, industrial projects, including micro, small and medium enterprises and others in industrial estates will also be carried out by locally available labour with no travel history.Movement of private vehicles mentioned in MHA guidelines will only be allowed with curfew passes and permits.Besides, a maximum of three personnel, excluding the driver, travelling to place of work and back in the exempted category, will be allowed in government or government hired four wheeler vehicles.An order on attendance in government offices will be issued by the personnel department separately.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/construction-work-mobile-repairs-e-commerce-delivery-allowed-in-hp-from-april-20/story-iovXclQQXCoo58udc7864K.html
19-04-2020||Pune||Cops intercept essential services truck carrying 1,000 litre alcohol, 3 arrested||The Pune police on Friday found a truck carrying 1,000 litre domestic-made alcohol. The truck was mean to carry essential goods and also had an ‘essential services’ tag on it. The truck was intercepted along BT Kawade road, said police.While moonlighting as a truck carrying essential goods, 25 cans with alcohol in it were covered with semi-dry grass used to feed cattle. The police drew the 25 cans with 40 litre capacity each from behind a heap of fodder. Along with 1,000 litre alcohol found in the 25 cans collectively, the police also found 26 empty cans in the tempo truck registered in Baramati region, said police.The police have arrested three people in the case - Chandu Ananda Sasne, 45, Liyakat Abbas Shaikh, 31, both residents of Ghorpadigaon, along with business owner George Ryan Unnittan,46, also a resident of Ghorpadigaon.One other person identified as Satish Bhimrao Bhalsingh, a resident of Daund, is on the run from the police.The driver Sasne and owner Unnittan have both been named in six earlier cases involving illegal sale of alcohol, according to the police.Based on information received by the police, a trap was set up to nab the truck when it arrived on BT Kawade road.A case under Section 269, 270, 273 of Indian Penal Code along with Section 51(b) of National Disaster Management Act, 2005, Section 11 of Maharashtra Covid19 Regulations, and Section 3 of Epidemic Diseases Act 1897 has been registered against the four at Mundhwa police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/cops-intercept-essential-services-truck-carrying-1-000-litre-alcohol-3-arrested/story-IDjXgtWVKo6c5l8hcvD5DI.html
19-04-2020||Mumbai||Container carrying chemicals topples in Thane||A container carrying 80 drums of chemicals toppled on Ghodbunder Road on Sunday morning.The Regional Disaster Management Cell (RDMC), Thane, team reached the spot after locals alerted them.No one was injured in the incident. “The container was going to Tarapur MIDC from Nhava Sheva port when the driver lost control on Ghodbunder Road. The vehicle fell and chemicals spilled on the road,” said a senior RDMC official. The driver fled after the accident.The nearby residents alerted the police and the RDMC team was called. “The container was removed from the road with the help of JCB machines,” said a RDMC official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/container-carrying-chemicals-topples-in-thane/story-GOLYWWcxtDXTjUyloVBy8M.html
19-04-2020||Mumbai||Second wife entitled to family pension where customary second marriage is allowed: HC||The Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court (HC) on Wednesday held that the second wife is entitled to the family pension if the second marriage was permitted by the customs of the deceased employee.A division bench of justice AS Chandurkar and justice Vinay Joshi dismissed an appeal filed by the divisional manager of South East Central Railway, challenging a July 18, 2016 order of the Nagpur camp of the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT).CAT had directed the railways to release the family pension to one Ganeshibai, widow of Ghasiram Gondor, who had served in South East Central Railway as a gangman.Ghasiram retired on June 30, 2001. His first wife, Sunderabai, died in August 2002 and a year later the former railway employee passed away.After Ghasiram’s death, Ganeshibai claimed the family pension in the capacity of the legally wedded wife of the ex-gangman. She moved CAT after the railway administration rejected her claim in March 2006 on the grounds that she was not entitled to the family pension since she was the second wife of Ghasiram, whose marriage took place while his first wife Sunderabai was still alive.CAT, however, accepted her claim and directed the railways to release her pension. The divisional railway manager then moved the HC challenging the CAT order on the ground that the Railway Service Pension Rules, 1993 do not allow any employee to have a second marriage and since Ghasiram had married Ganeshibai without his employer’s permission, she was not entitled to the family pension.The HC, however, rejected the railway’s appeal. The court noted that Rule 75 [7][i][a] of the 1993 Rules stipulates releasing pension to more widows than one, and lays down that where a deceased employee has more than one widow, the pension should be shared equally.“Though Rule 21 of 1966 Rules mandates to take prior permission for a second marriage, not obtaining such permission would not change the status of said marriage,” said the bench.The comment came in view of the fact that both, Ghasiram and Ganeshibai belonged to the Gond community, a scheduled tribe to which provisions of the Hindu Marriage Act are not applicable.“The personal law applicable to them permits customary second marriage,” said the bench.The court held that the marriage was not void, and therefore, the second wife Ganeshibai, can be termed as the widow of Ghasiram, deceased railway employee, and in view of Rule 75, she is entitled to the family pension.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/second-wife-entitled-to-family-pension-where-customary-second-marriage-is-allowed-hc/story-i10y0Q60pRQKwmAC4gfsiL.html
19-04-2020||Chandigarh||After Haryana protest, UT allows critical Covid patients from other states at PGIMER||The UT administration allowed treatment of critical Covid-19 patients from other states at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) following a protest from Haryana.UT adviser Manoj Parida shared it through a tweet on Saturday, saying that PGI will continue to treat critical corona or non-corona cases of neighbouring states, if local doctors find treatment beyond their capacity.“Only condition is that they must consult the PGI director in advance so that they are ready to receive the patient without causing infection,” he said.Earlier, UT had restricted the institute for treatment of Covid-19 patients only from Chandigarh that created a problem in Panchkula three days ago.As reported by Hindustan Times on Saturday, PGIMER declined the request of Panchkula chief medical officer to shift a critical Covid-19 patient. Justifying the denial, PGIMER dean (academics) Dr GD Puri in a statement said “They were restricted by Epidemic Act evoked by the UT administration that stopped the inter-state migration of corona patients”.This, however, did not go well with Haryana government and the state chief secretary took up the matter with UT and PGIMER authorities. Sources confirmed that the Union minister of health and family welfare too intervened in the matter.Will strengthen coordination with states: PGI directorPGIMER director Dr Jagat Ram said the system at the institute level will be strengthened for better cooperation with the neighbouring states for the treatment of Covid-19 patients who need critical support and care. “Primarily, if a patient requires intensive care unit (ICU) support, experts from anaesthesia and internal medicine departments will be nominated for coordination with the neighbouring states for decision on shifting of critical patients,” he said.Dr Ram said the patients who can be treated at local facilities should not be referred to the institute as isolation is the only possible way to stop the spread of infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/after-haryana-protest-ut-allows-critical-covid-patients-from-other-states-at-pgimer/story-WufSP1sbSeL744rpL2Kz6H.html
19-04-2020||Pune||Lockdown gameplan: Scoring baskets continue for Shireen Limaye as she shares dribbling skills on social media||A regular member of the Indian women basketball team, Shireen Limaye is away from the courts but she is not away from the basketball as she keeps on sharing various dribbling and ball handling videos on her social media accounts. Limaye, who is locked down at her Sadashiv peth residence, is enjoying her stay at home as she has received this sudden break to spend time with her family.Fresh from her heroics at South Asian Games, 2019 where she helped India to win gold medal, Limaye has not compromised on her fitness and practice and she is dribbling with household chores, spending leisure time and following fitness routine at home.The 25-year-old Limaye was also part of Indian railways team which defeated Kerala to lift title at Senior National Basketball Championship, Ludhiana and she was in the top five performers in Asia in FIBA Asia Cup held at Bengaluru.Morning sessionMorning time is dedicated to help my mother with all the household chores and watering the garden and then generally, I relax after finishing all my work.Afternoon sessionI keep myself busy in the afternoon with writing articles about my basketball journey and then I feed my dog and kitten who have been living in the house for the last couple of days. I also binge watch shows online in the afternoon.Evening sessionThe session usually starts at 4:30 pm. I go on the terrace and do some skipping for warm up and then start my workout. I usually do lower body the first day, upper body the second day, scapula and core the third day, functional the forth and power for the fifth day. After an hour and half of working out, I do some dribbling to keep me up to date with the sport.I am staying fit by doing step workout at home. I also use the large terrace to my benefit and include a lot of skipping and jumping in my workouts.This lockdown has been amazing as I get to spend some time with my family because I’ve just been travelling for the last couple of years. It’s hard staying away from the game but it is also a good break and good rest to the body as rest is equally important. At nights, I try and feed all the dogs who come to our gate and walk my dog. I also feed the cats around.Feeding cats and dogs is something which I like a lot but due to my tight schedule it is not possible to do it frequently but right now due to lockdown I am managing to do it every day.This isolation time has made life difficult for all but I believe we all must occupy our self with doing all those things which we have not managed to do previously. GymMy workout takes care of everything so gym is not missed.HobbyPlaying with my dog, writing||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/lockdown-gameplan-scoring-baskets-continue-for-shireen-limaye-as-she-shares-dribbling-skills-on-social-media/story-yEjOLeXmqnvGpcIlxjIIkL.html
19-04-2020||Pune||On the frontline: Community comes together to help the needy||Museb Sayyed, (49), a travel agency owner, at NIBM road, is creating awareness among the community about the precautions to take to stop the spread of Sars-cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 (coronavirus) infection. He is also the Amir (leader of Muslim community) of Kausar Baug Masjid, Kondhwa, from the past 10 years and along with his team is involved in providing relief to the needy people in this time of crisis. He speaks about this role. What exactly is your role in this pandemic?After the lockdown was announced by our Prime Minister on March 24 all the mosques were closed in Kausarbaug area in the city. Usually, at least 1,000 to 5,000 people visit the mosque during the day. We trained our committee members who impart the details to other members in the committee about coronavirus and the precautions to be taken. The members are also involved in providing food and ration kits to the needy. We distributed at least 800 kids till date. All the elected members of the society as well as the Masjid have been informed about the situation and asked to take preventive measures.How does your day begin and roll out?My day starts at 6 pm with prayer and then I coordinate for the requirements of my house. I then coordinate with the members of the mosque who are involved in relief work. We also get calls from people who are unable to buy medicines so we coordinate with them and our volunteers deliver the medicines. At around 8.45 I pray at home.What precautions are you taking?I always wear a mask and carry a sanitizer with me when I am working out of the house. I believe one should be healthy himself first if he has to serve the society during these times of crisis.What is your view of the Covid-19 situation Pune?The Pune civic body has implemented the lockdown effectively and taken all the necessary steps to prevent the spread. The police are on their toes and make sure people follow the rules of lockdown. They take at least two to three rounds daily in our area. What gaps do you see in health and relief work?There is a scarcity of masks and gloves for the members who are involved in relief work. Besides if the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) could allot more of the sanitising spraying machines for Kondhwa Kausarbaug and NIBM road, it would help to sanitize the area better. Right there is only one machine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/on-the-frontline-community-comes-together-to-help-the-needy/story-QHDtFcn8x7Mg7Tx8yqH3DO.html
19-04-2020||City||HP govt issues WhatsApp helpline number to report domestic violence cases||State government has launched a WhatsApp Helpline number 7650066994 for reporting cases of domestic violence during the lockdown.Joint director, women and child development, Bhawna Sharma said that the social justice and empowerment department has launched this helpline so that those facing domestic abuse amid the lockdown can register their complaints at this number. She further added that this helpline service will be available 24/7 and one-stop centres have been set up at all district headquarters for providing emergency response and rescue services, medical assistance and help in lodging the FIR. Also, counselling, legal aid and temporary shelter to the tormented women are being provided, she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hp-govt-issues-whatsapp-helpline-number-to-report-domestic-violence-cases/story-Inn827H4nRsBWxJrxiiV0N.html
19-04-2020||Pune||Diabetes, hypertension leading cause of death among Covid-19 patients, according to Sassoon||According to the data shared by the Sassoon 28 per cent of deaths or 11 deaths out of 39 (between April 2 and 17) were reported on the second day after the admission of the patients. The data states that most of the deceased had comorbid conditions with diabetes and hypertension being the primary causal factors for their deaths. The data was released on Friday.The hospital has come under fire from the public and the state government as 41 out of 50 deaths reported in Pune city and rural were reported from Sassoon as of Saturday. The report also emphasizes that patients come to the hospital only when they have reached a critical stage. Out of the 39 deaths, 11 were declared dead on the second day of admission to at Sassoon while six on the fourth day giving little time for the hospital doctors to treat the patients.Divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar had earlier defenced the hospital administration by stating that, “Most senior citizens and people with comorbid conditions are coming to the hospital when their situation is worse which gives hospital less time to treat the patient.”Former Dean DR Ajay Chandanwale said, “Most patients who were declared dead came at a critical stage and some were even referred from other hospitals after they reached a critical stage or got serious.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/diabetes-hypertension-leading-cause-of-death-among-covid-19-patients-according-to-sassoon/story-stDdMOv4dp2RLNUAyojyYO.html
19-04-2020||Pune||Reach out to supportive family to deal with domestic violence, says Dr Nayreen Daruwalla||Dr Nayreen Daruwalla, director, Society for Nutrition, Education & Health Action (Sneha) a non-governmental organisation that works on programmes on prevention of violence against women and children, talks to HT about how women are finding it difficult to call the helpline especially when the abusive family members are at home sharing the same space.  The National Commission for Women (NCW) has claimed that distress calls of domestic abuse victims have increased sharply in the lockdown period. Has your helpline also seen a similar surge during the lockdown?Women approach our counselling centres through three main mediums; physically access the counselling centre, crisis helpline and crisis email. On an average, Sneha counselling centres register around 400 cases monthly, including women and children, and around 4,800 cases are registered annually. The Covid-19 situation has restricted women’s mobility in terms of reporting of cases.In March 2020, the counselling centres registered 513 cases, out of which 177 survivors (37%) were provided initial support, psycho education, and referral to the police and counselling on the helpline.In the normal situation, the counselling centres receive about 100 calls on the helpline every month and around 10 crisis emails requesting assistance. During the pandemic, from mid-March to mid-April 2020, Sneha has received 45 crisis emails (32 from Mumbai and 13 from elsewhere in India).At the same time, calls on the helpline have fallen from 100 to 56 as survivors are finding it difficult to call, especially when the abusive family members are at home sharing the same space. Can you give us an idea of what some of the calls have been like?Survivors have requested help as they are facing physical, emotional, verbal and sexual violence in their natal and matrimonial homes.How does the helpline help women in distress? Has your approach in helping them changed during the lockdown? Yes, the counselling is done over the phone when the survivor is in a position to talk in privacy. Appointments are given to them. The survivors are asked to call the counsellors when they find a private moment. With our 20 years of experience in networking with public systems, the counsellors are in a position to connect the woman with the police or protection officer in the area where the survivor resides. What advice would you give women who are stuck in homes with their abusers?At this point of exacerbated vulnerability of women in their homes, it would be best to for them to follow these steps:-Reach out to supportive family and friends who can help with immediate solutions as well as coping with stress-Develop a safety plan for them and their children with the help of neighbours, friends or relatives-Collect important documents, money and few personal things in case the woman needs to leave.-Plan carefully on the phone the exit with a family member, friend or relative to access transportation help by contacting the nearby police station-Gather information on women’s helplines, NGOs providing support services on violence, shelter and police protection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/reach-out-to-supportive-family-to-deal-with-domestic-violence-says-dr-nayreen-daruwalla/story-wNgce9Jby8Hidg9m4vJiHP.html
19-04-2020||Pune||Pune ZP to send domestic violence perpetrators to institutional quarantine||With reports of domestic violence on the rise during the lockdown, the rural administration in Pune has come up with its own solution - send the erring men to institutional quarantine.The Pune zilla parishad on Saturday announced that it has formed dedicated village-level committees to first track cases of domestic violence and then counsel the members resorting to abuse. If a man continues to ill-treat the woman even after counselling, he would be put in institutional quarantine as punishment.The Pune zilla parishad’s announcement comes in the backdrop of the National Commission for Women’s statistics that show a spike in cases of domestic violence against women during the nationwide lockdown.“We have done this because globally there are reports of women suffering domestic violence at the hands of their husbands. The committees have been formed at the village level where professional counselling of the male members of the families are being done. The counselling sessions are related to those families where the incidents of abuse and ill treatment of women have been reported. These steps are being taken proactively in tandem with the Domestic Violence Act. The provision of putting the husband in institutional quarantine has been taken so that the women do not face a loss of residence,” said Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer, Pune zilla parishad. While Pune rural police have not observed any surge in complaints related to domestic violence, the ease of quarantine will act as deterrent, said zilla parishad officials.According to data shared by the National Commission for Women (NCW), 123 cases of domestic violence were received between February 27 and March 22. In the last 25 days, the commission received 239 more such complaints. The commission has also launched a WhatsApp number to report domestic violence cases.The village-level committees in Pune district have been designated as local vigilance committees where women staffers attached to the state-run child care centres, women members of the local gram panchayats and self -help group (SHG) will be counselling those individuals who are found mistreating the women.The administration has reasoned that the step is undertaken as a preventive measure to curb the spread of outbreak of the epidemic. The administration will investigate each type of complaint made by victim before the administration and action will be taken. “The person will be counselled in the first place and if he does not show any improvement in behaviour and continues to harass the woman, he will be admitted in institutional quarantine,” said Prasad. The ZP will take assistance of the police in carrying out the initiative and the entire process will be in writing.Anil Deshmukh lauds initiativeMaharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh lauded the ZP initiative. Deshmukh said the committees were formed in “line with the home department’s instructions to deal with cases of domestic violence”.“Other zilla parishads in the state should follow the suit to ensure women are not harassed,” he tweetedLocked down with their abusers, women turn to helplines for solaceRenu Deshpande DholeStay home, stay safe – the universal advisory in the times of Covid-19 pandemic, might sound full of irony for victims of domestic violence and women stuck in toxic, abusive relationships, said city psychologists . Helplines and women’s organisations have come forward to urge women to seek help if they find themselves at the receiving end of violence during this difficult time.“In crisis times such as this, ‘active violence’ is erupting due to feeling of being cooped up, especially in families that are already dysfunctional. The level of stress due to the many uncertainties surrounding the future is high and a loss of control in the outside world might lead to more aggressive, controlling behaviour by the perpetrator at home,” explained feminist psychologist Sadhana Natu.She, and 26 other psychologists in Pune, have circulated their mobile numbers widely with the intention of helping anyone in need of reaching out for emotional/psychological support during the lockdown.“The limitation is that only those who are using a phone, have access to WhatsApp, Facebook (which we used for publicity) can use this service. That leaves out the lower middle classes and the poor with no access,” Natu said.Grassroots organisations and activists working in the field at the forefront of fighting Covid-19 could help popularise these initiatives by experts, she felt.Sadhana Khati, chairperson, local complains committee, Pune district, agreed that the limited access to a mobile phone and the lack of private space to call for help might exacerbate the feeling of being trapped for victims of domestic violence. “While women from all classes suffer violence and abuse, there’s often silence around it in middle class/upper class homes. Then again, violence can come in many shades – economic, emotional, sexual, physical. We will have to wait to gauge the full impact of this lockdown on domestic abuse victims,” she said.If one can’t access a helpline, there are some safety mechanisms that women in toxic relationships, problematic marriages and violence-ridden families can employ to avoid suffering as the lockdown continues, says relationship therapist and psychologist Seema Gaikwad.“In these times, when one might be cut off from trusted people, it is important to have some sort of support system in place. It may help to call friends, video call loved ones, asking near and dear ones to check on you regularly or having online sessions with your counsellor or therapist as a part of your routine. For your own safety, try to avoid triggers of conflict. Do not provoke, do not react when possible. Remember that this lockdown is not unending. Use the introspection done in this period to work out a plan to address your issues, after this crisis is over,” she advised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-zp-to-send-domestic-violence-perpetrators-in-institutional-quarantine/story-UZJSOjnuWie1KFn10IilrN.html
19-04-2020||Pune||For every 100 patients tested in Pune, 10 are positive; officials assure to increase testing||For every hundred patients whose swab were tested in the city, more than 10 turned out to the positive for Covid-19 which takes the testing to sample proportion in Pune district to 10.25%.Pune is the second hotspot in Maharashtra after Mumbai with experts calling for more testing. The district administration is now trying to get more labs on board, said officials.With 565 positive cases as of April 17 out of the 5,507 results which came from various laboratories, the city’s testing to sample proportion is 10.25%. As compared to Mumbai, this rate is close to 6%. According to the data from the BMC health department from February 3 to April 15 around 30,500 samples have been tested out of which 1,936 tested positive for the virus, which gives a proportion of sample to tested positive ratio of 6.1%.Divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar said, “We want to expand our testing capacity and so have already spoken to Armed Forces Medical College (AFMC) to bring on board private laboratories too. Within 2-3 days we will increase our testing capacity drastically. With regards to testing asymptomatic patients, we conduct the first test if the person had come in close contact with the Covid-19 patients and then quarantine the person. No further tests are taken if the person does not show symptoms.”According to public health expert Dr Abhijit More who works with Jan Aarogya Abhiyan asymptomatic patients must be tested every 5th and 14th day as per the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines. “Since most cases are asymptomatic and if the person tests positive, the compliance of quarantine or isolation could be managed better.Mumbai has started mass testing about 10 days ago which is why the number went high but in Pune the testing rate is too low. If the lockdown period is not used to test more people then what is the use of the lockdown?” he said.He further states that the government can also collaborate with Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER) and National Centre for Cell Sciences which are located in Pune or bring in more private laboratories because government infrastructure would fall short in today’s scenario. “Pool testing is another option which is approved by ICMR wherein multiple sample are mixed and if one of the sample is found negative then the can test each sample separately.”With ICMR protocols calling for testing asymptomatic patients twice within the incubation periods, the district administration is simply isolating the patients after the first test if it is negative. Currently the city has only three government labs which test samples, including NIV which gets sample testing requests from across the country and sometimes from other counties, Sassoon hospital which manages tests from Satara and also AFMC which mainly accepts samples from Nashik.Dr TP Lahane, who heads Directorate of Medical Education and Research, which also controls Sassoon hospital said, “BJ Medical College tests samples of only those patients who come to Sassoon directly. We are mainly testing samples from Satara, Nashik and Karad and we have tested 1,500 tests till date from 21 March. Pune is mainly managed from NIV and the follow of testing of Covid-19 first contacts and high risk contacts is done by the corporation and the patient could be sent to Sassoon or Naidu.”He further added that the testing capacity which is currently 120-150 has been increased to 200 daily as we will soon start using the automated RNA extraction machine.At AFMC around 300 samples from Pune have been tested, around 1,000 from Ahmednagar and Nashik, according to AFMC spokesperson.According to the data from district health office as of April 17, 7 pm 5,703 samples sent to government labs including National Institute of Virology (NIV)Pune district 5,507 results have come565 positive casesThis brings the testing to positive proportion to 10.25 per cent compared to 6.1 per cent in MumbaiICMR Protocols for testing The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) strategy for Covid19 testing dated April 9, 2020 states that· All symptomatic individuals who have undertaken international travel in the last 14 days· All symptomatic contacts of laboratory confirmed cases· All symptomatic health care workers· All patients with severe acute respiratory illness (fever and cough and/or shortness of breath)· Asymptomatic direct and high-risk contacts of a confirmed case should be tested once between day 5 and day 14 of coming in his/her contactIn hotspots/cluster (as per Ministry of Health and Family Welfare) and in large migration gatherings/ evacuees centresAll symptomatic ILI (fever, cough, sore throat, runny nose)Within 7 days of illness – rRT-PCR (Real-Time Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction )After 7 days of illness – Antibody test (If negative, confirmed by rRT-PCR)Government labs testing samples in Pune · National Institute of Virology, Pune· Armed Forces Medical College, Pune· BJ Medical College, PunePrivate labs approved by ICMR · AG Diagnostics Pvt Ltd· Sahyadri Specialty Labs· Ruby Hall Clinic· Metropolis Healthcare Limited||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/for-every-100-patients-tested-in-pune-10-are-positive-officials-assure-to-increase-testing/story-I3vsunlILqGwmmwGVaKLqL.html
19-04-2020||City||Storm damages two domes of newly-built structure at Kartarpur gurdwara||Two domes of the newly-built structure in the complex of Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Kartarpur, Pakistan, collapsed during rain and thunderstorm on Friday evening, pictures of which went viral on Twitter on Saturday evening. Local sources in Islamabad confirmed the social media reports but stated that the centuries-old sanctum sanctorum is safe.Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) president Manjinder Singh Sirsa, in a tweet stated, “It is sad to see the damage to the domes of the gurdwara. The domes should be repaired…I humbly urge Minister of External Affairs S Jaishankar to address the issue of damage done to dome gurdwara due to storm. Construction of a Gurdwara Sahib is not the work of government, it should have been given to Kar Sewa committee or Sangat in the very first place.”Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (PSGPC) president Satwant Singh said, “Damage amid this kind of weather conditions is not abnormal thing. The thunderstorm also caused damage at many other places in Pakistan. However, it is being projected as a big issue by a section of electronic media in India. We have got these domes repaired and are affixing them on their places very soon on the periphery of the gurdwara”.A long pending demand of the Indian Sikh community, a 4-km long corridor was opened on November 9 last year from Dera Baba Nanak, a town situated along international border in India side, to Kartarpur which is the last resting place of Sikhism’s founder Guru Nanak.The corridor is closed following the Covid-19 outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thunderstorm-damages-2-domes-on-newly-built-structure-at-kartarpur-gurdwara/story-wl2HRNDYToVsnMfFSIPHaL.html
19-04-2020||Delhi||Coronavirus update: One-and-a-half-month-old baby dies of Covid-19 infection in Delhi hospital||A one-and-a-half-month-old baby has died of coronavirus infection at a hospital in Delhi, officials said on Sunday, in perhaps the first fatality of an infant due to COVID-19 in the national capital.The baby died at Kalawati Saran Children’s Hospital attached to the Centre-run Lady Hardinge Medical College.“The baby was brought to the hospital a few days ago. He tested positive for COVID-19. The child was admitted to SARI (Severe Acute Respiratory Illness) ward and died yesterday,” a doctor at the hospital said on the condition of anonymity.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here The surveillance team has been informed for contact tracing, he said.The total number of coronavirus cases in the national capital has climbed to 1,893, according to the Delhi government.As per the age profile of Covid-19 victims in Delhi shared by the health department, of the total 43 fatalities, 24 were above 60 years. Nine were aged between 50-60 and 10 were aged below 50, officials said. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/coronavirus-update-one-and-a-half-month-old-baby-dies-of-covid-19-infection-in-delhi-hospital/story-28EJ1ZNqE4Zpl8two3itRP.html
19-04-2020||Patna||Nalanda man tests Covid-19 positive, Bihar’s count goes up to 87||One more Covid-19 case was reported in Bihar on Sunday, taking the total count of coronavirus cases in the state to 87, a senior official said according to news agency PTI. The latest case, a 55-year-old man from Nalanda district’s Bihar Sharif, had come in contact with a person who had earlier tested positive for coronavirus after his return from Dubai, state’s principal health secretary Sanjay Sharma said.Two people have died from the disease in the state so far while 42 have recovered after being treated. Siwan district has reported the maximum 29 cases and has been classified as ‘red zone’ or Covid-19 hotspot as per the Centre’s classification of districts, according to state health officials.Meanwhile, Bihar received 6,240 antibody-based rapid test kits from the Centre on Saturday afternoon for screening Covid-19 suspects, kindling hopes of getting faster results.“We received 6,240 rapid test kits from the ministry of health and family welfare this afternoon for Covid-19 screening. This is the first tranche of antibody-based rapid test kits we have received. The department is formulating a comprehensive strategy on its usage,” said Sanjay Kumar.Also on Saturday, chief minister Nitish Kumar held a review meeting with officials on the measures taken to deal with the Covid-19 crisis.(With inputs from PTI and ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/nalanda-man-tests-covid-19-positive-bihar-s-count-goes-up-to-87/story-eSrAxusvhsjAo2uHIwop8M.html
19-04-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Delhi paid the price of markaz incident, says chief minister Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said that the national capital paid the price of the markaz event where thousands of Tablighi Jamaat followers had gathered last month. The markaz (centre) of the religious group emerged as the hotspot of coronavirus disease Covid-19, leading to spurt in the rate of infection.“Delhi paid the price of markaz incident and inflow of travellers from other countries,” Kejriwal said at a press conference.He stated that Covid-19 was spreading rapidly in the national capital but the situation was “still under control”.“For the last few days, coronavirus cases in Delhi are on a rise. We have also conducted more testing in the past few days. Yesterday, we got the report of 736 cases. Out of 736, 186 were positive,” the chief minister said.Kejriwal mentioned that all those 186 were asymptomatic. “They did not know they were infected. This is even more worrying. At times people don’t even know that they are infected,” he said.The Delhi Chief Minister informed that one of those 186, was working as a volunteer at the food distribution centre of Delhi government and added that he has ordered rapid testing at the centre.Kejriwal said there will be no relaxation in lockdown in Delhi for now. He said that the situation will be reviewed after a week and if there is improvement, the relaxation will be given.“After assessing the prevailing situation in Delhi, we have decided not to permit any relaxation in the lockdown, as of now,” the Chief Minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-delhi-paid-the-price-of-markaz-incident-says-chief-minister-kejriwal/story-QoeGBpQ8GVlK5wUbfYVjTO.html
19-04-2020||Chandigarh||Patient tests positive for Covid-19 after recovery in HP||A patient who had recovered Covid-19 has tested positive for the infection again, authorities said on Sunday.The patient, a Tablighi Jamaat worker from Una district, had recovered after undergoing treatment at Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College (RPGMC), Tanda, and had been subsequently discharged, said additional chief secretary (health) RD Dhiman.After discharge, he was admitted to an institutional quarantine facility at Chheb near Kangra. Dhiman said the patient has tested positive for Immunoglobulin G antibodies (IgG) and Immunoglobulin M (IgM) antibodies which shows IgG presence in his body and eventually the immunity against the virus.“Eventually, it may be construed that it is not an active infection. The COVID positive report may be due to old virus strain,” he said, adding that the patient has been shifted to RPGMC for treatment.This is the first case in the hill-state where a recovered patient has tested positive for Covid-19 again.23 ACTIVE CASESWith this, the number of active cases in Himachal has increased to 23.Dhiman said a total of 224 samples were tested on Saturday, of which 147 came out negative and two came out positive. The reports of 77 samples is still awaited.A total of 2,207 people have been tested in the state. The tally of Covid cases has gone up to 39, including one fatality.SHARP RISE IN CASES AFTER APRIL 2Eleven people have recovered and four are being treated outside the state. There has been a sharp rise in Covid cases in Himachal after April 2. Seven cases have been reported in the last five days.UNA WORST HIT DISTRICTUna is the worst-hit district with 16 cases, followed by Solan where nine people have tested positive, Chamba has had six positive cases while Kangra has five. Two cases have been reported in Hamirpur and one in Sirmour.Of the 39 cases, 25 are Tablighi Jamaat workers or their primary contacts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/patient-tests-positive-for-covid-19-after-recovery-in-hp/story-OAMTtmZuElpl4gnz09Q1II.html
19-04-2020||Education||50 Lakh students in Jharkhand to get PDFs of books on Diksha portal||Failing to provide textbooks to the students due to the lockdown, the sate education department was contemplating to upload PDF files of the textbooks on its Diksha, a Jharkhand Education Project Council (JEPC) portal, for 50 lakh students studying in primary and high schools.Secretary of school education and literacy, AP Singh, said there was hardly any change in the syllabus and the department had discussed to provide QR codes of the old textbooks so that the students, studying in government schools and taking online classes during lockdown, could access their textbooks and get benefited.He said the department has procured the new textbooks but could not provide it to the students through schools due to the lockdown. It will be distributed soon after classes begin, he said.However, the chances of early opening of schools appear remote and the department was planning to upload the QR codes so that the students could access the PDF files.Meanwhile, JEPC director, Uma Shankar Singh, on Saturday directed all block resource persons (BRPs) and cluster resource persons (CRPs) to ensure that the course module reaches online to the students.Issuing a video clip, he told the resource persons to ensure that all headmasters and headmistresses get the contents in advance so that they could reach out to the students online on time.He appealed to all school authorities to create WhatsApp groups and add students on Diksha portal.The performance of the teachers would be evaluated on the success of online classes, he added.The director also appealed to the BRPs and CRPs to get feedbacks from the headmasters and headmistresses at regular intervals on shortcomings of online course modules for rectification.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/50-lakh-students-in-jharkhand-to-get-pdfs-of-books-on-diksha-portal/story-iEZNqWcyVbHWld0wf1NG8M.html
19-04-2020||Education||Covid-19 to be part of syllabus of Biochemistry at Lucknow University||Lucknow University has decided to include Covid-19 coronavirus in the syllabus of biochemistry postgraduate course from the coming semester.“We have decided to introduce a unit on Covid-19 in the first semester of MSc biochemistry. The unit will cover various aspects of the Covid-19, including its spread trend and ways to manage the infection,” said vice chancellor of Lucknow University Alok Rai.The decision was made in agreement with the teachers of the biochemistry department who are now busy in preparing a syllabus accordingly. The final syllabus, along with the proposal will be put forward in the next executive council meeting of the university.Besides the biochemistry department, Covid-19 will also be included in public health course. “The world is going through an adverse phase due to Covid-19 outbreak. The decision to introduce it in our syllabus was taken to ensure that the students get all required information about the virus,” said spokesman of Lucknow University Durgesh Srivastav. The university had earlier introduced courses on happiness.Meanwhile, LU has suspended all its classes and examination due to the ongoing lockdown. The teachers are taking online classes, several teachers have also uploaded the course material online which can be accessed by the students. The university is also taking online career counseling and helping out those with mental health issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/covid-19-to-be-part-of-syllabus-of-biochemistry-at-lucknow-university/story-S3vbT8qRClMCG4tmDG51EO.html
19-04-2020||Mumbai||Powerloom worker stabbed to death in Maharashtra’s Thane district||A 36-year-old powerloom worker was stabbed to death by two unidentified persons in Maharashtra’s Thane district, police said on Sunday.The victim, Ajit Patel, and two other men were on way to a powerloom factory in Bhiwandi early Saturday morning when two motorcycle-borne persons attacked them with sharp-edged weapons on Kharivali road, a police spokesperson said.While the other two workers ran away, the miscreants caught hold of Patel and stabbed him several times, she said.The victim died on the spot.On getting information about the incident, the police rushed to the spot and sent the body for postmortem.A case was registered under Indian Penal Code Section 302 (murder) and search was on for the assailants, she said.The police suspect that the miscreants killed the victim in a bid to rob him, she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/powerloom-worker-stabbed-to-death-in-maharashtra-s-thane-district/story-QzNTh54Cqf8vL7BhyNQUOI.html
19-04-2020||Education||DD Bihar to broadcast teaching program for classes 9, 10 from April 20||India’s public broadcaster, Doordarshan (DD), Bihar, in collaboration with Bihar Education Project (BEP), has decided to start virtual teaching for students of class 9 and 10 from April 20, owing to closure of schools amid the nationwide lockdown, officials said on Friday.BEP director, Sanjay Singh, sent a missive to all district education officers (DEOs) in the state in this regard. The educational broadcast will be held daily from 11.05 am to 12. 00 pm. The respective DEOs have been instructed to ensure that teachers and students be intimated about the measure through SMS or WhatsApp texts messages.The district programme officer, BEP, Dev Kanhaiya, informed on Friday that all headmasters and principals of upgraded middle schools, high schools, and senior secondary schools had been informed about the measure. They have also been asked to provide details, in a prescribed format, about the number of students in these classes to the district level monitoring cell of the department by Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/dd-bihar-to-broadcast-teaching-program-for-classes-9-10-from-april-20/story-0pTVTaly6pNuFrVgqrKrHM.html
19-04-2020||Education||DD Bihar, state govt to offer online teaching for matric, inter students||In a bid to mitigate the impact of complete lockdown on school students, the state government has decided to offer online teaching to students of classes 9 and 10, beginning Monday, to make up for the disruption in classes.The decision was taken at a high-level meeting, presided by chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar, in the presence of deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi, chief secretary Deepak Prasad, DGP Gupteshwar Pandey and departmental heads. All DMs and SPs were connected through video conference.As the education department will be functional from Monday, the CM directed its principal secretary, RK Mahajan, to start offering online education, for at least an hour, for the time being, on a daily basis.Mahajan further said that the process for booking a slot on public broadcaster, Doordarshan Bihar, to begin an hour long learning class for the students will be initiated and the department will also push for sealing a separate slot for students of class 11 and 12 too.While the move is an attempt to try and make up for the loss in school curriculum that will pitch students for taking up the crucial board examinations next year, it appears that it will also help in filling up the sudden break in the lives of students who are now forced to stay indoors in the times of a crisis.The CM also asked the concerned departmental heads and the district administrations to step up the door-to-door screening exercise to test symptomatic persons and put them under isolation with a view to contain the spread of Covid-19.“DMs should monitor the exercise to ensure each and every family is covered under the exercise in all the four districts identified as hot spots, as is being done in the case of pulse-polio drive, and also keep a watch on Acute encephalitis syndrome (AES), and instances of bird flu in their respective districts,” he said, adding, “Proper monitoring of incoming passengers is also an important step in containing the spread of the pandemic.”Kumar also directed officials of the disaster management department to ensure that dry milk powder was available in camps and isolation centres. “All eligible persons, who do not have ration cards, should be identified with the help of Jeevika workers and food grains should also be provided to them,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/dd-bihar-state-govt-to-offer-online-teaching-for-matric-inter-students/story-WMOeTifisLSG0eUh6Hfi4K.html
19-04-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka orders 3 lakh PPE kits for healthcare workers||The Karnataka government on Saturday ordered 2 lakh Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits from DHB Global and 1 lakh from other major pharmaceuticals, for the healthcare warriors treating coronavirus patients. According to the State Health Department, these PPEs have 10 components as per global standards like a face mask to prevent healthcare professional from any liquid sprays, goggles for additional safety, N95 masks for protection of nasal and mouth areas, surgical masks, nitrile gloves, coverall suit, shoe cover, waste disposable bag, plastic apron, and protective gear.Each of the products should have the relevant certificate from the Food and Drug Administration (USFDA) or equivalent certification.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-orders-3-lakh-ppe-kits-for-healthcare-workers/story-m2z0peLq8DQvECfqaeoqUO.html
19-04-2020||Chandigarh||HT reporters’ tracker on all those making, or faking, news in Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula amid coronavirus lockdown||RED ZONE PUTS CHANDIGARH ADMINISTRATION IN A HOT SPOTFor Chandigarh administration officials, the Union Territory being identified as a Covid-19 hot spot and red zone came as a shock last week. The administration was gearing for curfew relaxation from April 20 but that’s not to be. Of particular worry to the officialdom is how to manage the delivery of food to more than 3 lakh city residents daily. “Had curfew relaxation been allowed from April 20, most of the things would have taken care of themselves. But with fresh coronavirus cases surfacing, the road ahead is difficult,” a senior UT official said. MOHALI CIVIL SURGEON BELIEVES IN POWER OF PRAYERIn these difficult times, Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh, like many others, prays daily for an early end to the Covid-19 pandemic. On the frontline, he admits he prays daily for the well-being of all. For two days last week, his prayers were answered as Mohali did not report any new case and there was good news from Jawaharpur village from where 38 cases had been reported earlier. The village’s first coronavirus case, a 42-year-old panch, tested negative after treatment.ON COVID CURFEW DUTY, COPS BRING OUT THE BEST IN RESIDENTSPolice personnel ensuring that the coronavirus curfew is observed end up spending hours in the sun. With summer setting in, some local businessmen and members of resident welfare associations are coming to their aid. Cops on duty shared how the grocery chain, 24 Seven, had been sending refreshments for cops deployed near their stores. Those posted near residential areas said residents were sending across refreshments such as tea and nimbu pani besides snacks. LEOPARD ENSURES MOHALI STAYS HOME, AND SAFEResidents of Mohali have been observing the Covid-19 lockdown sincerely thanks to a leopard being sighted in their town. Photos of pug marks of the wild cat are being shared on social media platforms, keeping the wildlife department on its toes. People are citing the continuous barking of dogs and peacock calls to buttress their case of sighting the leopard. Interestingly, people are even making announcements, urging others to stay indoors lest they come face to face with the leopard. SHARING INFORMATION, PUNJAB SHOWS THE WAYNeighbouring Punjab is proactive in disseminating information regarding Covid-19 patients and their contact tracing, but the health authorities of Chandigarh are slow to confirm information. The latest example being of a woman resident of Sector 30 who tested positive on Friday evening. The health department and centralised information unit of the UT did not confirm the development despite repeated attempts. In these times of social media, perhaps they should take a leaf out of Punjab’s practice of prompt online updates and detailed media bulletins.VIPS DEFY LOCKDOWN AS COPS CRACK DOWN ON AAM AADMIHow many VIPs have violated the Chandigarh administration’s prohibitory orders? That’s a question none in Chandigarh Police is willing to answer. It seems the police crackdown for violating the lockdown is for the aam aadmi, while the personnel turn a blind eye towards violations by the influential, including bureaucrats, present and former. They are let off with a polite warning. “The rule of law should be same for all, specially in a pandemic. As soon as we catch an important person, he/she is quick to call up our boss, who asks us to let him/her off,” says a cop candidly.HOLIDAYS PUT TEACHERS’ ONLINE CLASSES OFF TRACKUT education department officials and teachers worked day and night to compile the logistics of students so that online classes could begin amid the Covid-19 crisis. But within days, the higher-ups announced summer vacations in government schools. A teacher wondered, “If they had to declare the vacations, why did they force us to work day and night for online classes?” Inputs by Hillary Victor, Munieshwer A Sagar, Shailee Dogra, Rajanbir Singh, Amanjeet Singh, Shub Karman Dhaliwal, and Srishti Jaswal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ht-reporters-tracker-on-all-those-making-or-faking-news-in-chandigarh-mohali-and-panchkula-amid-coronavirus-lockdown/story-5n0tfYj4uKXdMZnBjFkfML.html
19-04-2020||City||HT Chandigarh debate: Charity has to be channelised effectively to target groups||With the world and India set for a long-drawn battle against Covid-19 and the lockdown in India extended up to May 3, this is the time for redefining the role of NGOs and civil society in streamlining charitable initiatives in real time coordination with the administration.Till now, ever since the curfew/lockdown was imposed, a number of NGOs and good Samaritans have come forward to organise community meal (langar) services and supply food to the administration to distribute to the poor and the homeless. However, what has been lacking is a well coordinated response system to alleviate the distress of people left without any means of income after the lockdown led to drying up of work/jobs.What is going against NGOs and philanthropists is that most of them have been operating on their own without guidelines, attempting to reach out to the underprivileged in whichever way they deem fit. Without a well-defined, workable plan in place, many people are not able to benefit from their charitable initiatives.Fine tuning the PM Cares fund, set up specifically to deal with the Covid-19 crisis, to guarantee transparency in utilisation of money, allocating specific amounts to each charity with UT or state or district administrations as the overarching authority to supervise spending could be a way forward.The aim of funds like this should not be only to help the underprivileged tide over the present crisis, but also to help rehabilitate them in the long term.Every plan must be need-based. The focus immediately should be on mapping out beneficiaries and ensure everyone gets his or her rightful share of food. This can later be extended to monetary help, creation of work opportunities, continuing education of children and other support systems for them.Work must be initiated on a war footing to start helping the needy to enable them to quickly get back on their feet once normalcy is restored.WRITE TO USWhat can be done for effective distribution of charity?How can charitable endeavours be streamlined during the Covid-19 crisis, made sustainable and reach targeted populations? Send in your responses to chandigarh@hindustantimes.com by April 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/debate-of-the-week-charity-has-to-be-channelised-effectively-to-target-groups/story-ZzYw3QwmUOy3wyMcASNN8L.html
19-04-2020||City||Powerloom worker found murdered in Bhiwandi||A 47-year-old powerloom worker was murdered in Bhiwandi on Saturday evening. The Bhoiwada police have registered a case against an unknown person. They suspect robbery to be the motive of the murder.According to the police, Ajit Patel worked in a powerloom unit at Karivali village in Bhiwandi. He work was to switch on and switch off the lights of the factory every day. He was walking towards the powerloom unit and had reached Karivli lake, when someone accosted him and stabbed him. A police officer said, “The incident took place between 5pm and 6pm. We couldn’t find his mobile phone. We suspect robbery to be the motive but we are investigating. Patel had a deep injury and died on the spot.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/powerloom-worker-found-murdered-in-bhiwandi/story-WcWIqbzeobhTRQQwKaryJJ.html
19-04-2020||City||Man booked for bid to flee quarantine, thrashing cop in Raipur Rani||Police have booked a 31-year-old man who was in a quarantine facility in Mouli village, Raipur Rani, for allegedly trying to flee as well as for thrashing a policeman on Saturday.As per information, the accused Kamrudin, from Garida village in Pinjore, has been kept under quarantine since April 2 with other persons after they attended a Tablighi Jamaat event in different states. The administration has set up isolation facilities across the district, including Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya in Mouli village, where around 73 people who had attended different jamaats were being kept.Around 12.30am on Friday night, Kamrudin broke the bathroom door and tried to escape. However, Raipur Rani station house officer (SHO) inspector Rampal Singh said the accused was apprehended by policemen outside the centre.“The man misbehaved with officials and entered into a scuffle with a sub-inspector, even tearing off his uniform. When the incident commander reached the spot, the accused hurled abuses and created more ruckus,” said the SHO. Police said the accused also made a video, threatening to make it viral.Panchkula deputy commissioner, the deputy commissioner of police and senior health department officials also visited the centre on Saturday.However, Kamrudin is accusing the cops, who arrived at the centre in civil dress, of hurling abuses at him and assaulting him. He accused them of not conducting a medical checkup despite the fact that he received injuries.A case has been registered under Sections 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and under relevant sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act and the Disaster Management Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-booked-for-bid-to-flee-quarantine-thrashing-cop-in-raipur-rani/story-VZqhQo8UAB6ZjAPsX8lJKM.html
19-04-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: In a city under lockdown, sex workers going without food, medical attention||They have run out of money so they are dependent on NGOs for meals, no clients visit them as the city remains locked down because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Female sex workers (FSWs) here are struggling to make ends meet during the crisis.Some of them do not even have money for facemasks or gloves.“This has been my only source of income for the last 15 years after I was pushed into this profession to take care of my bedridden father,” says a woman.“I have four children, I don’t have enough to feed them,” she adds.Over 3,000 FSWs are registered with the Chandigarh State AIDS Control Society apart from an unspecified number living in the city.Many of them say they have not had a single client in days.Manpinder Kaur, project manager with the NGO Servants of the People Society, who has been helping these women since 2009, says: “SOPS takes care of 600 female sex workers, 50% of them newly initiated. The ones who have just started working are facing more hardships as they don’t have contacts. They are vulnerable, unlike the ones who are associated with pimps, who take care of them.”In normal circumstances the FSWs work out of their own homes, visit clients at their homes or in rooms rented out by pimps.“For 80% women, this is their only source of income. Old-timers with contacts are often forced to entertain clients even for basic essentials,” Kaur adds.Another worker in her 30s with three children says she had ration for 10 days after a woman working with an NGO gave her wheat flour and pulses. “Now it’s finished. What do I do?” she asks.Forced into this work to earn enough to educate her children, she says there are a lot of women like her who do not have rations, are sick and in need of medical attention.“Their names and demands were handed over to the area counsellor, but till date they have not received any help.”Another 40-year-old woman says on a regular day she would earn Rs 500 to Rs 3,000. But since the lockdown, “in the entire month, I got only one client.” Pinky Rani, project manager with the NGO Yuvsatta, who is looking after 648 FSWs, says some of the workers do not even have money for contraceptives.Tapan Singh, project manager with Indian Public Health Association, says 50 % of sex workers, including males who have sex with males (MSMs) and transgender people, have no savings. They are from very poor backgrounds, and dependent on daily earnings. “These days, all they are worried about is where their next meal is coming from.”Dr Sandeep Mittal, deputy director, State AIDS Control Society, says: “To reach out to the high risk groups, including FSWs, MSMs, truckers etc, we have 10 NGOs and on Thursday, we had a meeting with them, where issues faced by the sex-workers were also discussed. Definitely, with lockdown, their only source of livelihood has been hit. We are trying to provide help via organisations, but movement is restricted because of the lockdown.”The lockdown has also impacted the regular medical check-ups for HIV and sexually transmitted infections. “As per protocol, a worker should be screened for STI four times a year and twice every year for HIV. So, daily we had lots of workers to be screened for. But because of lockdown, we are doing only need-based screening - only those who come have symptoms.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-in-a-city-under-lockdown-sex-workers-going-without-food-medical-attention/story-HaadD8PNDLIstioWH3TGVK.html
19-04-2020||City||Police come to the aid of nine Ladakh girls in Kharar||Police have come to the aid of nine girls hailing from Ladakh by providing them with ration. The girls from Ladakh have been putting up as paying guests in Kharar near the Akali Daftar gurdwara and had run out of food.“Mohali chief judicial magistrate informed us about the girls. We immediately contacted them and supplied them with ration,” said Bhagwant Singh, station house officer, Kharar (City). After running out of ration, the girls had approached Ladakh Students Union seeking help, which in turn got in touch with the Mohali chief judicial magistrate. “We did not know whom to contact when our ration got over. It came as a surprise when police came knocking on our door with ration,” said Tenzing, one of the students. All girls are pursing different courses and staying as paying guests in two different houses in Kharar.HELPLINE ISSUED Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said the helpline number 112 was operational in case one was seeking information on law and order, police or curfew. Similarly, the number 104 has been set up as a medical helpline and the number 108 can be dialled for ambulance services. For difficulty regarding essential supplies, people can dial the general helpline number 1905 and for the doctor’s advice via tele-medicine the toll free number 1800-180-4104 is operational.31 CASES AGAINST CURFEW VIOLATORS, 92 VEHICLES IMPOUNDED On Saturday, police registered 31 cases against those roaming aimlessly on roads in violation of the curfew, while 92 vehicles were impounded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/police-come-to-the-aid-of-nine-ladakh-girls-in-kharar/story-8tJaWBdWVp9p3r8o4TXbgN.html
19-04-2020||Chandigarh||6 held, 7 booked in two cases of violence in Chandigarh’s colonies||Two separate cases of assault and attempt to murder were reported in city’s colonies that are densely populated with migrants, the police said on Saturday.The first incident was reported from the Tin colony in Sector 52, where one Raj Kishor alleged that a group of men knocked on his house door to disturb him.“Raj came out with a stick and began hurling abuses. A group of men sitting outside his house objected to his words thinking they were meant for them. The group then thrashed Raj in front of his house,” said a police official, requesting anonymity.A complaint was filed by Raj, following which a case under Sections 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation), 147 (punishment for rioting), 148(rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against Sagar, Vishal, Rajnikant, Sansar, Jatinder and Rahul, all residents of Tin colony. All the accused have been arrested. In another case, seven persons were booked in an attempt to murder case after a person identified as Virender Yadav was brutally attacked near government school near colony number 4, in Industrial Area Phase 1, on Friday.Victim’s mother alleged that Virender and she were on their way to get medicines from the colony when her son was attacked. He received injuries and was rushed to the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCHS-32) for treatment. A case under Sections 307 (attempt to murder) and 147, 148 and 149 of the IPC were registered against Anand, Guntu, Golu, Raja Bihari, Ranjit, Aman Tripathi, Kuldeep and investigators are making attempts to nab them. Police said Anand has an old enmity with the victim and would always ask him not to enter this colony.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/6-held-7-booked-in-two-cases-of-violence-in-chandigarh-s-colonies/story-fWcEahCK1nzHOnHedvWZpK.html
19-04-2020||City||Protect yourself from dengue, too, warns Mohali civil surgeon||With everyone busy in the war against the novel coronavirus, district health authorities are reminding residents to protect themselves from dengue as well, and observe every Friday as dry day.“It is not only coronavirus, but also dengue that we should protect ourselves from,” said civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh. He also said Friday should continue to be observed as dry day as the practice has been on for long time.Dr Manjit Singh said that people were staying homes due to the ongoing curfew and so they have a lot of time on their hands which they could use to clean coolers, flowerpots, fridge trays, water tanks and other containers which are the usual breeding sites of the deadly mosquito. The doctor said that the district health department has asked the Mohali municipal corporation to carry out fogging on streets and other public places.District epidemiologist Dr Renu Singh said dengue fever is treatable and if symptoms appear, one should visit the nearest health facility or dial helpline 104 for medical guidance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/protect-yourself-from-dengue-too-warns-mohali-civil-surgeon/story-A7B1pOgTQDVzthf09funPL.html
19-04-2020||Chandigarh||14-day quarantine for outsiders entering Chandigarh||An outsider entering Chandigarh will be quarantined for 14 days as per a decision taken in a review meeting chaired by UT administrator VP Singh Badnore on Saturday.UT adviser Manoj Parida said as per government of India’s directions, outsiders entering the city will be quarantined for 14 days either at home or in government facilities to prevent spread of infection.He, however, stated that this will not apply on residents of neighbouring cities who are out on government duty or catering to essential services. He said as per the ministry of home guidelines, the entire UT has been declared as containment zone. “Since in Chandigarh, the coronavirus outbreak is scattered and not confined to a specific pocket, area, village or cluster, the entire city has been declared a containment zone,” he added. The latest declaration has ruled out any relaxation of curfew from April 20.Meanwhile, Badnore expressed serious concern over health workers getting infected after two Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) workers were found positive for the virus on Friday.He directed that authorities of all government and private hospitals must strictly follow the protocol laid down by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) while treating Covid-19 patients. He also stressed that the administration must rigorously do the contact tracing of these two patients and ensure that the infection is contained.He advised the PGIMER director to ensure that proper safety, security and sanitisation is done on the institute campus so that there is no reoccurrence of such infections.He directed the chiefs of all medical institutions to ensure that critical non-corona cases are also attended to on priority. --BoxSec-26 mandi to remain closed on MondayThe UT administration decided to shut the Sector 26 wholesale mandi on Monday for sanitisation and cleaning. There will be no distribution of vegetables and fruits by the administration’s buses on Monday.Badnore directed that the flour mills should be kept open, so that the beneficiaries receiving the wheat under PMGKAY can get it milled.Municipal commissioner KK Yadav stated that sanitisation through drones has been started in the city. He also stated that distribution of baby food for the needy mothers has been arranged by the municipal corporation. 4800 rapid kits receivedPrincipal secretary (health) Arun Kumar Gupta said 4,800 rapid testing kits have been received, which will be utilised as per the advice of medical experts. The administrator has given directions to coordinate with Panjab University, Punjab Engineering College and other NGOs for blood donation camps. ----Embedded copyUT allows patients from other states at PGIMERThe UT administration also allowed treatment of serious Covid-19 patients from other states at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) following a protest from Haryana.UT adviser Manoj Parida shared it through a tweet on Saturday, saying that PGI will continue to treat serious corona or non-corona cases of neighbouring states, if local doctors find treatment beyond their capacity.“Only condition is that they must consult in advance PGI director so that they are ready to receive patient without causing infection,” he said.Earlier UT had restricted the institute to entertain Covid-19 patients only from Chandigarh that created a problem in Panchkula three days ago.As reported by Hindustan Times on Saturday, PGIMER declined the request of Panchkula chief medical officer regarding shifting a serious Covid-19 patient. Justifying the denial, PGIMER dean (academics) Dr GD Puri in a statement said “they were restricted by Epidemic Act evoked by the UT administration that stopped the inter-state migration of corona patients”. This, however, did not go well with Haryana government and state chief secretary took up the matter with UT and PGIMER authorities. Sources confirmed that Union minister of health and family welfare too intervened in the matter.Will strengthen coordination with states: PGI directorPGIMER director Dr Jagat Ram said the system at the institute level will be strengthened for better cooperation with the neighbouring states for the treatment of Covid-19 patients who need critical support and care. “Primarily, if the patient who require intensive care unit (ICU) support, experts from anaesthesia and internal medicine departments will be nominated for coordination with the neighbouring states for decision on shifting of critical patients,” he said.Dr Ram said that the patients who can be treated at local facilities should not be referred to the institute as isolation is the only possible way to stop the spread of infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/14-day-quarantine-for-outsiders-entering-chandigarh/story-WFZ3MAhGBEooFltWXyoNKI.html
19-04-2020||City||Immigration fraud: Ambala man duped of ₹2.23 lakh||An FIR was registered against a man after he allegedly cheated another on the pretext of sending him abroad. On this pretext, the accused had taken ₹2.23 lakh from Nikhil Kumar, 24, an Ambala resident.The accused Sachin Kumar, 35, is a friend of the complainant’s brother. In the FIR, the complainant Nikhil stated that the accused had taken money from him between December 2018 and February 2019 for the purpose of sending him to Singapore.“Initially, I had deposited ₹50,000 in two different accounts after which he sent an image of a fake visa and asked for ₹1 lakh in cash, which also I gave him,” he said. After that, he received an image of a work permit for which Sachin asked for money to be deposited in another account. Nikhil said he deposited ₹50,000 again and gave him another ₹23,000 in cash.“However, in Feb 2019, he began ignoring my calls. My brother and I went over to Sachin’s house, where his brothers refused to acknowledge us. A few days later, Sachin received my call and told my brother that he had cheated them and had no plans to send me abroad,” Nikhil stated in the FIR.A case was registered against the accused under Sections 406 and 420 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Naraingarh police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/immigration-fraud-ambala-man-duped-of-2-23-lakh/story-z4WZhrRLQ6sqSPgvAtra9M.html
19-04-2020||Chandigarh||After grandmother’s death in Mandi, law researcher beseeches Chandigarh administration to let her go home||“I am helpless and heartbroken,” says the 23-year-old law researcher who was denied a curfew pass to attend the funeral of her grandmother in Mandi district of Himachal Pradesh amid the lockdown.After her grandmother passed away on Friday evening, Kushaldeep Kaur and her family are running pillar to post to arrange for curfew passes for her, but no avail despite repeated calls on helplines and to the Mandi and Chandigarh administrations.On Friday, tagging all authorities on Twitter, Kaur said, “My nani passed away on Friday and I have been trying night and day to get a pass to go back home. This is because of the Mandi and Chandigarh authorities. I have been alone in Chandigarh for a month due to the curfew, but at least allow me to be with my parents in this time of grief.”When contacted by Hindustan Times, Kushaldeep Kaur said, “I explained the entire situation to Mandi’s ADC but he refused saying it was not possible. Later, he asked me to get permission from the Chandigarh DC.” However, she says when she got in touch with Chandigarh administration, she was told the pass will have to be issued by Mandi administration.Kushaldeep said her grandmother had been hospitalised owing to a critical situation when her sugar levels spiked.When contacted, Mandi DC Rigved Thakur said he was not aware of the case, adding, “In case of emergencies we are issuing curfew passes but they will be valid in Mandi district only. She will have to take permission from the authorities of the city where she currently is.”In a statement, Chandigarh administration said they would look into her case. However, sources said interstate travel amid lockdown is strictly prohibited. Passes are being issued under emergency condition including death but the state government can quarantine the person concerned at the border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/after-grandmother-s-death-in-mandi-law-researcher-beseeches-chandigarh-administration-to-let-her-go-home/story-SeG5FQ8Aqj1v49gdF3kIhL.html
19-04-2020||City||22 families living in Covid positive PGIMER staffer’s building quarantined in Nayagaon||A day after a 30-year-old hospital attendant at PGIMER tested positive for Covid-19, the health authorities have started screening the 22 families that live in his building in Adarsh Nagar, Nayagaon. Earlier, after a 65-year-old man of Nayagaon’s Dashmesh Nagar had died of the disease on March 31, the area was declared a containment zone and residents were extensively screened. Health authorities have restarted screening these residents and sealed the street where the deceased stayed.The hospital attendant lives with his wife, a newborn son, mother and brother-in-law in a multi-storey building in the thickly populated Adarsh Nagar. The building has around 40 rooms, which are all on rent. The building opposite has about 100 rooms, all occupied on rent. All residents are acquaintances and kept visiting each other despite the curfew.As many as 13 of his contacts, including his family members, have been tested. The reports are awaited. The 30-year-old had been working in PGIMER’s ward where suspected Covid positive patients are isolated.“The area around his building has been sealed and all families living in the building have been quarantined. All essential supplies will be delivered to these residents at their doorsteps,” said Himanshu Jain, sub-divisional magistrate ( SDM), Kharar, adding that the Nayagaon municipal council executive officer, the nodal officer for essential supplies, will ensure this. “Besides sampling the primary contacts, we will screen area residents using rapid testing kits from Monday onwards,” said Girish Dayalan, deputy commissioner, Mohali.Civil surgeon Manjit Singh said, “Further contact tracing is on. The house-to-house survey of the locality where the patient lives has been completed, and so far all residents are asymptomatic.”“The street outside the youth’s building has been sanitised and barricaded to limit movement of residents,” said area councillor Kuljinder Kaur.Meanwhile, the district reported no fresh case on Saturday. Mohali has so far confirmed 57 positive cases. Of these two persons have died and six have been discharged after being cured.123 CONTACTS OF TWO CHANDIGARH PATIENTS TRACEDChandigarh MC’s contact tracing team has traced 75 contacts of the Sector-30B woman and 48 contacts of the sanitation worker from Dhanas. Both had tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday, taking the Chandigarh count to 23.While the sanitation worker is suspected to have picked up the infection while working in PGIMER’s communicable diseases ward, the source of the woman’s infection has not been ascertained yet. The grocery shop, chemist shop and a Verka booth visited by the woman, who is in her 50s, have been sealed.“Among her 75 contacts, six live with her. There are five more family contacts. Nine of these people have been sampled. The remaining 64 people are community contacts and have been home quarantined,” stated the MC team’s report.In the case of the 50-year-old sanitary worker, seven of his household contacts, 15 family contacts, 15 community contacts and 11 contacts from work have been traced and put under home-quarantine. Samples of his seven household contacts have been collected.“Contact tracing takes time, it’s not a one-day task. Till now, the source of infection of the Sector-30 woman has not been traced. The teams are working on it,” said Arun Gupta, health secretary, Chandigarh.The teams are also using mobile tower locations to trace the areas visited by the patients.The city reported no new case on Saturday, but reports of 22 samples are pending. MOHALI CASES HIGH, CURBS TO STAY: DCWith 57 Covid-19 cases in Mohali — the highest in Punjab, the district administration has ruled out any relaxations in the curfew.“The number of positive cases is high and we have not reached the stage of no new cases in 14 days, so there will be no relaxation,” said Girish Dayalan, deputy commissioner, Mohali.Any violations of the curfew will invite criminal proceedings under the relevant provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and the Indian Penal Code.“Jawaharpur village in Dera Bassi has the highest number of cases at 37, and will remain a containment zone, along with the neighbouring Devi Nagar, Haripur Kurha and Mukandpur villages. Buffer zone will extend to 2km beyond the containment zone,” he added.The DC said, “Comprehensive contact tracing and sampling will continue with the same pace, as it is crucial to effectively combat coronavirus.”So far total of 919 samples have been tested, of which 838 have been found negative. The results of 24 samples are awaited. As many as 636 people are under home-quarantine, while 1,893 people have completed the quarantine period..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/22-families-living-in-covid-positive-pgimer-staffer-s-building-quarantined-in-nayagaon/story-lRaP1MLcmJ9IG6rMHcm3WN.html
19-04-2020||Mumbai||‘25% more flamingos in MMR’||After delaying their annual migration to wetlands in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), flamingos are flocking to the city in large numbers.The Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS), which estimated that their numbers in MMR are 25% more than last year, said that lower human activity has created ideal conditions for foraging in wetlands near Sewri and Thane Creek and other areas like Talawe wetlands, comprising NRI Complex, Seawoods and TS Chanakya, in Navi Mumbai. These areas, which otherwise see a lot of construction work and movement of people, are quieter. The BNHS said that wildlife authorities should look at the developments and declare the Seawoods area as a flamingo sanctuary as the local administration plans to develop a golf course at the site. Various areas along the Thane creek flamingo sanctuary were also witnessing large congregations as fishing activities are currently on hold owing to the lockdown.“A major reason for the large numbers is also the large flocks of juveniles moving to these sites, following the successful breeding documented two years ago. Additionally, the lockdown is giving these birds peace for roosting, no disturbance in their attempt to obtain food, and overall encouraging habitat,” said Deepak Apte, director, BNHS. “Wetland destruction and developmental activities across several areas of the eastern seafront is another reason why larger bird numbers are getting squeezed into smaller pockets like in Navi Mumbai.”During January, numbers were as low as 33,334 individuals across MMR, but by the end of February it increased to 1 lakh. While researchers could not go on field dowing to the lockdown, using grid technique or blocking — a counting technique by dividing photographs (mapping a large area) into grids used when single species of birds are in large numbers and stationary — the BNHS estimated that current numbers surpassed 1.5 lakh in the first week of April. In 2019, the highest flamingo count was recorded at 1.21 lakh. At Talawe wetlands, the maximum count was about 6,000-odd individuals, which has crossed 8,500 this year.“We are witnessing an overall increase in flamingo population in the range of 23-25% since 2019. An accurate count will be taken once the lockdown is called off,” said Apte, adding that BNHS had correctly predicted the delayed arrival of flamingos in 2020 when numbers were very low in January.The MMR is the second-largest flamingo habitat along the west coast after Kutch, Gujarat, according to BNHS, which began monitoring flamingo numbers since May 2018, under a 10-year exercise. “Flamingos usually visit MMR wetlands from November to May, mostly for feeding purposes from the Gujarat region, which is their breeding area. Migration starts after monsoon, when water-filled regions start drying up. However, owing to good availability of water last year through winter, arrivals this year were delayed,” said Rahul Khot, assistant director, BNHS, who leads the flamingo studies. “While there is a decline in industrial waste during the lockdown, the influx of domestic sewage is helping the undisturbed formation of planktons, algae and microbenthos formation, which forms the food for flamingos and other wetland birds.” Navi Mumbai (Seawoods) resident Sunil Agarwal said, “Residents are cooped up at home spending their mornings and evenings at their balconies taking photographs and videos of these relaxed birds. The lockdown will at least prompt people to focus on what is around them, which they had been taking for granted, and hopefully this site will be declared a flamingo sanctuary soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/25-more-flamingos-in-mmr/story-OOBiPNb9rTsInMEAli8e2L.html
19-04-2020||Mumbai||328 new cases in state take virus count to 3,648; toll 211||After the relatively low numbers of the past two days, Maharashtra on Saturday registered a jump in the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases with 328 more infections, taking the tally to 3,648.Of the new cases recorded on Saturday, 184 cases were from Mumbai, taking the city’s tally to 2,268; 78 cases were from Pune. This is the third time this month that single-day numbers have crossed the 300 mark. Maharashtra also recorded 11 Covid-19 deaths on Saturday, taking its toll to 211, the state health department said. The toll figure excludes the one death reported in Mumbai on April 11, which has later corrected as a non-Covid-19 death as the test result of the deceases turned out negative.The areas around Mumbai recorded a single-digit rise in cases on Saturday. Thane city recorded six cases, while Thane rural and Bhiwandi recorded three cases each. Kalyan-Dombivli recorded five cases, while Navi Mumbai recorded two cases. Vasai-Virar and Panvel recorded a case each. In Palghar, the number of cases reported on Saturday was seven.There were 11 positive cases in Mira-Bhayandar, eight cases in Pimpri-Chinchwad. Akola, Amravati, Aurangabad, Nandurbar recorded one case each. Raigad recorded five cases, Satara saw four cases and Solapur saw two cases.According to the state health department officials, the trajectory of the cases needs to plateau by April 21 for it to remain under control. “We expect the cases to dip after the two 14-day incubation cycles, which began on March 22, when over 2.20 lakh people came to Mumbai airport. If the containment is good it will go down,” said TP Lahane, director, Directorate of Medical Education & Research.Officials said the mortality rate in Maharashtra is also seeing a gradual decline. However, the state’s mortality rate is still double that of the country’s. After touching the 7%-mark on April 12, the mortality rate is decreasing primarily owing to early admission of Covid-19 patients and also due to concentrated efforts to treat patients with underlying illnesses. The mortality rates on April 14, 15, 16 and 17 were 6.84%, 6.61%, 6.41% and 6.05%. Across these dates, 46 deaths have been reported. Lahane said, “The mortality rate is slowly decreasing because of early influx of patients. Earlier, most patients died between the first and third days of admission. Now, it happens six to seven days after admission in critical cases. When they are in hospital, we can monitor their lungs, blood-pressure, etc.”A health department official also attributed the reduction in deaths reported in the past few days to a more “focused” approach at treating patients with comorbidities. “The chief minister has formed a committee to come up with a protocol for Covid-19 patients. What we have done now is that we operate on the guidelines of the Indian Council of Medical Research. More attention is being given to patients with underlying illnesses; with early admissions, it helps hospitals to treat them well so that they do not become critical cases,” an official said, requesting anonymity.Meanwhile, the state government on Saturday started 25 more dedicated hospitals for treating Covid-19 patients. With this, the total number of dedicated hospitals for Covid-19 in Maharashtra goes up to 55 with total capacity of 6,660 beds, said Rajesh Tope, state health minister, on Saturday. Earlier, the state has 30 hospitals with a capacity of 2,305 beds. The state government has also got permission from Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to start six new government laboratories for Covid-19 tests, state medical education minister Amit Deshmukh said on Saturday. The total number of laboratories in the state now goes to 42, which includes government and private sector. The total capacity of the state for Covid-19 is now 7,600 tests per day. New testing facilities are going to come up at Kolhapur, Beed, Jalgaon, Baramati (Pune) Nanded and Gondia. The Maharashtra government on Saturday issued orders that state government employees would start working from Monday with 10% strength. The new order also made attendance of secretaries, joint or deputy secretaries mandatory. However, women officers can be exempted from it by the order of the department head. On March 23, the state government had issued orders that it would operate with only 5% of the government staff.As per the order, the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) buses or municipal corporation’s buses including BEST, TMT, NMMT, will be used to ferry government employees from Monday. With the suburban railway network shut due to the lockdown, MSRTC, BEST buses will be operational between 7am and 11am and fro 4pm to 7 pm, the order state. Buses will pick up and drop employees from railway stations on western, central and harbour lines daily. Social distancing measures will be ensured and the frequency of the buses will be increased to ensure there is no crowding in the buses, officials said.The Maharashtra government also decided to provide financial assistance of ₹2,000 to all registered construction workers in the state to tide over the crisis during the lockdown to break the chain of coronavirus infections, officials said on Saturday.The order came days after hundreds of migrant workers, mostly from West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh, gathered outside the Bandra railway station demanding that they be sent back to their homes. This one-time monetary help will be sent directly to the bank accounts of more than 12 lakh construction workers through direct benefit transfer (DBT), the officials said. The decision to give the assistance, taken by the state labour department on Saturday, will bring an additional burden of around Rs250 crore to the state exchequer.Only those workers who are registered with the state’s Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board (BOCWWB) will be eligible to get the monetary assistance. Maharashtra has 22.70 lakh registered construction workers but only 12.18 lakh who are active, will get the benefit of the decision, said S C Srirangam, the board’s secretary and chief executive officer said. Meanwhile, the state on Friday decided to allow construction work in cities, including Mumbai and Pune, with a rider that prior permission from civic authorities will be mandatory. According to the order issued by chief secretary Ajoy Mehta on Friday, the state has given permission for all urgent pre-monsoon works. The Maharashtra government has started to allow the relaxation of rules in several areas of the state.With the alteration in the testing protocol adopted by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation(BMC), former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis wrote to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray calling it an “unnatural” attempt to lower the number of Covid-19 cases. Fadnavis said that the state government should follow the ICMR guidelines in testing the immediate contacts of the person who tested positive for coronavirus. Lahane defended the testing protocol adopted by the BMC and said, “There is nothing wrong in it. They are testing but after five days. [It is seen] after five days you get the test positive. This negates the false-negative when tested immediately, which is dangerous; it is better to wait.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/328-new-cases-in-state-take-virus-count-to-3-648-toll-211/story-6kfXIMVk7EBXYmLTtmmmjN.html
19-04-2020||City||Punjab CM calls ailing SHO Arshpreet Kaur, wishes her good health||Punjab chief minister Capt Amrinder Singh made a video call to sub-inspector Arshpreet Kaur, station house officer (SHO) of Basti Jodhewal of Ludhiana, who has tested positive for Covid-19, and wished her good health.Amarinder encouraged the young officer saying that she is young and will recover very soon. The CM also asked her to let him know if she needs anything. The sub-inspector replied that all senior officers are helping her a lot.The CM has asked the SHO about the health of other police personnel at her station. The SHO mourned ACP Anil Kumar Kohli’s death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-cm-calls-ailing-sho-arshpreet-kaur-wishes-her-good-health/story-MdBYywwlOd26iKj4Wl7VHP.html
19-04-2020||City||TMC hires 12 pvt docs to observe Covid-19 patients||The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has hired 12 private doctors to observe 90 asymptomatic patients in Thane, who are housed in Sapphire Hospital, Hotel Lerida, Hotel Ginger and a building in Bhayandar Pada. There are total 115 people who were tested positive for Covid-19 in Thane. “The doctors will work in three shifts which will stretch for eight hours and observe if the patients develop symptoms,” a TMC official said on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tmc-hires-12-pvt-docs-to-observe-covid-19-patients/story-47NAowdT6vOAbaoEQzIWMM.html
19-04-2020||City||With no trains running due to coronavirus lockdown, KDMC begins dismantling Dombivli rail overbridge||The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) started the work of dismantling the 39-year-old rail overbridge in Dombivli on Friday.The rail overbridge was shut in September last year after it was declared unsafe by Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B) in May 2019 after an audit. “The civic body and Central Railway decided to carry out the dismantling work during the lockdown period as only goods trains are plying now,” said Sapna Koli, city engineer, KDMC.The work of dismantling the bridge will take at least 15 days. KDMC said the work of repairing the bridge will take at least six months. “The entire work will depend on the blocks carried out by Central Railway and also removal of cables by the state electricity board,” added Koli. Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officer, Central Railway, said, “The railways will hold blocks to complete the work.”Officials from the civic body said the bridge repair work will cost ₹10.5 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-no-trains-running-due-to-coronavirus-lockdown-kdmc-begins-dismantling-dombivli-rail-overbridge/story-UQ9QHxF847modPw2Tmow6N.html
19-04-2020||City||1-year-old from Dombivli tests positive for Covid-19||A one-year-old girl from Dombivli (East) tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. The girl had fever since April 7 and was taken to Rukminibai Civic Hospital, said civic officials. The girl was later taken to Kalwa Hospital but her case was not considered, and then she was admitted at Shastri Nagar Civic Hospital in Dombivli. “We had sent her swab sample for testing as she had fever since earlier this month and she tested positive. She has been sent to Neon Covid hospital in Dombivli for further treatment. Her condition is stable,” said Pratibha Panpatil, epidemic officer, Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC).Her parents, who are at risk of the infection, have been quarantined and will be tested.KDMC is yet to be sure about how the girl got infected as none of her family members was infected or had travel history.Last week a six-month-old boy, the youngest to have contracted the disease in Kalyan, was released after treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/1-year-old-from-dombivli-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-68p0ngRHm1ji0o0vucv2nO.html
19-04-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Testing target a bridge too far in Delhi hot spots||The Delhi government’s plan to carry out 20,000 swab tests in containment areas over five days between Tuesday and Saturday ended with roughly 4,000 tests after the hard lockdown in these areas turned out to be a hurdle for sample collection efforts. In an order last week, seen by HT, the government identified the need to ramp up testing and said 20,000 samples would be collected from containment areas and quarantine zones over a span of five days beginning Tuesday. On Saturday, the fifth day, this number was at 4,030. “So far, samples were being collected only in our hospitals, and we cannot ask people living in containment zones to come to the hospitals. We have to go there and set up a temporary tent or room or something where we can ask people from the area to come and give their samples. With RT-PCR tests, sample collection is more difficult because when the swab is put at the back of the throat, aerosol that might contain the virus is generated,” said a senior official from Delhi’s health department, asking not to be named.The need to ramp up testing comes at a time when new clusters are forming in the city. On Saturday, the city reported 186 new cases from among 736 samples that were processed in 24 hours. This means one in four people who were tested had the infection, underscoring the need to widen the net in order to detect the other cases that there may be.To improve the testing rate, the Delhi government has decided to incentivise collection of samples and set up 21 collection centres in hotels, dharmashalas and hospitals that were not initially designated as collection centres. Additionally, all Delhi government hospitals will start collecting samples in tents outside main buildings.“Teams from the dispensaries are being mobilised to collect the samples in the containment areas. They will go to the centres being set up in the community and ask people to come there,” said another official from Delhi’s health department. Teams that will collect samples in the community will be paid Rs 100 per sample, with those actually taking the swabs getting a bigger share of the incentive. “The incentive per team would be worked out in such a way that the person exposed to maximum danger or higher risk will be given the greater share (2 shares) of the incentive. For example, if there are 8 members in a team with two persons taking the samples then the total amount (number of samples x 100) would be divided by 10 to ensure that the two sample collectors will be given two shares of the incentive,” according to an officer order by Delhi’s health department.The government has also roped in private laboratories to process the samples as it is likely to exceed the capacity of the six government-run labs. Private laboratories will be paid Rs 4,500 if they collect a sample and use their own testing kit; R 3,500 if the sample is collected by the government and the kit is of the lab; and R 2,200 if the sample is collected by the government and the kit is also provided by it.“Yes, we have started sending samples to the private laboratories. This is done only after our own capacity is exhausted,” said a third official from Delhi government health department.Yet, this might not be enough. On Friday, 2,674 samples – more than the total number of samples collected– remaining pending at both government and private labs. In addition to the swab tests, the government will deploy 42,000 rapid testing kits it received on Saturday to check for signs of infection through a blood sample.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-testing-target-a-bridge-too-far-in-delhi-hot-spots/story-l1OABQoZZ3sOypXxWppG5O.html
19-04-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s Covid-19 count rises by 184||On Saturday, the city recorded 184 new Covid-19 positive coronavirus disease (Covid-19)cases and five deaths due to the infection. This has taken the total number of cases in Mumbai to 2,268, and total deaths to 126, according to the state health department. According to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC), as of Friday, 54% of cases in the city — 1,158 of 2,120 Covid-19 positive cases — have been discovered due to contact tracing measures, screening in containment zones, and through fever clinics. Until Thursday, 115 such fever clinics were conducted at which 4,453 persons were screened and 1,761 were tested.Contrary to the state health department’s figures, as per data from the BMC, Mumbai recorded 87 new cases on Saturday, with the city’s total count rising to 2,509. A press note issued by civic body has attributed the total figure to 302 patients who tested positive for Sars-Cov-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, at three private laboratories in the city between April 12 and 15. The BMC stated that 42 patients have recovered from Covid-19 and were discharged on Saturday, taking the total number of patients who recovered to 281.Dharavi, the slum pocket in the island city, saw a spike in infections on Saturday with 17 new cases and one death. The 80-year-old woman from Dharavi had died on Friday at Sion Hospital but it was only confirmed on Saturday that she was Covid-19 positive. Two Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel posted in Western Railway (WR) tested positive on Saturday evening. One of the RPF personnel was deputed at Mumbai Central railway station and helped distribute food and meals to people outside the station. The second RPF personnel was posted at the WR’s Jagjivan Ram Hospital, which has been declared a dedicated Covid-19 treatment centre. As of Friday, the civic body has spent a total of ₹80 crore from its contingency fund on Covid-19 related preparedness such as purchase of ventilators, personal protective equipment, medicines, and distribution of food packets. P Velarasu, additional municipal commissioner in charge of the finance department, said, “This amount is as per receipts submitted to BMC as of Friday. More purchases are in the pipeline and receipts will be submitted.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-covid-19-count-rises-by-184/story-MhfO8vetSUuCVqJCBIB0aP.html
19-04-2020||Mumbai||Ward officer quarantined after driver tests positive||A municipal ward officer from the western suburbs has been home-quarantined after his driver tested positive for Covid-19 during a random testing session. The asymptomatic driver’s test report came on Thursday. “As per the new rule of the civic body, all frontliners need to get tested to avoid any chance of infection. So, we tested over 40 people from the ward who are working closely on the ground in battling the pandemic. All came negative except the asymptomatic driver,” said a health official from the ward.The driver, employed by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), has been admitted to the isolation ward at Kasturba Hospital. Four of the driver’s family members along with the ward officer have been quarantined at their homes for 14 days. Talking to HT, the officer confirmed the development and said, “I am fine, I don’t have any symptoms yet.”The civic body is currently trying to trace the source of infection. “The driver is a resident of Kalyan with no travel history and doesn’t know anyone infected with the virus. So, his source of infection is unknown,” said the health official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ward-officer-quarantined-after-driver-tests-positive/story-yyeq25puFQ5pUyjXUmLmBO.html
19-04-2020||Mumbai||17 new Covid-19 cases in Dharavi; 194 recorded in E ward so far||Apart from G South ward (Worli, Prabhadevi), the worst-affected area in Mumbai, a spike of Covid-19 cases has been reported in two other wards, E (Mazagaon, Agripada, Byculla, Mumbai Central) and G North (Dharavi, Dadar). According to data provided by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), E ward is the second worst affected, with 194 cases, while G South ward has the highest number of cases (389) as of April 17. G North ward has 142 cases in total. With 17 new cases on Saturday, the overall count for Dharavi alone rose to 118. As of Saturday, 11 deaths have been reported in the area. Local representatives said that the situation is equally bad in E ward. The assistant municipal commissioner of E ward was recently transferred after a sudden spike in the number of cases. Civic officials confirmed that the ward officer was transferred as there was a lapse in controlling the outbreak and containing the areas. Rais Shaikh, Samajwadi Party MLA and local corporator of Byculla, said, “The administrative ward has completely failed in containing the virus. There are three medical health officers in the ward, unlike just one officer in other wards. Still, the numbers are not coming down. There is no proper division of work in the ward.”According to BMC’s most recent data, 120 cases were reported in the ward on April 12 and within five days, the count rose to 194. D ward (Malabar Hill, Grant Road, Chowpatty) has also reported a large number of cases, with at least 141 locals confirmed as Covid-19 positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/17-new-covid-19-cases-in-dharavi-194-recorded-in-e-ward-so-far/story-uwwbsGXL7p2HoShRReMkuM.html
19-04-2020||City||Covid-19: Couple and their parents booked for wedding||A newly wed couple and their parents in Ulhasnagar were booked for violating lockdown rules by allegedly organising a wedding ceremony and inviting over 30 people without taking safety measures. The wedding was organised near Dussehra Maidan in Ulhasnagar. Hill Line police booked six people and they were asked to home quarantine for two weeks. According to the police officers the families didn’t follow any social distancing norms and no one was wearing a mask at the ceremony.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/couple-and-their-parents-booked-for-wedding/story-8tFcEh035S4KDof17byWmM.html
19-04-2020||Delhi||Delhi gets first batch of 42,000 kits, to start rapid testing for Covid-19 from today||Delhi has received 42,000 Rapid Testing Kits (RTK) from the Central government and from Sunday these will be used to conduct random tests in the 76 containment zones of the city. This is the first batch of Rapid Testing Kits that will be used in the national capital. Till now the government and private labs were conducting only Real Time-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR)-based molecular tests. Conducting rapid antibody tests across the city is likely to significantly improve Delhi’s record on testing Covid-19. Unlike the RT-PCR test that detects the virus’s genetic material (RNA) in throat swabs to diagnose a Covid-19 infection, rapid tests detect antibodies in the blood and indicate if a person has been infected in the past and has developed immunity to the virus. It can show results within 30 minutes, the Delhi government said. Till Saturday, a total of 22,283 RT-PCR tests were conducted in the city. “We have received 42,000 rapid testing kits from the Centre. Today (Saturday), all our technicians are being trained on how to use these kits, the precautions to be taken and other nuances. From tomorrow (Sunday), rapid testing will begin in the containment zones,” Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain told reporters on Saturday. When asked which zones will be the first ones, Jain said that the rapid tests will be conducted in all the containment areas simultaneously. Till 8pm on Saturday, five district magistrates told HT that they had received a communication from the health department that RTKs will be provided to them. “But we have not been told how many kits we will get. No package has arrived so far,” said a district magistrate, on condition of anonymity.A senior official in the health department said the number of kits allotted to every containment zone will be directly proportional to the Covid-19 cases detected in the area — higher the cases, higher the allotment.Out of the 11 districts in Delhi, the south-east district has the highest number of containment zones at 17. The south-east district includes the Nizamuddin Markaz and surrounding areas and parts of East of Kailash, Shaheen Bagh, Tughlakabad, New Friends Colony, and so on. On Saturday, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) also issued a new rapid testing protocol under which states are allowed to use rapid testing kits wherever they want, including in Covid-19 containment zones and hot spots.According to the new ICMR protocol, only those showing symptoms of influenza-like illness — such as fever, cough and cold — for seven or more days in hotspots should be made to undergo a rapid test. Those who are found positive in the rapid test must be quarantined for at least the next seven days. Those who test negative should also remain under home quarantine for at least seven days as they are in a hotspot.Delhi, meanwhile, has also placed an order for an additional 50,000 RTKs through ICMR-approved vendors, but those are yet to arrive. these kits, too, are being imported from China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-gets-first-batch-of-42-000-kits-to-start-rapid-testing-from-sunday/story-3motC4Agv5QgvufFJj3FaL.html
19-04-2020||City||Saad can join probe on 3-day notice: Kin of Tablighi Jamaat chief||Tablighi Jamaat chief Maulana Saad could join the investigation into defying a series of government directives, which curbed religious and large gatherings, on a three-day notice, said a close relative of the religious leader on Saturday. Maulana Badrul Hasan, a resident of Kandhla and a relative of Saad, also said that he was in regular contact with Saad’s family. Saad belongs to Kandhala town in Shamli district and many of his relatives live there. “He was in self quarantine and thus could not appear before the crime branch. But now he is ready to answer questions in person. But the agency should give him three days notice,” said Maulana Hasan. According to him, Saad did not have a phone but was in regular contact with his family members.On Thursday, Saad had written to the Delhi Police seeking a copy of the first information report (FIR) against him and seven others. Police had filed a criminal case against Saad and six other top officials of the Jamaat on March 31 for defying a series of government directives, which curbed religious and large gatherings, issued to contain the spread of the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease in the Capital.In the letter, Saad had asked the police if they have added any new Indian Penal Code sections to the FIR.Delhi Police officers, requesting anonymity, had on Wednesday confirmed that they had added Section 304 in the FIR against Saad. Section 304 of the IPC, related to culpable homicide not amounting to murder, is a stringent section, unlike the other sections of Epidemic Diseases Act which had been levied in the FIR initially. A person convicted under Section 304 of the IPC could be sentenced to a maximum of ten years’ imprisonment.Saad’s lawyer Shahid Ali had also confirmed that they wrote to the police on Thursday. “We have given a letter to the Delhi Police stating that we have replied twice to the notices issued to us. We also asked them about media reports related to a particular section that has reportedly been added to the FIR. We also sought the copy of the FIR. We have reiterated that we are always available for cooperation in the investigation. We have not received any notices or summons to join the investigation except for some information they asked of us in their two letters.”Badrul Hasan claimed that Saad was in Delhi and the crime branch officials are in contact with him through his lawyers. “Maulana is cooperating with them in every possible way,” Hasan claimed. Regarding cases registered against four distant relatives of Maulana Saad in Saharanpur, he admitted that they are relatives but were not on good terms with Saad. Two of these four relatives have been charged with concealing information about visiting Markaz in Nizamuddin; two of them had tested positive for Covid-19. They are undergoing treatment while two other relatives and eight other family members of the Jamaat chief have been placed under quarantine. Last month, police officers and state government officials had evacuated more than 2,300 persons from inside the Markaz building in Delhi’s Nizamuddin, the headquarters of the Tablighi Jamaat, where they had gathered for a religious congregation of indeterminate length. The meetings continued despite orders by the Delhi government banning all religious events (March 13), restricting gatherings to 200 people (March 16), and then putting a four-person limit (March 21) on all gatherings. The Nizamuddin area was also declared a containment zone after the evacuation. At least 21 evacuated persons had then tested positive for the Sars-Cov-2.Earlier this month, police had sent two questionnaires to Saad, containing 29 questions related to the Tablighi Jamaat and the gatherings between March 10 and 15. In the first notice, which had 26 questions, sent on April 1, the investigating officer had sought details of CCTV cameras inside the building and had asked Saad to preserve the footage. The police had asked for details of all the people, including foreigners, present in the building last month. There was also a question on the steps taken by the management to disperse the gathering after the government had issued the prohibitory orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/saad-can-join-the-probe-on-a-three-day-notice-says-close-relative-of-tablighi-jamaat-chief/story-foXxqoeOHAH7IawxokR0xL.html
19-04-2020||Delhi||All Delhi hospitals will start OPDs and surgeries on Monday, with social restriction||All Delhi government hospitals will start their routine services — outpatient clinics and non-emergency surgeries — from Monday onwards, officials of the state health department said. Only two of the dedicated hospitals — Lok Nayak and Rajeev Gandhi Super-Specialty — will be exempt and will continue to cater exclusively to Covid-19 patients, according to sources. With 477 positive patients being treated at the hospital, Lok Nayak is the busiest Covid-19 facility. These hospitals have stopped all other facilities — including emergency services — other than the treatment of Covid-19 patients. Delhi had till Saturday witnessed 1,893 Covid-19 positive cases with 43 deaths.All Delhi government hospitals had curtailed their out-patient clinics to ensure social distancing and postponed routine surgeries to ensure the availability of beds and manpower to treat Covid-19 patients in March end. Together the 37 Delhi government hospitals, including AYUSH hospitals, treat over 60,000 patients daily at its clinics. The hospitals together perform over 2,000 surgeries in a day. “It is important to take care of those with Covid-19. But, it should not come at the cost of other patients. We cannot keep them waiting forever for the care that they need. So, the services at hospitals, other than the Covid-19 ones, will resume. It will be business as usual for them,” said an official from Delhi government’s health department. Another official from the health department, present at the meeting where the decision was taken, confirmed the same.The health ministry on March 20 had advised all hospitals – both government and private – to postpone their non-emergency planned surgeries and to maintain social distancing norms in their out-patient clinics. The guidelines had also said that patients with flu-like symptoms should be treated in a separate section.A set of guidelines released by the Union home ministry on April 15 states that all hospitals, nursing homes, and clinics, even those providing AYUSH services, will keep running during the extended lockdown period.Although, emergency services were allowed, the inability to reach hospitals and clinics and hospitals remaining shut had made it difficult for patients to access proper care during the first phase of the nationwide lockdown.The All India Institute of Medical Sciences – which is also treating Covid-19 patients – however, will be unable to reopen its out-patient clinics for the time being, although the block is completely removed from Covid-19 areas, officials said.Covid-19 suspected patients are admitted to the new private ward block in AIIMS. Confirmed Covid-19 cases with mild symptoms are moved to AIIMS Jhajjar campus, and those with severe symptoms are moved to AIIMS trauma centre, across the road from the main campus. “What would be the use of opening up OPDs if we are not able to provide any other services. And, we cannot start surgeries at the moment because we have moved patients from the AIIMS trauma centre, which has been converted into a dedicated Covid-19 treatment facility. We do not really have space to do much else,” said Dr DK Sharma, medical superintendent of the hospital.However, the hospital has decided to start tele-consultation services for all its follow-up patients. Patient in need of follow-up appointments can get it on the website http://ors.gov.in/followup/. Once a patient registers him/herself, the doctors will call them and provide requisite medical advice on the given date, according to the hospital. Private clinics and hospitals in the city will also start scaling-up their services Monday onwards. “There was an advisory to stop routine procedures, but now private hospitals will slowly start opening up these services from Monday onwards. We have advised all our hospitals to ensure social distancing in the clinics and conduct only 2-3 surgeries a day,” said Dr PK Bhardwaj, secretary, Delhi Voluntary Hospitals’ Forum. The Delhi Medical Association is also in the process of drafting guidelines for hospitals and clinics to restart their services while ensuring safety. “We have to ensure that the doctors and healthcare workers are safe after they open up the services. Also the government needs to support the centres that had to be closed down after accidental exposure,” said Dr Girish Tyagi, president elect, Delhi Medical Association. Cancer institute to repoenThe Delhi State Cancer Institute, which had closed its services, after 25 of its healthcare workers had tested positive for Covid-19, will also start its out-patient clinic in a phased manner Monday onwards.The entire hospital has been sanitised thrice and samples have been collected from various places in the hospital to test for presence of the virus.“Initially we will allow only 10 or 20 people inside the OPD at a time, after being screened at a flu corner outside. Later on we will start are chemotherapy services,” said Dr BL Sherwal, director, Delhi State Cancer Institute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/all-delhi-hospitals-will-start-opds-and-surgeries-on-monday-with-social-restriction/story-7aXGzZKb3QPx5NfjK7a7EP.html
19-04-2020||Delhi||On-the-spot fine of Rs 1,000 for spitting in public in Delhi||Spitting and urinating in public in Delhi will now attract an on-the-spot fine of Rs 1,000, double the Rs 500 levied before—the south, north and east Delhi municipal corporations, and the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC), said in an order issued on Saturday.The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) had issued fresh directives for Covid-19 management, asking municipal bodies to make spitting “punishable with a fine under Section 51 (b) of the Disaster Management Act” on April 15, four days after it asked all states to prohibit the use and spitting of smokeless tobacco in public places to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus.“This directive will remain in force till it is expressly withdrawn,” the notices brought out by the four Delhi municipal agencies said on Saturday.Dr. Lallan Verma, senior public health expert with the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC), said, “Urinating in the open is a nuisance whereas public spitting is no less than a big health hazard for all. Even before Coronavirus arrived, open spitting is known to spread various diseases through droplets like tuberculosis, mumps, measles and meningitis,” he added. Till now, under Section 357 of the Delhi Municipal Corporation (DMC) Act, sanitary inspectors were empowered to catch anyone spitting in the open and issue on-the-spot fines in the range of Rs 100-Rs 500. “We would generally see the profile of the offender. For example, if it’s someone spitting out of the window of his car, he would fined Rs 500,” said KC Bhardwaj, a sanitary superintendent with SDMC. “But now, it’s Rs 1,000 for all. In case the violator does not have money to pay the fine, the person’s address from an ID card such as a driving licence or Aadhaar card will be taken. Otherwise, his or her photograph will clicked mobile along with details disclosed by her/him. If the violator does not agree, the challan will be sent to the magistrate to recover from her or him,” said SDMC spokesperson, Radha Krishan.Civic body officials said that though spitting in public is the most common offence, but it is also the one that is the most difficult to prosecute.A senior North Delhi Municipal Corporation officer, who requested anonymity, said, “Catching people who spit in public places is particularly difficult. They spit on even flowerpots installed on roadsides and dividers, and feign innocence. They start asking for proof when we threaten to challan them. So we are forced to take an educational stance, telling them about the law and the fine. More recently, we have deputed bike-borne teams in markets to catch such people.”Officials said that with a large section of the population addicted to gutkha, spitting is common across the city. The New Delhi Municipal Council had once proposed to put a ban on sale of paan (betel leaf) and gutkha/supari at Delhi Connaught Place, a heritage shopping arcade, after the freshly painted white walls were stained red by those who spat after eating paan and gutkha. The white columns of the market are painted regularly but despite civic agencies placing boards requesting people not to spit, the columns have red stain marks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/on-the-spot-fine-of-1-000-for-spitting-in-public/story-B3K3AiPjFCYcvoxK2ReNzO.html
19-04-2020||Mumbai||Recovered GRP cop gets hero’s welcome||After almost 16 days in hospital, a 51-year-old officer of the Government Railway Police (GRP) received a hero’s welcome when he returned to his home in Kalyan on Thursday evening. Approximately 500 people greeted Vijay Kumar Shelar, many singing the national anthem in his honour. “It was emotional for my father. He couldn’t hold back his tears,” said his 26-year-old son, Rohan. For the family, to have the 51-year-old back is a great relief. Diagnosed late, the railway officer had spent 10 days on a ventilator. “My mother was most scared and kept crying. She wouldn’t eat and waited for my father’s health updates from the hospital,” said Rohan.Employed with the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) GRP, the officer developed symptoms of Covid-19 — fever, cold and cough — towards the end of March and was prescribed medicines for seasonal influenza by a general physician. Around the time his symptoms developed, Shelar had been assigned the responsibility of taking undertrial prisoners to and from Taloja Central Jail. He had no history of foreign travel or contact with any Covid-positive patient. When his condition deteriorated, he was taken to Kasturba Hospital where a test confirmed he was positive for Sars-Cov-2, which causes Covid-19. On April 1, the officer was shifted to Sir HN Reliance Foundation Hospital-managed treatment centre at SevenHills, in Marol, when his lungs started failing. He remained on a ventilator till April 10. “He doesn’t remember anything about those 10 days when he was on a ventilator. We would [later] ask what happened in those days and he would make up stories,” said Rohan.After testing negative for Sars-Cov-2 twice, the railway officer was discharged on Thursday. His family said he is still very weak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/recovered-grp-cop-gets-hero-s-welcome/story-m4OFNNkQb9DD3EzZQsDG7H.html
19-04-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Eight health care staff at Delhi’s Lady Hardinge hospital test positive||At least eight health care workers from Lady Hardinge Medical College’s paediatric intensive care unit (ICU) have tested positive for Covid-19, making it the hospital with highest number of health care workers affected, after the Delhi State Cancer Institute where 25 workers have tested positive for the infection.“One of the residents working in the paediatric ICU had gotten himself tested, and the report turned out to be positive. After that, surveillance teams traced the contacts of the doctors. Yesterday, two nurses tested positive and today five others have tested positive for the infection,” said a doctor from the hospital, on condition of anonymity.Including those infected at Lady Hardinge Medical College, 67 health care workers in the city have tested positive for Covid-19 so far.At Lok Nayak hospital, one doctor who worked in the Covid-19 ICU and two nurses have tested positive for the infection. At Dr Ram Manohar Lohia hospital two doctors tested positive for the infection after performing a C-section on a woman who later tested positive for the infection. Two doctors from Safdarjung hospital have also tested positive for the infection, one had a history of international travel.Three staff members each from the private hospitals Max and Sir Ganga Ram have tested positive. At least three staff members from Maharaja Agrasen hospital also tested positive after unknowingly treating two patients who later tested positive. The authorities took action against the hospital for not following proper protocols.Two mohalla clinic doctors –husband and wife – had tested positive for the infection after coming in contact with a patient who had travelled abroad. Another doctor couple, who ran a private clinic together in North Delhi, also tested positive. The authorities have not been able to trace the source of infection.The authorities have also not been able to trace the source of infection in the case of the health care workers from DSCI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-eight-health-care-staff-at-delhi-s-lady-hardinge-hospital-test-positive/story-tNgW4JzLbehVVkHKXYwHII.html
19-04-2020||Delhi||26 of Jahangirpuri family test Covid-19 positive, none had symptoms||Twenty-six members of an extended family in Jahangirpuri’s C block, which has been declared a containment zone, have tested positive for Covid-19. The 26 people are all related to an 80-year-old woman in the area who died of the disease, after which the area was declared a containment zone.None of the 26 showed any symptoms of Covid-19 but have all tested positive, government officers said.Meanwhile, the Delhi government declared eight more areas as containment zones, taking the total to 77. According to senior district officials, all 26, including a senior couple and two children, have been kept under observation, and all of them lived in the same block as the 80-year-old woman.“We had declared the area a containment zone after the woman’s death as we are still trying to trace where she contracted the infection. We had put all her family members under observation, but they weren’t showing any flu-like symptoms,” a senior district administration official said. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday expressed his worry at people roaming the streets and by-lanes, despite authorities sealing the area. “I am worried because people within some containment zones are not properly following the social distance guidelines. In Jahangirpuri within a containment zone, 26 people related to one family have found to be positive. This means that they have not followed the orders of social distancing and visited each other’s houses. My appeal to all that you should not be in this illusion that you will not be affected by Covid-19 because the source of the virus is difficult to find out. This virus is above any religion, caste, gender and it can happen to anyone and everybody has the same kind of vulnerability towards Coronavirus infection,” Kejriwal said. “We are trying to trace their contact history. Some of the extended family members had attended the old woman’s funeral,” an official said. The district authorities said \they have collected samples of 64 people in C block, of which 33 have tested negative and 26 family members of the elderly woman’s extended family tested positive. Of the five containment zones in north Delhi, four are in Jahangirpuri. The district has reported 46 cases so far, including the 26 reported on Saturday. The Delhi government declared eight new containment zones on Saturday taking the total number of containment zones to 77. In new zones are located in A block Khizrabad in south-east Delhi’s New Friends Colony, Israel Camp in Rangpuri Pahari and Budh Nagar, Inderpuri in New Delhi district, another house in Mansarovar Garden and Nihal Vihar in west Delhi, two areas in Shastri Park and one lane in Gautampuri in northeast Delhi. A senior police official said that the area in Khizrabad has been declared a containment zone after two cases of Covid-19 were confirmed two days back. As per the containment order for Israel camp in New Delhi, two people, who had travelled to Delhi on April 3 from Khatauli in Muzaffarnagar, Uttar Pradesh, tested positive The entire camp, of 6,000 people has been declared a containment zone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/26-of-jahangirpuri-family-test-covid-19-positive-none-had-symptoms/story-bGh83Fv0EJkvBzPQ2fGLGK.html
19-04-2020||City||Thane schools announce loans to pay fees||Many schools in Thane district will provide interest-free loans to students’ families to pay fees and other school-related charges.The facility will be introduced after lockdown to ease pressure among parents to pay fees.“We understand the current scenario and many families are facing financial crunch. Those in need of money can submit a few documents, including their family income proof, to avail the loan to pay fees or other school charges. The interest on the loan amount will be borne by the school. We will also give concessions on fees, transport and canteen facilities,” said Vandana Kumar, principal, Ira Global School, Dombivli.Delhi World Public School, Nerul, has sent out a circular to parents to approach the school after lockdown if they are facing financial problems. The school will give concession based on each individual’s situation. “Based on the situation, the school will suggest fee concession or an installment to pay the fees. My husband is a businessman and there has been no earnings in the past 15 days. The announcement by the school was a relief as we don’t have to worry about fees now,” said Aarti Salian, 45, resident of Nerul and parent of 12-year-old student from Delhi World Public school, Nerul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-schools-announce-loans-to-pay-fees/story-ENv8NlttE8YoMx8c2s1fsI.html
19-04-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Delhi 5-star hotel tells hospital staff in quarantine to vacate rooms||At least 15 nurses and lab technicians who were in quarantine after treating Covid-19 patients for two weeks, were asked late on Friday night to vacate their rooms in a five-star hotel where they were put up, because the facility was “only for doctors”, according to several people who were part of this medical team.Two registered unions for health care workers — one representing nurses at Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital and the Indian Medical Laboratory Technologist Federation (IMLTF) — have written to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and health minister Satyendar Jain that these nurses and paramedics were made to check out of the Leela Ambience Convention Hotel in East Delhi at around 11.30pm, not provided transportation, and not told where to go for more than two hours by hotel authorities.In letters sent on Saturday, the unions have asked the government to intervene and called for strict action against those responsible for risking lives by forcing quarantined medical professionals to move out.A team of 45 doctors, nurses and paramedic staff from various hospitals — including Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital, Babu Jagjivan Ram Memorial Hospital, Dr Baba Sahib Ambedkar Hospital, Sanjay Gandhi Memorial Hospital and Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital — were staying at the hotel since they started their 14-day duty period on April 1. This was to be followed by a 14-day quarantine at the hotel starting on April 15, as per a government order issued late last month.“Members of our nursing staff were asked to vacate their rooms in the middle of the night (April 17), despite the Delhi government having clearly mentioned in their order that accommodation will be provided for all 28 days of duty and quarantine. We have written to the hospital administration and to the government to intervene and provide clarity,” the nurses’ union of Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital said in a statement on Saturday.At least three of the nurses and paramedics who were a part of the team alleged that hotel authorities told them that the facility was “only for doctors”, and could not be extended to them. They blamed a lack of coordination between the Delhi government and the hospital administration for the situation.When contacted, state health minister Jain did not give a specific response to the incident at the Leela. But a senior health department official who asked not to be named said, said they will “look into the incident and discuss the matter with the hospitals”. The Leela Ambience Convention Hotel declined to comment on the incident.A Delhi government order dated March 29 said doctors, nurses and paramedics would work continuously for 14 days, and then go on a 14-day quarantine break. The order stated that doctors, nurses and paramedical staff would be provided accommodation for the entire period of 28 days.“Till the time we were on duty, we were staying at the Leela Ambience Convention Hotel. But as soon as we started our 14-day quarantine, the hotel staff started asking us to check out. All of us have submitted our samples for testing, and the results are not out yet. We do not know how many of us have contracted the infection. Is it safe for us to be walking around the streets?” asked Vivek Singh, a member of the Indian Medical Laboratory Technologist Federation (IMLTF), who was staying at the hotel.Singh said that they first got a warning from the administration of hotel on April 16, and were asked to shift to a guest house near Ghaziabad. “The confusion was temporarily resolved, but later the hotel staff again gave us a deadline to vacate our rooms. Our hospitals are also not giving us any clarity,” he said.Nurses from GTB hospital also said that the team were checked out of their rooms on Friday at around 11.30, with no information of an alternative arrangement till 1.30am. They said that they were not even provided transportation to go to a new facility — a guest house in Mayur Vihar.“We finally moved to the guest house at about 2am. When we got there, the building was locked, but we managed to make a few phone calls and get them to open the rooms. The rooms are dirty, there are dogs roaming the hallways, and we got only a slice of bread and some ketchup for breakfast,” said one of the nurses, who asked not to be named.Another nurse, speaking on condition of anonymity, said they are supposed to stay in their rooms through the quarantine period and have no contact with others. However, because of the confusion over accommodation, several of her colleagues have decided to go back to their homes.“We do not want a five-star hotel, we just want to complete our quarantine without infecting anyone,” the nurse said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-delhi-5-star-hotel-tells-hospital-staff-in-quarantine-to-vacate-rooms/story-7Iya4Pk0raDM59o6iuEEyJ.html
19-04-2020||Delhi||Asha workers on Covid-19 duty demand timely, better wages||Deployed as frontline workers in the fight against Covid-19 in the national capital, Asha workers are demanding timely and better wages. Of the 5,900 Accredited Social Health Activists (Asha) in Delhi, a large number of them are currently conducting door-to-door surveys for Covid-19, especially in the containment zones.The Delhi Asha Workers’ Association claim they were not paid salary for the month of March and that the incentive assured by the government is less than the assistance given to construction workers and auto drivers to compensate for loss of work due to the lockdown. The association wants the Delhi government to pay workers minimum wages or at least ₹10,000 per month till the time they are on Covid-19 duty.Asha workers are community health workers working with the state health missions, constituted under the Union health ministry programmes. They work on the basis of incentives — i.e. for every health activity such as immunisation, hospital delivery, routine checks of people, these workers are given incentives, not fixed salary. The workers are mostly women and attached to local government-run dispensaries. Each worker caters to 400 households, mostly near her residence. According to the association, an Asha worker earns between ₹7,000-₹9,000 per month.According to an order issued on April 13 by the Delhi State Health Mission’s state nodal officer for Asha (a copy of which HT has seen), they will get ₹3,000 as core incentive and along with ₹1,000 for Covid-19 duty as announced by the Centre from April to June.Usha Thakur, general secretary Delhi Asha Workers Association, said “Most of us are doing regular duty in high risk areas. And the ₹4,000 payout is less than the ₹5,000 the government is paying construction workers and auto drivers for loss of work.” The association had written to Delhi’s health minister Satyendar Jain earlier this month and are planning to write to him again demanding enhanced compensation for those on Covid-19 duty.“Our salary is based on the work done through the month. We submit our reports on the 25th of every month. Last month, due to the lockdown, our work couldn’t be registered in government records. We are yet to get our salaries. A lot of us are sole bread earners,” said Thakur.Despite attempts, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain couldn’t be reached for comment.The association is demanding they be given ₹10,000 for March.“It has become difficult for Asha workers to run their households due to the lockdown. We have requested the Delhi government to pay ₹5,000 in addition to the core incentive (₹3,000) to all Asha workers. And those who are on Covid-19 duty should be paid ₹750 per day,” said Kavita Yadav, state coordinator for Asha workers, All India United Traders Union Centre. “Most of the Asha workers are working on Covid-19 duty. They should be paid more.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/asha-workers-on-covid-19-duty-demand-timely-better-wages/story-x3g8ewZPlDzFe89ceNhu8J.html
19-04-2020||City||Coronavirus outbreak: Ludhiana police seek rooms for quarantined people||With an aim to isolate people with symptoms of coronavirus, Ludhiana police has urged the residents to provide facilities for accommodating such people during quarantine.According to the police, they may need facilities for more than 1,000 people in single rooms with attached toilets. The police have also promised the residents that they would help in managing the accommodations and pay their cost of running, if required.‘FACILITIES SHOULD HAVE MINIMUM 10 ROOMS’ Commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said they are looking for institutions such as hotels, rest houses, hostels, inns, paying guest facilities and hospitals. “The facilities should have a minimum of 10 rooms,” he said, appealing to the people that this is the right time to serve the nation. An online form is available for the people who are willing to rent out their properties for the cause. Agrawal said that they arranged 100 rooms at six locations within hours of making the public appeal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-outbreak-ludhiana-police-seek-rooms-for-quarantined-people/story-LefZ2tOPp8H8uh3oTfitQO.html
19-04-2020||City||Department remembers ACP Kohli as an honest officer||The death of assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Anil Kumar Kohli has left the entire district police department in shock. His colleagues, especially his batchmates, say they can’t believe he is no more. Born and brought up in Dakoha of Jalandhar, Kohli, who completed his BA in 1989, had joined the Punjab Police as assistant sub-inspector on February 19, 1990 in Patiala district, when terrorism was at its peak. He completed his basic training at the Punjab Police Academy, Phillaur in 1991.During his initial years in service, he fought valiantly against terrorism and, later on, after being promoted as sub-inspector and inspector, served as station house officer (SHO) in several police stations across the state.Kohli had an unblemished career of over 30 years, during which he earned many commendation certificates on account of his hard work and zeal.He was promoted to the rank of deputy superintendent of police on April 29, 2016, and served as DSP in Khanna, Ferozepur, Patiala, Fatehgarh Sahib, SBS Nagar, Hoshiarpur districts and Ludhiana city.ASI Davinder Kumar, who is posted in Ludhiana, was a childhood friend of Kohli. Remembering Kohli, Davinder Kumar said that he still remembered the days they had spent together.“We studied together from Class 1 to Class 12. He was very simple right from his childhood. Though he became a senior in the department, he did not change a bit and always treated me as his childhood friend,” said Davinder.Subhash Arora, deputy superintendent at the Central Jail here, said that he had become friends with Kohli after they met at a wedding function in 1996.Arora said Kohli was an honest officer. He had a special ability to deal with problems and was never seen worrying about anything. “In the 30- year-long career, he had solved many cases and had also served the department when militancy was at its peak,” said Arora.(ACP, East) Davinder Chaudhary, who is a batch mate of Kohli, said Kohli was a hardworking officer. They had spent good times together and were regularly in touch, irrespective of their postings.WIFE ATTENDS CREMATION IN PPE SUITPalak Kohli, the wife of assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Anil Kumar Kohli who died of Covid-19 on Saturday, attended the cremation at Dholewal crematorium even as she has herself tested positive for the virus.Wearing a personal protection suit, Palak along with her younger son, bid adieu to Kohli was cremated with full state honours. Kohli’s older son was unable to make it as he is based in Canada and all international flights are suspended at the moment. Ludhiana MP Ravneet Singh Bittu, deputy commissioner Pradeep Agrawal, police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal, mayor Balkar Singh Sidhu and other senior officers from police department, were also present wearing n-95 masks. After the cremation, Kohli’s wife sent back to hospital.The police chief said ACP Kohli was a brave officer, who served the department and society till his last breath.Born and brought up in Jalandhar Cantt, Anil Kumar Kohli had joined the police force as an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) in 1990. He was promoted to the rank of DSP in 2018 and joined as DSP Hoshiarpur. He has also served as Inspector in Khanna police. He bought a house in Suncity Colony of Khanna also. After being transferred to Ludhiana, he has brought his family to Ludhiana. His older son is settled in Canada, while the younger one is living in Ludhiana.Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday condoled the demise of assistant commissioner of police (Ludhiana north) Anil Kohli and kanungo Gurmel Singh, both of whom have fallen victim to coronavirus. Gurmel Singh died on Friday and ACP Kohli on Saturday.The chief minister announced Rs 50 lakh ex-gratia to the next of the kin of both the officials, and stated that a similar amount would be paid to the family of any officer who dies in the line of duty due to coronavirus.“Deeply saddened to lose two of my officials to Covid-19. Have decided to pay Rs 50 lakh ex-gratia to their next of kin. While I pray such an incident shouldn’t happen, but if, it does, state govt will pay Rs 50 lakh to NoK of officials, who die in the line of duty due to Covid-19,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/department-remembers-acp-kohli-as-an-honest-officer/story-SmQQnCRrmoMUsjUrPriXpM.html
19-04-2020||Gurugram||30-year-old man killed by two men after trying to pressure them into selling alcohol illegally||The police on Saturday arrested two men for allegedly murdering a 30-year-old man who used to sell alcohol illegally at Nurpur village in Bilaspur. According to the police, the man was allegedly pressuring the two men to sell alcohol during the lockdown in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak. When the men refused to do so, the three allegedly argued, after which they strangulated him to death with a towel. The arrested men were identified by their first names as Hemant, 19, and Sandip, 23. Both are residents of Nurpur village. The police said that they were acquainted with the victim. The men were arrested from the village after the police received a tip.According to the police, the victim was identified as Subhash Singh, a resident of Nurpur village. The incident took place on Friday. In the police complaint, the victim’s older brother alleged that Singh did not return home on Friday. On Saturday around 9.30am, a village resident allegedly informed the complainant that the victim had been killed by the two men. The older brother allegedly found his body near a funeral home in the village. “The men punched and kicked him. They then strangulated him to death with a towel,” the complainant said in the FIR. Subhash Boken, spokesperson, city police, said that during interrogation, the men said that they had a fight with the victim earlier as well. “The men said that they were drinking with the victim at the funeral home on Friday evening. The victim then asked them to sell alcohol during the lockdown. When they refused, he got into a heated argument with them. They then assaulted and strangulated him with a towel.” He added the victim’s body was handed over to his family members after a post-mortem examination on Saturday. A case was registered against the men under sections 302 (murder) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Bilaspur police station on Saturday, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/30-year-old-man-killed-by-two-men-after-trying-to-pressure-them-into-selling-alcohol-illegally/story-i0Vvg1qZPYiTsCbyOeHB5J.html
19-04-2020||Gurugram||Call centre running from luxury hotel in Gurugram busted, 7 arrested||To keep its business running even during lockdown, a call center company ran its operations illegally from 35 rooms it had booked in the luxurious Radisson Hotel in Gurugram’s Udyog Vihar.Police said the promoters of the company, Saburi TLC World Wide service Pvt Ltd , threatened their employees to work from the hotel and violated social distancing norms in effect in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The hotel management said it was not aware of the operation.Four employees of the business process outsourcing (BPO) firm and its director, and the hotel’s director of rooms and general manager were arrested late on Friday night. Several others booked after the police raided the hotel. The firm has an office in Spaze IT building at Sohna Road, but shut it down after the lockdown was announced. WATCH | Call centre running from Gurugram hotel busted amid lockdown, 7 arrestedAlso read: Kherki-Daula toll collection to resume from MondayPreviously, several fake call centers were busted for cheating foreign nationals in the garb of providing technical support. Police said the firm in the present case too used to sell tech support and add-on services to lure victims.Police said the company employees moved in to the hotel on March 22 and had booked the rooms for a month.A cyber crime police team raided the hotel in the early hours of Saturday following a tip. At the time, over 20 employees were found working in the rooms. The company director could not provide any licence to run the call centre from the hotel, police said. Police commissioner Muhammad Akil said that the hotel had not informed the district administration or the police regarding the operations. “The employees of Saburi TLC World Wide service Pvt Ltd were moving in and out (of the hotel) and haven’t undergone any medical examination. More than 100 executives of the company were living in the hotel. The suspects had booked business class rooms for the top management and premium rooms for the executives,” he said. Karan Goel, assistant commissioner of police (DLF), said, “We have retrieved a few emails where the company had written to the hotel to reserve the rooms and had mentioned that they will be working from there. The general manager replied that they won’t be able to provide a conference hall, but had provided LAN cables to the rooms for their workstations and laptops.” Police seized four laptops, nine workstations and five mobile phones from the hotel rooms along with documents.Goel said that the company did not have permission to operate out of the hotel and had not taken approval from the Department of Telecommunication (DOT) to shift their office. “Each room had at least three employees making calls and had not maintained any social distancing. They were not even provided masks,” he said. “The employees told us that they were forced to work for 12 hours a day and were threatened with pay cut if they didn’t. They had been promised incentives and were given ₹5,000 to work,” said Goel.A case under section 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 120 B (conspiracy), section 51 disaster management act, Section 66 of Information Technology Act and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code at Cyber police station.Police said they will write to DOT to cancel the company’s licenses and will verifying all the documents provided by them.Ankush Talwar, director of rooms, Radisson Hotel, said he was unaware that the rooms will be used to run a call centre. “Why would we allow anyone intentionally to conduct any illegal activity inside the hotel. We were monitoring their temperature every day and had not allowed them to move out. We were not aware of what was happening inside the room. The staff used to deliver their food at the door,” he said, shortly before his arrest.Anuj Jain, owner of the company, said that they were unaware that it was illegal to operate without licence from the hotel.Police identified the arrested company employees as its director Anuj Jain, Apurva Goswami, Siddharth Thakur, Naveen Kumar Sharma and Deepak Kumar Chaubey. Hotel’s general manager Namit Vij was also arrested.Police has seized the digital video recorder (DVR) of the hotel to check the entries of the executives and how the systems were brought inside.Goel said they are taking assistance of cyber experts and they are analysing the data and script of the seized laptops and computers. The police said that at least 30,000 users, based in the UK, US and a few other English-speaking countries, are suspected to have been targeted to by the technical support services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/call-centre-running-from-hotel-busted/story-5tz9MivJ08wZhbB0ZiJ5jL.html
19-04-2020||Gurugram||Kherki-Daula toll collection to resume from Monday||After a gap of 25 days the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) will resume operations of the Kherki-Daula toll plaza from April 20 when the central government’s curbs on movement will be partially relaxed. An NHAI official said all 25 lanes at the plaza will be operational and revised toll fee will be collected from commercial vehicles. The single passage toll rate for cars hasn’t been changed. However, trucks and buses will have to pay ₹5 more from April 1 -- for mini trucks this will ₹95, and for trucks and buses, it will be ₹200. Toll collection was temporarily suspended at all toll plazas across the country on March 25 with lockdown in place. Ashok Sharma, project director, NHAI Gurugram, said, “Toll collection at Kherki-Daula toll plaza will start again from April 20. The toll will be collected from all lanes.”Officials of Millennium City Expressway Pvt Ltd (MCEPL), concessionaire of Kherki-Daula toll plaza said that around 90 toll booth operators are lodged in a guest house near Kherki-Daula and will start work from Monday. Anish John, systems manager, MCEPL, said, “All the staff have been out up in a guest house and will resume work from April 20. We will ensure that each toll booth operator wears masks, gloves and has sanitiser in their booth.”Akhilesh Srivastava, chief general manager, NHAI, wrote to all regional offices and project directors on April 17 to resume collection of user fee at national highway. “As per the directions of ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH) the collection of user fee was temporarily suspended at all national highways fee plazas (sic),” read the letter.On April 17, MoRTH had asked NHAI to take necessary actions for compliance of the orders of ministry of home affairs on April 15 to resume toll operations. “In view of the above necessary instruction be issued to all user fee collection agencies to resume collection of user fee at all fee plazas on national highways from April 20 (sic),” read the letter.NHAI has also maintained that they will be taking all precautionary measures while dealing with toll operations once the toll operations start from Monday. The NHAI letter states that all toll booth operators will maintain the required social distance while collecting toll. “By ensuring social distancing, sanitisation, frequent washing of hands, putting up masks hand gloves and other preventive measures in terms of the guidelines/instructions issued by the government of India to contain spread of COVID-19. FASTag/electronic toll collection system should be promoted to the maximum to avoid direct human involvement (sic),” read the letter, a copy of which is with HT.Unlike the national highway toll operations which will resume operations from Monday across the country, toll plazas managed by the state government will remain closed till May 3 including the Gurgaon-Faridabad toll. All 15 toll collection points operated by Public Works Department (PWD) will remain shut for the second half of lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/kherki-daula-toll-collection-to-resume-from-monday/story-v20IPiFEYudaSEFLC2hfuK.html
19-04-2020||Noida||Dust storm, rain lash Noida, brings down temperature||An unseasonal spell of rain hit parts of the district Saturday evening, before a heavy dust storm. Weather agencies stated that the speed of the dust storm was up to 60 kmph or more, followed by rain and hail in some parts.While most areas across Delhi-NCR experienced strong winds and dust storms, the intensity was particularly high in Noida and Ghaziabad areas because of the induced effect of river Yamuna and higher temperature.According to weather analysts, phenomena such as rains are likely to continue till Sunday, while another Western Disturbance (WD) on Monday may recreate conditions seen on Saturday evening.“The rain and heavy storm was subjected to a few parts only in NCR only, like Noida. This is expected to continue as there are three more WDs likely to hit the region before April ends,” said Mahesh Palawat, director, private weather forecasting agency Skymet.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the recurring WD – a phenomenon that causes rains and storms in the national Capital region, is likely to affect the region with “proper pre-monsoon activities” on April 23 and 27 as well.He added that heavy winds are likely to strike the region Sunday evening as an effect of the current WD that would bring a very slight respite in maximum and minimum temperatures, dropping them by a degree or two.“There are more western disturbances, which may cause dust storms, rains and hails in Noida and adjoining regions on April 23 and 27 as well. The effect on the temperature will not be long lasting, however maximum temperatures may drop below season’s average, which is around 37 to 38 these days for next few days,” said Palawat.According to the IMD, the effects of dust storms are likely to be intense over Noida as compared to Delhi.“Most of the stations in Delhi realised that the effect was comparatively low in parts of Delhi but not in Noida and Ghaziabad. It’s because the weather system moved from Central Delhi towards East, upon crossing Yamuna river it intensified because the weather system got moisture from the river and got charged up, the additional afternoon temperatures added to the intensity,” said Kuldeep Srivastva, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD.Stating that while it’s quite difficult to assess the exact time of such storms, the most plausible time of such activity is often after 3pm, when the temperatures have already reached their day time peak.“There is a possibility of soothing weather towards Sunday evening. Between April 20-21, there is a possibility of another light thunderstorm. However, if the temperature rises, Noida and neighbouring regions may see strong dust storms followed by rain or hail,” Srivastava added. Saturday’s maximum temperature was 37 degrees Celsius, which is expected to remain the same for Sunday as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/dust-storm-rain-lash-noida-brings-down-temperature/story-AFwyDVUus9g4e9ohYEOnYM.html
19-04-2020||Noida||Migrants in slums travel miles to fetch water, regret not leaving for home||For nine-year-old Sunil and his younger sister, two of the many slum dwellers in the city, the day begins with a bicycle ride to find water and fetch as much as they can carry. Entirely dependent on the mercy of the security guards of factories, who may or may not give them some from the bore wells on the premises, the siblings know that they can’t give up despite being turned away repeatedly. Meanwhile, their parents, migrant labourers from Mahoba district, also go scouting for water like thousands of others and try to cover as much area as they can. “We try to avoid the crowds as the entire basti goes to fetch water and the security guards refuse to give us any if we’re part of a large crowd. There is a pumping station near Sector 66, about 2km from our basti, and some temples in Sector 62 and Mamura where we can get water from. We manage to carry two buckets on our cycle,” Sunil, who lives in a slum in Sector 67, says. He adds that the farthest he and his sister Guddi have travelled to fetch water is Garhi Chaukhandi — a distance of eight kilometres (back and forth).“The best time to fetch water is when people in factories are bathing or watering plants because the motors are already switched on,” says seven-year-old Guddi, who understands that going back without water is not an option.As many pumping stations and factories have closed because of the lockdown, locating new sources of water and persuading the guards or workers to give them some have become daily chores.With the soaring heat, the demand for water has increased and because of zero supply in the illegal slums in Noida’s industrial sectors, water has become a rare commodity for stranded labours, who now regret that they did not leave for their villages when they had a chance.“The biggest issue is water scarcity. We get food twice a day, sometimes once a day. Even if we don’t, we can still manage without food, but not water. A truck supplies 20-litre water bottles which cost us ₹25 each; but with the days becoming warmer, even two bottles a day are not enough and that costs us a lot. So we have to fetch water from wherever we can. If the water seems dirty, we boil it,” says Kumari Saraswati, another migrant from a slum in Sector 68, who hails from the town of Tilaiya Parma in Koderma, Jharkhand.“We called the helpline, but they said that they could only provide us food and gave us another number to call,” she adds.With work stalled because of the lockdown, managing enough water for drinking, cooking and cleaning has become a privilege for these migrants.“We have lived here for over five years and never seen such water scarcity. We are daily wage labourers and cannot afford to spend ₹50 or ₹70 per day on drinking water. We have no way to earn, and even if we buy drinking water, we still have to go several kilometres to fetch water for cleaning and bathing,” says Vineeta Yadav, a stranded labourer who belongs to Mahoba district.Thousands of families who didn’t leave, expecting that the lockdown would end soon, now regret their decision.“We should have left when there was time. At least back in the village, there is no water crisis and we could’ve managed food too. No one from the government has ever come to take heed of our circumstances. The only government official we can complain to is the police and everyone fears them. The basti is dirty, but we have to live here, anyway. If our children don’t bathe every day or drink dirty water, they fall sick. It looks like if this virus doesn’t kill us, the water scarcity will,” says Parvati Devi, a migrant worker from Khagaria district, who lives in a Sector 66 slum along with her husband and three children.According to officials, since the slums are illegally constructed, they cannot provide proper water connection; however, they say they could manage to supply water in tankers in such a crisis.“The authority has enough water, but we cannot provide proper connections in such slums or illegal constructions. However, in such a crisis, the best we can do is send a few tankers to those slums if we get complaints,” BM Pokhariyal, deputy general manager, Noida authority, says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/migrants-in-slums-travel-miles-to-fetch-water-regret-not-leaving-for-home/story-87SLsqwQTNgqg4AUurWGVO.html
19-04-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram reports four new Covid-19 cases after a gap of 9 days, total touches 36||Four new Covid-19 cases were reported in Gurugram on Saturday, taking the total number of people infected with the Sars-CoV-2 virus in the district to 36, officials said. Notably, the district had not reported any new Covid-19 case since April 9 when 12 persons were found positive for coronavirus. All the four men from Sohna, who are in the age group of 20-25 years, had come in contact with a Covid-19 patient from Alwar in Rajasthan, the officials said.Dr Jaswant Singh Punia, chief medical officer, Gurugram, said, “The four men used to work, along with a 22-year-old man from Alwar, at a factory in Mewat. They all stayed together in Sohna. The 22-year-old, who had visited Alwar too, was confirmed Covid-19 positive earlier this week, and is admitted to a Rajasthan hospital.”“On Thursday, we took samples of 70 people in Sohna who used to work with the Alwar man, of which four were confirmed positive,” Punia said, adding that it is difficult to comment on how the Alwar-based Covid-19 patient contracted the virus. “Due to his movement in three cities, it is difficult to say how he contracted the virus. In all likelihood, he did not get infected in Sohna,” the CMO said.The officials said that all four Covid-19 patients have been admitted to the Civil Hospital in Sector 10. In Haryana, Gurugram is a declared ‘red zone’ for having a large number of Covid-19 positive cases, along with Nuh (57 cases), Palwal (34), and Faridabad (33). Of the 36 cases in Gurugram, 19 are undergoing treatment. Of the 36 positive cases, two patients are from Agra, two from Sector 54, five from Pataudi, 10 from Sohna, and the remaining are Tablighi Jamaat attendees. According to the officials, more than 2,000 people are still continuing with their 14-day quarantine period while 55 others are under surveillance at a quarantine facility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-reports-four-new-covid-19-cases-after-a-gap-of-9-days-total-touches-36/story-LWjJARBwQRCWHlLyhxv4cM.html
19-04-2020||Noida||3 more Covid-19 cases, total touches 95 in GB Nagar||Three more persons tested positive for Covid-19 infection on Saturday, taking the tally of cases to 95 in Gautam Budh Nagar.The newly identified patients include a 39-year-old man and his 35-year-old wife from the Acchar village in Greater Noida. Both have links to people who had attended the Tabhlighi Jamaat Markaz in Nizamuddin, Delhi, in mid-March. The total number of Covid-19 patients having links with the Markaz is four in the district now.A 70-year-old woman from Sector 15A of Noida has also tested positive for the SARS-CoV-2 virus. The senior citizen is a resident of Delhi and was visiting her son in Noida. She got herself checked a private lab and officials are not trying to ascertain her source of infection.Meanwhile, four patients undergoing treatment for Covid-19 at the Sharda Hospital in Greater Noida and two from the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) were discharged Saturday. Till now, 20 Covid-19 patients have been discharged from GIMS. The two patients discharged from GIMS Saturday were contacts of Ceasefire company in Sector 135. Te patients discharged from Sharda hospital include the 20-year-old nurse from the Fortis hospital in Sector 62 and the 21-year-old sister of an air hostess from Sector 50. In another development, Sharda hospital has lodged an FIR against a clerk in the office of the medical superintendent of the hospital after he refused to join work and said he would do so only after the Covid-19 outbreak is under control. “An FIR has been lodged with the Knowledge Park Police Station under section 3 of Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 and section 188 of the Indian Peal Code (IPC). The clerk had refused to join work and we were following up with him since March 28,” an official from Sharda University said.According to the Section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act, any person who disobeys an order or regulation made by the government under the Act, shall be punished in accordance with Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860. Section 188, IPC, imposes punishment for disobeying an order promulgated by a public servant. By Saturday night, the health department has notified 1,920 travellers and put 1,119 people under surveillance. A total of 2,005 samples have been collected and 95 have tested positive for Covid-19 while 34 have been discharged after treatment. Currently, there are 61 active Covid-19 cases in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/3-more-covid-19-cases-total-touches-95-in-gb-nagar/story-tlM0jh8snEpypHZenQXyDM.html
19-04-2020||Noida||Noida, Greater Noida, Yamuna authorities to open offices from April 20 with 33% staff||The Noida, Greater Noida, and Yamuna authorities will resume work at their respective offices from April 20 with reduced staff strength. However, the offices of the three authorities will remain shut for visitors untill the nationwide lockdown is lifted, officials said.The decision to resume departmental work at the authorities comes after the Uttar Pradesh government issued a letter asking each department that includes group housing, engineering, health among other wings to start work from April 20 with a 33% workforce.The state government had ordered the closure of all its government offices on March 22 (on the occasion of Janta Curfew), two days before the nationwide lockdown was announced in order to contain the spread of Covid-19. The Noida authority had even decided to take legal action against visitors entering its administrative building.The infrastructure and industrial development department of the state government on April 17 has asked all industrial bodies including Noida authority, Greater Noida authority and Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (YEIDA) to resume work with reduced staff. All government departments are required to follow social distancing norms in their offices.“All departmental heads will make a roster of staff members and allow 33% to attend office on working days to carry out departmental work. The staff will follow all safety norms and maintain social distance while executing their departmental work. The junior staff will work on alternate days. And those, who are at home will be available at mobile phones in need,” said an order issued by the state government.The three authorities will only carry out government work, and residents, builders, industrial unit owners, etc, who need to get work done at the authority office, should not visit the office until the lockdown ends.“The Noida authority was already doing municipal work earlier. The office will be open only for basic work with reduced strength and we can’t attend to public grievances as of now. No public work beyond municipal work, that is overseen by the call centers already, will be carried out,” Ritu Maheshwari, chief executive officer, Noida authority. said.The Noida authority with its at least 5,000 staffers, Greater Noida authority with a staff of 500 people, and the Yamuna authority with at least 200 staff is busy distributing food to migrant workers and financially weaker groups whose incomes have been severely hit amid the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-greater-noida-yamuna-authorities-to-open-offices-from-april-20-with-33-staff/story-OIsRf5WV7ttQhzsa2hLphL.html
19-04-2020||Pune||Pune reports three more deaths, 43 fresh Covid-19 positive cases||With three more deaths, city’s Covid-19 related count has reached 50, including one from Baramati and one from Pimpri-Chinchwad areas. A total of 43 fresh cases of Covid positive has taken the progressive positive count in the city to 544.Four patients were discharged on Saturday after being declared cured of the virus. As of Saturday, 37 patients have been discharged after being declared as completely cured after completing the 14 days of incubation period.The three deaths include that of a 62-year-old man reported from KEM hospital and did not have any other comorbid condition. The patient was declared dead on April 16 and, according to KEM hospital authority, he was brought dead. The swab report came on Friday night confirmed the infection.The second death is of a 58-year-old male reported from Poona hospital and was declared dead on Friday night and also had dengue, diabetes and hypertension in addition to Covid-19 infection. The third death is of a 75-year-old male reported from Sassoon hospital and did not have any other illnesses. The patient was declared dead on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-reports-three-more-deaths-43-fresh-positive-cases/story-KqqxKUG6R9RoQiVbcWvIcN.html
19-04-2020||Chandigarh||Frontline Covid warriors: At risk of contracting virus, ambulance drivers feel duty-bound to ferry patients||Ambulance drivers ferrying patients from their homes to hospitals and vice versa are among the frontline soldiers in the battle against Covid-19 who are at a high risk of contracting the disease. But for many in Punjab’s coronavirus hotspots that’s hardly a deterrent as they are leaving no stone unturned in performing their duty round the clock. Bhupinder Singh (55) and Udham Singh, both Punjab Roadways drivers, were directed to report to the Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar civil surgeon’s office on March 20 and were deployed on ambulance service in Punjab’s first virus containment zone of 15 villages, including Pathlawa. It was Pathlawa resident Baldev Singh (70), a preacher, who became Punjab’s first coronavirus casualty and had infected at least 27 persons, including 14 of his family Bhupinder says though it was really risky amid a sense of fear, especially in the initial days, he didn’t give up as someone needed to take charge of the situation to win the war against the pandemic. “It was heart-wrenching to see Covid-19 positive patients crying in the ambulance. But I chose to perform my duty by taking proper precautions. We regularly sanitised the ambulance after dropping the patients and wore personal protection equipment (PPE) kits. But still, the risk of infection remained there,” adds Bhupinder, who joined the roadways in 1997. “I do not enter my house without taking a bath and put my clothes in hot water. It is a matter of great satisfaction that there is no case in SBS Nagar district for many days (since March 26),” he says.Udham, who was tasked with transporting patients from Sujjon and Jhikka villages in the containment zone, says, “It was a challenge. I would sanitise myself and my helper. My children motivated me to perform my duty in the fight against Covid-19.”In Jalandhar district, where the second highest number of positive cases (38 till Friday) has been reported in Punjab, more than 30 ambulance drivers, including retired army personnel, performed their duty with zeal in the fight against the disease.Jasbir Singh, an ambulance driver at the civil hospital, says, “Our men are performing their duty like soldiers to secure people and contribute to the fight.” Sukhwinder Singh and Kamaljit Singh started working as ambulance drivers after they retired from the army. Kamaljit, who joined the health department in 2013, says they have to be strong amid the pandemic as they have a great responsibility on their shoulders. Jeevan Ram, a temporary driver with the Punjab roadways, is stationed along with six other transport department drivers in the civil hospital, says he is proud for having contributed to the cause.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/frontline-covid-warriors-at-risk-of-contracting-virus-ambulance-drivers-feel-duty-bound-to-ferry-patients/story-8TweTf4kQYZagWl8w6HPpM.html
19-04-2020||Pune||Lockdown restrictions to remain in Pune, says deputy CM Pawar||With coronavirus cases rising in Pune, the state government does not plan to ease restrictions in the city as planned in other parts of the state from April 20.Speaking at a meeting held with officials of Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), district administration and police department at divisional commissionerate on Saturday, Ajit Pawar, deputy chief minister, asked officials to strictly implement the lockdown measures in the city. “The rising Covid-19 cases in Pune are a matter of concern. There is need for police department to strictly implement lockdown for the next eight days,” said Pawar. Besides Pune, Pawar also asked stringent implementation of lockdown in Pimpri-Chinchwad and the three cantonments in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lockdown-restrictions-to-remain-in-pune-pawar/story-aWaI47PplQKrDtslndbO1J.html
19-04-2020||City||Wheat procurement begins in two Ludhiana mandis||The procurement process of wheat kicked off at the grain markets of Jagraon and Hathur in presence of the district planning board chairman Malkit Singh Dakha on Saturday.“This time, due to the ongoing lockdown amid the coronavirus pandemic, farmers will be able to bring their produce to the mandis only as per their turn,” he said, adding that as per the directions, the district administration would ensure that there is no rush of farmers in the mandis. For the purpose, the farmers will be issued token passes by arhtiyas and on the basis of these tokens, they will be able to bring their produce to the mandis, the planning board official said, adding that arhtiyas would ensure that the farmers visit the mandis as per the given schedule.He also said that the officials have been directed to ensure that arrangements of cleanliness and other facilities are made in the mandis. “The arhtiyas and labourers have been given training regarding hand washing, wearing masks, social distancing and use of sanitisers by the mandi board officials. All these materials will be provided to the labourers by the arhtiyas who will ensure that the farmers and labourers wash their hands every half an hour,” Dakha said.‘GOVT TO PROCUE EVERY SINGLE GRAIN’The official appealed to the farmers to not panic, saying, “Punjab government will procure every single foodgrain from them. Elaborate arrangements have been made for the same in all mandis across the state.” The official later visited other mandis of the area and supervised the ongoing wheat procurement process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/wheat-procurement-begins-in-two-ludhiana-mandis/story-J3isQScxQBFTRCfzDfdcIJ.html
19-04-2020||City||NRIs board special buses from Ludhiana to take them to Delhi airport||Stuck in different districts of Punjab due to the lockdown, around 300 Australia and US-based NRIs boarded nine special buses from Ludhiana to take them to Delhi airport. As per information, the NRIs were stuck in different districts including Ludhiana, Moga, Mohali, Bathinda, etc. They had submitted applications with the US embassy and Australian High Commission, expressing desire to return to their respective countries, following which special flights were arranged for the NRIs from Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nris-board-special-buses-to-delhi-airport-from-ludhiana/story-pVz3tFvhMnC74zQON0sLxM.html
19-04-2020||Chandigarh||Residents of Chandigarh’s Sector 40 to screen outsiders, sanitise vehicles from today||Residents of Sector 40, along with other stakeholders, have decided to thermal scan the outsiders entering the area from Sunday onward. Besides, the residents have also decided to sanitise the outsiders’ vehicles to prevent the spread of the virus.Chandigarh’s Sector 40 is the first one to take this initiative and UT adviser Manoj Parida will formally launch it on Sunday. The decision was taken during a meeting held at the sector’s community centre where residents, police and local area councillor Gurbax Rawat were present. Rawat said, “The stakeholders contributed money and formed a team of 16 volunteers to monitor the two entry and exit points of the sector and check all those entering the area.” She said only people with valid movement passes will be allowed to pass through the sector.Rawat further said, “The administration has sealed one exit point and plans to seal the other soon. To ensure the safety of volunteers, the administration will provide them with personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, she said, adding that the volunteers will be on duty from 7am to 7pm.Through the contributions, residents have purchased four thermal scanners of ₹ 8,000 each. They have also purchased chemicals worth ₹ 8,000 for preparing sanitiser liquid to disinfect vehicles entering the sector. Volunteers have also been knitting masks and have made over 400 besides 1,000 three-ply masks for distribution among the people. The residents have also bought 1,000 pairs of gloves. Sector 40 resident welfare association (RWA) president Dalwinder Singh Saini said the residents have also formed a team of volunteers to help senior citizens and differently-abled persons.“Anyone who needs help can approach their RWA heads or the councilor. We will also touch base with the local police and help them with any such requests,” he said.UT adviser Manoj Parida took to Twitter to praise the residents of the sector and asked other localities also to adopt the new system rather than depending on the administration and police for everything.Parida will inaugurate the system at 12pm in Sector 40 on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/residents-of-chandigarh-s-sector-40-to-screen-outsiders-sanitise-vehicles-from-today/story-FpIKOF1tBPEYFb8XRedx8K.html
19-04-2020||Chandigarh||Hooda asks Haryana govt to simplify procurement process for farmers||Leader of opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Saturday urged the Haryana government to understand the distress of farmers and buy every grain of their produce.“Money is being deducted in the name of moisture content from farmers who are arriving with their mustard crops in the market. They are being denied full crop rates. The buying process is so complex that it is beyond the comprehension of most farmers. Instead of buying crops in one lot, farmers are being called to the mandis repeatedly. This increases the transportation expense and also forces them to make unnecessary trips to the mandi, thereby breaking lockdown and social distancing rules,” Hooda said.He said the government has purchased about 5% mustard (of its estimated production) in the last three days. “Based on the trends so far and the arrangements made, it seems difficult if the government will be able to buy the entire crop within the schedule. Farmers are given one-day notice to sell their crops and they get the message only a day before the date of purchase. Therefore, it becomes difficult for them to make arrangements and reach Mandi at such a short notice,” Hooda said.He said the government should coordinate with grain merchants and should make them the handling agents. A spokesperson of the agriculture department said the procurement of mustard will continue till every grain is purchased. About 82,886 metric tonnes of mustard has been procured from 32,779 farmers in the first four days. On Saturday, 9,303 farmers reported at the 163 procurement centres and about 25,263 metric tonnes of mustard was purchased by Hafed and State Warehousing Corporation, the spokesperson added.Govt making more arrangements to purchase mustard: DalalHaryana agriculture minister Jai Prakash Dalal on Saturday visited the grain market of Mandi Adampur in Hisar district to check mustard procurement here. While addressing mediapersons, the minister said he came to know that at many areas some officials and commission agents are deducting the cost of mustard grain in the name of moisture content. He said strict action will be taken against such officials and commission agents if they reject mustard seeds of the farmers.He said farmers must register themselves with the Meri Fasal portal. “The state government is making arrangements to purchase mustard from the farmers by making small grain markets in the villages,” Dalal added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hooda-asks-haryana-govt-to-simplify-procurement-process-for-farmers/story-AIGgPYmp9G960duxCwceRJ.html
19-04-2020||Chandigarh||90 Sikh pilgrims returning from Nanded stopped in Indore, Akal Takht seeks govt intervention||Taking umbrage at the stopping of Punjab-based Sikh pilgrims in Indore, Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh on Saturday asked the Centre and the Punjab government to ensure their return.The pilgrims had been stranded at Takht Hazur Sahib, Nanded, in Maharashtra for at least a month amid the lockdown and were trying to return home by road.“I have learnt that 90 pilgrims returning from Takht Sri Hazur Sahib have been stopped on the outskirts of Indore in Madhya Pradesh. They are stranded there and in trouble. Since the administration has made no arrangements for them, the pilgrims are struggling with hunger and facing a tough time,” Giani Harpreet Singh said in a statement here.He said the governments of the United Kingdom, Canada and Malaysia had taken back their citizens from India through special flights. “So, it’s the moral responsibility of the Indian government to ensure that people stuck at different places due to the countrywide lockdown, returned to their homes on priority,” said the head of the highest temporal seat of the Sikhs.WANTS PASSES FOR THE STRANDEDHe demanded that the Centre and the Punjab government issue passes to the sangat stuck in Indore and that concrete steps should be taken to bring back thousands of pilgrims stranded at Nanded.Nearly 2,500 pilgrims, mostly from Punjab, are stranded at Takht Hazoor Sahib, one of the five Sikh temporal seats.A few days ago, some pilgrims had attempted to return to Punjab by road, but the Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan governments did not let them enter their states. The shrine’s management board also raised their plight but in vain.SGPC CHIEF WRITES TO AMIT SHAH Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Gobind Singh Longowal on Saturday wrote a letter to Union home minister Amit Shah requesting him to ensure homecoming of the pilgrims stranded at Nanded. He said the letter has also been marked to Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and his Maharashtra counterpart Uddhav Thackeray. He said the SGPC is ready to cooperate the government in this matter and send its vehicles to ferry them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sikh-pilgrims-returning-from-nanded-stopped-in-indore-akal-takht-seeks-govt-intervention/story-2SXFbwmuB4RtioKL0Gu3nI.html
19-04-2020||Delhi||Lockdown keeps another curve flat — number of unnatural deaths||On average, 4 people die in road accidents in Delhi every day. Between March 23 and April 14, only nine died in accidents.On average, there is one case of murder in Delhi every day. Between March 23 and April 13, there were 13 murders. The numbers can be credited to the ongoing lockdown that is aimed at combating the spread of the coronavirus disease, Covid-19. With people asked to stay at home as much as possible, and few vehicles allowed on the streets, all activity, including crimes and accidents, have almost come to a standstill.As a result, the number of unnatural deaths in the city-state has fallen, according to data from police and the All India Institute of Medical Sciences(AIIMS).Delhi police officers said that the number of murders, road accidents and unidentified bodies being found on the city’s streets have reduced in comparison the period before the lockdown.On March 22, after the completion of the first day of the voluntary lockdown (Janata curfew) announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Delhi police imposed prohibitory orders under section 144(a ban on assembly of more than four persons) across the city. The following morning chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced a complete lockdown of the national capital as a measure to contain the spread of Covid-19. On March 24, Modi announced a national lockdown for three weeks starting March 25. Earlier this week, he announced its extension till May 3.According to police data, between March 1 and 22, there were 41 murders across the city. The number of murders since then (between March 23 and April 14) is 13.Additional commissioner of police, Mandeep Randhawa said crime has decreased since the lockdown. “The few murders are not related to any criminals. There are cases of a person murdering his friend or a man involved in a neighbour’s murder. Police are on the roads so crime has decreased.” Road accident deaths -too have seen a steep decline. According to Delhi police data, while 44 persons died in accidents between March 1 and 22, the number of dead thereafter (until April 14) is only 9.Doctors at AIIMS and Jai Prakash Narayan Apex Trauma Center (JPNATC) confirmed that the number of post mortem cases at the hospital have reduced. A post mortem is conducted in cases of unnatural deaths such as suicides and suspected murders. Between March 1 and March 22, doctors at AIIMS conducted 130 but after March 23 and till April 14, the did just 81. At JPNATC, the corresponding numbers are 40 and 7 .Dr Sudhir Gupta, Professor & Head, Department Of Forensic Medicine at AIIMS confirmed that there is a drastic reduction in the number of road accidents and homicides.Many of the bodies that come in for post mortem in the city’s government hospitals are of unidentified persons found dead on the city’s streets. Most are homeless; some die of a drug overdose; others of illness or starvation; and still others are run over by vehicles at night.According to police data, between March 1 and 22, there were 233 such unidentified bodies. The number since then, and till April 14 has reduced to 171. A senior police officer said that the number of drug overdose deaths among the homeless has decreased because the drug supply chain has been broken during the lockdown.Indu Prakash Singh, a member of the state level shelter monitoring committee, set up on the orders of the Supreme Court , said that the deaths of the homeless have come down because of the government’s efforts to feed them.“The homeless usually die of hunger, infection and also drug overdose in some cases. Now that everyone is working to feed them, the numbers are coming down. Many of our homeless on the streets who have minor infections die because they do not get food. They cannot go out to work and die anonymous deaths. There should be a permanent programme to feed the homeless after the lockdown too.”Delhi police’s spokesperson, Mandeep Randhawa said police across the city are working to feed the homeless. “Every police station is working to feed the needy in the area. Police have fed several lakhs of needy citizens during the lockdown. At every police station, we have taken help of good Samaritans and NGOs. Our endeavour is to ensure that no one sleeps hungry,” Randhawa said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/lockdown-keeps-another-curve-flat-number-of-unnatural-deaths/story-JXYzIlKSh1GK5ldPGLJQhL.html
19-04-2020||Delhi||Delhi starts drafting rules for food delivery persons||The Delhi government has started drafting safety norms for delivery firms and stand-alone restaurants to prevent further spread of coronavirus in the Capital. The move has been necessitated due to a delivery person, working for a restaurant in Malviya Nagar, testing positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), following which at least 72 households have been placed in home-quarantine.The guidelines are expected to be released early next week.Delhi chief secretary, Vijay Dev, on Friday directed the state health department to prepare a mandatory standard operating procedure (SoP), after taking cognisance of a report in HT that highlighted the absence of safety norms for eateries and their delivery persons.“The HT news report has been brought to my notice. I am ordering the principal secretary (health) to lay down the rules immediately,” Dev said.District magistrates (DMs), who are currently at the helm of all containment activities, had also demanded mandatory thermal screening of delivery persons at all eateries and issuance of fitness certificates by the employers on a weekly basis.The Malviya Nagar incident has become a reference point for the DMs, as the Covid-19 positive delivery person continued to work despite exhibiting flu-like symptoms for almost a month. While the infected man is now being treated at the Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality hospital in Tahirpur, at least 16 employees and the owner of Box 8 restaurant have been placed in institutional quarantine at a Chhatarpur facility.“Most of the delivery persons are young boys, which means they could be asymptomatic for a long time. There’s also a fear of retrenchment due to which some, despite being ill, like in this particular case, continue to work,” said Nidhi Srivastava, DM (Central).“The rules must make it mandatory for the employer to grant leaves with job security in case a worker linked with the eatery is showing symptoms of illness, even if it is not Covid related,” she said.While larger food delivery chains and essential supplies providers have strict processes to ensure safety standards, smaller firms may go below the radar, senior civic officials said, highlighting the need for standardised norms.To keep a check on compliance by the smaller firms, DM (South), BM Mishra, suggested that ASHA or anganwadi workers, who are part of the 13,742-strong Corona FootWarriors Containment and Surveillance Team across the city, be made nodal officers for health checks of workers in such eateries.“These outlets need to declare to us that they are open and mention the number of workers engaged. We can even prepare a format for the fitness certificates. But, all this needs a set of rules,” Mishra said.Officials in the health department said all the suggestions given by the DMs will be considered while drafting the rules. “If need be, we will also hold a meeting with the DMs to further fine-tune the policy,” a senior official, who did not wish to be named, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-starts-drafting-rules-for-food-delivery-persons/story-7ihx3ZOxrVT8ikIqopepNK.html
