20-04-2020||Mumbai||Monday morning blues on Mumbai’s western and eastern express highways||Traffic jams were reported on both western (WEH) and eastern express highways (EEH) and other areas in the suburbs on Monday morning. This came after chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had announced on Sunday night that restrictions would be relaxed only in zones designated as orange and green in Maharashtra, to allow industries to operate. Lockdown conditions remain in effect for the general public in Mumbai and Pune.The WEH and EEH both saw an increase in the number of private vehicles on Monday morning. More vehicles were also seen on the Sion-Panvel highway and traffic was reported in parts of Andheri, Goregaon, Malad and Kurla. In some areas, traffic jams were caused by the barricades installed by the police.Traffic police sources said the private vehicles on roads belonged to those involved in essential services. “Officers of the rank of deputy secretary and above have to attend office. For other government offices, 10% staff is allowed. Special economic zone (SEZ) and healthcare-related services are functional. Those in essential services are not using public transport and hence traffic is bound to increase,” said senior traffic police officer, adding that strict action would be taken against anyone stepping out for non-essential reasons.A senior traffic police officer, requested anonymity, confirmed there were more vehicles on the WEH. “There was a rise in number of vehicles seen at Goregaon stretch,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/monday-morning-blues-on-mumbai-s-western-and-eastern-express-highways/story-Xueo6hUch1EYyJXr2V9MsO.html
20-04-2020||Mumbai||‘RBI moratorium valid for all credit facilities’||Observing that the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has granted moratorium not only for term loans but for all financial arrangements between banks and customers, the Bombay high court (HC) on Monday granted the benefit of a 90-day moratorium on loans to a Mumbai-based electrical engineering firm.Justice KR Shriram said in the case of IMP Powers Limited, the 90-day period for declaring an account a non-performing asset (NPA) will stop accruing from March 1 and will restart from June 1. Thus, the firm’s cash credit account will not be declared an NPA till June 1, despite the 90-day period ending on April 16.IMP Powers Limited, a medium enterprise involved in the manufacture of electrical equipment, moved the HC apprehending that its banker, Karnataka Bank, may declare its credit facility an NPA, as mentioned in a circular issued by the RBI in September 2001.The circular provided that if any account enjoying credit facilities with a bank has remained overdrawn beyond the sanctioned limit for a continuous period of more than 90 days, it will be classified as an NPA.Counsel for IMP Powers, senior advocate Dr Birendra Saraf, pointed out that Karnataka Bank had sanctioned a fund-based cash credit limit of ₹2 crore; packing credit limit of ₹7.50 crore; bank guarantee limit with interchangeability to letter of credit of ₹36.75 crore to IMP Powers. However, the account has remained overdrawn since January 16, primarily due to the lockdown.Justice Shriram also took into consideration the RBI circular dated March 27, 2020, issued to all the banks and financial institutions, stating that all commercial banks, including regional rural banks, are permitted to allow a moratorium of three months for payment on instalments of all term loans outstanding on March 1, 2020. “The Reserve Bank of India has granted moratorium not only for term loans but all kinds of financial arrangements between a customer and the bank,” said the judge, while granting relief to the firm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/rbi-moratorium-valid-for-all-credit-facilities/story-XYHeuA48lz3eHtWNd9ZoZM.html
20-04-2020||Mumbai||‘Covid-19 forces us to rethink how we decongest Mumbai’||In December 1898, two years after the first case of bubonic plague was detected in Mandvi, the Bombay City Improvement Trust (BCIT) was formed. By this time, tens of thousands had been killed in the city and thousands had been forced to evacuate. The plague exposed infrastructural weaknesses and forced a redesign of Bombay. The BCIT was tasked with decongesting the city and its efforts led to not only new east-west roads like Princess Street, but new residential neighbourhoods like Dadar, Matunga and the now-famous landmark of Shivaji Park. Today, with the outbreak of Covid-19, urban planners say there is urgent need to once again rethink the city’s design and how it may be decongested.  “We have to take a major re-look at our development codes where we must use densification as a planning tool,” said Pankaj Joshi, executive director of the Mumbai-based Urban Design Research Institute (UDRI). Densification refers to the number of people in an area. “It is possible to decongest the city in a phased-manner as large parts of the city are still being redeveloped,” said Joshi. With a density of 31,700 people per square km (sqkm), Mumbai is the second-most crowded city after Bangladesh’s Dhaka, as per the World Economic Forum. “The density on an average would be almost 43,000 per sqkm if we do not take the mangroves and Sanjay Gandhi National Park into account,” said Joshi.Experts say the primary challenge facing Mumbai is the uneven spread of population and amenities. “Density is not bad per se. Mumbai’s problem is its unequal densities. Compare Malabar Hill to Dharavi,” said Hussain Indorewala, a professor and an urban planning expert. Dharavi, which has several containment zones and has reported 168 cases of Covid-19 since April 1, has a current density of 66,000 per sqkm. “Slum rehabilitation schemes in the city allow 1,200 tenements per hectare, which not only produces poor living conditions but poses a great danger to public health,” said Indorewala.While the state government has been planning the redevelopment of congested areas like Dharavi, Bhendi Bazaar and Bombay Development Directorate (BDD) chawls, urban experts agree that the existing plans are unlikely to improve conditions. “Dharavi needs a comprehensive plan. In the past, we have looked at self-redevelopment or community-based models for Dharavi to manage its densities. Those need to be re-looked at,” said Abhay Pethe, economics professor at the Mumbai School of Economics and Public Policy. So far, the state has leaned towards the cluster development model, which monetises the land to finance new construction. Experts say this model will only serve to further crowd the already-crowded clusters with additional tenements being built in the same area. “The ideal scenario is when rehabilitation schemes do not exceed by 300-400 tenements per hectare but as long as profiting from land is a major motive, that will not happen,” said Indorewala. Architect Vilas Nagalkar said current redevelopment plans are not likely to give families the amount of space ideally allotted to them. “The Development Plan 2034 of Mumbai looks at 125 square metres (sqm) per family as an ideal housing scenario. At present, lower middle class families occupy 10-15 sqm space. After redevelopment, it will change to 40-50 sqm per family,” said Nagalkar. Additionally, there is the issue of creating more public spaces, which is a critical part of decongestion. Joshi gave examples of Hong Kong where multi-storey towers are interconnected at ground-plus-two floors to create more public space. In the Chinese city of Shanghai, the problem of densification was tackled by merging 243 sqkm into the city between 2000 and 2004. Shanghai is among the most densely-populated cities in the world and while questions remain about the sustainability benefits, experts agree that general liveability has improved after residents were relocated from the city centre. Expansion with an eye to decongesting Mumbai has been tried in the past. In the 1970s, Navi Mumbai was conceived for precisely this reason.  “The most important component of Navi Mumbai was to move the state government headquarters to the new city. That did not happen. There were also proposals to develop smaller satellite cities around Mumbai. That also did not happen as envisioned by the planners,” Indorewala said. In March 2019, as part of his lecture titled “Re-imagining Mumbai as the Indian Ocean Capital”, urban planner Pedro B Ortiz suggested a “Navi Navi Mumbai” to decongest the city. Ortiz said the city needs 14 sqkm of service land every year to meet its ever-increasing growth and avoid slum encroachment. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) has been looking at establishing growth centres since 2012, which would expand help ease the pressure on Mumbai. Its regional plan 2016-36 zeroed in on four growth centres: Kharbao in Bhiwandi; Nilje in Dombivili; Shedung in Panvel; and Gass in Vasai-Virar. In 2013, the Maharashtra government had announced the formation of the Navi Mumbai Airport Influence Notified Area (Naina), a new township spread over 600 sqkms of area (larger than Mumbai) to avoid unplanned growth around the proposed international airport at Navi Mumbai. The state expects these centres to ease the transit burden towards Mumbai.An important factor contributing to congestion is traffic and access to public transport. “Biking and cycling have to be encouraged as last-mile connectivity options. Data has to be used to predict travel patterns and manage dispersal of crowds.Transit frequency also has to be increased for a safer, distanced and comfortable travel,” said transport expert Amruta Ponkshe, who is with the the Observer Research Foundation (ORF) and has written a paper on transit after Covid-19.  According to the TomTom Traffic Index of 2018, Mumbai is the most traffic-congested city in the world. Daily, local trains in Mumbai carry 7.5 million passengers, which 2.6 times the trains’ capacity on an average. The city continues to be dependent on its overburdened railways to connect to far-flung areas within the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), like Thane, Kalyan-Dombivili, Navi Mumbai, Vasai-Virar, Mira-Bhayander, Bhiwandi-Nizampur, Dombivili and Ulhasnagar.“We have to look at the metropolitan region as a whole unit for a cohesive decongestion plan but that is not happening with so many agencies handling different projects,” said Joshi. To this end, the 13 lines of the Mumbai Metro, being implemented by the MMRDA, is expected to significantly decongest the city. A recent study commissioned by the MMRDA concluded that traffic congestion would reduce from 137% to 33% by 2031 once all the Metro lines are constructed. (Congestion percentages represent the extra time required to reach a destination.) With infrastructure projects coming to a standstill in the lockdown period, the timelines of all projects will be severely affected, a senior official from MMRDA confirmed. At present, of the 337-km Metro network, eight lines are in various stages of development. These include line 4 (Wadala-Kasarwadavali) and its extension to Gaimukh; line 5 (Thane, Bhiwandi and Kalyan); line 8 (Chhatrapati Shivaji International Airport to Navi Mumbai International Airport); line 9 (Dashisar East, Mira Bhayander); line 10 (Gaimukh to Shivaji Chowk); line 12 (Kalyan to Taloja); line 13 (Shivaji Chowk to Virar); and line 14 (Kanjurmarg to Badlapur). Road congestion should also be eased by the Mumbai trans-harbour link, a 22-km long sea-bridge connecting Sewri in south Mumbai to Nhava Sheva in Navi Mumbai. The government rolled out the project in 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-forces-us-to-rethink-how-we-decongest-mumbai/story-LibOhzM8CSfYvdNj2BwGsM.html
20-04-2020||Mumbai||Cop posted at Varsha tests +ve for Covid-19||A woman assistant police inspector posted for the day at the chief minister’s bungalow Varsha was tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday. The officer has been shifted to Saifee Hospital. She is posted with Pydhonie police station. Rajiv Jain, deputy commissioner of police, zone 2 confirmed the development. “She has been admitted at Saifee Hospital and undergoing treatment,” he said. In another incident, two employees from the disaster management control room at the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) headquarters in Fort tested positive for Covid-19, civic officials said on Monday.“Since the two staffers were asymptomatic, they have been quarantined at a Covid Care Centre. The rest of the staff have been quarantined in the control room itself,” read a press release by the BMC on Monday evening. The second floor of the building, which houses the control room, has been sealed. The whole building is being disinfected. The control room has not been sealed and the employees quarantined there are coordinating with another control room at Parel for monitoring. “Covid-19-related monitoring is not affected as there is another control room at Parel. Two teams have been divided and the second team will assist in monitoring and functioning,” read the press release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cop-posted-at-varsha-tests-ve-for-covid-19/story-ru5kAzhKd3yz1PG8YkAg3N.html
20-04-2020||City||Mumbai’s coronavirus cases cross 3,000-mark; 25-year-old with no existing health condition dies||The city saw 308 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, bringing the tally to 3,032. The death toll in Mumbai is 139.According to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) data, Dharavi reported 30 more cases on Monday, taking the area’s tally to 168 with 11 deaths. Of the 30 cases, the highest (5) cases were recorded in Shastri Nagar, followed by three cases from 60 feet road area. These cases were found during a testing by the civic body. Kiran Dighavkar, assistant commissioner of G-North ward, said, “We found a few high-risk contacts while looking for suspects.”Two staffers from the disaster management control room at the BMC’s headquarters in Fort and 53 journalists have tested positive for Covid-19. Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar, too, was home quarantined as she had meet a few mediapersons who tested positive on Monday. Pednekar said, “As a precautionary measure, I have decided to be quarantined in my home, as in the past few days, I have come in contact with many mediapersons.”The BMC’s health department confirmed a 25-year-old youth has died of Covid-19. He had no known underlying health conditions. On Monday, civic officials confirmed that Kasturba Hospital was in the process of getting approval from ICMR for plasma therapy. An eligible donor list is getting prepared. The donor will be a discharged Covid-19 patient who has developed antibodies. Nair hospital will be the collection centre. As the BMC relaxed lockdown norms, private as well as some government offices were opened on Monday, leading to huge queues of vehicles on the Eastern Express Highway, Kurla and Vashi toll naka. Huge queue of vehicles were seen at the Vashi toll plaza in Navi Mumbai on Monday, as toll collection at national highways resumed. The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) as well as highway developers resumed collection at toll plazas in line with government directives. However, people were seen flouting social distancing norms.Sources in the BMC admitted that a large number of people have been issued passes to maintain supply and availability of essential items, besides essential services such as health, electricity and water. Meanwhile, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray warned people with stricter restrictions, if lockdown was not taken seriously. “After the partial relaxation given from Monday, there were reports of people coming out of their homes in big numbers. This would not be tolerated. If the restrictions are not followed, we will be compelled to impose more restrictions again,” he said in his Facebook live on Monday afternoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-s-coronavirus-cases-cross-3-000-mark-25-year-old-with-no-existing-health-condition-dies/story-ac4WoK3k2XZqwBZfErkRjP.html
20-04-2020||Mumbai||Andheri society where actors live is sealed after 1 tests positive||While over 700 areas have been listed as containment zones in the city, the latest to join is a housing society in Andheri (West) where several TV stars and Bollywood actors reside.One out of the total three wings of the residential building was sealed by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Sunday late evening after a positive case was reported from the building.According to Ranjana Patil, a Bharatiya Janata Party corporator from the area, one resident of the C wing tested positive and was admitted to Hiranandani Hospital.Patil said, “One of the three wings has been sealed. One person tested positive on Sunday evening, and further process to seal the building partially is ongoing by the BMC.”Vishwas Mote, assistant municipal commissioner, BMC’s K-West ward, said, “We are sealing all those buildings where we find positive cases. In K-West ward alone, we have around 81 areas marked as containment zones.”According to BMC officials, high-risk and low-risk contacts of the Covid-19-positive person will be traced, tested and quarantined. The building falls in K-West ward that covers areas like Andheri (West), Vile Parle (West), Oshiwara etc.A BMC official said, “The high-risk contacts will be institutionally quarantined, and those who fall under the low-risk contact list will be home quarantined, and if needed, contacts will be tested twice between seven and 14 days from the date of being quarantined.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/andheri-society-where-actors-live-is-sealed-after-1-tests-positive/story-0fHdWVFRhzcEu6QNKWFrTN.html
20-04-2020||Mumbai||Cops didn’t fire rounds to disperse crowd: Palghar lynching witness||Kashinath Chaudhary, a ZP member from Dahanu, who claimed to be an eyewitness to the lynching in Palgar incident, on Monday alleged that the Kasa police did not fire any rounds in the air to disperse the 600-odd group of tribals, most of whom were drunk. Gaurav Singh, SP, Palghar has suspended API Anandrao Kale and PSI Sudhir Katare.Chaudhary said: “The main occupation of the tribals is farming. Some of them even work in the units in adjoining Dadra, Nagar and Haveli union territory. Some tribals own land, where they grow rice, jowar and other crops.” “With most industrial units closed owing to the lockdown, the tribals are finding it difficult to make ends meet,” said Vinod Nikole, an MLA from Dahanu. “The police should have taken steps to stop rumour mongering.”“The tribals are in fear owing to the lockdown. That explains the April 13 attack on two waiters of a hotel in Dhanivare in Dahanu, who were mistaken to be thieves or even the April 14 attack by 250 tribals on four Kasa policemen and the SUV of skin specialist Dr Vishwas Valvi of Thane at Saarni village in Kasa, when he was returning home after distributing foodgrains and conducting door-to-door thermal screening of tribals,” said Brian Lobo, member, Kashtkari Sanghatana, a tribal welfare outfit.Fifteen people have been arrested in the April 14 case. “On April 17, too, a man was thrashed by 17 locals in Gholwad in Dahanu, mistaking him to be a thief…We have now got permission from Dahanu tehsildar Rahul Sarang to visit villages like Jamshet, Gangangaon and Dapcheri to hold meetings with tribals to tell them not to believe rumours. We have also got ID cards.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cops-didn-t-fire-rounds-to-disperse-crowd-palghar-lynching-witness/story-AFl550MA6Xgz7DtZm2VMYI.html
20-04-2020||Mumbai||Palghar lynching sparks war of words between Sena and BJP||The Palghar lynching incident has sparked a political war between former allies turned foes Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the ruling Shiv Sena.The mob lynching of three people including two sadhus in Gadhchinchale village, a remote tribal village in Palghar district on Thursday night, went viral after a video clip of the incident came to light. The clip, which has not been independently verified by HT, reportedly of the incident, showed unarmed policemen present, but failing to curb the violence.On Sunday, the lynching incident was trending on social media, with several Twitter handles squarely targeting chief minister Uddhav Thackeray for lawlessness and even alleging a cover-up and a conspiracy in the murder of two seers. This is the second time in less than a week that Thackeray finds himself under a straight attack from the BJP. Last week, the chaos at Bandra, where hundreds of migrant workers had gathered, led to a similar social media war with #Uddhavresign trending.The Shiv Sena and its allies in Maharashtra have termed it a desperate ploy to politicise the issue during a humanitarian crisis, even as the BJP has tried hard to showcase that the Thackeray government is failing. Both Union home minister Amit Shah and UP CM Yogi Adityanath called Thackeray over the incident; Shah had called him last week after the incident at Bandra station too. “Our CM has made it clear that politics can wait and that we need every deck on hand while tackling a challenge of this proportion. But there has been a desperate pattern by the BJP to show that the state government is not doing enough. We have been very sincere in our efforts to address the challenge and people can see that,” said Priyanka Chaturvedi, Sena spokesperson and Rajya Sabha member. She questioned how Shah called Maharashtra CM over the Palghar and Bandra incidents, but not Gujarat CM over the Surat incident (where migrant workers had gathered in hundreds) or the Madhya Pradesh CM over several attacks and failure to curb the outbreak.State BJP leaders termed the Palghar incident a complete failure of law and order in Maharashtra. “The most shameful aspect in this horrific incident is that police were mute spectators and allowed the lynching. The entire law and order machinery seems to have collapsed in Maharashtra. There should be a high level inquiry in the entire incident, including a probe over whether the police are under pressure to allow locals to have their way,” said former chief minister and leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis.Sunil Deodhar, national secretary of BJP, incharge of Tripura and Andhra Pradesh, tweeted: “No adivasi in India can attack a saffron clad person unless brainwashed over years. The area where Palghar lynching happened is a communist bastion, even the local (Dahanu) MLA belongs to the CPI.” Congress general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant however pointed out that the village where the incident occurred was controlled by the BJP. The village head or sarpanch, Chitra Chaudhary, is from the BJP, he said. “It is a mockery that UP, the capital of mob lynching, and its CM call Thackeray to demand a probe into this incident. The village where this incident occurred is under the BJP’s control; for the past 10 years, the sarpanch is from the BJP,” said Sawant.Thackeray also mentioned the social media war through his direct address to people both in Marathi as well as Hindi. “I don’t want to bring politics in this. We all know where all and for what reasons mob lynchings have happened in the country. Even in our state there have been instances of mob lynchings… This incident is unfortunate and very tragic,’’ said Thackeray. He also called for arrest and action against those who were spreading lies and hate on social media and said there was no communal angle to this attack.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/palghar-lynching-sparks-war-of-words-between-sena-and-bjp/story-ugPlvHSjOewOxFJ3WO0mRO.html
20-04-2020||Mumbai||Don’t give communal colour to Palghar mob lynching, says CM||Amid the uproar over the lynching of three men in Palghar last week, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday warned of strict action against those trying to give religious colour to the incident. He asserted that those involved in the incident will not be spared and Criminal Investigation Department’s (CID) chief Atulchandra Kulkarni will conduct a high-level probe.On April 16, two sadhus and their driver were lynched to death by a huge mob outside Gadhchinchale village, 110km from Palghar, on the suspicion of being child-lifters. It later emerged that the sadhus — 70-year-old Swami Kalpvriksha Giri and 35-year-old Sushil Giri — belonged to Varanasi-based Juna Akhara and were on their way to Gujarat to attend the last rites of their guru Mahant Shri Ram Giri. “The police have arrested more than 100 suspects, including five key accused responsible for the incident. The key accused have remanded in police custody till April 30. We have suspended two policemen, holding them responsible for the incident,” said the CM. He said he has spoken to Union home minister Amit Shah and apprised him of the details of the case. “Even Amitbhai Shah knows that the incident had no religious connection as the village in which the incident took place has no such background. Even he has admitted it. I have requested him to take strict action against people fanning passions and trying to spread communal tension using social media. Those active on social media never bear the brunt of the repercussions, but they cannot go scot-free now,” Thackeray said on Facebook Live.He also said the two sadhus had reached Union territory of Dadra Nagar Haveli, but the authorities did not allow them to enter and hence they were forced to return through internal roads. “The persons killed were sent back from the border of the Dadra-Nagar Haveli amid the lockdown restrictions. Had they been given shelter by the authorities or coordinated with us, this could have been averted,” he said.Thackeray, who also spoke in Hindi, said he has also spoken to Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath over the incident. Taking a potshot at the leaders of the opposition Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP), who have attacked the government for the incident, Thackeray reminded them about incidents of mob lynching during the government under Devendra Fadnavis. “I do not want to play politics over the issue.Lynching is not the culture of Maharashtra. But this is not the first incident of lynching in the state. Similar incidents have taken place in Dhule, Chandrapur in the past five years,” he said.BJP spokesperson Madhav Bhandari said his party has not politicised the incident, but the lynching was politically patronised. “Palghar district council president belonging to the Nationalist Congress Party and panchayat samiti members belonging to the left parties were present when the incident took place. Most of the arrested accused are from the Left parties. There is direct involvement of political leaders and highlighting facts cannot be termed politicisation,” he said.While reacting to CM Thackeray’s reference to the lynching during the five-year rule of Fadnavis government, Bhandari said, “The Shiv Sena was part of the Fadnavis government and they were equally responsible for those cases.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/don-t-give-communal-colour-to-palghar-mob-lynching-says-cm/story-Et2A37BG9Rb5UuhY4FJtuN.html
20-04-2020||City||4 positive patients test negative within 24 hours, Vij marks inquiry||Haryana health minister Anil Vij on Monday ordered an inquiry after four patients tested negative within 24 hours of being declared infected. All the patients had tested positive on Saturday and Sunday as per the reports of a private lab based in Gurugram. However, results from government labs have confirmed their negative report on Monday.The district health department received the latest reports of three family members from Shahzadpur town, who had tested positive on Sunday. They were the contacts of Panchkula doctor who had been treating a positive patient. Besides them, the department also got a second negative report of an ANM (auxiliary nurse midwife) worker who had tested positive on Saturday as per the reports of the said Gurugram private lab. She was discharged from the hospital on Monday.Talking about the decision, Anil Vij said, “I’ve issued an enquiry after this disparity in Covid-19 reports came to my notice and have asked the additional chief secretary (health) Rajiv Arora to constitute a team to investigate this matter. I’ve also ordered not to send any sample for testing at this private lab forthwith.”“The private lab was approved by the central government. This disparity is a serious issue as the SOP (standard operating procedure) was strictly followed by the district administration and hospital authorities. The four patients were isolated and their residential areas were declared containment zones,” Vij added.ALL WERE ASYMPTOMATIC, SO SENT SAMPLES AGAIN: CMOChief medical officer (CMO) Dr Kuldeep Singh said, “Earlier, the ANM worker, who had tested positive as per the private lab’s report, was found to be asymptomatic, so we decided to send her samples again to a government lab and the tests turned out negative. To be double sure, before discharging her, we sent the samples to another government lab and she tested negative again. The same happened with the three latest cases from a family and they too were found asymptomatic. The same procedure was followed and their second reports are awaited. The same private lab had tested them positive.”On being asked about the possible reasons of the difference, he said, “Some extra sensitive machines show the results as ‘false positive’, but I think this should not happen at such a level. I’ve been asked by the additional chief secretary to investigate this whole matter and have informed other districts about this disparity from the lab. I’ll discuss this with public health experts and microbiologists before arriving at a conclusion.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/4-positive-patients-test-negative-within-24-hours-vij-marks-inquiry/story-gbGnQPTgVIvNOKceZToGcL.html
20-04-2020||City||Clothes, sheets of Covid-19 patients in Ludhiana civil hosp unchanged for 15 days||At a time when the Bathinda administration is being praised for washing the clothes of Covid-19 patients, some of those admitted in the Ludhiana civil hospital have been in the same set of garments and sheets for the last 15 days.The patients in the isolation ward have complained that neither the doctors nor the paramedical staffers come close to them.“It has been nearly 15 days since my younger brother was tested positive and rushed to the isolation ward of the civil hospital. He has been wearing the same set of clothes and his bedsheet has not been changed either,” said Sandeep, adding that their mother had died on March 29, becoming the first Covid-19 casualty from the district.Complaining about no source of entertainment in the ward, Sandeep’s brother said, “It gets quite boring here as smartphones are not allowed inside the isolation ward. There is no television or radio here as well. I feel cut off from the outside world as I haven’t been able to catch up on the news.”He said that some patients have asked their relatives to get bedsheets from home.Already struggling with the illness, the Covid-19 patients have demanded to install washing machines in the ward so that they could wear clean clothes time to time and stay hygienic, as the department was reluctant to offer any help.On being contacted, civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said there is a laundrette in the civil hospital and instructions have already been issued to the concerned hospital authorities that bedsheets and clothes of Covid-19 patients should be washed on regularly.NEW SMO’S THROAT SWAB TAKENA day after Dr Geeta Kataria joined as SMO of the Ludhiana civil hospital, her throat swab has been collected and sent for testing. Geeta underwent the test after she complained of a sore throat. She has been given leave till the test reports arrive.RAPID TESTING AT SABZI MANDIDeputy commissioner Pradeep Agrawal said that huge quantity of rapid antibody testing kits have arrived and the testing process would be started in the area around Sabzi Mandi. On Sunday, Sabzi Mandi was sanitised. The decision of carrying out rapid testing was taken after the death of ACP Anil Kohli. Besides him, district mandi officer Jasvir Kaur, Jodhewal Basti SHO Arshpreet Kaur, her driver ASI Sukhdev Singh and constable Paramjot have also tested positive.ASI SHIFTED AS HIS HEALTH WORSENSASI Sukhdev Singh, who was isolated at the community health centre (CHC) near Vardhman Chowk in Sector 39 after testing positive, was rushed to SPS Hospital after his health deteriorated due to the lack of healthcare and power outage at the CHC. After the matter came to the authorities, a hotline was installed at the CHC to end the problem power cuts.FOUR DEATHS OVER THE WEEKENDThree persons, including a 30-year-old woman from Satjot Nagar, 35-year-old man from Rarri Mohalla and 55-year-old man from Ramgarhia Mohalla died under mysterious circumstances at the civil hospital on Saturday, while a 27-year-old youth, Sunny, died due to multiple organ failure on Sunday night. Their bodies have been kept in the mortuary and the reports are yet to arrive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/clothes-sheets-of-covid-19-patients-in-ludhiana-civil-hosp-unchanged-for-15-days/story-cHZnz0zUnJd46PKdUyb5FJ.html
20-04-2020||Mumbai||MU initiates community kitchen at Kalina campus||After the teaching and non-teaching staff of University of Mumbai pledged their one-day salaries for the state chief minister’s Covid-19 relief fund, the varsity has stepped up their philanthropic activities. On Saturday, the varsity started a community kitchen in their Kalina campus, with the help of city NGOs as well as the Bandra collectorate’s office. “We got in touch with the Bandra collector and shared the idea of opening another community kitchen, especially for the migrant workers. With his permission, we decided to use Garware canteen at Kalina as a community kitchen. The food will then be distributed amongst those in need,” said Ajay Deshmukh, registrar, MU. For starters, food grains including rice and lentils have been provided by the Bandra collectorate office itself, while other grocery items including vegetables have been provided by NGO Chingari Shakti Foundation. “Even gas cylinders are being provided by the NGO, Human Rights Foundation, whereas MU is providing manpower and other services,” added DeshmukhBy the third day since it’s conception, hundreds of food packets have been delivered from the kitchen to migrant communities living in and around Kalina and Vakola areas. “We found out about 300 migrants from Manipur who are currently stuck in the city with no means of earning a living or transport to go back to their hometowns, so we started providing food to them as well,” said Deshmukh.To sustain this community kitchen, the university is also appealing to all staff and other acquaintances to donate for this cause either by pledging money or food grains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mu-initiates-community-kitchen-at-kalina-campus/story-usdGH9wHWLmNwRZlpSFXAL.html
20-04-2020||City||Fighting on frontline, junior doctors feel ‘discouraged’ by ‘meagre’ stipend||Over 500 MBBS interns, who are working as frontline soldiers in the battle against Covid-19 at Government Medical College and Hospitals at Amritsar, Patiala and Faridkot feel “discouraged” over the “meager” stipend they are getting from the state government.The junior doctors, who have been assigned duties in emergency wards and other departments of the hospitals where Covid-19 patients are undergoing treatment, said they are getting only Rs 300 per day even as the state government is paying Rs 750 per day to a private ward attendant.These interns are now seeking a hike in their stipend.Amritsar Medical Student Association president Dr Vaibhav Chawla said, “The interns of government medical colleges are paid Rs 9,000 monthly stipend. For the last 10 years, the state government has not increased the stipend, which is one of the lowest in the country. They should hike it now when we are risking our lives while performing duty.” He added, “The state government has temporarily recruited doctors and medical staff as paid volunteers to fight against coronavirus. The government is ready to pay Rs 5,000 per day to private specialist doctors, Rs 3,500 to MBBS volunteers and Rs 1,000 to a staff nurse. But the government is not ready to give incentives to the junior doctors.”“I have done 18-hour shifts in past weeks because my senior doctors were on mandatory 14-day quarantine after coming in contact (without adequate protective equipment) with a Covid-19 patient. The junior doctors in other states are getting higher stipend and we also deserve to be paid more”, tweeted Dr Aryan Mehta of GMC Amritsar.Dr Bir Ghuman of GMC Patiala said, “We have started tweeting to Punjab CM to increase our monthly stipend. We are working with only face masks. We are more prone of getting infected.”“The government must increase our stipend and should give us incentive for fighting the battle against Covid-19,” said Dr Anchal from GMC Faridkot.Blurb: MBBS interns of govt medical colleges in Amritsar, Patiala and Faridkot, who get Rs 300 per day, demand hike in stipend||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fighting-on-frontline-junior-doctors-feel-discouraged-by-meagre-stipend/story-e6cp4Ulvfu4UBkSYxpnBkO.html
20-04-2020||Mumbai||53 journos test positive for Covid-19 at health camp||Fifty-three journalists from across the city were confirmed to be positive for Covid-19 on Monday after they were tested at a health camp last week. Mayor Kishori Pednekar, who was also present at the event, tested negative for the coronavirus but has quarantined herself at the Mayor Bungalow in Byculla as a precautionary measure.The 53 infected are among 171 journalists whose swab samples were collected by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Thursday, at a special health camp organised for media professionals. Pednekar interacted with journalists at the camp. In a video posted on Twitter, Pednekar said, “Even though I have tested negative, I will remain home quarantined for two weeks. All official work will be done from my home. My staff will also remain in the house under quarantine. After two days, we will get all the staff tested. At the end of two weeks, we will get all the staff tested again.” All 53 of the reporters, video journalists, and photojournalists who tested positive were asymptomatic. The BMC has decided to move them to a Covid care centre (CCC) in the western suburbs.Daksha Shah, BMC’s deputy executive health officer said on Monday evening, “BMC is working out the logistics of moving all 53 journalists to an institutional quarantine facility, where they will be observed over the next two weeks. We have set up a facility in the western suburbs with a doctor and a nurse on call to observe these persons. They can also self-report any symptoms.”The BMC received the results of the journalists’ tests on Monday morning and began calling them individually, asking them to stay put where ever they were. “When we informed these journalists, we told them not to leave their homes, offices, or whatever indoor rooms they were in until BMC healthcare staff reached there to move them to a hospital, as was initially planned,” said a civic official. “Some of the journalists volunteered to travel to a hospital, but were told them not to do so, as it would risk them coming in contact with at least a few more people on the way,” the official added.Families of these journalists have been placed under home quarantine for now and will be monitored for any symptoms over the next two weeks.On the seventh or eighth day from Thursday, BMC will collect samples of all family members of the 53 journalists. Amey Ghole, BMC’s health committee chairman said, “There is little point in testing family members before the seventh day. They may test negative, but may become positive after a week.” BMC has also decided to verify these 53 test results in a government laboratory, as they were made in a private laboratory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/53-journos-test-positive-for-covid-19-at-health-camp/story-P2qVjPGkIYqm1zVBMFtarO.html
20-04-2020||Lucknow||What led to change in plan for relaxation of lockdown in UP||A lot changed between two Sundays and that was enough to throw a spanner in the Uttar Pradesh government’s plans to relax the Covid-19 lockdown for a partial resumption of economic activities from Monday.On Sunday, April 12, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath held two meetings and spoke about lockdown relaxations.He said the state would look forward to initiating partial relaxation in the lockdown to support economic activities. These meetings were held with cabinet members and the Covid-19 management Team-11.At that time, the chief minister had been highlighting that Uttar Pradesh was doing far better than other states on Covid-19 containment, despite being the most populous state.Initially, the date for partial relaxation was April 15, the end of the first phase of the lockdown, but then it was extended to April 20.But, things were not looking up by Friday, April 17, when the chief minister held a meeting with district magistrates and district police chiefs.The chief minister expressed displeasure over violation of the lockdown, rising number of Tablighi Jamaat related Covid-19 infections, and an overall rise in positive cases.He got his feedback on the situation from the state intelligence wing, Covid control rooms and CCTV footage. The next day, additional chief secretary (Home) Awanish Kumar Awasthi sent a letter to all the district magistrates and the district police chiefs, noting that the performance of 40 of the 75 districts was ‘unsatisfactory’ in adherence to the lockdown.All the high Covid-19 incidence districts fell in this category-- Agra, Gautam Buddha Nagar, Lucknow, Meerut, Ghaziabad and Kanpur. The letter had set the tone for the state to rethink the proposed relaxations in lockdown.The primary criteria on which the districts’ performance was gauged were: high number of Covid-19 cases, high number of Tablighi Jamaat members, attacks on police and healthcare providers.The number of positive cases rose drastically in several districts between the two Sundays. For instance, Agra had 104 cases on April 12 and the number rose to 240 by April 19. Lucknow’s case count jumped from 32 to 165, Gautam Buddha Nagar’s from 64 to 95; Ghaziabad’s from 27 to 41, Meerut’s from 51 to 74 and Saharanpur’s from 28 to 72. The number of total positive cases in the state shot up from 483 to 1,100.The death toll went up from five on April 12 to 17 on April 19, according to state health department figures.Additional chief secretary (Home) Awanish Kumar Awasthi said: “The idea behind the communication to the districts was to make the underperforming districts get their act together, go intensive in the containment of Covid-19 and wage a war against the virus to eradicate it from Uttar Pradesh.”Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday (April 19) night made it clear to district magistrates that there would be no easing of the lockdown in hotspots and asked the principal secretary, health, not to open 19 sensitive districts, which have reported 10 or more coronavirus cases each. Issuing these instructions at separate meetings, he empowered district magistrates to take a call on lockdown relaxations. He underscored that DMs of 19 sensitive districts should decide on the basis of ‘awareness and alertness’ after intimating the government.All the district magistrates announced the status quo on the lockdown and continued the restrictions as they were.On Monday evening, the additional chief secretary announced: “The state now has 322 hotspots.”HOW CASES JUMPED IN SEVEN DAYSThe number of positive cases rose drastically in several districts between the two Sundays. For instance, Agra had 104 cases on April 12 and the number rose to 240 by April 19. Lucknow’s case count jumped from 32 to 165 during the same period, Gautam Buddha Nagar from 64 to 95; Ghaziabad from 27 to 41; Meerut from 51 to 74 and Saharanpur from 28 to 72. The number of total positive cases in the state rose drastically--from 483 to 1,100.The death toll went up from five on April 12 to 17 on April 19, according to state health department figures.40 UNSATISFACTORY LOCKDOWN DISTRICTSMeerut, Baghpat, Hapur, Ghaziabad, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Bulandshahar, Saharanpur, Muzaffarnagar, Shamli, Agra, Mathura, Firozabad, Mainpuri, Bareilly, Badaun, Moradabad, Bijnor, Rampur, Amroha, Sambhal, Lucknow, Kheri, Rae Bareli, Sitapur, Barabanki, Sultanpur, Kanpur City, Kanpur Dehat, Kannauj, Jalaun, Prayagraj, Pratapgarh, Varanasi, Ghazipur, Azamgarh, Kushinagar, Basti, Gonda, Bahraich and Balrampur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/what-led-to-change-in-plan-for-relaxation-of-lockdown-in-up/story-lPrEaWbK6pscqVXqY0A9WJ.html
20-04-2020||City||Covid patient, who delivered baby, leaves hospital amid claps||A 28-year-old Covid positive woman, who delivered a baby 15 days ago at Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) hospital at Vashi, was given a warm send-off by the hospital staff on Monday.The Mumbai resident had travelled to her parent’s house in Navi Mumbai before the lockdown and delivered the baby on April 6. The baby girl has tested negative for the infection.The woman’s test reports are negative and she was discharged from hospital on Monday.Prashant Jawade, medical superintendent, NMMC hospital, said, “The woman’s entire family was home quarantined and so they want the hospital to discharge her on Monday. Both mother and child are fine and we are happy that she has recovered.”The entire staff clapped for her as she left the hospital with her baby.Dr Rajesh Mahatre, who was part of the team for the woman’s C-section, said, “Performing a C-Section was risky for the patients but we are happy that mother and the baby are fine now.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-patient-who-delivered-baby-leaves-hospital-amid-claps/story-Sq7cKAOYUb9YlGYMs06zLI.html
20-04-2020||City||Most firms remain shut as Capt govt flip flops on order||Even as 700 odd units in the state’s financial capital, Ludhiana, continue to function amid a month-long curfew in Punjab, no other industrial unit in the city and other parts of the state could start operations on Monday.Revising its order on not allowing any relaxation in curfew in the state till May 3, except for wheat procurement, chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday asked the deputy commissioners to oversee opening of industrial units in non-containment areas in compliance with the government’s April 18 instructions .Though some of Ludhiana’s over 95,000 units were expected to resume functioning, the district administration, in a late evening decision, rescinded an earlier order permitting relaxations. The U-turn by the administration followed chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s orders to continue with the restrictions.About 99% of Ludhiana’s industry, known for manufacturing bicycles, bicycle parts, sewing machines and hosiery, will remain closed until at least May 3.TEXTILE INDUSTRY MAKING PPE KITSThe silver lining in a grim situation, however, has been some enterprising innovations. A section of Ludhiana’s famed textile industry has diversified to making personal protective equipment (PPE) in bulk. Currently, 15 textile firms located in the city have been accorded approval by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) to make personal protective equipment (PPEs).Permission had been accorded for manufacture of essential commodities, including bread, biscuits, packaging, pharmaceuticals and PPEs on a daily basis. There are currently 600 units for manufacturing essential commodities and around 100 units for some non-essential commodities that had been given permission earlier to function.Ludhiana is home to about 95,000 micro, small and medium industrial units (SMEs) and about 250 large-scale units.BICYCLE UNITS UNABLE TO RESUME WORKLudhiana’s bicycle industry, which forms 80% of India’s bicycle manufacturing and home to giants such as Hero and Avon among others, remained closed as industrialists expressed their inability to start work because of the strict guidelines imposed by the administration.They also said sustaining would be difficult in the absence of demand in these times. “Where are the shops (retailers) to sell bicycles? What will we do even if we start manufacturing cycles?” asked SS Bhogal, managing partner of Bhogal Sales Corporation, a major bicycle manufacturer in the city.Bhogal also said strict safety guidelines imposed by the administration were not feasible.SK Rai, managing director of Hero Cycles, said there is no question of them re-opening their unit before May 3. “There are strict restrictions on transport. Re-opening in these times is just not feasible,” he said.The president of United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association (UCPMA), DS Chawla felt it was not possible to function with conditions such as quarantining of the labour imposed by the administration. Likewise, the president of the Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU), Upkar Ahuja, said nothing could be gained by opening a certain sector or industry amid a lockdown until the complete chain was permitted to operate. The industry would need raw material and a functional market to sell products.However, Ludhiana DC Pradeep Kumar Agrawal said the decision to recall the order permitting relaxations was taken to keep the situation under control. The district has so far witnessed five Covid -19 deaths, including that of an assistant commissioner of police and a revenue department official. There are currently 14 Covid-19 cases in the district.No unit gets permission in Jalandhar, AmritsarMeanwhile, no industrial unit was given permission to resume operations in Amritsar and Jalandhar on Monday.Jalandhar industries department general manger Bhola Singh Brar said, “We have received nearly 100 applications from different industrial units seeking and still looking into them.”Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said permissions will be granted as per the state government guidelines. There are around 12,000 industrial units in the district that manufacture auto and spare parts, sports, rubber, food and others.In Amritsar, officials said they have got a few applications but they are scrutinising them to send them to higher authorities.450 PLEAS REJECTED IN BATHINDAMeanwhile, the Bathinda administration has rejected 450 pleas from industrialists and traders seeking to resume their operation received so far. The district has about 150 room cooler manufacturing units.Deputy commissioner B Srinivasan said the top priority for the administration is to ensure that the district continues to remain free from Covid-19.In Gurdaspur, district magistrate (DM) Mohammad Ishfaq said banks will remain open from 10 am to 4pm for public and industries will be allowed to open as per the guidelines.(With inputs from Jalandhar, Amritsar, and Gurdaspur)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/most-firms-remain-shut-as-capt-govt-flip-flops-on-order/story-m0xAPhd7lrtUJm6gUEczqI.html
20-04-2020||City||Delhi hospitals to set up media cell||New Delhi: The Delhi government on Monday directed all hospital administrations to set up a media cell to monitor the social media after a video tweeted by a young girl, demanding prompt action into alleged mishandling by Lok Nayak hospital staff went viral. Pratibha Gupta took to twitter on Monday morning urging authorities in a video message to help her Covid-19 positive father admitted at Lok Nayak hospital. The family had taken the patient to one of the private hospitals in the city on April 16 after he had fainted. “The hospital suspected that he had corona and tested him. When the test came positive, he was shifted to Lok Nayak hospital. We were told that this was as per the government orders. He had to wait for two or three hours for admission and he did not get any meal till next morning. He has diabetes and hypertension,” said Gupta in a video message.She alleged that her father had 102 degrees fever on Monday morning, but no one attended him, she said.“Senior doctor of COVID19 team has consulted the patient, already. Shifting the patient will not be feasible at this hour. The highest of authorities, along with the Health Min @SatyendarJain has been monitoring this,” said Shaleen Mitra, officer on special duty to the government, in a tweet.Health department officials said all Delhi government hospitals will now have media cells to present the factual position from the hospital’s side regarding posts about services on social media.The girl later took to twitter again in the evening thanking people for the support and updating about her father’s condition in another video message. “Thankyou everybody !! My father is safe and his test samples have been collected. He has been alloted a separate room and is under constant supervision of supreme doctors. I had a talk with him recently and he is feeling much better now,” the girl said in a tweet from her sister Shweta Gupta’s account. Lok Nayak hospital has constituted a fact finding committee regarding the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-hospitals-to-set-up-media-cell/story-pxR32M4hcyWL12Ch7gjElK.html
20-04-2020||City||Keeping fingers crossed to maintain covid-free status, says Bathinda DC||Bathinda With samples of 129 persons it has tested so far coming out negative, and reports of three awaited, district authorities put their covid-free status to chance. “Our effort is to scan every symptomatic person. Adjoining districts in Punjab and Haryana have coronavirus patients and we are maintaining a strict watch to ensure no unauthorised person enters Bathinda. We are keeping our fingers crossed,” says deputy commissioner B Srinivasan.Mohan Pal Singh Ishar, vice-chancellor of Bathinda-based Maharaja Ranjit Singh Punjab Technical University (MRSPTU) said, “Though it is tough, but we should not mind staying back more few more days for larger public health. Media deserves high appreciation for creating mass awareness. District authorities are playing a constructive role. Social distancing is the key.”Vice-chancellor of Central University of Punjab Prof RK Kohli said strict enforcement of lockdown will yield desirable results. “The district authorities’ effort of easy availability of essential commodities makes things easier. Though Bathinda is lucky not to have a single case, we should not have a casual approach. It is important to chalk out a post-Covid-19 screening programme when large groups of students and teachers will gather in the next few weeks,” he adds. Public health rights activist Dr Vitull K Gupta says city residents must practise strict social distancing not only for themselves, but for safety of slum dwellers. “During my free medical camps in urban slums around the city, I have seen that for the underprivileged hand hygiene is the key, as they are not sensitised towards social distancing,” he adds.For farm-dependent Fazilka, fewer number of NRIs might have helpedGathering of wheat growers and vegetable traders at mandis is a cause of concern for residents of Fazilka district on the Indo-Pakistan border. Of 110 samples taken, 97 have been negative with rest awaited. A cross-section of residents favour no relaxation in curfew. They credit a fewer number of NRIs from the district behind the clean slate. However, with the wheat procurement season in the semi-arid region set to pick up next week, locals favour stricter enforcement of social distancing.A farm rights activist and entrepreneur from Fazilka town Vikram Ahuja says the district has a farm-dependent economy. “Curfew is no problem for farmers, but the administration should ensure that wheat procurement is done while following social distancing,” says Ahuja.Chairman of Punjab State Farmers’ Commission Ajay Vir Jakhar, a resident of Abohar, also favours no unnecessary relaxation in curfew. “Our main winter crop of kinnow is almost harvested. Wheat growers entering mandi should follow social distancing norms,” adds Jakhar.For 28-year-old kinnow orchardist Geet Setia, the interstate movement of transportation is worrying. He wants the administration to strengthen door-to-door supply of essentials to check large gatherings at Abohar vegetable market. “Fazilka is a gateway for transporters from Gujarat via Sriganganagar in Rajasthan. A large number of vehicles carrying fruits and vegetables from other states enter Punjab from here. A single unchecked case in mandis can trigger a number of cases,” he says. DC Arvind Pal Singh Sandhu said, “Fazilka is lucky to have no cases, we are making efforts to screen every person entering the district. Data of vehicles and those travelling with any consignment is being maintained.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/keeping-fingers-crossed-to-maintain-covid-free-status-says-bathinda-dc/story-2gdqFuBTQuehk9spKmsijP.html
20-04-2020||City||Gurugram: 34-year-old woman dies after falling from 13th floor balcony; husband booked for murder||A 34-year-old woman died after allegedly falling from the balcony of her 13th floor house at a condominium in Sector 37C on Monday morning. The police have booked her husband on the charge of murder after the woman’s brother alleged that her husband pushed her from the balcony over growing marital discord. According to the police, the incident took place around 8am. The deceased worked at a private company in the city.A police official privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said the victim’s husband, daughter and her parents-in-law were in the house at the time of the incident. “The police received information of the incident around 8.50am, following which a team rushed to the spot. The woman was rushed to a hospital, where she was declared dead on arrival. No note was recovered from the house,” said the official.The police said the woman was a native of Mahendragarh and got married nine years ago. Her husband also works at a private company. Sanjay Kumar, station house officer, Sector 10A police station, said that the woman’s brother alleged in his statement to the police that she had been murdered. “The deceased woman’s brother said that her husband had pushed her from the balcony and that he had been harassing her for some time over issues related to dowry. He also alleged that her husband used to assault her repeatedly and threatened her,” said Kumar.The woman’s husband is yet to be arrested and the police are verifying the allegations, the officials said. A case was registered against the woman’s husband under Section 302 (punishment for murder) of Indian Penal Code at Sector 10A police station on Monday. The autopsy of woman’s body would be conducted on Tuesday, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-34-year-old-woman-dies-after-falling-from-13th-floor-balcony-husband-booked-for-murder/story-BhtCJ2W20am72n64mGVzZK.html
20-04-2020||Chandigarh||Will be difficult to operate industries under new rules, businessmen tell Haryana govt||Entrepreneurs from Haryana on Monday sought a more affirmative approach from the state government to resume industrial operations in the state during the ongoing lockdown to control the spread of Covid-19. JN Mangla, president of Gurgaon Industrial Association said the government seems to be in an ambiguity over the resumption of industrial activity.“The impression that I get is that the government does not want economic activity to be resumed. They just want to bide time till May 3. The conditions imposed make it practically impossible for us to run our businesses smoothly,” he said.Mangla said the industry is apprehensive about the provisions of challan and prosecution. A Panipat exporter, Amit Goel said the guidelines did not seem to be practical. “We should be allowed to start administrative operations by allowing 3-4 persons from the management staff. Subsequently, permission to scale up the manufacturing can be given. Also, we suggest that workers who want to come on bike or cycle should be allowed. That’s better than bringing them in buses,” said Goel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/will-be-difficult-to-operate-industries-under-new-rules-businessmen-tell-haryana-govt/story-CufknPSDxZpktqrNRpBTYJ.html
20-04-2020||Chandigarh||Government schools in Chandigarh record 20% spike in Class 9, 11 results||Government schools in Chandigarh have registered a 20% rise in the number of students who have cleared examinations for Classes 9 and 11 compared to last year.The results were announced by the education department on virtual platforms on Monday. In 2019, 55% students passed the Class 9 examinations, whereas this year, it is 72.2%. For Class 11, 70.5% passed last year, while this year, it is 95.15%. All students have been awarded 30 grace marks in all subjects they were unable to clear. The additional advantage was awarded due to academic disruption caused by classes being suspended amid the Covid-19 lockdown. A teacher of Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 16, said, “Giving a student the bare minimum grace marks to make them pass is understandable, but, 30 grace marks per subject is too much. This is as good as tampering with the results.”Apart from the grace marks, the department has also given students a chance to reappear for the subjects in which they have compartments. In class 11, 14,000 students appeared for the examination, of which 560 got compartments. In Class 9, 12,000 students appeared and 4,100 have to reappear for exams.District education officer, Alka Mehta said, “We have not failed any student. Those with reappears have to take compartment examinations after May 15, the datesheet for which will be shared.” A teacher’s union leader said, “Even students who will be appearing in compartment exams will be awarded the additional 30 grace marks. This decision will be promoting incompetency in schools. Education department decided to discontinue the practice of grace marks last year, then why has it been started again? The syllabus was completed long before the schools were closed and exams were also conducted in peace.”Director school education, Rubinderjit Singh Brar said, “We have helped our students and their parents during these difficult times. We don’t want to put them through any additional stress.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/government-schools-in-chandigarh-record-20-spike-in-class-9-11-results/story-kPpN1MlUxB0ZeBBM93p9nL.html
20-04-2020||Patna||Bihar CM Nitish Kumar announces relief measures for people in Covid-19 camps||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Monday said people staying in disaster relief camps within the state during coronavirus prompted lockdown will get utensils, clothes, milk and other facilities like that given at the time of flood.In addition to providing quality food at the camps to daily wage earners, cart vendors, rickshaw pullers and other needy persons, the government will give them other amenities as given in the flood relief camps, Kumar said in an official release.Kumar gave a direction to this effect at a high level meeting to review measures taken to contain spread of COVID-19 in Bihar.Chief Secretary Deepak Kumar and a host of other senior officials were present during the meeting.Faced with floods frequently, the state government has laid down rules for comfortable stay of victims of inundation in relief camps set up at the time of the calamity.The chief minister took stock of the door-to-door screening campaign for the infection, distribution of Rs 1,000 to ration card holding families and wheat procurement.Kumar instructed officials to increase the number of relief camps in different parts of the state as per requirement.The CM assured those stranded outside the state that they need not worry about their relatives back home as the state government is taking proper care of the people.Over 50 state-funded camps are functioning in Delhi, Mumbai and other parts of the country for migrants held up during nationwide lockdown.The door-to-door screening on the pattern of pulse polio campaign is underway in the virus affected districts, he said, adding 1386 people had symptoms of general disease like cold, cough and fever out of 36.14 lakh households surveyed so far under the drive.The screening drive should be extended to other parts of the state, Kumar told the officials.The CM said figures related to Covid-19 suggest that enforcement of lockdown has helped a lot in containing the spread of infection besides protecting citizens from other diseases.Kumar gave directions to expedite the wheat procurement through PACS (Primary Agriculture Cooperative Society) so that farmers can get handsome price for their produce.He also asked officials to provide Rs 1000 assistance and other facilities to those whose applications for ration cards have been found valid during the verification.Kumar appealed to the people to be alert and beware of those spreading rumours related to the virus on social media.The social media cell of Bihar police is not only keeping a tab on rumour-mongers but is also taking action against them.The CM said a diligent obedience of social distancing will help overcome challenges of coronavirus pandemic.Meanwhile, the CM expressed grief at death of a ASHA worker from snake bite in course of door-to-door campaign to indentify virus infectants in Nawada district and gave an instruction to pay Rs 4 lakh ex gratia to the victim’s family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-cm-nitish-kumar-announces-relief-measures-for-people-in-covid-19-camps/story-UHvLuhAXgLGKgeYnWYaHTO.html
20-04-2020||Chandigarh||Be practical, have trust in us: Haryana entrepreneurs to govt||Entrepreneurs from Haryana on Monday sought a more affirmative approach from the state government to resume industrial operations in the state. Industrialists and their associations said that instead of threatening prosecution, the government should trust them to follow the standard operating protocols and other measures.Jagan Nath Mangla, president of Gurgaon Industrial Association (GIA), a body having around 400 big, medium and small industries as members, said that the state government itself seems to be in some ambiguity over the resumption of industrial activity.“The impression which I am getting from the GIA members is that the government does not want economic activity to be resumed. They just want to bide time till May 3. The kind of conditions which have been imposed makes it practically impossible to run the enterprise smoothly,” he said.Mangla said that there is unavailability of labour as most of them are either in camps or have gone back home. Those in camps need to be contacted. Making arrangements for boarding and lodging is a difficult task and maintaining social distance is a challenge, he said.“The industry is apprehensive about the provisions of challan and prosecution. The government has not been able to give confidence to the industrialists,” Mahal remarked.Not wanting to be named, another Gurgaon-based entrepreneur said providing masks, maintaining social distancing and making hand sanitisers available to the staff is their duty. “But the government should be able to infuse confidence. The message which is required from the government is that they are supportive. Why is there so much confusion,” he asked.An exporter from Panipat, Amit Goel said that the guidelines do not seem to be practical. “The kind of details being asked from the industry is complicating the process. They should have allowed us to start operations by filling a simple application. Only 3-4 persons from the management staff could be allowed in the beginning to start administrative operations. Subsequently, we can be scrutinised and allowed to scale up the manufacturing. The government should trust us. Also, we suggest that workers who want to come on bike or cycle should be allowed. That’s better than bringing them in buses,” said Goel.A Faridabad-based manufacturer, who also requested anonymity, said the government needed to take some immediate short-run measures to kick-start the economy. “I am concerned about prices of raw material and costs of freight getting shot up. An artificial shortage has been created due to non-functioning of the supply chain. The government should come up with guidelines to regulate pricing,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/be-practical-have-trust-in-us-haryana-entrepreneurs-to-govt/story-0xkljERuuZrZPFUXZ3FwFI.html
20-04-2020||City||Restricted access, strict vigil & people’s support keeping virus at bay in Tarn Taran||The administration acting forthwith and police maintaining strict vigil have played a key role in keeping the district secure from Covid-19, say health experts.“Besides the administration’s dedication, people have also been supportive. Most of the district’s villages have been sealed by the volunteers, who are not allowing outsiders to enter,” said Dr Samsher Singh, former civil surgeon of Tarn Taran.Tarn Taran deputy commissioner (DC) Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal had started holding back-to-back meetings with the officials of various departments, asking them to remain available “24x7” in the district, way before the alert of possible spreading of the disease was sounded in Punjab.Similarly, when the curfew was enforced, the police sealed the Tarn Taran’s borders with its neighbouring districts — Kapurthala, Amritsar and Ferozepur. “We have given only one access to the district from the Amritsar-Bathinda national highway and movement of only essential services is allowed from this point,” said senior superintendent of police (SSP) Dhruv Dahiya.Soon after the curfew, the SSP had directed his force to deliver daily meals to the needy at their doorstep so that no one would come out of their homes, besides staying guard. He himself, with the help of NGOs, approached various slum areas to ensure the distribution of ration.“Our village-level officers not only made the residents aware, but also enforced the law strictly,” said the SSP.All slum areas have been screened and daily announcements on social distancing are being made from the gurdwaras, the DC said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/restricted-access-strict-vigil-people-s-support-keeping-virus-at-bay-in-tarn-taran/story-O2IUP29C3zMxpyLhptN03L.html
20-04-2020||Delhi||78 more test positive for Covid-19 in Delhi on Monday||On Monday, 78 people tested positive for Covid-19 in Delhi and 141 recovered from the infection, according to the daily health bulletin released by the Delhi government. The total number of cases in the city stands at 2,081, of whom 431 people have recovered so far.The highest number of infections in the city were recorded among those below the age of 50, as 1,335 cases in this age group accounted for 64.5% of the total cases.Delhi recorded two more deaths due to Covid-19 on Monday, taking the toll to 47. However, most deaths were reported among those 60 years of age or older, accounting for over 53% of all deaths. Both the deaths were reported from Safdarjung Hospital.The Delhi government directed all hospitals to create a media cell, to monitor social media and the news, and present factual information to the people.A total of 625 people are currently admitted to nine city hospitals. Of these, 26 people are in the intensive care unit and five on a ventilator.Another 840 positive people are admitted to the ‘Covid Care Centres’. At least 30 doctors from Lady Hardinge Medical College have been asked to remain in quarantine, with many being taken to these centres. This was after 11 staff members from the paediatric ICU of the hospital tested positive. A 45-day old baby in the same ward succumbed to Covid-19 on Saturday. This death is yet to be recorded in the daily report.So far, at least 73 healthcare workers have tested positive for the infection.Delhi also reported the highest spike of cases in a day among its police personnel, with six, including five from Chandni Mahal and an officer of the special cell’s anti-terrorism wing, testing Covid-19 positive. So far, 16 police personnel have tested Covid-19 positive, of whom an assistant sub-inspector with the traffic wing was released on Friday.On Monday, five police personnel of the Chandni Mahal police were admitted to two separate hospitals after their screening results confirmed that they were positive for the Covid-19. With this, a total of eight personnel of the police station have been tested Covid-19.Deputy commissioner of police (central) Sanjay Bhatia said that samples of 76 police personnel, including the station house officer (SHO), of the Chandni Mahal police station were sent for Covid-19 testing after two constables of the police station tested positive for the virus last week. “Of the 76, five have been found infected with the disease. The test results of the SHO and 70 other police personnel of the police station are negative. In total, eight personnel have been found infected with the virus,” said Bhatia, adding that four of the eight have been admitted to a private hospital while the other four are in a government hospital. A total of 1,513 samples were collected for testing on Monday, even as reports of 2,711 remain pending in the laboratories. A total of 5,560 samples have been collected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/78-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-delhi-on-monday/story-X8vB6saA41EiS7mLoeolxL.html
20-04-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram traffic police closes Hero Honda Chowk flyover a day after it was opened to public||Just a day after the Jaipur-Delhi carriageway of the Hero Honda Chowk flyover was opened for commuters on April 15, the Gurugram traffic police closed it on April 16. The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) opened the flyover after five months, during which repair work was carried out. A chunk had fallen off the structure once in 2018 and again in 2019. The NHAI contractor at the site said that after they had opened the flyover, all restrictions that were put in place below the structure were also lifted. Rakesh Mathur, deputy manager, Valecha Engineering Limited, the contractor for the project, said, “With the opening of the flyover, we had removed all the restrictions that were put in place below the flyover.” He said that vehicular traffic was allowed to move straight from Sector 10 to Subhash Chowk but the traffic police put all the restrictions back in place under the flyover. Traffic police officials said that they harve closed the carriageway as there is less traffic on this route presently. Also, in the coming days, as the traffic volume increases, they will open the flyover. Azad Singh of traffic police station-1, said, “We saw that there was less traffic on the carriageway. Further, we have been instructed to check each vehicle. Although, there are two checkpoints below the flyover, if a vehicle travels towards Delhi on the flyover then it is hard to check it .” On April 16, traffic police officials had put back the plastic jersey barriers in front of the carriageway. “NHAI has nothing to do with the closure of the carriageway. The decision was taken by us. We will open the flyover once traffic volume increases,” added Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-traffic-police-closes-hero-honda-chowk-flyover-a-day-after-it-was-opened-to-public/story-OkbaNvDAfyrc6qQiX7N29L.html
20-04-2020||Delhi||Over 50 daily wagers stranded without ration, wages in Jor Bagh||Over 50 daily wagers, including some women and children stranded at a Delhi government school under-construction site at south Delhi’s Jor Bagh, have been struggling to get two square meals a day. The workers said that they have not been paid ever since all work was halted post-lockdown and have nearly exhausted their savings. They have been approaching the local authorities but to no avail.The group includes 37 men, eight women and six children. They have been trying to reach out to agencies to help them with dry ration so that they can cook their own meals, as they are not able to get food on a daily basis from the nearest food distribution centre and have to sleep hungry at times.Saddam Hussein, 22, who came to Delhi just a year ago and has been working on the site, said that the contractor has not even asked them about their well-being, let alone provide help. “We haven’t got our wages for last month. We tried reaching out to the contractor. He did assure us of help, but nothing happened. All of us have almost run out of money. Initially, we could manage, but now there are days when we have to do with very little food or just go hungry,” Hussein, who belongs to West Bengal, said.He added that the queue at the nearest food distribution centre is long and the portions they get are little. There are days the centre runs out of food while people are still in the queue.His wife Raina (who goes by her first name) said that she has two children aged 5 and 3, but she hasn’t been able to get milk for them for days. “It is like we are being punished for being labourers,” she said.“It is better that we get some dry ration so that we can cook. I heard it was being distributed for free, but we don’t know how to go about it. We don’t step out much except for going to the hunger centre for fear of the police hauling us up,” Javed Akhtar, 28, who belongs to Uttar Pradesh’s Ghazipur, said.He added that a sanitation worker in the area helped the group approach an NGO working for the homeless, which finally came to their rescue on Monday.“I got several calls from people stuck here on Sunday. They are not registered with the labour welfare board. We are trying to get through the local administration to get them help to survive the rest of the lockdown period,” Sunil Kumar Aledia, a social activist working for the homeless and founder of Centre for Holistic Development (CHD), said. Meanwhile, a senior official from the Delhi government’s labour department, who did not wish to be named, said, “We will definitely ask the employer regarding the disbursement of wages. We will also ensure food/ration reaches them at the earliest.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/over-50-daily-wagers-stranded-without-ration-wages-in-jor-bagh/story-OETwyzgnsaaPscKzujydOK.html
20-04-2020||City||32,000 in Indirapuram under real-time monitoring after 3 Covid-19 positive cases, use of rapid test kits on hold||Ghaziabad: Days after a pocket in Gyan Khand of Indirapuram was identified as a hot spot following a doctor contracted Covid-19 infection, two consecutive positive cases emerged from the township on Sunday and Monday. Health officials said that an area of about 5km radius from the hot spot will now be under real-time monitoring where 60 teams will be deployed to carry out door-to-door survey.The officials also said that a population of about 32,000 in Indirapuram will be monitored on real-time basis. According to the officials, the new positive cases were reported from two high-rises -- ATS Advantage and Niho Scottish Garden. The two towers, one each in the two high-rises, were sealed by the district administration on Monday. Sanjay Jain, president of ATS Advantage Apartment Owners’ Association (AOA), said that the tower, which has been sealed, has 46 flats . On the other hand, Naresh Chhokar, president of Niho Scottish Garden AOA said that the tower in his society, which has been sealed, has 22 flats.Chief medical officer Dr NK Gupta said, “A pocket in Gyan Khand area of Indirapuram was already declared a hot spot and two high-rises where towers have been sealed will now come under real-time monitoring. The two high-rises will now be identified as epicentres. An area of 5km radius from the hot spot, which has a population of about 32,000, will now be under real-time monitoring.” The officials said that the regular sanitization of the area will be done with the help of local agencies. “Under real time monitoring, our 60 teams will randomly go for door-to-door survey in order to find out suspected cases. In case need be, we will also take up random sampling of such suspected cases,” Gupta said.The real-time monitoring in Ghaziabad is being carried out in 21 different areas ,which now include areas of Indirapuram, the officials said, adding that the district has a total of 15 hot spots .On Sunday, KDP Grand Savana at Raj Nagar Extension and Girnar Apartments in Kaushambi were moved out of the hot spot list. Till Monday evening, Ghaziabad had a total of 46 Covid-19 positive cases, of which 13 patients were discharged from various hospitals after being cured.The officials said that they have suspended the plan for random sampling of people in hot spot areas with the help of 1,000 rapid test kits (RTKs) which they received on Sunday.“We conducted seven tests with the help of RTKs. But then we received message from state officials to stop the use of RTKs till further directions. Now, we have to wait till further directions,” Gupta added.State surveillance officer Dr Vikasendu Agrawal said that assessment teams from the Centre will be visiting soon different districts in UP and will initially carry out testing with the help of RTKs.“Thereafter, the district teams will be deployed to take up random testing with the help of RTKs,” Agrawal said.Overall in the state, the officials identified 322 hot spots with a population of about 36 lakh till Monday evening.“The chief minister once again gave directions on Monday for strict monitoring of hot spot areas. He has also given directions for strict enforcement of lockdown norms in 19 districts (including Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaizabad) having 10 or more Covid-19 positive cases. The police and medical teams have been directed to take every precaution. The cops have been asked to mandatorily use mask, shield and gloves during duty,” said Awanish Awasthi, UP’s additional chief secretary (home).The officials said that 52 districts in the state have 1,176 Covid-19 positive cases, but eight other districts have not reported any active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/32-000-in-indirapuram-under-real-time-monitoring-after-3-covid-19-positive-cases-use-of-rapid-test-kits-on-hold/story-sbvirK5mM2stZIk78e9WlN.html
20-04-2020||City||Four new Covid cases in Ghaziabad, high-rises sealed, travel to Delhi banned||After 12 coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases came to light in Ghaziabad on Sunday, the district on Monday saw another round of four fresh cases whose reports arrived on Monday. The Ghaziabad district magistrate then issued an order late Monday night under the provisions of the Disaster Management Act and prohibited travel between Ghaziabad and Delhi.“The order has been issued as there are six infected persons in Ghaziabad who have travelled to Delhi for various reasons. So, in order to avoid more residents being infected that wayß, we have prohibited travel between Ghaziabad and Delhi with immediate effect. Only people involved in essential supplies or valid pass holders will be allowed to move. This order will be applicable for all our borders with Delhi,” Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate, said.The health department officials said that the fresh cases are people who have attended religious congregations or are receiving treatment from hospitals in neighbouring cities. They added that one of the four cases found positive on Monday was a 41-year-old woman from the ATS Advantage high-rise who was being treated for cancer at a Delhi hospital, while the three other positive cases were people who had attended religious congregations in Kolkata.“The four tested positive on Monday. One of the cases is a woman who is being treated for cancer. Our teams have sealed the tower of ATS Advantage where she lives. One tower of Niho Scottish high-rise, Indirapuram, was sealed on Monday after a Covid-19 positive case emerged on Sunday,” Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer, said.“The other three positive cases on Monday are persons who had attended religious congregations in Kolkata. Presently, most cases are related to such instances as well as to treatment from medical facilities outside the district. Cases nowadays are not related to people with travel histories,” Dr Gupta added.He added that three previous positive cases—two resident doctors of Max Hospital, Vaishali, and one male nurse (a resident of Oxy Home high-rise)—have now tested negative.“Two consecutive test reports of the three are negative. The two doctors will be discharged soon; the nurse has already been discharged. His neighbours had opposed his return, but we intervened with the help of administration officials and allowed him entry to his flat,” Dr Gupta added.On Monday afternoon, nurses and healthcare staff members of Sanjay Nagar staged a protest in a bid to get themselves quarantined in hotels.“They were demanding that all of them should be allowed to stay at a hotel we have hired. But we made it clear to them that only those attending to Covid patients will be allowed to quarantine themselves after duty hours. Others will not be allowed,” Dr Naresh Vij, chief medical officer of Sanjay Nagar hospital, said.Meanwhile, officials of the Uttar Pradesh government said that about 3,000 people who attended religious congregations have been identified in 20 districts of the state. Besides this, there are about 325 foreigners who also attended religious congregations. They added that 45 FIRs have been filed against them so far for violating visa conditions.With the addition of four new cases, the tally of Covid-19 positive patients in Ghaziabad has risen to 46; and 13 of them have already been discharged. The district now has 14 hot spots; two areas—KDP Grand Savana, Raj Nagar Extension and Girnar Apartments, Kaushambi—were removed from the list of hot spots on Sunday.Across the state, the total number of Covid-19 positive cases stood at 1,176, with 139 of them having been discharged from various hospitals, said officials of the UP health department. They added that the positive cases have affected 52 districts so far.“There are eight districts in the state wherein there are no active cases left. But they have been told to continue monitoring and sanitising. We have also made arrangements for about 10,000 beds in isolation wards and 15,000 beds in quarantine wards so far. The L1 attached category hospitals to admit asymptomatic patients will also come up in every district. These are proposed to have 10,000 beds,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, UP’s principal secretary (health).According to the latest age profile of the Covid-19 cases in UP, 19.39% are in the age group of 0-20 years, while the highest, 48.04%, are in the age group of 21-40 years. The officials said that 24.06% of cases are in the age group 41-60 years and only 8.5% of cases are in the age group of over 60 years.“The number of cases in the age group of over 60 years was initially over 10% but these have now come down,” Prasad added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-new-covid-cases-in-ghaziabad-high-rises-sealed-travel-to-delhi-banned/story-cD7au22RLbGDf9feWfYkVN.html
20-04-2020||City||Navjot Sidhu finally wears mask in public||After defying Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s order of mandatorily wearing a mask in public a number of times in recent days, Congress MLA from Amritsar (East) Navjot Singh Sidhu made an appearance with his face, nose and mouth masked with a handkerchief on Monday. He, accompanied by local councillors, distributed ration to the needy in Daburji area, on the outskirts of the city. Last week, he had visited Guru Nanak Dev Hospital, which is part of Government Medical College, Amritsar, thrice to distribute masks, PPE kits, etc to health personnel and others, without a mask. When questioned, Sidhu had said according to World Health Organisation (WHO) guidelines, wearing a mask was not required for a healthy person. On Friday, the CM had ordered strict action against anyone violating his government’s orders on wearing a mask. On whether the course correction had anything to do with the CM’s reiterating of his order, Sidhu repeated his WHO argument, adding, “If our government wants me to wear a mask, I have no objection to it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/navjot-sidhu-finally-wears-mask-in-public/story-Uty3Oso0LzMMqUljee20kO.html
20-04-2020||Noida||GB Nagar labour dept launches app to locate migrant workers, transfer them ₹1,000||There are nearly 38,000 registered daily wage earners in Gautam Budh Nagar district, but the labour department is unable to locate even half of them to transfer a monthly financial assistance of ₹1,000 to help them tide over the lockdown and lack of employment caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. However, to get the bank details of remaining workers, the district labour department has recently launched a mobile app, on which the workers can upload their bank details themselves.The amount is being paid to workers as a direct benefit transfer (DBT) on the orders of Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, on March 21. He had ordered that ₹1,000 be provided to each of the 20.37 lakh construction workers registered with the labour department and to each of the 15 lakh self-employed cart owners, small shop owners and rickshaw pullers on an immediate basis. The amount, funded by the labour cess , will be transferred to their accounts as DBT.Gautam Budh Nagar deputy commissioner (labour) Pradeep Kumar Singh said of the 38,000 bona fide workers registered with his department, the bank account numbers of only 18,000 were available. “The amount of ₹1,000 has already been transferred to each of these accounts. To locate the remaining workers, we have launched a mobile application ‘UPBOCW’, which is the abbreviation of Uttar Pradesh Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board. After downloading this application, the workers will be asked to fill their registration and Aadhaar numbers. Thereafter, they will get a one-time password (OTP) and after entering the OTP, they will be eligible for the DBT,” he said.Surprisingly, contrary to the figures given by the state labour department on its website, which shows 1,46,380 under ‘last year renewal eligible labour’, the district labour department claims that only about 38,000 of them are bona fide. “Most of those overall figures are from when registrations were done manually with the labour department, prior to the digitisation. So, we are considering only those who have registered with their Aadhaar numbers,” Singh said. He also said since most construction workers in the district are mostly migrants, his department is working hard to locate all of them. “While all construction companies and other firms have been asked to share their workers’ bank account details, we are also making calls and sending messages on numbers available with the labour department,” he said. Singh further said that unlike other districts of Uttar Pradesh, Gautam Budh Nagar does not have a large number of MGNREGA workers. “The labour department is repeatedly making appeals, through all business establishments in Gautam Budh Nagar, to all workers, asking them not to leave for the home towns,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/gb-nagar-labour-dept-launches-app-to-locate-migrant-workers-transfer-them-1-000/story-meCMKtEAvNFa38sekbH6kN.html
20-04-2020||City||20-yr-old Jamaat attendee tests positive in Panchkula||A 20-year-old man from Pinjore’s Nava Nagar village tested positive for Covid-19 Monday, taking the Panchkula district count to 18 and state count to 251. Panchkula civil surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur said he had attended a Tablighi Jamaat event in Himachal Pradesh’s Sirmaur last month. As per health officials, the man visited Bijnour in Uttar Pradesh before returning to Pinjore. He had self-reported to the Panchkula civil hospital on April 4 and after screening, was kept at a quarantine facility in Raipur Rani along with other Jamaat attendees. His close contacts and few other families of his village have been advised to observe home quarantine. Panchkula deputy commissioner (DC) Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said samples of 952 people have so far been taken of which, 18 turned out positive. He said reports of at least 172 samples are awaited. Two contacts of Delhi cop found infected Two persons from Sonepat’s Rasoi village, who had come in contact with an infected Delhi policeman, tested positive for coronavirus on Monday evening.Sonepat DC Ansaj Singh said a woman and a man have been sent to the isolation ward of local civil hospital. “We will shift them to Khanpur Kalan’s medical college tomorrow. We have cordoned off Rasoi village and health officials have started door-to-door screening,” he added. However, the health bulletin released by the Haryana government on Monday did not mention the Sonepat cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/20-yr-old-jamaat-attendee-tests-positive-in-panchkula/story-QRPkkfnCUHTLjryhstb7OL.html
20-04-2020||Gurugram||18-yr-old tests positive in Pataudi||An 18-year-old man of Pataudi Monday was confirmed to have contracted the Coronavirus disease (Covid-19). With this the total count of persons infected with Sars-CoV-2 (name of the virus that causes the disease) reached 38 in Gurugram district. Health officials said the man was in contact with an attendee of a March 18 religious congregation who also tested Covid-19 positive in the first week of April.Till now, links of the virus’ spread in five cases from Pataudi have been traced to this gathering in Delhi. Dr Ram Prakash, epidemiologist with district health team, said, “Three samples were collected on April 17 while tracing the contacts of congregation attendees from Pataudi. One of them was confirmed Covid-19 positive on Monday. At least 21 members of his family, with whom the boy was in close contact, are admitted in the quarantine facility at Sector 9.”So far, Gurugram district has registered 38 Covid-19 cases and the largest number (14 cases) has been reported from Sohna has been reported from Sohna. Of the 14, 10 are congregation attendees from Himachal Pradesh and the remaining were close contacts of Rajasthan-based Covid-19 patient, who used to work at a factory in Mewat. Of the 38 cases, 26 patients have recovered and have been discharged after their tests came out negative and 11 are under continued medical care. As per health department, 164 persons are under surveillance at the quarantine facility in Sector 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/18-yr-old-tests-positive-in-pataudi/story-MPpUuoU15Pczm6vetC09GJ.html
20-04-2020||Noida||With status quo on lockdown restrictions, small and medium business owners stare at an uncertain future||With no relaxation in lockdown restrictions in Gautam Budh Nagar, owners of many small and medium businesses in the district are now uncertain about their future.A three-week nationwide lockdown was imposed in the country on March 25 to curb the spread of the deadly coronavirus diseases (Covid-19). The lockdown was subsequently extended till May 3, however, the Central government had suggested conditional relaxation in some lockdown norms from April 20. After a video conference with Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday, which was attended by all district magistrates in the state, the Gautam Budh Nagar administration decided to continue with the lockdown as it is, in light of the rising cases in the district. “Given the high number of hot spots in the district and the rising number of Covid-19 positive patients, the district has to be careful and precautionary measures need to stay in place. In light of this, businesses or commercial services, private or public, will not start. All citizens, officials, and workers will have to continue to follow the lockdown rules as before,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate in an order on Monday.While daily wage workers suffer amid the lockdown with no source of income, the business class is also incurring sizeable losses and small and medium business owners being the worst hit.“For now everything is at a standstill. We continue to pay our employees who have been with us for years, while we are not generating any income. The gravity of the situation will hit us when the store will eventually be opened,” said Anita Singh, owner of a stationery shop in Sector 18.“ Many offices, that have been allowed to operate, keep contacting us for stationary, but we are unable to supply them with anything because of the lockdown,” said Singh adding that despite students being in need of basic stationery items and notebooks for their online classes, many shopkeepers like her are unable to provide them. The retail sector in the district has taken a huge hit, and many business owners believe that their problems will not end even when the lockdown will be lifted.“ We are only spending money and not generating any income. Even if the lockdown is lifted next month, the consumers will not rush to shops to buy items. There will be no gatherings any time soon. People will prefer to purchase goods online. We will need a lot of outside economic help to restore the balance. At least, for the rest of this year, buying shoes and garments will not be a priority for anyone,” said Sachin Paul, owner of a shoe shop.There are about seven crore traders in the country out of which 15 million traders deal in essential commodities.“Due to the lockdown, between March 25 and April 14, the retail trade has suffered losses to the tune of ₹3.15 lakh crore,” said Sushil Kumar Jain, convener, Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT), Delhi-NCR. Amid the lockdown, most shopkeepers and business owners who deal with non-essential services and items have not been able to check in on their stocks for more than three weeks.“Electronics, garments among other things require regular maintenance, but that is not an option during the lockdown. Even after the lockdown is lifted, the situation won’t go back to normal for months, and some businesses may never be able to recover at all. The most affected are the small and medium business owners,” said Jain who is also the president of Sector 18 market association.For smaller businesses, the economic crisis has hit their means of survival. Neelam Devi, who ran a tea stall with her husband in B block, Sector 63, has been trying to make ends meet for her family for over a month now. “There were so many offices around that the tea stall always had people coming over. We had a steady income and would make around ₹1,200 on a good day. But now we have no idea when will we be able to get back on our feet and set up our stall again. We have four children and we don’t know how will we continue to feed them. We are from Bihar, and we could neither return home nor do we have any means to earn now. It took us four days to get ration from the government,” said Neelam. “We have received a food packet from the government which has rice, wheat, pulses, mustard oil, and salt. It should last us for about 8 to 10 days.”Suman Rai, an electrician who lives in Shahdara village, Sector 141 was hopeful of starting his work again after he had heard that the lockdown might be relaxed from April 20. “I stay with my nephew in Noida, and with no work, for almost a month all my savings have dried up. We got free ration once about two weeks ago, but it has also finished. With no money and no work, it’s becoming very difficult to survive. Although many of my clients are calling me for repairing jobs and other things, I cannot do anything because of the lockdown,” said Rai, who is from Samastipur in Bihar. Rai used to earn more than ₹25,000 per month and had employed a daily wager to help him out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/with-status-quo-on-lockdown-restrictions-small-and-medium-business-owners-stare-at-an-uncertain-future/story-4nmeMSLHbeCXVjvKM7l8bL.html
20-04-2020||Jaipur||Gehlot requests Shah to facilitate return of migrants stuck in other states||Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Monday said he spoke to Union Home Minister Amit Shah and requested him to facilitate the return of migrants from Rajasthan stuck in other states due to the lockdown.Gehlot said the Centre should consider the plight of the labourers and allow them to return to their homes.“I spoke to the union home minister and said the Government of India should treat Rajasthan in a different manner. Larger number of migrants from Rajasthan live in other states be it Assam, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra and they are traders, employees, workers, shop keepers etc and want to come back,” he told reporters.He said the home minister has asked him to discuss with the officials and respond on Tuesday.“They (migrant labourers) want to go back home and once the situation improves, they would return with a new confidence. The Government of India should take up the matter,” he said.“I have asked the prime minister, have written a letter too to explain the situation of migrant labourers. They are mentally broken and are depressed now,” he said.After Uttar Pradesh, he said, Assam, West Bengal, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat have also agreed to take their students back from Kota. UP had sent 250 buses for the return of the students.He said there are 4,000 students in Kota who are from various parts of Rajasthan and arrangements to send home are being made. The CM said the Centre should also take a decision to release more wheat soon.The CM said the state government was strengthening its health infrastructure.“We are managing challenges at the health and economy front in a balanced manner,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/gehlot-requests-shah-to-facilitate-return-of-migrants-stuck-in-other-states/story-cLTxSEdwEKNxZCxY0by5eP.html
20-04-2020||City||Greater Noida officials help UP man working in Jammu attend father’s funeral amid lockdown||GREATER NOIDA: Amid the nationwide lockdown imposed to mitigate the Covid-19 spread, senior officials of the Greater Noida authority and the district police have helped a teacher working in Jammu, who is a native of Uttar Pradesh, to perform last rites of his father in his hometown Lakhimpur Khiri.Distressed Hindi teacher Ashish Kumar working with Kendriya Vidyalaya in Jammu sought help after he came to know that his father passed away in Lakhimpur Khiri.“We received a call on April 18 at 7pm from the teacher from Jammu. Being the eldest son, he wanted to perform the last rites of his father and reach on time. We immediately took steps to help him,” said Narendra Bhooshan, chief executive officer of Greater Noida authority. The Uttar Pradesh government had on March 28 appointed Bhooshan as nodal officer to look after operations to take care of people from the state who got stuck in Delhi, Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh due to the nationwide lockdown. He has set up a call centre in Greater Noida authority office to handle calls from these states.Bhooshan called principal secretary for home (Jammu and Kashmir) Shaleen Kabra and asked for arranging a cab and lockdown pass. After getting instructions from Kabra, senior Jammu officials helped arrange a cab and pass at 8pm on April 18.“We spoke to officials of Jammu and ensured he not only gets a taxi but also a pass for the journey. The control room officials were given contact details of the person to ensure that he travels smoothly,” said Alok Singh, police commissioner of Gautam Budh Nagar.Kumar started his journey at 9pm with a driver named Narendra Singh. They travelled through Punjab and Haryana to reach UP’s Lakhimpur Khiri at 9.30am on April 19. The teacher travelled 990 km to perform his father’s last rites. After reaching his hometown, Kumar could not hold back his emotions and broke down while thanking officials. “Initially I thought I will not be able to perform last rites of my father due to lockdown. However, UP government officials made this possible,” said the teacher. “These two persons were only ones who travelled while following lockdown norms,” said Bhooshan.The team at Greater Noida call centre kept calling Kumar every two hours to ensure safe journey during this time of crisis, the officials said, adding that there are at least 50 people from UP in Ladakh, 500 in Jammu and Kashmir and thousands in Delhi who got stuck due to the lockdown.“We are counselling them to stay safe at their respective locations. In emergency cases such as death of a relative, we help them to get a pass for their journey back home,” said Bhooshan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/greater-noida-officials-help-up-man-working-in-jammu-attend-father-s-funeral-amid-lockdown/story-qK7S0pYeBNXvotv0d89COK.html
20-04-2020||Gurugram||Six hybrid lanes opened at Kherki Daula toll plaza||Three canopy lanes on each side of the 25-lane Kherki-Daula toll plaza became functional on Monday, more than three weeks after toll collection was stopped due to the nationwide lockdown to check the spread of Coronavirus. These lanes will be hybrid and will accept both cash and FASTag for the time being, though use of cash was discouraged to prevent the spread of the coronavirus, officials said. On Monday, Gurugram traffic police personnel were deployed at the canopy lanes to check curfew passes of commuters and jersey barriers were still in place in front of the remaining 19 lanes. Systems manager with highway concessionaire MCEPL, Anish John, said, “Vehicles are moving through the canopy lanes as there is less traffic. Each vehicle is being checked by the police for curfew passes. On Monday till 3 pm, 6,342 vehicles, mostly trucks, had crossed the toll plaza.”The Kherki-Daula toll plaza was closed on March 25, day 1 of the 21-day lockdown now extended till May 3, after the Union ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH) took a decision to make the toll plazas across the country free. Toll officials said during the lockdown period, 1,70,658 vehicles crossed the toll. MCEPL chief executive officer S Raghuraman, said, “We are preparing the amount which NHAI can compensate us during the lockdown period.”Meanwhile, the toll booth operators have raised concerns about accepting toll payment in cash. “The booth operators are scared to take cash from commuters because of coronavirus. We are encouraging commuters to pay through FASTag,” Kherki-Daula toll plaza project director Rajender Bhati said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/six-hybrid-lanes-opened-at-kherki-daula-toll-plaza/story-amBwQy2ewlBMJlWfQUro8J.html
20-04-2020||Gurugram||Property registration resumes in Gurugram but finds few takers||The registration of property in the city resumed on Monday, although hardly anyone turned up for executing their deeds of conveyance, transfer of property and any other related activities. Not a single person showed up for registration in Gurugram and Manesar tehsils, which otherwise witness on an average 35 to 40 and 100 to 1,110 daily registrations respectively in normal times. Only one deed was registered in Wazirabad sub-tehsil whereas Badshahpur, Kadipur and Harsaru sub-tehsils also did not witness much activity on the registration front, district revenue officials said, adding that they are waiting for a final report. Revenue from registration of property is a major income source for the Gurugram administration as around 300 to 350 such instruments are usually registered daily in Gurugram and Manesar taken together. The daily revenue generated on account of stamp duty and registration fee is substantial but collection came to a naught after March 24. The resumption is now aimed at generating revenue again, said officials. Arrangements for social distancing, providing sanitisers and staggered entry inside the tehsil offices were made by the revenue officials, who have been asked to ensure that social distancing norms are followed. The timing for property registration has been fixed between 2pm and 4pm every day and each tehsil and sub-tehsil can carry out 24 registries in a single day, said revenue officials. Persons, who are selling and buying the property, would be allowed to enter the tehsil offices, while the sale of stamps would take place online. All those entering the offices are required to wear a mask, they added.Jivender Malik, tehsildar, Gurugram, said that two tokens were issued by them to executants on the first day for registration of property deeds but none of them turned up. “We waited for the applicants and adequate arrangements were made to ensure that documentation is carried out in a safe and secure manner,” said Malik, referring to the guidelines prescribed by the government.In normal days prior to the lockdown, the Gurugram tehsil saw around 35 to 40 registrations of property deeds daily, says Malik, adding that those sub-tehsils where apartment complexes are built see more conveyance deeds.Similar scenes were witnessed even in Manesar as no property owners turned up for registration of deeds, said Bijender Rana, tehsildar, Manesar. “There was no registration of deeds on Monday but we are hoping that things will start improving in the next two to three days. In normal times, we carry out 100 to 110 registrations ,” said Rana.With large number of condominium complexes located in the tehsil, Rana said that a conveyance deeds of apartments/flats generated around ₹30 crore revenue every month but things had slowed down considerably after March 24. “Apart from the regular arrangements, we have also stocked masks and will give to persons who are not wearing it,” he said. Wazirabad sub-tehsil was an exception, where only one property deed was registered, said Jai Prakash Garg, naib tehsildar. “A single registration was carried out but we hope things will improve in the coming days,” said Garg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/property-registration-resumes-in-gurugram-but-finds-few-takers/story-ULloM0XU9BlbzrMeJnZcNP.html
20-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: Frontline staff, including docs, wary of state directive on taking HCQ dose||Most doctors, para-medicos and other ground-level health staff in the state, engaged in the frontlines of battling the corona pandemic, have rejected a Punjab health department directive that asks them to take a dose of anti-malarial drug, Hydroxychloroquine. The medicine is supposed to act as prophylactic (preventive measure) against covid-19. “As there are no strong studies or proofs that HCQ has prophylactic benefits, we are advising our colleagues and staff not to take it. It is causing trouble in some heart conditions and exacerbating some ailments, so if any healthcare worker associated with us wants to have it for prophylaxis, we are discouraging them, or they can have at their own risk,” said Dr Aslum Parvez, state president, Rural Medical Services Association, Punjab.On April 7, Punjab director for health and family welfare Dr Avneet Kaur sent a directive to all civil surgeons on the use of HCQ. This letter cites an advisory from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). This advisory, ironically, mandates that HCQ is to taken only after consulting a physician. According to the advisory, asymptomatic healthcare workers involved in the care of suspected or confirmed cases of covid-19, should take a 400mg tablet twice on Day 1; followed by a 400mg tablet once a week for the next seven weeks, with meals. “For asymptomatic household contacts of laboratory confirmed cases, the dose should be a 400 mg tablet, twice on Day 1, followed by 400 mg once weekly for next three weeks,” the ICMR advisory adds. State Punjab Civil Medical Service (PCMS) association president Dr Gagandeep Singh said they remained apprehensive. “There is confusion, so we have asked fellow doctors and staff to consume the HCQ at their own risk.” He added that the majority of PCMS doctors were not taking any HCQ dose. A doctor, not wishing to be quoted, claimed that a journal in England had published a study that negated the role of HCQ in covid-19 positive patients.“The ICMR has already said that it has launched a study to know the side-effects of HCQ using data of healthcare workers taking the medicine. So, it appears that the recommendation to us, without the backing of any study, is part of that experiment being done, at the expense of healthcare workers,” a doctor posted in Barnala claimed. “We issued our directive for frontline staff based on an ICMR advisory. To date, the department has not received any representation from doctors and other staff on their apprehensions on the use of HCQ,” director, health, Dr Avneet Kaur said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-frontline-staff-including-docs-wary-of-state-directive-on-taking-hcq-dose/story-C8aN2oIt862Pvkje0NvQBM.html
20-04-2020||City||Kurukshetra youth dies mysteriously in Canada||An 18-year-old youth from Kurukshetra district died in Canada under mysterious circumstances. The deceased has been identified as Navjot Singh, a resident of Pooja Colony of Shahabad town in Kurukshetra district.The youth’s uncle Rajpal told HT that Navjot’s father Kashmir Singh had received a phone call on Monday morning from the Indian embassy in Canada informing him about his death.Navjot had gone to Canada on a study visa in September last year to pursue BCom.Rajpal, an official of the embassy said that the cause of Navjot’s death will be ascertained after the postmortem examination.Navjot’s family members are facing hardships to bring his body back to the country as international flights have been suspended due to the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kurukshetra-youth-dies-mysteriously-in-canada/story-aencXZC9VsaNHwQErgq8EI.html
20-04-2020||Bangalore||Padarayanapura incident an act of “goondaism”: Karnataka CM||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Monday termed the ruckus at Padrayanapure here when officials had gone to shift secondary contacts to quarantine facility as an act of goondaism, and directed police to take stringent action against those taking law into their hands.“Yesterday’s incident at Padarayanapura, is an act of goondaism against police, health and BBMP (civic body) officials. They have destroyed the barricades erected there and chairs used by government staff there,” Yediyurappa said.Speaking to reporters here, he said, he had discussed the incident last night itself, and Home Minister and Police officials are taking all measures to maintain law and order.“Caring for whose health, our officials had gone there, without understanding it indulging in goondaism cannot be tolerated,” he added.Tension had prevailed at Padarayanapura late on Sunday as some secondary contacts of Covid-19 patients along with a few locals tried to remove barricades and argued with officials who had come to shift them to a quarantine facility.Officials had gone with a list of 58 people who are secondary contacts to be sent to quarantine facility.There are also reports of alleged attack on health care and police personnel during the incident.Padarayanapura has been sealed to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus.Stating that about 54 people have been arrested in connection with the incident, the Chief Minister said, according to Home Minister four more people will be arrested.“I have issued directions to take all necessary stringent action within the framework of law. The Home Minister and senior officials are at it,” he said, adding that such incidents had not happened in the past, such goonda act of taking law into hand cannot be tolerated, strict measures will be taken so that such incident don’t repeat.Responding to a question, the Chief Minister said whoever has committed mistake will be punished, there was no question of Hindu, Muslim or Christian in it.“An act of taking law into hands will not be tolerated, this message has to go to people across the state.In this view strict measures will be taken,” he said.Hitting out at Congress MLA Zameer Ahmed Khan for his statement as to why the health workers and police officials went to the area late in the night and not in the morning, Yediyurappa termed it as “height of irresponsibility”.“Who is he? What does he have do? Does government has to take approval from him for the measures it takes and its functioning...it looks like he is supporting and instigating such activities, what does he mean?” the Chief Minister asked.A person who had to seek strict action, if he is giving such statements, it is height of irresponsibility, he added.Though he condemned the incident, Khan had tried to defend the attackers stating they were uneducated labourers who didn’t know what they were doing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/padarayanapura-incident-an-act-of-goondaism-karnataka-cm/story-YbGuQVz81JIoNKKNMikt0J.html
20-04-2020||Lucknow||FIR against Mumbai comedian for comments against PM||The Georgetown Police lodged an FIR on Sunday night, against Mumbai-based comedian Munawwar Farooqui for allegedly mocking Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in a video which he uploaded on YouTube. In his complaint, lawyer Ashutosh Mishra also alleged that the comedian also made objectionable comments on Hindu deities.On the complaint of the lawyer, an FIR was lodged under the IT Act and investigations are underway, SP (city) Brajesh Kumar Srivastava said.Comedian Farooqui hails from Gujarat and lives in Mumbai. He allegedly uploaded the controversial video on YouTube some days back.Meanwhile, in an unrelated development, the Civil Lines Police lodged an FIR under IT Act against one Anwar for making objectionable comments on the social media against Prime Minister Narendra Modi while the Kydganj Police registered a case against Nishant Thakur for spreading hate on social media.Earlier, the Khuldabad Police had arrested one Arsalan for objectionable remarks against Prime Minister and chief minister Yogi Adityanath on a social networking site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/fir-against-mumbai-comedian-for-comments-against-pm/story-ZxhREWsFID8vLYrS2Kpp4K.html
20-04-2020||Chandigarh||Rain throws wheat lifting in Punjab mandis out of gear||Moderate to heavy rainfall in different parts of Punjab brought ongoing wheat procurement as well as the crop harvesting to a halt on Monday afternoon, besides leading to increased moisture content in the grain. Patiala district was the worst-hit with 15mm rainfall in a span of an hour, followed by Ludhiana at 5mm. On Monday, the field staff of the agriculture department remained on their toes, carrying out surveys to assess the damage caused by inclement weather. The rain further delayed harvesting as reports of crop flattening poured in from various places. “The rain disrupted procurement in Patiala and Ludhiana districts. It also slowed down operations in Fategarh Sahib, Khanna, Jalandhar, Rupnagar, Kapurthala, Patiala and Mohali districts,” said additional chief secretary Viswajeet Khanna, who heads the state-level committee on harvesting and procurement.‘Farmers already at the receiving end’Arshdeep Singh, a farmer from Bhadson town in Patiala district, said the rain flattened nearly half of his crop that was yet to be harvested. “Rain at this stage of the harvesting season is a cause of concern. The farmers are already facing a lot of difficulties in harvesting and selling their produce in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak,” he said.“The farmers who are yet to harvest the crop will have to wait longer. Also, there will be delays in procuring the produce lying in open areas at the grain markets,” Patiala chief agriculture officer Surjit Singh Walia said.Harbans Singh Rosha, chairman of the committee at the Khanna mandi, the second biggest grain market in Asia, said, “The farmers are already facing an acute shortage of labour. Now, inclement weather is adding to their woes. We got a rain alert and kept the grain under cover but some grain markets have no sheds.”Anup Singh Grewal, a farmer from Ludhiana district, said, “The bad news is that the meteorological department has predicted rain in the next few days as well.” ‘Govt should provide relief to those affected’ Kulwinder Singh, a farmer from Mehatpur town in Jalandhar district, said, the state government must assess the losses and provide compensation accordingly. District agriculture officer Naresh Gulati said, “Our field officers are collecting reports on damage to the crop caused by the rain.” District mandi officer Devinder Singh said the produce that arrived in the district’s grain markets in the morning was lifted or was kept under the sheds. Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU Ekta-Ugrahan) leader Jhanda Singh Jethuke said high-speed winds and hailstorms along with rain has only worsened the situation.As per the state agriculture department, wheat harvesting on 16% area in the state was over and 13 lakh tonne produce was procured till Monday. It will cause serious damage to crops: PAUPunjab Agricultural University (PAU), Ludhiana, vice-chancellor Dr Baldev Singh Dhillon said the rain caused a serious damage to the crops.“Not only the standing crop has suffered a damage, but also the produce kept or stored in the open will be spoilt due to rain. Now, it would be difficult to harvest the crop with a combine. Besides, prolonged drying may lead to shattering of grain. Also, there is a fear of fungus and discolouration of grain,” said Dr Dhillon.Surendra Paul, regional director of the India Meteorology Department (IMD), said 5 to 15mm rainfall was reported in different parts of state and it took the relative humidity up to 64-90%.The Punjab food and civil supplies department, which drives procurement along with four state government procurement agencies and the Food Corporation of India (FCI), has asked the farmers to bring produce to grain markets with moisture content not beyond 12%. The advisory was issued to follow the medical protocols to avoid crowding and ensure social distancing at grain markets to contain the spread of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/rain-throws-wheat-lifting-in-punjab-mandis-out-of-gear/story-6EMgz8KvJ77GXIOhncUhnM.html
20-04-2020||City||Bathinda man sets mother afire, gets booked for murder||The police here on Monday booked a man and his uncle for allegedly murdering his mother by setting her afire in Mandi Kalan village here.Kulwinder Kaur (36) was allegedly set afire by her son Hardip Gir and his uncle Ajaib Gir on Saturday. She succumbed to the injuries at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital, Faridkot, on Sunday.Based on the complaint of deceased woman’s brother, Raja Singh of Jakhal in Haryana, a case under Section 302 (Murder) of the IPC has been registered against the two at Balianwali police station.Station house officer inspector Chiman Lal said that the complainant has alleged that the two accused set her sister on fire as they used to suspect her character. The accused are yet to be arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bathinda-man-sets-mother-afire-gets-booked-for-murder/story-SQyNC97FihgUVHN2B4y9aN.html
20-04-2020||Ranchi||12-year-old girl walks 100 kms in dense forest in Chhattisgarh; dies||A twelve-year-old girl reportedly died after walking about a hundred kilometers in three days in the dense forests of Chhattisgarh to reach her village in state’s Bijapur district, police said. She was part of a group of 13 labourers returning from Telangana. Jamlo Madkami, who went to Perur village in Mulgu district of Telangana to pluck chilly along with thirteen others, died in the jungle on Saturday evening. She started walking from Perur on April 15 along with other labourers, official said on Monday.The district administration said that the other 13 labourers were quarantined after the death of girl.“On Monday, the postmortem of the girl was conducted because the body was preserved. We had sent the samples of the girl on Saturday to Jagdalpur for tests of COVID-19, which was found negative,” said chief medical and health officer, Bijapur, Dr BR Pujari.The medical officer also said the group of 14 labourers took the route of jungles as due to lockdown, the entry though roads was not allowed.“She walked along with the group crossing difficult terrain of Maoist-affected forest and on Saturday evening she collapsed in Bhandarpal jungles,” said Pujari, adding that the route is extremely difficult to walk.The girl’s village was about 50 kilometers from the place she died.The medical officer said the girl from Aded village under Toynaar police station had gone to Telangana in search of employment along with her relatives.A senior government official of Bijapur district, who was not willing to be named, said that hundreds of labourers, who went to Telangana in search of employment were returning to their villages on foot through the dense forest. “The forest route is surrounded by severe Maoist affected areas hence no one can monitor their movement,” said a senior police official involved in anti-Maoist activity, who was not willing to be named.“We conducted the post mortem but the exact reason behind the death is yet to be ascertained. Her visra has been preserved and will be sent for further examination,” the CMHO said.The CMHO said primarily the postmortem suggests that she died because of electrolyte imbalance.“Since she travelled on difficult terrains for three days, she could be facing muscle fatigue which could led to some imbalance. Secondly, as per the people who were walking with her, she fell from a hillock and sustained injuries also,” the CMHO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/12-year-old-girl-walks-100-kms-in-dense-forest-in-chhattisgarh-dies/story-jwgMVE16Vm1WCdo2IXqbEO.html
20-04-2020||Lucknow||65-year-old man killed in tiger attack||A 65-year-old man was killed in a tiger attack near Katarniaghat range of the Dudhwa Tiger Reserve (DTR) on Sunday.According to forest department officials, the partially eaten body of the man, a farmer, was found near railway tracks near Tikunia area of Lakhimpur Kheri district. “The injury marks on the body suggest that the man was killed by a tiger,” said a forest official, requesting anonymity. This is the third attack by the big cat in this month, he added. On April 3, two men were mauled to death by a tiger in the vicinity of Pilibhit Tiger Reserve. The incident took place in Richhaula Chowki of Gajraula area in the district when Ninder Singh, 50, and his servant Dorilal, 28, were sleeping on their agricultural field. The tiger had also dragged them for over 500 meters, he said. The forest department came to know about the incident when they were informed about it by Ninder’s brother after which teams of police, district administration and forest department reached there. The tiger was tranquillised by the forest department team and later sent to Lucknow Zoo.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/65-year-old-man-killed-in-tiger-attack/story-NvbbHAYXgXM8QNMOPWQi2L.html
20-04-2020||Lucknow||KGMU gets nod for plasma therapy||Plasma therapy shall soon start for Covid-19 patients in Uttar Pradesh as the Drug Controller General of India (DGCI) has given permission to King George’s Medical University in this connection. Five coronavirus patients, who were treated successfully at the medical university, are ready to donate plasma. Under plasma therapy, plasma from cured patients is transfused to other patients who are under treatment for Covid-19. KGMU has also sent a proposal to Indian Council of Medical Research, asking the apex research body to make the medical university a nodal centre for plasma therapy for Covid-19 patients.“Covid patients, who complete treatment, develop antibodies and they can be used after 28 days of completing the treatment. We have our first lot of such patients ready,” said Prof Tulika Chandra, head of the department of transfusion medicine at KGMU. The work will be done in collaboration with Dr D Himanshu of KGMU’s medicine department, who is treating patients in the isolation ward.Plasma will be obtained with apheresis, the process of separating the cellular and soluble components of blood using a machine. Apheresis is often done on donors where whole blood is centrifuged to obtain individual components (eg, RBCs, platelets, plasma based on specific gravity) to use for transfusion in different patients. The plasma obtained will be transfused to patients. “We are already following the highest protocols of transfusion,” said Prof Chandra.She said plasma donation will be completed first and then a plan will be made for transfusion. The plasma donors have been treated at KGMU and are residents of Lucknow.About the proposal to make KGMU a nodal centre for plasma therapy in the state, Prof Chandra said once the ICMR gives the nod, work can start to make a pool of plasma from treated patients in the state and then transfusion can be done.A team of doctors will closely monitor the transfusion, its impact and change in the health condition of the admitted patients at KGMU. The medical university has treated 16 Covid-19 patients till now and discharged 11 of them after they recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/kgmu-gets-nod-for-plasma-therapy/story-YdBXiJ2FfiqACjyvlWFDwK.html
20-04-2020||Lucknow||Agra: Govt hospital refuses admission to pregnant woman||A full-term pregnant patient was denied admittance into Agra’s Lady Lyall (district women’s) Hospital on Monday, after the hospital’s demand for two packets of blood was not met.When all the efforts of the patient’s labourer husband failed in getting her admitted and he tried to take the woman back home, he had to do so on a rickshaw, as the ambulance services too were not available.Parvez (Shabeer Ullah) 35, a resident of Nagla Mewati, in Agra, said, “I informed them that being a daily wage labourer, it was tough to arrange blood as I had no money left. I also offered to give my blood, but they refused and insisted that I get the required blood.”However, Lady Lyall Hospital officials denied that any such patient came to them, though they said that they are trying to find out more from hospital staff on duty at that time. The incident happened with pregnant Rubeena Begum. “My wife was in the last days of pregnancy and on Monday, early in the morning, she experienced severe pain. I took her to Lady Lyall hospital around 5:30 am but hospital staff present there did not admit her.“I requested almost everyone present there, but all efforts went in vain. At about 10:30 am, an attendant of one of the patients intervened and apprised the doctor on duty and other staff about my wife’s case. Doctors and other staff members asked me to arrange for two packets of blood for my wife and said that only then would they admit her,” Parvez said.“Thereafter, I decided to take my wife home, as she was crying due to severe pain. But after I called on 102 and 108 ambulance numbers, nothing worked and I got no response despite many requests,” he added. “So, I went outside the hospital to arrange a private vehicle, but did not find anything. I requested policemen, passers-by, but nobody assisted me,” he said.“After some time an Agra Nagar Nigam employee arranged for a rickshaw on which I brought my wife back home. I would like to thank the man who arranged the rickshaw during this tough time and only because of his efforts was I able to take my wife home and she is safe. She has given birth to a baby boy at home with the help of a ‘daayi’ (a nurse),” Parvez said.Lady Lyall Hospital superintendent Asha Sharma said, “I am unaware about such a patient and this case. But when I enquired about it, doctors and other staff claimed that no such case came to their knowledge. We are trying to find out more details in this regard with the staff on duty at that time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/agra-govt-hospital-refuses-admission-to-pregnant-woman/story-SWhOtNbiC7kUutgIYFqi5N.html
20-04-2020||City||Delhi: Five ‘high risk’ employees quarantined after senior engineer of NDMC tests Covid-19 positive||New Delhi: Two days after a senior engineer of the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) tested positive for the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease, the district administration quarantined at least five “high risk” employees of the civic body who had come in direct contact with the patient.According to officials of the New Delhi district administration, at least 19 employees of the NDMC came in contact with the senior engineer who tested positive on Saturday.“Five of these 19 are among high-risk contacts and are being quarantined while 10 are those who had met the patient more than 14 days back. All the remaining contact persons have been instructed for self-observation of any flu-like symptoms (ILI Symptoms),” New Delhi district magistrate Tanvi Garg said.The officials said CCTV footage was checked and staff members were also questioned about their meeting with the senior engineer. The exercise was conducted to ascertain the number of people who might have come in contact with the engineer and also the places where he might have visited. “Samples of some of the staff members who came in contact with the Covid-19 positive official would be taken tomorrow. A survey regarding their travel history and contact history was also conducted,” the district administration official said.If more samples test positive, the building might be declared a hot spot. An order issued by New Delhi additional district magistrate D Karthikeyan said: “The medical officer in charge is directed to conduct contact tracing of the case...station house officer of the area shall ensure the implementation of lockdown orders and ensure that all contacts of the positive case, who have been recommended home quarantine, shall observe home quarantine strictly.”A senior NDMC official, requesting anonymity, said over 50 employees were screened and a surveillance team of doctors also met the engineer on Sunday to know if the patient had any travel history and to ascertain the contact-tracing. Officials said the senior engineer had been working during the lockdown period and had been “visiting the office till Wednesday and had also attended some meetings”.NDMC officials said that last week, the senior engineer fell unwell and was taken to a dispensary, from where he was referred to Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital where he was tested for the Sars-Cov-2.He was engaged with the building maintenance division in the municipality and his office was on the 16th floor of the NDMC building.The NDMC officials said that the entire building has been sanitised twice by the health department of the civic body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-five-high-risk-employees-quarantined-after-senior-engineer-of-ndmc-tests-covid-19-positive/story-2sfnvgI8TaCMcTAxz9gX9H.html
20-04-2020||Delhi||ASHA workers’ body demands PPE kits after one of them contracts Covid-19||A day after an ASHA (Accredited Social Health Activist) worker, deployed in Central Delhi district’s Sadar Bazaar area for containment activities, tested positive for Covid-19, the Delhi ASHA Workers Association (DAWA) Monday stepped up their demand for personal protective equipment (PPE) kits for all ASHA workers who are on Covid-19 containment duties. The 32-year-old ASHA worker was deployed in Sadar Bazaar for door-to-door survey to identify infected persons. According to DAWA, she completed a field survey of over 300 houses in Sadar Bazaar area last week. As she wasn’t feeling well, she got herself tested for Covid-19 and her results came positive Sunday. A senior district official said, “The worker, who is a resident of the same area, was admitted to Ram Manohar Lohia hospital on Sunday afternoon after her test reports came positive for Covid-19.”Kavita Yadav, state coordinator for ASHA workers, All India United Traders Union Centre (AIUTUC), said, “She is the first ASHA worker to test positive in Delhi. A lot of ASHA workers are not getting protective kits to carry out their work. Now that so many ASHA workers are deployed in containment zones, we want the Delhi government to give them PPE kits which are given to all front line workers. They are going door-to-door in containment zones to identify infected persons, thereby putting themselves at risk.”However, a senior Delhi government official said ASHA workers are provided gloves, masks and shoe covers and they did not require PPE kits. “They don’t require PPE, as they are supposed to maintain a social distance while collecting information from people during the door-to-door survey. They are provided a basic kit comprising masks, gloves and sanitisers. PPE kits are to be used by hospital staff,” the official said. But Yadav said, “The chances of ASHA workers contracting the infection are very high, as it is difficult to say which resident is a carrier of the infection, and they interact with so many. So PPE kits should be given to them.”ASHA workers have also been demanding better wages and timely payments. Of the 5,900 ASHA workers in Delhi, a large number of them is currently conducting door-to-door surveys to identify Covid-19 infected persons, especially in containment zones.The Delhi Asha Workers’ Association said they were not paid salaries for the month of March and that the incentive assured by the government is less than the financial assistance given to construction workers and auto drivers to compensate for loss of work due to the ongoing lockdown.The association wants the Delhi government to pay workers minimum wages or at least ₹10,000 per month till the time they are on Covid-19 duty. It had also written to Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain in this regard. But a senior official said a decision is yet to be taken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/asha-workers-body-demands-ppe-kits-after-one-of-them-contracts-covid-19/story-ArE1YUPX5lWEpKIQD7Gh1N.html
20-04-2020||City||Kalyan schools begin new academic year||Some schools in Kalyan have started the new academic year on Monday through online classes. “We have three-hour class for students from kindergarten to Class 10,” said Bhagyashree Pisolkar, Principal, Meridian School, Kalyan.BK Birla School, Kalyan, started online classes for students from kindergarten till Class 12. “For students of Class 3 and above, school starts at 9am and ends at 2pm. Those from Class 1 to 3 have classes for three hours. Students can submit their homework through email. Many students attended online classes wearing school uniforms,” said Ranjna Jangra, principal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kalyan-schools-begin-new-academic-year/story-m8ZRwrJALrX7Clf53YVkCJ.html
20-04-2020||City||‘Virtual learning is okay, but no replacement for classroom lessons’||Virtual teaching is beneficial only to an extentVirtual or online learning provides various channels such as mail, online chat and video conferences, through which students and instructors can interact with each other. In the classroom, there is only one channel to communicate with each other. Many students have a visual memory and seem to learn more willingly and are interested in online modes of teaching. Virtual learning is opted these days due to the shutdown of schools and institutions. It is beneficial to an extent because it does not require waking up early, there is no fear of getting scolded and one can study in a comfortable manner. But, a teacher-student relationship can be best established in a classroom only. The interaction and the questions a student asks the instructor in the class cannot happen in an online interaction. Virtual learning offers a good substitute to classroom learning in the time of emergency but it cannot replace the classroom. Classroom learning still remains the main option as discipline can be taught through it and it is a better mode of imparting education and knowledge. Sanskriti Verma, via emailClassroom teaches life skillsI agree with the fact that it is the need of the hour to conduct virtual classes as the situation calls for it. But, in my opinion, classroom teaching will always be preferred over virtual classes as juniors or young adolescents learn much more. Daily interactions with teachers and peers improve their skills to deal with and teach them how to live in a society. Moreover, schools organise competitions and exams which result in the formation of skills required in day-to-day life. Harleen Kaur, via emailTechnology has proven its meritsIn this situation of a global health crisis, the virtual system of learning has proved its merits. As the technology advances, this system is here to stay. But, accepting the virtual method doesn’t mean rejecting the traditional classroom pedagogy. The convenience and low-cost model of virtual learning cannot replace the experiential learning of human values and character development of the classroom setting. Gurkirat Singh, Model Town ExtensionBoth forms have their own placeBoth virtual learning and classroom lessons have their own importance. In these times of pandemic, virtual learning is more important so that the education of children is not hindered. Classrooms are important as the children sit together and concentrate on a particular topic. They are able to learn new skills in such an environment and the teacher has their full attention. Thus, both forms of teachings have their own place. Srishty, via emailMany distractions in online learning Online education is a necessity these days. Although it gives a student an opportunity to learn, it also distracts them. Once the educational lessons are done, they start surfing other things. Hence, the impact of learning is uncertain and not always optimum. Education is not limited to the syllabus only; it also includes discipline, manners, morals and interaction with other students and teachers. These traits are difficult to inject through online teaching. In fact, I am of the opinion that the education system in schools should not be much inclined towards smart classes. Rather, in every school, some time should be devoted to teach moral values and discipline. Moreover, access to online platforms is not healthy for the students as their ability to remember and retain information diminishes. Neeraj Kumar Bhatt, BRS NagarVirtual learning is the only option right nowThe students are left with no option other than virtual learning due to the coronavirus pandemic. The teachers are trying their best to teach the children online and have also asked them to contact whenever they face any difficulty in studying. Despite that, classroom learning is better than virtual learning and understanding concepts in the class is easier. Manisha Baria, via emailMaybe not perfect, but serves the purposeIn such times when desperate measures are being taken, virtual learning has proven to be a shred of hope for the students and teachers. I am undertaking six months of industrial training via virtual classes. We can outline that this method has its pros and cons. For instance, in this virus outbreak, many software solutions and applications such Zoom, Webex, Amazon Chime, and Microsoft team allow video conferencing. Technical resources and facilities to aid the learning process can be shared, but we can only interact virtually, whereas classroom learning involves direct interaction between the students and the instructor. We also need to take care of the fact that the software or application used for the virtual classroom is secure. Moreover, virtual classrooms have some requirements, like a steady internet connection and an interface such as laptop/computer or a mobile phone. Hence, virtual learning may not be a convenient option for the economically weaker section. Virtual learning may not be as perfect as classroom learning, but in a pandemic, it serves the purpose. Raghu Mahendru, via emailNot everyone has access to internetIn current times, most of the institutes have switched to online classes. But it has a drawback that not everyone can access online education. In remote areas, many people don’t own Android phones or gadgets, which is a harsh reality. Also, there are some who have these gadgets but are unable to pay the price of the data packs. Though the teachers send assignments in WhatsApp groups, but the students are experiencing difficulties as there is no direct contact or interaction with the teacher. Sometimes, the signal is lost and the class is missed. Virtual learning is useful but not successful. One of the reasons is the lack of preparedness for it. The other is the unavailability of the books as the new session had to begin and students didn’t have the material for their next class. Aliza, via emailSomething is better than nothingVirtual learning by no means can be a replacement for classroom learning. But it can be used effectively to enhance the learning process. Due to the lockdown, many schools and colleges have started online classes but things like understanding the concepts, clearing doubts, interaction with the teacher are not possible in online classes. The environment of a classroom is quite different and it itself makes learning effective. But as something is better than nothing, it’s good to have virtual classes in this period. Rajni Matta, Vishwakarma TownOnline teaching can harm the eyes of the studentsOnline teaching is a good platform but it is not for everyone. It has some requirements like a good internet connection and an interface, but not every student can afford these things. Lack of accreditation and low quality is another problem. Moreover, the blue screen of these gadgets can affect the eyes of the students if one continues to look at the screen for a long duration. There is another drawback that a teacher cannot monitor the body language of the students and ensure their focus. Vishali Kalra, via emailClassroom teaching is the clear winnerIrrespective of the technology available, classroom teaching is the clear winner. No amount of virtual learning can match the environment that you one gets in the classroom. Studies suggest that children learn better through face-to-face interaction and group study also helps in developing the communication skills. Moreover, some students who are from rural backgrounds do not have access to the internet or the required electronic gadgets. Khushboo Singla, via email Virtual learning is the only solutionCovid-19 is a pandemic which has turned the world upside down and it will take time for things to be normal again. It is not possible for the government to find a substitute for all the normal lifestyle activities which we were involved in. Virtual learning is a good substitute to classroom learning. It’s true that it may not clear our doubts completely and we won’t be able to interact with our teachers and professors. However, to avoid the lag in our lives in terms of education and to save the time, virtual learning is the only solution. It will help students to get back on track once we get out of this pandemic. Nidhi Jain, via emailMake the most of technologyVirtual teaching is not the perfect substitute to the classroom setting, but there is no better alternative for now. Learning should never stop and technology is the best channel for that. Teachers should make videos and share them with the students through WhatsApp, YouTube or school homework applications. There should also be some provision for clearing the doubts. Besides, the students should utilise this time and learn life skills. In any case, there is an ocean of videos on every topic on YouTube, which the students can access for free. Inderpal Singh, DugriDigital learning is inevitableOwing to the lockdown, the education system has shifted from classroom teaching to virtual teaching to avoid learning gap. This was inevitable as we can’t step out of our houses. College and university students can adapt to this mode easily as they have their own smart phones. Early learners can gain access to digital learning with the help of their parents. This in no way will ever substitute the need of a teacher though. Loveleen Sarao, via emailClassroom learning better than virtual learningAmid the lockdown, we have no other option but to opt for virtual learning. That’s why most of the institutions are holding virtual classes. If compared, classroom learning is better than virtual learning because the latter involves many technical problems. Teachers give lessons online but are not able to keep a check on the students. Virtual learning is good but only if it is clubbed with classroom learning. Diya Baria, via emailOnline teaching: Best way to impart education right nowAll educational institutions are shut owing to the lockdown because of which students are unable to go for classroom learning and have to instead opt for online classes. Online learning is an interesting medium as students can attend classes taught by teachers from across the world. If one doesn’t understand a concept taught by one teacher, he/she can refer to another one. We can even get a three-dimensional view of objects online which helps us understand certain scientific concepts better. Amid such critical times, online teaching is the best way to impart education. Sneha Pathak, via emailCollective effort importantIn India, we don’t have a lot of experience in digital learning but we had to resort to it as finding a substitute for classroom teaching was the need of the hour. The concept of online classes is not new but amid the COVID-19 lockdown, it has become our only option. Digital classes are managed through app management systems. Regular feedback from parents plays a major role. A collective effort of teachers, students and parents is important to ensure that students’ education is not affected by the pandemic. Mehak Arora, via emailStudents don’t take online classes seriouslyThough virtual learning is a good initiative taken to continue to educate children during the COVID-19 lockdown, classroom learning is definitely better. Classroom learning facilitates a better understanding of concepts. No one takes online classes as seriously. It is difficult to cover the entire syllabus through digital mode of learning. Swarika Garg, via emailVirtual learning is the best optionInstead of halting the process of education, virtual learning is the best option amid lockdown due to the coronavirus outbreak. Though the online platform is not as convenient as classroom teaching, but it is still very effective in educating students during these difficult times. Teachers have been using new tools and technologies to teach pupils. The e-learning platform is the only and the best substitute to classroom learning for now. Besides, it is more innovative and makes learning interesting and creative for students. Therefore, it is important that we support teachers and educators in their endeavors to educate students from home. Laveena Sharma, Haibowal KalanClassroom learning more effectiveClassroom learning is always better than virtual learning as it is more effective and engaging. For attending online classes, students require technology, which might not be affordable and available to those living in rural areas. Besides, virtual learning requires prolonged exposure to mobile phones, which might cause strain to eyes and ears on overuse. The classroom setup provides students a platform to engage themselves in group discussions and boost their overall self confidence. It also helps them establish a rapport with teachers. Ishita Katyal, via emailClassrooms have less distractionsFor me, classroom learning is anytime better than virtual learning and has many advantages. A classroom set-up is more engaging with less distractions for students. Besides, it is dynamic and provides more opportunities for group interaction among children. It also promotes kinesthetic learning among students as they are not just restricted to their phone screens and technology. Jassica Goyal, via emailEach mode of learning has its own pros and consWith the coronavirus outbreak, the whole world has changed drastically. In the sphere of education, shifting to online learning was the only option left for students and teachers. Both the teaching methods, online and offline, are accompanied with their own set of pros and cons. While the working students and professionals prefer online mode, others like to opt for offline mode. However, presently, there is no choice but to go for virtual learning and embrace the changes with a positive mindset. Right now, our main motive should be to get education and not complain about the circumstances. Taranjot Singh, BRS NagarOnline learning follows social distancingOnline mode of learning is the best choice during the pandemic as it adheres to the norms of social distancing as laid down by the government as a precautionary measure against the spread of the virus. However, it does have a few backdrops, including lack of technical awareness among students and network issues during online sessions. Also, under regular circumstances, classroom learning is a better choice as a teacher has full control over the class and there is much better communication among teacher and students. Harshpreet Kaur, Haibowal KalanStudents now using gadgets for study purposesEach mode of learning has its own merits and demerits. In these times when people have to stay at home, online learning has had a great impact on students’ education. Prior to the lockdown, children used to kill their time playing games on mobile phones, but now they are using the gadgets for study purposes. Despite its advantages, online learning has negatives too. During online classes, a teacher cannot pay attention on every student. Also, there is a lack of understanding between a teacher and students at times. Jasleen Kaur, via emailOnline classes will help students complete syllabus Switching onto online learning is a great step taken by education institutions amid lockdown due to the coronavirus outbreak. E-learning will enable students utilise their time and cover the syllabus on time. This method will ensure that students spend their time productively during the tough times. It’s important that we appreciate the efforts of institutions and teachers who are working recklessly towards betterment of students. Vivek Marwaha, via emailE-learning saves time, money and energyTechnology has narrowed the bridge between virtual and classroom learning in the modern world. Unlike traditional mode of learning, e-learning saves times, money and energy. It is the most preferred method that promotes knowledge enhancement among students while they are in their comfort zone. On the other hand, classroom lessons are good for primary students as they learn to become disciplined and follow a daily routine. In classrooms, students learn about their weakness and strengths besides focusing on social interaction as a means to boost self confidence. Pawan Kumar, via emailRepeat recorded lectures to understand conceptsTeaching and learning in a virtual classroom is a unique experience both for teachers and students. Online classes are more effective as compared to the offline ones as these save students’ time and money. In a virtual set-up, students only need to go through a video to understand the topic instead of spending hours at school as in a classroom set-up. The best part about online learning is that the students can watch recorded lectures as many time as they want to understand a concept better, which is not possible in regular classrooms. Ishmanpreet Kaur, via emailNo substitute to classroom learningThere is no substitute to classroom learning. Though teachers are doing their best to help children in all ways, but it is not possible to handle so many students on a virtually platform. Online learning is helpful to complete written work only. It is not effective in getting an individual’s doubts cleared. Besides, its biggest drawback is that it makes students more prone to using gadgets, which thus affects their health. Simranjeet Kaur, DugriEffective in times of crisisOnline learning is an effective mode in times of crisis. However, it is not as impactful as classroom learning in general. Studying requires coordination between a teacher and students, which is possible when the two are in a face-to-face set-up. In classrooms, students can learn about concepts better and get their doubts cleared easily. Shagun Mahajan, via emailClassrooms teach real essence of learningDue to the closure of schools and academic institutions, teachers have switched to taking classes on virtual platform. Online video interactions, concept videos and PDF files have enabled educators to continue with the teaching and learning process amid the lockdown. However, this new mode cannot take over the traditional mode of learning as it is the classrooms that teach the real essence of learning to students. Mohit Raghav, via email Virtual classrooms are boringOnline studies not only affect students’ health but also impact their learning as they find virtual classrooms boring. Students learn the best in a group or a collective environment with their friends. Moreover, classroom lessons help children form many cheerful and carefree memories. To get education via online mode, students also need smart phones, laptops and computers, which are not affordable for all. Presently, teachers are going for online mode as there is no other option available to them in these tough circumstances. Gurvir Kaur, via emailCommunication is better in classrooms Some students feel that classroom lessons are more effective as compared to virtual learning. In classrooms, students can interact with their teachers and ask them questions. However, during online classes, communication is hindered as students and teachers are sitting remotely at their homes. The biggest disadvantages of learning through e-platform is that it requires technology and gadgets that not every student can afford. Tanya Bajaj, New Janta NagarVirtual learning is a blissVirtual learning is a bliss if students and teachers have easy access to technology and internet. The platform enable students to attend lectures while being in the comforts of their home. Students can also ask questions and clear their doubts instantly. The only hindrance to online learning is poor internet and lack of technological awareness among students. Apart from this, online mode of education is highly beneficial. Manmohan Kaur, via email||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/virtual-learning-is-okay-but-no-replacement-for-classroom-lessons/story-iQem8daJGDOdkECz94mcjJ.html
20-04-2020||Mumbai||Yes Bank fraud case: CBI court grants Wadhawans protection from arrest till May 5||DHFL promoters Kapil Wadhawan and Dheeraj Wadhawan obtained interim protection from arrest in connection with the Yes Bank fraud case till May 5 from the special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court.Last week, the court granted protection to the two accused considering their arrest is not possible during the period in which they have to be under quarantine (till April 23) and also due to the ongoing Covid-19 lockdown. “There appears no urgency to execute the warrant issued on March 17, till May 5, when the lockdown is likely to get over,” the court observed while granting them relief.The CBI had obtained non-bailable warrants against the two on March 17, after they were found in Mahabaleshwar with their family. The Wadhawans, with a group of 23 other individuals, had flouted lockdown orders and travelled to Mahabaleshwar from Khandala on April 8. The family had managed to leave the city with a permission letter issued by senior officials, who are now under investigation.After they were caught, the family was required to stay under quarantine by local authorities at Panchgani till April 23. CBI was preparing to arrest them when the family approached the special court for anticipatory bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/yes-bank-fraud-case-cbi-court-grants-wadhawans-protection-from-arrest-till-may-5/story-B17a0aMw5DQstGAGjTIUBP.html
20-04-2020||City||Wholesale fruit market opens at Turbhe bus depot||The fruit market has been shifted to Turbhe bus depot to prevent crowding at APMC market in Vashi.The decision to shift the fruit market was taken to prevent people from crowding APMC market.Demarcations have been made for people to keep safe distance. Narendra Patil, Mathadi Kamgar leader, APMC, said, “The fruit trucks will be unloaded at the depot market. They will not go inside the APMC market. Traders will buy fruits and leave immediately.”“The fruit market is only for wholesale traders so there should not be a crowd,” said Patil.The market space at Turbhe bus depot was readied a month ago but the decision to shift the fruit market was taken recently.More than 200 fruit and vegetable trucks arrive at the APMC market every day. The vegetable market is still operational at APMC market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/wholesale-fruit-market-opens-at-turbhe-bus-depot/story-QpRJZBeLYBJUuqw4USxyFM.html
20-04-2020||City||Amid lockdown, Team Jammu volunteers donate blood||Amid lockdown to control the spread of Covid-19, when other health services have taken a back seat, volunteers of Team Jammu, a group of youth, has started donating blood for children suffering from thalassemia, pregnant women and patients needing dialysis and other chronic diseases.“While the government is busy mobilising its resources to overcome the pandemic, we started getting calls from distressed people about requirement of blood units,” said Zorawar Singh Jamwal, chairman of the youth group.Jawmal said that he discussed the issue of blood requirement with other volunteers over the phone and they decided to donate blood.“From April 15, we started getting calls from Samba, Jammu, Udhampur and Rajouri districts. April 17 onwards, we started reaching out to the needy. We fix time with them and send our volunteers to donate blood. So far, our volunteers have donated blood to around a dozen patients,” he said.He said that over 150 volunteers have come forward for the cause and can be reached for blood donation on the Team Jammu’s Facebook page or on 9419142233, at any time.He said that had been providing ration to people in the first phase of the lockdown. “Besides continuing distribution of dry ration to the needy and installing sanitizer containers at public places, we have now started blood donation as there is shortage of blood even at the hospitals,” he said.He, however, regretted the lackadaisical attitude of the blood transfusion department at GMCH, where staff was not available when volunteers went to donate blood.Jammu divisional commissioner Sanjeev Verma said, “Under the trying circumstances, Team Jammu and other NGOs are doing a commendable job.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amid-lockdown-team-jammu-volunteers-donate-blood/story-8Ng03V00wsDAqjz9fipSJP.html
20-04-2020||Delhi||Six more Delhi Police personnel test positive for Covid-19, five of them in Chandni Mahal||Six more Delhi Police personnel, five of them from the Chandni Mahal police station, tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) Monday, taking the total number of police personnel infected with the virus to 16, so far. The sixth policeman is posted with the anti-terrorism wing of the special cell. The head constable was put in home quarantine on April 10, after he informed senior officers about being symptomatic for Covid-19. This is the highest single-day rise of Covid-19 cases among the city police force. Of the 16 personnel infected with the disease, one assistant sub-inspector with the traffic police was discharged from the hospital on Friday after his test reports came negative for the infection.Monday, five police personnel of the Chandni Mahal police were admitted to two separate hospitals after their screening results confirmed that they had Covid-19. With this, a total of eight personnel of the police station have tested positive for Covid-19.The Chandni Mahal neighbourhood in central Delhi was declared a containment zone after 13 Covid-19 cases and six deaths were reported from the area. A majority of them had links to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Nizamuddin area in mid-March.Deputy commissioner of police (central) Sanjay Bhatia said samples of 76 police personnel, including the station house officer (SHO), of the Chandni Mahal police station were sent for Covid-19 testing after two constables of the police station were tested positive for the virus last week. After that, the police station was sealed and all other personnel were sent to home quarantine. Two days ago, another constable tested positive. “Of the 76, five have been found infected with the disease. The test results of SHO and 70 other police personnel of the police station are negative. In total, eight personnel have been found infected with the virus,” Bhatia said, adding that four of the eight have been admitted to a private hospital while the other four are in a government hospital. On Saturday, a constable and 26 other civilians, of the 45 people from west Delhi’s Tilak Vihar who volunteered for random community testing at a DDU dispensary on Friday, tested positive for Covid-19. The constable was posted at the Tilak Vihar police station was asymptomatic for the disease. A multi-tasking staff (MTS) of the police post was also among the 45 tested, but his report confirmed he was not infected.By Sunday evening, the Delhi government added Tilak Vihar in Tilak Nagar to the list of containment zones. The traffic police ASI, who has now recovered, was the first to be found positive in the force. The other personnel infected with the virus were posted at AIIMS Trauma Centre police post, at the Delhi airport, at a police picket in Bara Hindu Rao, and in Burari. One policeman staying in Model Town police colony was tested positive after he came in contact with his wife, a health staff at a government hospital. The couple’s son was also found infected after the screening. Two deputy commissioners of police (DCPs) of the south-west district and as many as 300 police personnel, who had come in contact with the infected personnel during duty, are in home quarantine currently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/six-more-delhi-police-personnel-test-positive-for-covid-19-five-of-them-in-chandni-mahal/story-gV78xKYyyGK79K4pm2RC9I.html
20-04-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Academicians, politicians should discuss future course of action, says Panjab University DUI||The University Institute of Hotel and Tourism Management (UIHTM), Panjab University, on Monday organised a national webinar on ‘Covid-19: Impact, innovation and planning for post crisis’.Shankarji Jha, dean of university instructions (DUI), in his inaugural address, said that the entire hospitality and tourism industry was under lockdown and it was the responsibility of all academicians and policy-makers to join hands and deliberate upon the causes, consequences and future course of action.He said, “Higher education is not only for academic development but also for building the society and nation at this tough junction; inter-disciplinary and policy research should be focused on both at micro and macro level.”SP Bansal, vice-chancellor, Himachal Pradesh Technical University, was the chief guest.In his address, he focused on the challenges and opportunities that have arisen after the outbreak of Covid-19. He talked about new business models and demand patterns that will emerge as a result of the pandemic.Professor Parikshat Manhas from Jammu University focused upon the pre-Covid era.Diwas Wadhera, executive chef, Crowne Plaza, Delhi, focused upon improving hygiene and discussed new business models that will come up.Professor Ashish Dhaiya from Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU), Rohtak, also talked about new business models to be developed for tourism and hospitality industry.Deepak Behl, director, human resources, The Park, New Delhi, said that short and long term goals needed to be planned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-academicians-politicians-should-discuss-future-course-of-action-says-panjab-university-dui/story-p7sCAjfXb3djWCbTxpscdM.html
20-04-2020||Lucknow||Residents of areas near corona hotspots ‘seal’ their localities in Lucknow||People living near sealed Covid-19 hotspots in Lucknow have put barriers on the entrance of their localities so that none from sealed places could enter their areas. There are 20 corona hotspots in the state capital. As Ghosiana locality was sealed after a youth tested corona positive there, residents of adjacent Gopal Nagar got alert closed their area. Apprehensive about the entry of infected persons or goods, people are not even allowing vegetable and other vendors to move around, said an official.A local resident, Rajat Srivastava said, “We are taking care of our area. People are following the lockdown and are worried especially after an adjacent locality was sealed.”There were reports that earlier some people sneaked into adjacent localities from the sealed areas and infected more people. Residents have also closed the Utretia route from Vrindavan Sector 2. Meanwhile, police have also actively checked these internal routes especially after it was found that some locals were using them to sneak out of their sealed area in violation of the lockdown. The police said Kasaibada was sealed after 12 people from the locality tested positive on April 3. But Kasaibada residents visited nearby localities like Ram Das Ka Hata and Sadar market to purchase groceries and other items.Police saw some people from Sadar roaming outside the area along the railway track. Police have now blocked these secret routes and finding new such routes to block them.So far, over 60 people from Kasaibada and its adjoining localities have tested positive for the deadly virus. An official said new coronavirus positive cases from Ram Das Ka Hata and other localities near Kasaibada started surfacing before the secret routes were blocked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/residents-of-areas-near-corona-hotspots-seal-their-localities-in-lucknow/story-aSDBPy7PP8KZmtFsrlBmjO.html
20-04-2020||Lucknow||Cyber fraudsters con Lucknow man||Cyber fraudsters conned a resident of Aliganj, Lucknow, by messaging him from his friend’s Facebook ID and asking for Rs 25000. The victim, Vinay Mohan on Monday informed the police about the fraud. He said that he received a message on his Facebook messenger from his friend Chandra Shah, asking for Rs 15000 in the name of a medical emergency. A Google pay number was given and the victim transferred Rs 15, 000 and then Rs 10,000.Later, when he received a message for more money, he called Shah, asking for more details. Then he came to know about the fraud.DCP North Shalini Yadav said, “Such cases have surfaced in recent times. This is a modus operandi of the cybercriminals. They make an identical profile and start messaging to the friends asking for money.”“In some cases, they succeed to con people,” she said.She added that in this case, the mobile number used for the fraud was registered with Google pay on the name of a reputed private hospital so that people do not doubt their plan.“We have registered a case and investigating the matter,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/cyber-fraudsters-con-lucknow-man/story-MpebRg9N5vo36dwcWSFAAI.html
20-04-2020||Lucknow||Lock-down helps police nab wanted criminals in UP||The continuing lock-down is not only assisting in curbing coronavirus spread but is also helping the cops in nabbing the wanted criminals and other escaping culprits. Like other residents, the criminals nowadays are also home-bound making it easier for the cops to arrest them.Since the outset of the lock-down, a large number of wanted criminals, gangsters, bootleggers and gamblers have been put behind the bars in a massive campaign launched by the cops on the instructions of SSP, Satyarth Anirudh Pankaj. Some of these offenders were involved in heinous crimes and were evading police since long.The crime branch recently, nabbed Khalid Zafar and Neelu, henchmen of former MP Atiq Ahmad who were involved in abducting a builder Zaid Khalid from Prayagraj. Zaid was taken to Deoria Jail where he was tortured by Atiq and others over the transfer of a property.The duo was hiding at their respective homes and was nabbed after receiving an accurate tip-off.With the implementation of lock-down, not only civilians but even the convicts are forced to stay at home. Amid tight security and a large number of checkpoints in the district, they were unable to change their hideouts frequently as they usually do to escape the police.SSP, Satyarth Anirudh Pankaj said that the police teams were alerted after receiving inputs that wanted criminals and other persons involved in illegal activities can be traced and nabbed at their homes or their regular hideouts that are known to police.At least 1150 FIRs were registered during the lock-down and action was taken against 800 persons. While notorious and wanted criminals were sent to jail those held for violating lock-down were released on a personal bond.As per the records, there were two encounters between cops and criminals, in one of those, notorious criminal Shera was injured and arrested.Seventeen persons accused of murders, 10 looters, six rape accused, two gangsters, 36 thieves, bootleggers and cattle smugglers have been arrested so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/lock-down-helps-police-nab-wanted-criminals-in-up/story-WigByi3Sc3Q54DabICKxkO.html
20-04-2020||Lucknow||Juna Akhada sadhus to gather in Nashik to demand probe into Palghar incident||International president of Sripanch Dashnam Juna Akhada Prem Giri Maharaj on Monday said the sadhus from across the nation would gather at Trayamkeshwar in Nashik to demand a high-level probe into the murder of two Juna Akhada members in Palghar of Maharashtra after the lockdown was lifted on May 3Juna Akhada has it’s headquarter in Varanasi.Giri said after gathering at Trayambakeshwar, sadhus would march to Mumbai where they would call on Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and demand a high level probe and strict action against all the accused involved in the incident of murder of two sadhus and driver of their vehicle.Maharaj said a letter had already been written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah and Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray and UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath, demanding a high level probe into the incident of murders.Giri said sadhus would not sit silently until the action was ensured against all the accused.Giri said two ‘sadhus’ and their driver, proceeding from Nashik to Surat, were cornered and lynched by a 200-strong mob outside Gadchinchle village on April 16 night in police presence amid rumours that they were robbers or child kidnappers.The victims were identified the next morning as Chikne Maharaj Kalpavriksha Giri, 70, Sushilgiri Maharaj, 30, from the Juna Akhada order, and their driver Nilesh Telwade, 30.They were on way to Gujarat to attend the last rite of their Guru Mahant Mahant ShriRam Giri Ji.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/juna-akhada-sadhus-to-gather-in-nashik-to-demand-probe-into-palghar-incident/story-M3Heob5tDUWR1zvlDfGb5I.html
20-04-2020||City||Two arrested for robbing, killing powerloom worker in Bhiwandi||Two people were arrested for robbing and killing a powerloom worker in Bhiwandi on Saturday. Police are yet to arrest the third accused.The police said the two robbers robbed the man of Rs3,500 and beat him with an iron rod. Ajit Patel, 47, was going to the factory with his two co-workers when three people came on bike near Karivli lake.The three started beating them. Patel’s co-workers ran away but the robbers got hold of Patel. They took his money and beat him to death.Senior police inspector, Bhiwandi crime branch, S Raut said, “We checked the CCTV footage and saw the three accused come on a bike. We arrest Asif Ansari, 23, and Mohammed Mansuri, 24, on Monday. The third accused is absconding but we will arrest him soon. We have seized their bike and the iron rod.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-arrested-for-robbing-killing-powerloom-worker-in-bhiwandi/story-4Zt6KvwlLUnZ9trrEQAYWK.html
20-04-2020||City||Opposition parties accuse Ludhiana Congress-led MC of unfair ration distribution||Opposition councillors in the Ludhiana municipal corporation house accused the ruling Congress of indulging in unfair ration distribution and threatened to launch a stir. A delegation led by Lok Insaaf party (LIP) leader Harvinder Singh Kaler met mayor Balkar Sandhu and accused the Congress-led MC of treating the wards represented by councillors of other parties unfairly. Kaler said that the Congress was even withholding the ration sent by the Centre for distribution among the poor amid the lockdown. Leader of opposition and SAD councillor Harbhajan Singh Dang also condemned the distribution system, stating, “While ration is being distributed smoothly in wards led by Congress councillor, the same cannot be said about wards of opposition councillors. We have told the mayor that if the distribution will not be streamlined within three days, opposition councillors will stage a protest.”On the other hand, mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu downplayed the matter and said, “There is no bias and ration is being distributed equally. There were some grievances pertaining to the monitoring of government officials who were keeping a check on the distribution process. However, all the grievances have been addressed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/opposition-parties-accuse-ludhiana-congress-led-mc-of-unfair-ration-distribution/story-9JyCFmrhDblJtccOlth2kI.html
20-04-2020||City||18 more test positive for coronavirus in J&K, tally rises to 368||Eighteen more persons were tested positive for coronavirus in Jammu and Kashmir on Monday, taking the total number of patients to 368. Most new cases were reported from Bandipora and Kupwara districts of north Kashmir.While 15 more patients have recovered in Kashmir on Monday —seven from Government Medical College Baramulla, six from Sheri Kashmir Institute of Medical Science, Srinagar, and two from Chest Diseases Hospital, Srinagar. According to the daily media bulletin, out of 368 positive cases, 292 are active cases, 71 have recovered and five patients have died.To date, 61,774 travellers and persons in contact with suspected patients have been put under surveillance which includes 6,463 persons in home quarantine including facilities operated by government, 229 in hospital quarantine and 20,115 under home surveillance. Besides, 34,670 persons have completed their 28-day surveillance period.The Bulletin added that 8,244 samples have tested negative.Providing district-wise breakup, the Bulletin said, Jammu has 26 positive cases of which 22 are active positive and four have recovered, Udhampur has 20 positive cases of which 14 are active positive, five recovered and one died, while Rajouri has four positive cases and three persons have recovered and only one is active positive; Samba district has four positive cases which are all active positive. Meanwhile, Kishtwar has only one positive case and the patient has now recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/18-more-test-positive-for-coronavirus-in-j-k-tally-rises-to-368/story-wRRzZR611l6uNKrbnll5PO.html
20-04-2020||City||Man jumps off window to escape from quarantine centre, booked||A 44-year-old man who was quarantined at Tata Housing Amantra, tried escaping by jumping off the window, suffered severe injuries, on Sunday. The Kongaon police booked the man under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code (IPC).He was quarantined on April 18. On Sunday evening, while the doctors and staffs at the quarantine centre were away, he tried jumping off the window and suffered severe leg injuries. There are around 144 persons quarantined at this centre from across Bhiwandi, Thane and Kalyan- Dombivli.An officer from Kongaon police station said, “He was unsuccessful in escaping as he suffered fracture on his leg after he jumped off. His condition is stable now. He has been booked for violating quarantine norms.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-jumps-off-window-to-escape-from-quarantine-centre-booked/story-G6YhUeSQ1JG33IFEM04FFI.html
20-04-2020||Chandigarh||Nurses in Chandigarh tonsure heads over attacks on Covid-19 front-line workers||To protest against attacks on front-line workers by local residents amid the Covid-19 outbreak across India, around 10 nursing staff at the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research and Employees State Insurance Corporation Model hospital tonsured their heads.Gauri Shankar, a nursing staff at ESIC Model Hospital, said it was disturbing to see that the front-line workers were being attacked.“Do healthcare professionals deserve this? No sane person will agree. We cannot be aggressive or mute spectators. We have to tell people that such incidences weaken our morale,” Shankar, who works at the flu clinic of the hospital, said.In this hospital, four more health workers joined Shankar to protest against the ‘atrocities’. Around 50 nurses work in the hospital run by the Union ministry for labour and employment.At the region’s tertiary care, Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, the nursing staff too found it ‘suffocating’ to hear the news of attacks.“While we at the front-line are fighting pandemic, health workers were targeted in Moradabad, Indore, Ramganj in Jaipur, and Hyderabad. Strict action should be taken against the guilty,” Satyaveer Dagur, one of the protesters from PGIMER, said.“If miscreants cannot respect us, they should not pelt stones. We have sympathies with them who lose their near ones due to coronavirus, but they have no right to hit us. Same stands for the people who hit the survey teams working on ground,” Dagur said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/nurses-in-chandigarh-tonsure-heads-over-attacks-on-covid-19-front-line-workers/story-FJ6fb1rkFqw6TnS9GakD8J.html
20-04-2020||City||Cong seeks relief measures from HP govt for coronavirus-hit tourism industry||All India Congress Committee (AICC) secretary and former urban development minister of Himachal Pradesh Sudhir Sharma on Monday demanded the state government to provide relief measures to the tourism industry.In a press statement issued here, the senior Congress leader said that tourism is a major contributor to the economy of the hill-state and the government should focus on key issues so that the industry could be revived by way of timely reliefs.Apart from tax waiver for a year, Sharma said, the government should also relax power, water and sanitation charges for the lockdown period.“Besides, the water and power bills should be charged at domestic rate instead of the commercial rate for at least five years,” said Sharma.The former minister also said that that the government should also waive off the bar licence fee besides house tax for a year or should defer the same for the next year.“The biggest and most concerning issue is that of the salary of hotel employees. In this matter the government may share the responsibility with owners,” he said.He added that the state should also collaborate with banks or financial institutions which provides funds at low-interest rates.“To revive the tourism industry, new schemes should be introduced according to the prevailing circumstances. Once the lockdown is over the government must focus to bring tourism back on track,” said Sharma.Revival is not enough and the government must ensure that the holiday destinations of the state remain virus-free for which the authorities may limit the number of tourists from outside the state, he said.The influx of tourists will likely increase after lockdown and the government should provide subsidy on installing sanitisation equipment at the entry of hotels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cong-seeks-relief-measures-from-hp-govt-for-coronavirus-hit-tourism-industry/story-wpbmFsrhi3H6rNWYSweH9M.html
20-04-2020||City||Compensate farmers for losses due to hail, rain: Cong to Himachal govt||The Congress has demanded that the state government compensate orchardists and farmers for losses caused due to hailstorms and heavy rainfall.Writing to chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, state Congress president Kuldeep Rathore said due to heavy rainfall and hailstorm fruit crops like apple, cherries and apricot in the upper regions and plum, litchis, mangoes and wheat in lower regions of the state had been damaged. He said this will affect the income of farmers and horticulturists.The Congress has also demanded that the state government direct the revenue department to assess the loss and seek financial relief from the Union government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/compensate-farmers-for-losses-due-to-hail-rain-cong-to-himachal-govt/story-S65tN69Gi97HS72RqdFwJM.html
20-04-2020||City||Himachal suffers ₹450 crore revenue loss due to lockdown||Amid the situation arising from the coronavirus pandemic, Himachal Pradesh has suffered a revenue loss of nearly ₹450 crore since the lockdown was announced in the state on March 24. While addressing the mediapersons at a government-run hotel here, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur apprised the people of the unfolding situation and said that economic losses due to the lockdown were tremendous. “So far, the state has suffered a loss to the tune of ₹450 crore,” he said.While speaking about Himachal residents stranded outside the state Thakur said, “I have been receiving over 70 calls a day for evacuation and I tell these people to act with restraints. The government is constantly in touch with the authorities of other states and making all arrangements for their stay. Those still trying to enter the state will be kept in quarantine for 14 days.”Defending Mandi MP Ramswaroop Sharma who travelled from Delhi to Mandi in the lockdown period, Thakur said, “He was permitted to enter the state. He self quarantined himself after reaching Mandi.”Meanwhile, the government has deferred its plan to grant permission to start units with 30% attendance. Considering the current situation, the movement of persons will not be allowed, CM said adding that curfew will continue in the state till May 3.CM lauded the efforts of his government and the frontline workers fighting Covid-19. Taking a dig at the opposition, he said, “This is not the time for politicking. Everyone should join hands to fight the grave crisis. Thakur also set aside the allegations leveled by the opposition leaders against his government. Lone CPI(M) legislator Rakesh Singha on Monday staged a sit-in protest outside the office of the sub-divisional magistrate in Shimla demanding the government to make food and stay arrangements for migrant workers. Singha claimed that many labourers are without shelter in the state.Speaking about the isolation facilities, chief secretary Anil Khachi said that the government has provided quarantine facilities with 9,200 beds to people in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-suffers-450-crore-revenue-loss-due-to-lockdown/story-wtJExMRvLPb0lVbOVRMf1K.html
20-04-2020||Chandigarh||No fresh case reported in seven Haryana districts in last 48 hours||Seven districts of Haryana have not reported any positive Covid-19 case in last 48 hours. These seven districts do not include Jhajjar, Rewari and Mahendergarh, where not even a single case has surfaced since the outbreak of the virus in Haryana.These seven districts are Charkhi Dadri, Fatehabad, Jind, Karnal, Rohtak, Sirsa and Yamunanagar. Notably, there are no active cases in these districts as well.37 DISCHARGEDAs many as 37 more patients were discharged on Monday, maximum in a day. With this, the number of those cured of infection in Haryana so far has climbed to 141. The highest number of the discharged persons in a day was recorded in Nuh, where 15 patients walked out of hospital, followed by Gurugram (9), Palwal (6), Ambala (3), Faridabad (2) and Jind and Sonepat (1 each). NUH TOPS THE CHART WITH 57 +VE CASESHowever, among the five Haryana districts marked as hotspots, Nuh as on Monday had 57 positive cases; Faridabad (42), Gurugram (36), Palwal (34), and Panchkula (18). The only fresh case reported in the state on Monday was from Panchkula. Nuh, Faridabad, Palwal and Gurugram had witnessed a spurt in the virus spread, especially after April 1 when the government launched a massive exercise to track persons who had attended the Markaz event at Delhi’s Nizamuddin.Nuh, which did not have any positive case on April 1, reported three on April 4, as many as 38 by April 9, 45 by April 12 and 48 by April 15. Faridabad had six cases on April 1, which climbed to 14 in next three days, 28 by April 9, 31 by April 12 and 33 by April 15. Gurugram saw 10 cases on April 1, 17 on April 4, 32 by April 15.Similarly, in Palwal, the number rose from two to 17 between April 1 and April 4. On April 9, the count swelled to 28 and it was 29 by April 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-fresh-case-reported-in-seven-haryana-districts-in-last-48-hours/story-8jlAwB9wJF3YBg6Ar9vurO.html
20-04-2020||City||Differently-abled Udhampur resident makes masks with meagre pension||Defying his physical debility, 40-year-old Pawan Dev Singh from Udhampur’s Sanso village in Jammu and Kashmir, has vowed to contribute in the fight against Covid-19.He has been making face masks out of his meagre pension and distributes them among slum dwellers for free.Singh was crippled by polio soon after birth and moves around with the help of his arms. “I am 70% disabled and don’t have much money. My legs do not support me at all, but I still want to be productive for the society, especially in this dire situation,” he says.Singh informs he had all of ₹4,000 in his bank account that included his monthly pension of ₹1,000 and an additional amount of ₹1,000 that was disbursed to lakhs of marginal labourers and physically disabled persons on the directions of Prime Minister Narendra Modi for their sustenance during the lockdown.“Since there is a nationwide lockdown, I had nothing to do because my small outlet of mobile phone recharge has been shut since March 25. During this period, I watched our PM address the nation several times. He repeatedly insisted upon maintaining hygiene, social distancing and wearing masks. I thought that instead of sitting idle, I should start making masks at home,” he says recalling how the idea came to him.Subsequently, he along with his family members started making the face masks.Singh is being helped by his sisters and members of his NGO ‘Prayas - EK Nai Disha’.“I started this NGO some time ago with the sole motive of helping people like me and make them a productive part of the society,” he adds.Singh and the members of his NGO distribute these masks to the slum dwellers. “Distributing masks not only help people, but also create awareness among them,” he says.He has not been helped financially by the administration so far. However, his initiative has earned him praise from Union minister and Udhampur legislator Dr Jitendra Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/differently-abled-udhampur-resident-makes-masks-with-meagre-pension/story-6WDMziv1LARtEBGSEiAo9H.html
20-04-2020||City||IIT Mandi researchers develop next-generation spintronic technology||Researchers at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) here have demonstrated cutting-edge Magnetic Random-Access Memory (MRAM) technology with the capability of transforming next-generation computers, smartphones and other gadgets, leveraging artificial intelligence (AI) and Internet-of-Things (IoT) technology.MRAM is much faster than the current technology and offers unlimited read and write cycles. The expected computer refresh programming time for MRAM-based data storage bit may be as low as ~2ns (nanoseconds), instead of ~50ns for the familiar DRAM (Dynamic Random-Access Memory) bit.The team from IIT Mandi recently designed and developed spin-transfer torque (STT) based nano-spintronic devices, which will put an end to computer data loss due to interruptions of power supply.School of computing and electrical engineering associate professors Dr Satinder K Sharma and Dr Srikant Srinivasan, along with their research scholars Mohamad G Moinuddin, Shivangi Shringi and Aijaz H Lone, who undertook the research project, said that this need is particularly relevant in modern times as the abundant digital, communication and information devices are expected to generate data volumes requiring 1 trillion hard drives at every instant by 2024.The Centre for Design and Fabrication of Electronic Devices (C4DFED) at IIT Mandi is a world class, state-of-the-art facility for multidisciplinary research of electronic device design and fabrication facility. It has Class 100 and Class 1000 clean room laboratories where high-end sophisticated electronic device design, fabrications, and characterisation tools are installed, amounting to more than ₹50 crore, Dr Satinder informed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/iit-mandi-researchers-develop-next-generation-spintronic-technology/story-OQVmwIk6c6rIhKLBt4u09K.html
20-04-2020||Chandigarh||Identify, seal contaminated pockets: Chandigarh administrator||The Chandigarh administration will be identifying specific pockets in the city where new outbreak cases have been reported and will seal these areas to control the outbreak. In the daily review meeting, Punjab governor and Chandigarh administrator VPS Badnore directed the deputy commissioner to identify specific pockets in the city, where new cases have been detected, so that the administration can seal those areas.Along with police officials, local residents too will be appointed as special police officers to regulate entry and exit in these areas. Badnore also sought help from organisations of local residents and public representatives including ward members to keep these areas sealed and well sanitised.Badnore said 6,670 registered construction workers will be provided ₹3,000 each as special relief, keeping in view their present unemployment amid the curfew. This will be in addition to the ₹3,000 already sanctioned earlier from the construction labour welfare fund. The amount will be transferred to the workers’ accounts directly. The administration will seek approval of Government of India regarding payment of wages for workers by industrialists, of the ESI contributions already made.Badnore has directed principal secretary health, Arun Kumar Gupta, to ensure that adequate quantity of blood is available in all hospitals. He suggested that a team could go out to collect blood from willing donors, and the blood donor certificates be given to them. He advised principal secretary health to seek help of NGOs and charitable organisations such as the Rotary and Lions Clubs.UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida stated that necessary orders about containment zones have been issued. A request has been sent to Punjab and Haryana governments and Union government to open only essential offices with minimal staff, he said. He also said the registrar of Punjab and Haryana high court has been informed about the imposition of curfew in the area.A special camp will be held exclusively to test media personnel to prevent chances of infection. Badnore said journalists should come forward to avail this facility and also download Aarogya Setu App.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/identify-seal-contaminated-pockets-chandigarh-administrator/story-2qcXfBqaDCoSAwVYNi858J.html
20-04-2020||Chandigarh||Admissions process for MDS at Panjab University dental college resumes||The admission process for master of dental surgery (MDS) resumed at the Dr Harvansh Singh Judge Institute of Dental Sciences of Panjab University on Monday days after it had to be stopped amid the Covid-19 lockdown.Principal of the dental college, Dr Jagat Bhushan, said, “The counselling process was resumed after we received directions from the Union ministry of health and family welfare.”The schedule approved by the ministry specifies that this round of admissions should be completed by May 4, he added.Accordingly, the schedule and other details for admissions have been intimated on website of the institute. Last date to apply for the course is April 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/admissions-process-for-mds-at-panjab-university-dental-college-resumes/story-xDYPsrjuZGQzs3O0jRi6TP.html
20-04-2020||City||ACP Kohli’s death: Cops families concerned but support police personnel in fight against Covid-19||After Ludhiana assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Anil Kumar Kohli died of Covid-19, the family members of police personnel in the district are concerned about their safety. The police officials said that they have been receiving calls from their family members every hour reminding them of precautions they should be taking while on duty. They have been asking if we are using sanitiser regulary or not and are curious about our locations, said a police official. The police officials said that though they have lost an ACP, but they are not afraid of coronavirus and they will continue to fight against the disease.Assistant commissioner of police (ACP, east) Davinder Chaudhary said that the department has lost an honest and hardworking officer in the line of duty. “We have joined the force to serve the society and the nation. We have worked during militancy, when encounter between militants and police was routine, and never stepped back. We will continue to fight to eradicate this virus,” he said, adding that after death of my colleague, I have also started receiving call every hour from my family members checking about my well being.Inspector Jarnail Singh, station house officer (SHO) at police station Division number 8, said that they are frontline warriors and this is their job. They will serve the society in every situation. The SHO said that his family members are supportive of him and encourage him in the fight against Covid-19 pandemic. “Though I could not give time to my family in the past one month, but I don’t regret it. I am doing what the society and department need from me,” he added.Inspector Pawan Kumar, SHO at police station Model Town, also said his family has been very supportive but at the same time they are also worried about my safety.Khanna police pay homage to ACP KohliKhanna police personnel on Monday paid homage to their colleague ACP Kohli, who succumbed to the virus. The police personnel observed two-minute silence in respect of the departed soul.Khanna senior superintendent of police (SSP) Harpreet Singh said that Kohli was a brave officer and he laid his life in the fight against coronavirus.Kohli has served in Khanna police for at least seven years on various posts, including SHO. He also served as SHO at Sadar police station, Payal police station and Machhiwara police station. He had settled in Khanna and bought a house here. After his transfer to Ludhiana as ACP, he has taken his family members along.The SSP said that Kohli served the department honestly and every Khanna police personnel have special regards for him.Superintendent of police (SP, headquarters); Tajinder Singh, SP (Investigation); Jagwinder Singh Cheema, DSP (headquarters); Shamsher Singh, DSP (investigation); Tarlochan Singh, DSP (special Branch); Manjit Singh, DSP (homicide unit); Surjit Singh Dhanoa and DSP (narcotic cell) Satwinder Singh also paid respect to Kohli.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/acp-kohli-s-death-cops-families-concerned-but-support-police-personnel-in-fight-against-covid-19/story-Ha4YE2WTU3DYitAy8SrmzH.html
20-04-2020||City||ACP’s death: 125 police personnel above 55 shifted to non-operational duties in Ludhiana||The district police have shifted as many as 125 police personnel, above 55 years of age, from frontline duties, including deployment at checkpoints and food distribution, to non-operational duties.The decision to shift them was taken following orders of director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta not to deploy the police personnel above 55 or those with pre-existing and enhanced medical risk factors on frontline duties.The orders were issued following the death of 52-year-old ACP Anil Kumar Kohli due to Covid-19 on Saturday.Most experienced police officers in the police commissionerate here are above 50 and are batchmates of Kohli.These officers had served in Ludhiana as SHOs before being promoted as ACPs and were working on the frontline with SHOs to assist them in handling the situation during lockdown.Deputy commissioner of police (DCP, headquarters) Akhil Chaudhary said, “In the first phase, we identified 125 personnel, who are over 55 and deputed on the frontline. They have been shifted to non-operational duties with immediate effect, he added.Chaudhary said, “The department is also screening other personnel with pre-existing and enhanced medical risk factors, including diabetes, asthma, cardiac history, hypertension or suppressed immune system for any reason. They will also be given non-operational duties.”The DCP said the police personnel, who are above 55, but are physically fit and not suffering from any ailment, will be allowed to continue working on operational duties.Around 4,000 police personnel have been deployed in the city to enforce curfew in the city, ensure distribution of food and essential supplies.The police have also launched mobile medical units for the screening of the police personnel on duty and have already screened more than 1,500 police personnel and provided the needed treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/acp-s-death-125-police-personnel-above-55-shifted-to-non-operational-duties-in-ludhiana/story-MX3opjkUcHqI20W8o9CJdL.html
20-04-2020||Mumbai||HC refuses to stay cabinet decision recommending Thackerays appointment to legislative council||The Bombay High Court refused to grant interim relief to BJP’s Ramkrishnan Pillay, who sought a stay on the April 9 decision of the Maharashtra cabinet recommending the nomination of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to the state legislative council to the Governor. The cabinet meeting was held as the nomination has to be done within six months of the election of Thackeray as the chief minister.The single bench of justice S J Kathawalla was hearing the petition filed by Ramkrishnan Pillay, a social worker and an acclaimed sportsman who is affiliated to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and is a member of the Working Committee of BJP in the State of Maharashtra. In his petition Pillay not only challenged the April 9 decision of the cabinet of ministers but also the very meeting itself as it was convened by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar.Pillay submitted that as the meeting was convened by Pawar without getting the consent of the chief minister and that the post of deputy chief minister was only a formal post and did not have any authority to convene such meetings, hence the meeting convened by Pawar was not valid, thus the decision taken by the cabinet also was not valid and hence should be set aside.On April 9, the cabinet had decided to recommend the name of Thackeray to be appointed to one of the two vacant posts on the legislative council. The posts were to be filled through the nomination by the Governor based on the recommendation of the cabinet. As per the Constitution, Thackeray has to become a member of the legislative council within six months of his appointment as chief minister or else he would cease to hold the post. It was submitted that on account of the pandemic, it was unlikely that the elections for Legislative Council would be held hence the cabinet of ministers arrived at the proposal.Advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni submitted that the petition was not maintainable.After hearing the submissions, the court held that as the Governor had not taken a decision on the recommendation by the cabinet it was too premature to pass any orders on the same. The court further held that the Governor was empowered to decide on the validity of the proposal by the cabinet.“In my view, the Court’s interference at this stage is not at all required since any such interference at this stage would amount to preventing the Hon’ble Governor from taking an independent decision inter alia qua the validity of the proposal received by him. The reliefs sought in the Writ Petition therefore appear to be premature. The Petitioner at this stage is not entitled to any urgent reliefs.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-refuses-to-stay-cabinet-decision-recommending-thackerays-appointment-to-legislative-council/story-MTBES4ZFCpqN6UObHrS7UL.html
20-04-2020||Mumbai||Refund air passengers who booked tickets before March 25:Consumer groups||A consumer protection forum, Mumbai Grahak Panchayat, has requested the government to bring modifications in their order dated April 16, that laid out rules for refund to passengers booked for travel during the lockdown period. The advisory issued by the aviation ministry, states that the airline will refund the full amount collected without cancellation charges to the passenger, if a passenger has booked a ticket during the first lockdown (from March 25, 2020 to April 14, 2020) and the airline has received payment for booking of the air ticket during the lockdown period for travel during the same period.The forum said that since thousands of passengers would have booked tickets much prior to March 25, 2020, it is unfair to restrict the benefit of full refund only to those who booked the travel for the first lockdown period during that period itself.The forum asked the government to focus on the date of travel which is more important than the date of booking. “Hence if a passenger has booked a ticket for travel during the first lockdown i.e from 25th March 2020 to 14th April 2020 and the airline has received payment for booking of the air ticket during the lockdown period for travel during the same period for both domestic or international air travel that airline, travel agent or travel web portal, as the case may be, shall refund the full amount collected without levy of any cancellation charge,’ the forum requested. The first travel advisory that was issued by the health ministry on March 11 restricted non-essential travel. The forum, therefore urged full refund be granted to such passengers too- who cancelled their tickets due to such government advisory and necessary instructions. Shirish V Deshpande, chairman of the forum said that the advisory (issued on April 16) directed only the airlines to give full refund without cancellation charge. However, as most of the passengers book air travel through a travel agent or through travel web portal/ aggregator, concerned air lines might not have received money which the passengers paid to these agents or web portals. ‘It is therefore not enough to only direct the airlines to give full refund to passengers. The advisory must also specifically direct the travel agents, web portals and aggregators to grant full refund in such cases without any conditions or offer of utilising the said money for future travel,’ stated the letter.The advisory also mentioned that refunds will be given to passengers who booked tickets during the first lockdown period and the airline too has received the payment for the booking of air ticket during the first lockdown period for travel period during the second lockdown period (April 15 to May 3, 2020) for both domestic and international air travel. Mumbai Grahak Forum said that passengers who have booked their tickets well in advance cannot be denied full refund under any circumstances. ‘Their money has remained with the airlines or travel agents for a longer period which should, in fact, entitle them for refund with interest,’ the forum said.It thus insisted that the rule needs to be amended and it should be stated that; if a passenger has booked a ticket for travel during the second lockdown period (from April 15 to May 3, 2020) for both domestic or international air travel and the passenger seeks refund on cancellation of the tickets, the airline, travel agent or web portal as the case may be, shall refund the full amount collected without levy of cancellation charge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/refund-air-passengers-who-booked-tickets-before-march-25-consumer-groups/story-mEn6SN6b6iRP0NDajut9SJ.html
20-04-2020||City||Ludhiana: Ex-BJP councillor flays PSPCL for asking consumers to pay bills||Former BJP councillor of ward number 57 Inder Aggarwal has criticised the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) for asking consumers to pay bills during the time of pandemic.Aggarwal, whose wife Manju Aggarwal is presently the councillor of the ward, claimed that one his friends received a message from the PSPCL on Monday asking him to pay the bill of Rs 3,430 due for April 22.“During this difficult time when arranging three meals a day is a challenge for many, government departments are asking people to pay bills within two days. It’s high time that the government shows empathy towards the people in distress and stop asking them to pay bills at least for the next three months,” he said.He also criticised the Punjab government for lack of management in tackling coronavirus crisis. “The Punjab government lacks sense of management. While the administration makes a public announcement, it changes the same later, leaving many confused,” he added.“The last date for paying bills is likely to be extended by the department. The PSPCL will not disconnect power supply of any consumer during the lockdown period. All the relaxations announced by the department recently will continue,” said DPS Grewal, engineer-in-chief PSPCL (central zone).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-ex-bjp-councillor-flays-pspcl-for-asking-consumers-to-pay-bills/story-gT4eOFCmJyavsrDL1HReRP.html
20-04-2020||City||Teen murdered by friend for refusing to return money||Twenty days after an 18-year-old youth’s body was found near Shahapur, the police arrested his friend for the murder. The accused told the police that his friend refused to return the money he had borrowed so he killed him.On April 1, the police found the body of Sohel Pathan. They did not find any documents on him to ascertain his identity.The cops started getting details on missing person’s complaints. They finally found his family at Shanti Nagar in Bhiwandi.Senior police inspector Vyankat Andhale said, “We then started checking his call record details. We called his friend Shahbaj Ansari, 26, also a resident of Shanti Nagar area, for questioning. He confessed to killing him.”Ansari told the police that Pathan had borrowed Rs20,000 from him six months ago. He needed money so he asked Pathan to return the money. A police officer said, “Pathan was an alcoholic and spent the money in buying alcohol. On March 31, the accused met Pathan and asked him to return his money but he refused. The accused then took out a knife and stabbed him to death. We have arrested Ansari for murder.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/teen-murdered-by-friend-for-refusing-to-return-money/story-sFqcirofreYmWtXf9MbSRO.html
20-04-2020||City||Let workers stay on premises if you have to operate, Mohali industrialists told||Only those industrial units that provide accommodation to workers on their premises will be allowed to operate in the district during the lockdown due to the Covid-19 outbreak, deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said on Monday. This is in accordance to the guidelines issued by the Union home ministry, even as local industrialists criticised the move.Construction companies will also have to furnish a similar undertaking, Dayalan said. Criticising the move, the president of the Mohali Industries Association (MIA), Yogesh Sagar said it was impossible to let the workers stay on the premises. “We have requested the administration to allow us to transport them as we have already suffered huge losses. Also, the workers staying nearby should be allowed to come on their own,” he said.Speaking to Hindustan Times, Girish Dayalan said with the spike in Covid-19 cases it was not possible to allow movement of workers. “We will allow industries and construction companies to operate only if owners submit an undertaking declaring that they will house the workers and labourers on their premises and will not allow them to go home.”If transportation of workers was allowed, “we will have to allow opening of telecom industry where 400 to 500 workers work on a daily basis and if a single person gets infected in the group it may prove fatal,” he added.Earlier in the day in a video conference with the additional chief secretary of the state, members of the Industry Association of Punjab requested that they be allowed to operate their industrial units.The Punjab chief minister’s office, after the conference, empowered DCs to permit industrial units to function in non-containment zones in alignment with the government’s earlier orders and also according to the guidelines of the Union home ministry.The DCs were also asked to facilitate opening of industrial units in non-containment areas by meticulously complying with the detailed instructions to this effect issued by the state government on April 18. All MHA guidelines and conditions should be strictly complied with by the district administration, the CM’s office added.What the MHA orders stateOnly such industry/ establishment which can make all arrangements for stay of workers within their premises and/ or adjacent buildings will be allowed to operateOnly such construction activity/ site where workers are available on site and no workers are required to be brought in from outside (in situ construction) will be permissible.Stone crushers, mining of sand and gravel and its transport, sale outlets of cement, steel etc shall be permissible only to service the construction activities carried out after obtaining due permission GM Industries who shall verify all such applications and accord necessary permission to commence and shall also specify the hours of operation The management of all these establishments shall be responsible for implementation of the directives and standard operating protocols (SOP) by MHA, as applicable to themAny violations shall invite criminal proceedings under the Relevant provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005 and the Indian Penal Code,1860||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/let-workers-stay-on-premises-if-you-have-to-operate-industries-construction-firms-told-in-mohali/story-CqthjxIR6Nv4ZWTpUgBy2K.html
20-04-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh dhaba worker murdered in Sec 27, suspect detained||A man was found dead outside a booth in Sector 27 on Monday, with multiple stab wounds on his neck and upper body. According to preliminary investigation, police said the man was murdered at some other place and his body was later placed in the corridor.“The deceased has been identified as Arjun, who worked at Paul sweets and dhaba in Sector 27. After checking the CCTV camera in the area, we suspect the murder was committed by a co-worker at the dhaba who was found to be missing,” said investigating officials, adding that the deceased had been killed with a sharp weapon.Police apprehended the 20-year-old suspect from Sector 28, after tracing his phone location, and interrogated him. A case under Section 302 (murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence, or giving false information to screen offender) of Indian Penal Code has been registered against an unidentified person.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-dhaba-worker-murdered-in-sec-27-suspect-detained/story-gxNRONyYiLxVM0zwJcPCGP.html
20-04-2020||Gurugram||Total 36 corona patients in Gurugram, 26 cured||A total of 36 people have been found positive for coronavirus in Gurugram so far. However, out of these 36 cases, 26 people have now recovered after treatment in hospital.There was also no new case related to coronavirus in Gurugram for nine days between April 8 and 17.Another 20 corona patients have also recovered in Faridabad.On Monday, the number of people infected with coronavirus in Haryana increased to 251. The highest number of coronavirus cases found in Haryana so far is in Nuh. Although the highest number of cases were reported in Gurugram in the initial phase, the situation has improved continuously here.While releasing the bulletin on coronavirus, the state government said that so far a total of 36 cases have been reported in Gurugram, out of which only 10 are active patients. 26 out of 36 people have recovered completely.At the same time, in Faridabad, the number of patients has increased to 42. Out of these, 20 patients have been treated successfully.Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij said “The areas which have been declared as the Containment Zones in Haryana have been completely sealed and instructions have been given to provide essential items in these areas so that people can get anything. There should be no problem of any kind. Authorities have been instructed to sanitise daily in the Containment Zones and in the second phase in the entire state under this, sanitisation will be done.”Apart from this, the Haryana government has decided that the Health Department teams will go to every house in the state and screen every person to curb the Covid-19 epidemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/total-36-corona-patients-in-gurugram-26-cured/story-CyHYn2lICrDz7Jcy5Q1YAK.html
20-04-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University students seek fee concession for EWS candidates amid Covid-19 lockdown||Days after demanding hostel fee waiver in view of the ongoing coronavirus lockdown, Panjab University (PU) students have urged the varsity authorities not to charge fee from the students of economically weaker section (EWS). In an online petition, around 500 students have asked the PU administration to either give relief or concession to such candidates. “Nearly 50% students in the university belong to poor and middle classes of the society. As these students do not receive any scholarship, it’ll become stressful for them to pay their fee,” the letter read. The students also said, “Due to the lockdown, there’s no work, no pay and no surety of the jobs too.”‘VARSITY TO TAKE A CALL LATER’National Students Union of India (NSUI) president of PU, Nikhil Narmeta, said, “The coronavirus crisis will have a long-term impact on the varsity students financially as most of them belong to middle class and the source of their family income is shut. This will create problem for the students after the university reopens as they will not be in a position to pay their fee.” “The university authorities have replied positively, saying that they will look into the issue once the lockdown is lifted,” he said.PU advisory committee chairman Navdeep Goyal said, “Right now, we are tackling the day-to-day issues faced by the students. We can decide on this once the university starts functioning again.”In view of the coronavirus outbreak, PU administration had suspended classwork on March 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-students-seek-fee-concession-for-ews-candidates-amid-covid-19-lockdown/story-SQmfQcSNmpwzZEYvy5wJFJ.html
20-04-2020||City||With unique COVA app feature, you can check distance from nearest Covid-19 patient||Deputy commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal has urged the residents to use COVA mobile app inlarge numbers as a unique in-built feature in the app allows people to maintain distance from the nearest Covid-19 positive person. It also alerts the district administration if a quarantined patient or suspect moves beyond 100 metres of her/his base location, he said.He informed that the feature is helping the authorities enforce quarantine restrictions and enable the people to keep themselves and their family members safe through a self-control mechanism.By geo-tagging the positive patients, the app helps the district administration trace locations that the positive individual have visited in the last few days. If the phone Bluetooth is on, the app will alert the citizen on coming in the Bluetooth range of a Covid-19 suspected or positive persons. This also helps the health department and the district administration trace the contact history of positive patients.Agrawal informed that for the app to be effective, the GPS location and Bluetooth need to be switched on.These mobile numbers can also be used by the telecom providers to track movement if the location or Bluetooth is disabled. The telecom companies send hourly reports to the department of health on breaches in each district.Notably, the COVA app has had more than 10 lakh downloads till now and is enabling the citizens as well as the government officials to effectively execute lockdown and social distancing norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-unique-cova-app-feature-you-can-check-distance-from-nearest-covid-19-patient/story-hLWYRAK2PR5U0nOhP9ys3L.html
20-04-2020||Delhi||Schools shut, distribution of sanitary napkins stops||Sixteen-year-old Shagun — a resident of Delhi’s largest unauthorised colony, Sangam Vihar — has been using cloth pieces instead of sanitary napkins during her monthly cycle for the last couple of months. The Class 9 student at government girls senior secondary school in Sangam Vihar used to get a packet of sanitary napkins every month from her school. But with her school shut for more than a month due to the ongoing lockdown in place to stop the spread of Covid-19, the distribution of sanitary napkins too have come to a halt. Daughter of a mason and a domestic help, Shagun said that her family is not being able to makes ends meet due to the lockdown. “My father has not earned a penny in the last one month . We are collecting food twice a day from a food distribution centre at a nearby school. We can’t even think about buying sanitary pads at the moment. I had received my last packet of pads from the school in February. Now, me and my sister (14) are both using cloth pieces. It’s really uncomfortable, but we can’t help,” she said.Savita Devi, vice chairperson of the management committee at Shagun’s school, said that majority of the girls studying in their school in Sangam Vihar are dependent on the sanitary napkins they receive from them. “Even during normal days, they cannot afford to buy sanitary napkins. It’s impossible for them to go buy them now, as a pandemic rages on in the city,” she said.The female students of classes 6 to 12, studying in government schools across the country, are given sanitary napkin packets every month under the Central government’s Kishori Shakti Yojna. Every month more than 8 lakh girls benefit from the scheme in Delhi government schools.However, distribution has been disrupted these days as schools are closed due to the lockdown, adding to the woes of students, a majority of who come from lower income group families. Rashmi, 17, a student at a government school in east Delhi’s New Kondli area, said that her mother has stitched sanitary napkins using cloth and cotton at home for her and her two sisters. “People like us who can’t afford to buy sanitary napkins have to make alternate arrangements. I hope my school can provide some by next month. It will become really difficult for us to survive without pads, she said, adding that her school last distributed sanitary napkins in February. The Class 10 student said that her father, an e-rikshaw driver and sole bread earner of the family of five, has not been able to go to work due to the lockdown since last month. “We can sacrifice other things, but periods don’t stop because of a pandemic,” she said.Several government school teachers said they have been receiving distress calls from their students. Arti Qanungo, a teacher at a government school in Shakarpur, said that some of her students have switched to using cloth in the absence of sanitary pads. “Some others said that they have stock for this month. But the situation will become really difficult for them now that the schools are not going to re-open anytime soon,” she said.Binay Bhushan, Director of the Directorate of Education (DoE), said that the department will discuss the matter with schools. “The situation is very difficult these days. It will be difficult to distribute sanitary pads from schools and we do no have any mechanism for home delivery. We will have to come up with an alternative,” he said.Dr Surbhi Singh, a gynaecologist and founder of Sachhi Saheli — an NGO that works on menstrual health with Delhi government in its schools — said they are also going to discuss the matter with government officials. “The only solution is that schools should provide sanitary napkins at the food distribution centres and the government school students can pick them from there. Our NGO has also begun to distribute packets of sanitary pads at these centres now,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/schools-shut-distribution-of-sanitary-napkins-stops/story-MrJ71Aw4uO16AakyigLHJL.html
20-04-2020||Delhi||Sisodia interacts with 300 private school principals, discusses fee issue, happiness classes||To discuss teaching-learning practices in private schools and other issues, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia Monday interacted with over 300 private school principals via video conferencing.During the hour-long session, Sisodia discussed the fee issue and the online happiness classes of the Delhi government. Started in 2018, the curriculum was, until now, exclusively for students of Delhi government schools. However, to improve mental well-being of parents and children, the government Saturday announced online happiness classes on Facebook and YouTube which would be accessible to all.Monday, Sisodia also spoke about the fee issue. The government had last week said schools could not stop students from attending online classes in case their fee was not cleared.“Considering the unusual times that we all are going through, students should not be allowed to suffer because of this. We need to take the utmost care while dealing with this issue. So let the students attend online classes, even if their parents are unable to pay the fee,” Sisodia told the principals.Supporting the government’s initiative, Nikita Mann, principal, Tagore International School, said, “We are concerned about the EWS (economically weaker section) students and have been able to bring 100% EWS students [of our school] on board for online classes. Focus for primary classes is on taking numeracy and literacy, instead of homework.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/sisodia-interacts-with-300-private-school-principals-discusses-fee-issue-happiness-classes/story-qM25bQjB9Vop5usYHQx94L.html
20-04-2020||Delhi||Traffic marginally increases as central govt employees are allowed to return to offices||There was a marginal increase in Delhi’s road traffic Monday, after the government relaxed the lockdown norms so that central government employees are able to attend office during the lockdown From April 20. Senior police officers said in areas with a large number of central government buildings, pickets were rearrangedto ease the approach for government employees, while at the same time ensuring that stringent checking is continued.Special commissioner of police (traffic) Taj Hasan said because there was only a marginal rise -- of less than 10% --in road traffic, the traffic police were able to manage the situation with the staff already on duty. “We had pickets raised all across the city to check vehicles and traffic police personnel were also deployed there. No additional deployment was required,” Hasan said.A Delhi Police order, dated April 19, said “several officers of the central government commute in hired taxis. Therefore, such vehicles carrying officers must be allowed on the basis of identity cards.”The order mentioned that all central government employees above the rank of deputy secretary will be attending office 100% while only 30% of the lower level staff will be coming to office. Deputy commissioner of police (New Delhi) Eish Singhal said, “We increased our number of pickets from 40 to 49. These pickets were strategically placed in order to provide smooth passage to government employees and at the same time, continue our stringent checking. All government employees heading to office were also checked and allowed to pass on the basis of their identity cards.” The Delhi government, however, on Saturday had issued an order to maintain ‘status quo’ in all Delhi government offices/departments. “Only those catering to Covid-19 related activities will be reporting to the field, while the rest would continue to work from home as was being done before April 20,” an official said.Delhi Police on Monday also wrote to the police chief of adjoining states of Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh, requesting them to ensure that the Delhi Police personnel who live in these states and need to cross borders, do not face any problems in reporting for duty. A senior Delhi Police officer said many personnel living in these states had been complaining that locals in their residential neighbourhoods were not allowing them to enter or move out, saying that they may be exposed to the virus and allowing their entry or exit may result in the spread of Covid-19 among residents. “As these issues were frequently being brought to our notice, we have requested the police chiefs of Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan to look into the matter and ensure that Delhi Police personnel are not stopped from coming to duty or returning home after duty,” the officer added, wishing not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/traffic-marginally-increases-as-central-govt-employees-are-allowed-to-return-to-offices/story-ZBvCTQ7K31ONkjZJC9xUxN.html
20-04-2020||City||Rain adds to Punjab farmers’ woes amid Covid-19 crisis||Already grappling with acute labour shortage, farmers from across Punjab suffered crushing blow on Monday as thundershowers caused damage to the standing wheat crop.Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) vice-chancellor Baldev Singh Dhillon said, “Not only was there damage to the standing crop, the produce kept in open in the grain markets and in the courtyards of farmers were also damaged.”He said that the prolonged winter season followed by incessant rain in the month of March had delayed the ripening of wheat crop. “Now it would be difficult to harvest the crops with a combine. Besides, prolonged drying may lead to shattering of grains. Moreover, there is a fear of fungus and discolouration of grain that has dampened due to the rain,” said Dhillon.Fortunately, there has been no report of hailstorm or strong wind, otherwise the wheat crops would have suffered an irreparable loss.On the other hand, Harbans Singh Rosha, chairman market committee, Khanna Grain Market, the second biggest grain market in Asia, said that the rain has caused a double blow to farmers. “Already they are facing an acute shortage of labour, farmers’ problems have intensified due to the inclement weather conditions. We got the rain alert and kept the grain under shelter, but some grain markets have no sheds. At those places, the grain may catch moisture which may result in loss to the farmer,” said Rosha.Anup Singh Grewal, a farmer, said the rain has further delayed the harvesting process by a few more days. “But the bad news is that the meteorological department has predicted rain for the coming days too,” said Grewal.Prabhjyot Kaur Sidhu, head of the department of the school of climate change and agricultural meteorology, PAU, said that till 5.30pm on Monday, 3.6mm rainfall was recorded. The rain led to a dip in the temperature. While the maximum temperature was recorded at 31.2 degree Celsius, the minimum temperature was 18.4 degree Celsius.She said that as per the weather forecast available, April 21 and 22 will remain dry while light to moderate rainfall is likely at isolated places thereafter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rain-adds-to-punjab-farmers-woes-amid-covid-19-crisis/story-TMGYikAevszWWq6cBI5xtO.html
20-04-2020||City||Seven held for gambling, ₹28,000 recovered||Seven people on Monday were caught gambling in Hazuri Bagh Colony of Bhatian Bet amid curfew in the city. The city police have also recovered ₹28,000 gambling money and a deck of cards from their possession.The accused were identified as Gurjit Singh, Amandeep Singh, Ajay, Raju, Lucky Singh, Harish Kumar and Shahid Khan. All are residents of Bhatian Bet.Investigating officer assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Pritpal Singh said that he along with a police team were at the check point near Bhatian Bet crossing when he received a tip-off about some residents indulging in gambling. “Later, a raid was conducted and the accused were arrested from the spot,” he said.He added that the accused were booked under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and 13-3-67 of the Gambling Act at Salem Tabri police station.4 arrested for illegal sale of liquorDehlon police have arrested one Avtar Singh of Jaspal Bangar for selling liquor illegally during the curfew. The police recovered 118 bottles of liquor from his possession. He was booked under Sections 188 of the IPC and 61-1-14 of the Excise Act.Similarly, Prince Kumar and Jagdish Kumar of Ranjit Nagar were arrested by Division number 6 police at Bhagwan Chowk while transporting 20 cartons of illicit liquor. Division number 7 police also arrested one Sanjeev Grover of Janakpuri near MIG flats, Sector 32, and recovered 24 bottles of liquor from his possession. These accused were also booked under Sections of 61-1-14 of the Excise Act and 188 of the IPC at respective police stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/seven-held-for-gambling-28-000-recovered/story-tffJjpirIvTIGZFNHOQtuK.html
20-04-2020||Chandigarh||Traffic rush at Chandigarh borders as govt offices begin ops||Long queues of vehicles were witnessed at the major entrances of the city as offices of Punjab and Haryana governments located here began functioning on Monday. While 15 entry points have been permanently closed, 38 nakas were put up at the outer borders. A long queue was witnessed at the Housing Board light point in Sector 13, where the road was barricaded for only one vehicle to pass at a time. Various entrances of the housing societies in Sector 13 were also closed by the residents' welfare associations (RWAs) to prevent thoroughfare. Notably, UT administrator VP Singh Badnore had appealed to the Punjab and Haryana authorities not to give too many movement passes to control crowding yet most entry points were choc-a-bloc. Police officials were asking the drivers to show their ID cards without opening their windows for their safety. No pedestrian was allowed to cross the nakas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/traffic-rush-at-chandigarh-borders-as-govt-offices-begin-ops/story-lb9iwHZqzGUYqUB9A1Q9jK.html
20-04-2020||Mumbai||Trump-backed drug to be tested on thousands in Mumbai slums||India’s financial capital Mumbai is fine-tuning a plan to administer an unproven but much touted anti-malarial drug in neighborhoods including Asia’s most crowded slum, the first-of-its-kind mass experiment to ward off the coronavirus.The city officials are identifying a target group which will receive hydroxychloroquine, according to Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner at Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai. Medical experts are being consulted on the duration of dosage, he said, adding that a decision was expected in a couple of days.The move underscores the desperation and mounting pressure on health care officials for solutions against a novel pathogen which has infected over 2.1 million people globally and killed over 146,000. It also explains the frenzied excitement over a decades-old drug -- U.S. President Donald Trump called it a “game changer” in the fight against the virus --despite a patchy efficacy record in some small studies and a documented list of side effects.“This is a one-time window available to us and may give answers for the pandemic the world is struggling with,” Kakani said. “We are taking utmost care to understand the side effects before implementing this.”Mumbai, which has seen more than a tenth of India’s over 13,800 cases and a quarter of its deaths, has emerged as the biggest virus hotspot in India and is racing against time to curb the contagion in several clusters.The densely-packed slums of Dharavi are one of the two locations -- Worli, the worst-hit Mumbai neighborhood is the other-- where the city officials plan to start a hydroxychloroquine or HCQ-dosing drive as a prophylaxis or a preemptive medication aimed at warding off the disease.There’s no conclusive scientific evidence that the drug works on virus patients, not to mention its use as a preventive therapy.“For use of HCQ as prophylaxis in a hotspot, there is simply not enough evidence. No preventive studies published to say that this approach really protects people,” said Leena Menghaney, a New Delhi-based activist with Médecins Sans Frontières. “Potential risk may surpass the potential benefit of providing it widely for people without the disease.”‘Too Many Uncertainties’There have been reports of heart-rhythm problems in some people in France, especially if used in a larger dose or if it interacts with other drugs, according to Menghaney. “There are too many uncertainties to say if it will help or if it will be futile in the public health response” against the coronavirus outbreak, she said.The anti-malarial drug didn’t help patients clear the virus better than standard care and was much more likely to cause side effects, according to a study in China. There were more side effects in the group who took hydroxychloroquine, but they were mostly mild, the most common being diarrhea, the study found.Aware of the deeply divided stance on this drug, Mumbai’s city officials are being careful.The original plan to dose 50,000 people between the ages of 18 years and 55 years, with no pre-existing liver and heart ailments, has now been scaled down as regular follow-up and surveillance of such a huge group would have been a challenge, said Kakani who is responsible for execution of this initiative.The medicine will be given to only those people who are willing, he insists, after recording their personal and medical history, including any medication they may be on.Spot Side EffectsAs many as 4,500 health care workers in Mumbai can be roped in this initiative. Each health care worker will be alloted 25-30 houses to track during the tenure of the medication and will be well-trained to spot any side effects for three to seven weeks over which the drug may be administered.Kakani refutes that the two locations were chosen because they are slum settlements.“In Dharavi and Worli we have created quarantine zone with high risk patients. We are anyway monitoring that group for 14 days, so we are able to observe these people and provide medical services,” he said. “We are not going ahead just because this is a slum.”Mumbai’s municipal authorities have completely sealed some areas, created quarantine zones, and are conducting door-to-door contact tracing of those found infected.As the death toll mounts despite India being in a lockdown for nearly a month, local governments have begun weighing the risks and rewards of some unprecedented policy measures.“We can try newer things if it’s permissible and advisable by relevant experts,” Kakani said. “Just because no one has tried it out yet does not mean we shouldn’t also. We can’t sit back and relax.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/trump-backed-drug-to-be-tested-on-thousands-in-mumbai-slums/story-Wc7iJDI7ZriveGRTQtNfDL.html
20-04-2020||Chandigarh||Child rights’ body rescues 17-year-old girl in Chandigarh||Childline India Foundation, an NGO running under the Union ministry of women and child development, has rescued a 17-year-old Class 12 girl, read a press statement released by the child rights’ body on Monday. The girl was found near the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) on Saturday.Investigations revealed that the girl had eloped with a boy of her class and was “scared” of returning home, fearing that her parents would get to know that she got physically intimate with the boy. The child rights’ team found that the girl’s parents had lodged a missing report at Maloya police station about a month back.ADMITTED TO QUARANTINE FACILITY Director of the child helpline, Chandigarh, Ravi Bedi, said, “After medical examination of the girl, a case has been registered against the boy under Sections 376, 363 and 366 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act at Maloya police station. As the girl was in an unknown place for nearly a month, she has been admitted to a quarantine facility for 15 days.”A hunt is on for the boy who is absconding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/child-rights-body-rescues-17-year-old-girl-in-chandigarh/story-YF39jPy6whm1JCBPdqn4HL.html
20-04-2020||Chandigarh||Deluged with hundreds of calls, Chandigarh opticians set sight on permission to open||What if suddenly, you cannot see clearly, and you have to study, or cook, or look after children and the elderly, all without a pair of spectacles. Such is the plight of many people in the UT, who after breaking their glasses were in for a rude shock when they found that opticians were closed during curfew despite other medical faciliites being open. With their services not considered ‘essential’ by UT administration, opticians have not been allowed to open shop since the curfew was declared on March 24. However, with hundreds of distraught customers, the optician association has written to the UT administrator to permit them to open shop. Their services, they say, are fundamental for those who suffer weak eyesight, as blurred vision is not a simple difficulty, but a handicap.Amarjeet Singh’s 23-year-old daughter, who is studying to be a chartered accountant is short-sighted with a vision of –8D and –9D in both eyes. Unfortunately, her glasses broke a few days ago. “My daughter has no option but to continue. Squinting and reading without glasses gives her a severe headache. A few opticians must be allowed to open as it is causing great inconvenience,” he said.A retired judge from Punjab and Haryana high court, RS Madan, too, has been carrying on without his spectacles for a while. His son Raghujeet Madan said a tiny screw from the frame has fallen out, and would have taken an optician only a few seconds to fix it. “Most people did not plan for such contingencies during a curfew. The administration could look into starting a delivery service of spectacles directly to those in need,” he said.Samrat Arora, general secretary of Chandigarh optical association, said he has been receiving at least three calls a day from distraught customers asking him to help them but he can do nothing about it. “Some states such as Rajasthan and Kerala have made concessions for opticians. Even doctors need to get their glasses repaired,” Arora said.The association had reached out to the UT administration in an email on Saturday, but are still awaiting a response.Proprietor of Weldon Opticians in Sector 17, Harjit Singh, said he has been receiving calls from more than 50 customers everyday, most of whom required repairs. “We really want to help. The administration must allow a few opticians to open their shops while maintaining social distancing. This is in fact an essential service for those who wear glasses,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/deluged-with-hundreds-of-calls-opticians-set-sight-on-permission-from-chandigarh-admn/story-k9mHsTfSKtjJwjmkurcgQM.html
20-04-2020||Mumbai||‘Pray Taravih namaz with family’||: With the month of Ramadan to begin from Thursday, Mufti Mehmood Akhtar Qadri, chief qazi of the city, has asked community members to pray in their homes with their family members. In a message sent to the community members, he said that Taravih namaz, which is an additional prayers performed at night during Ramadan should happen from home.“Because of lockdown, a lot of people have expressed concerns about how can they pray taravih namaz at home and that everyone needs to gather in a mosque. Even if a limited number of people offer namaaz from mosque, it is acceptable,” said Qadri.He also appealed to them to help poor families during the holy month, so that they can observe fasts as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pray-taravih-namaz-with-family/story-41X6X1MmMEEOrLfmDeP0gK.html
20-04-2020||City||99% industrial units remain closed in Ludhiana||Even as 700 odd units in the state’s financial capital, Ludhiana, continue to function amid a month-long curfew in Punjab, no other industrial unit opened here on Monday.The Ludhiana deputy commissioner on Monday announced that industrial units in rural areas and designated industrial areas keen to start operations could submit their applications online with the general manager District Industries Centre (GMDIC).The GMDIC will oversee whether guidelines and labour quarantine norms are being followed at the units and then these can be allowed to operate. The guidelines say that the owners should make arrangements for labourers to be given accommodation at the units.About 99% of Ludhiana’s industry, known for manufacturing bicycles, bicycle parts, sewing machines and hosiery, will remain closed until at least May 3.TEXTILE INDUSTRY MAKING PPEThe silver lining in a grim situation, however, has been some enterprising innovations. A section of Ludhiana’s famed textile industry has diversified to making personal protective equipment (PPE) in bulk. Currently,15 textile firms located in the city have been accorded approval by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) to make personal protective equipment (PPEs). District Industry Centre (DIC) general manager Mahesh Khanna told Hindustan Times on Monday that PPE samples from 37 more firms had been forwarded for government approval. “It seems the entire textile industry is keen to manufacture them”, he said.Permission had been accorded for manufacture of essential commodities, including bread, biscuits, packaging, pharmaceuticals and PPEs on a daily basis. There are currently 600 units for manufacturing essential commodities and around 100 units for some non-essential commodities that had been given permission earlier to function.Ludhiana is home to about 95,000 micro, small and medium industrial units (SMEs) and about 250 large scale units.BICYCLE UNITS UNABLE TO RESUME WORKLudhiana’s bicycle industry, which forms 80% of India’s bicycle manufacturing and home to giants such as Hero and Avon among others, remained closed as industrialists expressed their inability to start work because of the strict guidelines imposed by the administration.They also said sustaining would be difficult in the absence of demand in these times. “Where are the shops (retailers) to sell bicycles? What will we do even if we start manufacturing cycles?” asked SS Bhogal, managing partner of Bhogal Sales Corporation, a major bicycle manufacturer in the city.Bhogal also said strict safety guidelines imposed by the administration were not feasible. “There are practical problems. It is not possible to house over 100 labourers and also arrange for their medical facilities,” he said.SK Rai, managing director of Hero Cycles, said there is no question of them re-opening their unit before May 3. “There are strict restrictions on transport. Re-opening in these times is just not feasible,” he said.The president of United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association (UCPMA), DS Chawla felt it was not possible to function with conditions such as quarantining of the labour imposed by the administration. Likewise, thepresident of the Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU), Upkar Ahuja, said nothing could be gained by opening a certain sector or industry amid a lockdown until the complete chain was permitted to operate. The industry would need raw material and a function market to sell products. The district administration had allowed industrialists with permissions to run factories to operate their respective units. However, Ludhiana deputy commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal said that the decision to recall the order permitting relaxations was taken to keep the situation under control. The district has so far witnessed four Covid -19 deaths, including that of an assistant commissioner of police and a revenue department official. There are currently 15 Covid-19 cases in the district, the state’s largest in terms of both geographical and population (35 lakh) size.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/99-industrial-units-remain-closed-in-ludhiana/story-aIEwv52pGTW1GORsFVGKoJ.html
20-04-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn faces criticism for declaring entire city containment zone||The Chandigarh administration’s move on Monday to notify the entire city as a containment zone to control the Covid-19 outbreak is being questioned in certain circles that prefer selective sealing of affected spots.The Union health ministry had declared Chandigarh a Covid-19 hotspot (red zone) on April 15, leaving the Chandigarh administration to specify the geographical area of the containment zone in the city. A containment zone is geographical area with high incidence of Covid-19 positive cases where no unchecked outward movement of population except for maintaining essential services (including medical emergencies) and government business continuity is allowed.The UT’s containment order dictates there will be no relaxation in curfew imposed from March 24 and industries as well as the IT sector will be closed up to May 3 even though they are facing heavy losses with layoffs as the curfew extends into the second month.When the matter was raised with the UT authorities to seal select spots similar to what had been done by other states, including Haryana, the response was that cases were scattered around the city, because of which demarcating zones would have been difficult, says Dr JS Thakur, professor at department of community health of Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER).Services provided by self-employed persons, for instance electricians, IT engineers, plumbers, motor mechanics and carpenters, will remain prohibited.Construction of roads, irrigation, buildings and all kinds of industrial projects including MSME in rural areas; construction of renewable projects; continuation of works in construction projects within MC limits; and private vehicles for emergency services could have been allowed if entire city wasn’t declared a containment zone.Businesses ‘won’t survive’“But now, no economic activity will be allowed in the city for a month. The administration should have done selective sealing of areas. The city’s economy cannot survive another month of complete lockdown. Some relaxations were warranted,” says Charanjiv Singh, chairman, Chandigarh Beopar Mandal, Another major impact would be that people needing medical care from neighbouring areas will not be able to enter the city during medical emergencies, says Dr RS Bedi, former president, Chandigarh Chapter of the Indian Medical Association.“The UT administration has allowed inter-state migration of officials for essential services, but has ignored patients who require better medical care here. There’s panic among medical professionals and also for the people who need medical care in Chandigarh. The authorities should allow this,” he added.“Only time will tell how wise this decision is, but we are denying healthcare services provided by PGIMER to the patients in the region as they cannot visit the institute due to curbs imposed by the administration,” says Dr Neeraj Nagpal, convener, Medicos Legal Action Group. Sporadic, non-contiguous spreadTechnically, a containment zone is spread around three kilometers with a buffer zone of five and seven kilometers for urban and rural areas, respectively. “But, in case of Chandigarh it was not possible as the cases of outbreak of Covid-19 are scattered, non-contiguous and sporadic spread,” says Manoj Kumar Parida, UT adviser.Under the red zone too no relaxation is allowed except for essential services, he adds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/entire-chandigarh-declared-containment-zone-because-of-scattered-covid-19-clusters/story-a2th7PrwuYlM0v1OdfrC8I.html
20-04-2020||City||Punjab dispatches nearly 1,200 J&K residents stuck in Pathankot amid lockdown||Around 1,200 J&K residents, who were stuck in Punjab’s Pathankot after the state borders were sealed off in view of coronavirus outbreak and subsequent curfew imposed by Punjab on March 23, started leaving for their state after nearly four weeks in a fleet of 18 special buses on Monday.As the J&K administration had earlier refused to allow entry of these residents into the state, they were accommodated by Punjab and lodged in some banquet halls, schools and other places.The Punjab Roadways buses arranged to ferry these passengers were fully sanitised and physical distance was maintained by allowing only 26 passengers in one trip. SP Hemraj Pushap, DSP Sukhjinder Singh and other senior police officials escorted the buses to J&K where the residents were handed over to the UT officials.On March 27, 17 Kashmiri migrant labourers, who had started walking towards Ramban (J&K) from Pathankot in the absence of any transport, were stopped by the UT administration and denied them entry. They all were later accommodated by a Pathankot resident, Randhir Singh Bitta, who also provided them food. After HT published the story of their plight, the district administration had started accommodating many such J&K residents in Pathankot who had reached here in large numbers.“I am happy now that they are going to their respective homes,” said Randhir Singh Bitta. The J&K administration should have allowed them to enter their native state earlier and taken care of them, which the Punjab government did here, he added.DSP Sukhjinder Singh said, “We hope to drop all of them by Monday evening. Their safety is our duty so we have ensured that distance is maintained among them in the buses.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-dispatches-nearly-1-200-j-k-residents-stuck-in-pathankot-amid-lockdown/story-gfUmDJ3JJKd0NetKGCDe4N.html
20-04-2020||Mumbai||At 37.8 degrees Celsius Mumbai records highest April day temperature since 2016||The city and suburbs recorded one of its hottest days in the last four years on Monday while the air quality was the cleanest, so far, this year.The day temperature at the Santacruz weather station, representative of the suburbs and Mumbai, recorded its highest April maximum temperature since 2016 at 37.8 degrees Celsius, which was almost 5 degrees Celsius above normal. On April 28 2016, the maximum temperature was 38 degrees Celsius and the highest over the last 10 years was recorded on April 22, 2014 at 39 degrees Celsius. The all-time high April maximum temperature for Mumbai is 42.2 degrees Celsius on April 14, 1952. From 2017 to 2019, the maximum temperature did not surpass the 37 degree Celsius mark during April.The maximum temperature in south Mumbai was almost 3 degrees Celsius above normal on Monday as the Colaba weather station recorded 35.2 degrees Celsius.The weather bureau attributed hotter conditions to seasonal weather changes. “The suburbs remained much warmer as compared to the city on Sunday and Monday. However, weather models are indicating a drop in temperatures from Tuesday onwards for the Konkan coast, including Mumbai,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general, western region, India Meteorological Department.The night temperature in the city and suburbs was 2 degrees Celsius above normal while humidity levels were much lower than previous days at 62% in south Mumbai and 31% in the suburbs.Location-wise maximum temperatures on Monday showed Mulund was the hottest location in the city at 39.98 degrees Celsius followed by the area around Jogeshwari Vikhroli Link Road at 39.7 degrees Celsius, Borivli at 39.4 degrees Celsius and Goregaon 38.8 degrees Celsius. Akola and Washim were the hottest areas in the state at 42.5 and 42.2 degrees Celsius.Humidity levels were above 90% over the weekend, which saw a sharp decline on Monday. Meanwhile, the air quality index (AQI) on Monday was 61 (satisfactory) making it the cleanest air day this year so far. The AQI has been ranging between 62-65 between Friday and Sunday. However, the AQI was the lowest at 65 on March 22 (Janta Curfew) after which it went over 70.A clear sky has been predicted for Tuesday with day and night temperatures expected at 36 and 25 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/at-37-8-degrees-celsius-mumbai-records-highest-april-day-temperature-since-2016/story-U5cbHO5I6E0gUl2Kklk6uJ.html
20-04-2020||City||45 more PPE kits provided to police personnel in Ludhiana||The police department on Monday provided 45 more personal protection equipment (PPE) kits to the cops on curfew duty and those helping in distribution of food among the needy.The kits, donated by the Akhilesh Maingi Memorial Society, were handed over to additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, detective) Dayama Harish Kumar Omparkash.The ADCP is also the nodal officer for distributing grocery and food among the needy in the city. The ADCP, along with his team, has been in the field for the task.The district police have formed four emergency response teams comprising 20 personnel to ensure that the police follow the correct protocol while dealing with Covid-19 positive patients.The teams have been christened ‘Covid commandos’.An industrial unit had provided 35 PPE kits to the police department in March. The Khalsa Aid had also donated 200 kits to the police.The suits are made of a special fabric, which is fluid-resistant, anti-microbial and reusable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/45-more-ppe-kits-provided-to-police-personnel-in-ludhiana/story-4TExXNJiqEtBt2cUSLD7sI.html
20-04-2020||City||Faridkot medical college resumes online counselling for postgraduate courses||Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS), Faridkot has resumed the counselling process for state quota seats of postgraduate courses in its constituent seven medical and 12 dental colleges.The university had invited applications for admission to PG courses on March 3, but the counselling was postponed due to the coronavirus pandemic. Now, the university has resumed the first round of online counselling on Monday following the recent notification of the Medical Counselling Committee (MCC) regarding the resumption of counselling for PG courses. Vice-chancellor of the university Dr Raj Bahadur said that they have begun the first round of online counselling for state quota PG seats. “It has been decided by the competent authority to conduct the first round of online counselling instead for this year’s session in the state,” he added.As per a notification issued by the university, the last date of submitting an online application ended on April 19 and the provisional merit list will be displayed on the university’s website on April 21. “The candidates will inform the objections if any in the provisional merit list by April 22. The candidates including NRIs will submit online, the choice of specialty and college from April 24 to 26. However, the result of the first round of online counselling will be declared by April 29, while the last date for reporting at the allotted college shall be notified later on the website,” it stated.As the movement of students would not be possible due to the lockdown, the BFUHS has allowed PG students to report online. This means the selected students can also join the allotted college by sending a confirmatory email regarding the acceptance of the seat.“The candidates can report in person to the college for taking admission. As reporting to the allotted colleges could not be possible for some students due to the lockdown, we will provide an online option as well. They can join the allotted college by sending a confirmatory email regarding the acceptance of seat and uploading scanned copies of relevant documents and pay the requisite fees to the account of university,” said Dr Raj Bahadur.BFUHS also advised candidates to beware of any fake website. “Confirm the account number and particulars of the college from the official website or by personally contacting us before paying the fees,” the university stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/faridkot-medical-college-resumes-online-counselling-for-postgraduate-courses/story-E3jecrNZhBO7M1V5tg2obN.html
20-04-2020||City||Labourer’s body found in nullah of Mohali village||The body of a daily wager was found in a nullah in Papri village in Mohali on Monday. The deceased was identified as Amardeep Singh, who stayed in the hutments in the village. Police said Amardeep was drunk and is suspected to have fallen into the nullah the night before. The police said the villagers suspected that he might have come to steal some sheep that chased after him and he fell into the nullah. “Amardeep was a habitual drinker and was unemployed. The police have initiated inquest proceedings. We will get his postmortem done and register a case if any foul play is found,” said Daljit Singh, station house officer (SHO), Sohana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/drunkard-s-body-found-in-nullah-of-mohali-village/story-7k4Y0lXFvsiJBBxoXIDvCN.html
20-04-2020||City||Lockdown: Demand for health insurance plans surges in Ludhiana||For 42-year-old Ashwani Kumar, a cashier of a private firm based in Feroze Gandhi market, health insurance plans seemed like a waste till about two months ago. He believed that one should rely on one’s personal savings for emergencies. But all that changed since Covid-19 outbreak. Anxious after hearing about cases where the whole families got infected, Kumar rushed to purchase a family insurance plan to cover his wife and 12-year-old son.Kumar is among the many for whom the outbreak served as a wake up call. They are soon realising that along with storing sufficient grocery items at home, it is also important to purchase a health insurance plan.In Ludhiana, many insurance companies have reported 25 to 30 per cent rise in sale of health policies since the lockdown.Arjun Kumar, health planner Punjab, Religare Health Insurance, said that while earlier the insurance company had to approach individuals for plan benefits, now the reverse is happening.“We have seen a 30% increase in the number of clients since the lockdown. With the rising positive cases, people are concerned how they would bear the medicine expenses in case someone in their family gets infected with the virus,” told Kumar.Kumar said primary query regarding any health plan that they receive these days is whether the insurance plan covers coronavirus or not.“Earlier people used to enquire aspects of the insurance cover, including accident cover, however, all the other things have become less important. People just want to get a health cover for their loved ones against coronavirus,” he said.Unlike earlier, when a health checkup would be carried out before sanctioning the insurance plan, the insurance firms are providing the cover within few hours of basic verification and digital payment of the premium.“We ask the client to send all the details through email and after verifying their particulars , we give them a go ahead for payment. They get the plan only after a few hours of clearing all required formalities. Other than the new clients, we are also working on settling the claims of our clients undergoing treatment for coronavirus in different cities on priority basis,” he informed.Recently, the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) had asked the insurers to decide on authorisation for cashless treatment to the network provider (hospital) within two hours from the time of receipt of authorisation request and last necessary requirement from the hospital. The move is aimed to ensure that health insurance claims of all coronavirus patients are dealt with swiftly.Individuals opting family health cover plansJiwan Sharma, sales manager of Star Health Insurance, informed that a majority of their new clients are opting for family health insurance plan. “Since the coronavirus spreads with the contact and the whole family is potentially at risk if one person gets infected, people are largely opting for family health cover plans. Presently, the ratio of the demand for family plan against individual plan is 7:3. Moreover, the premium of family health insurance is comparatively less than the individual plan,” he informed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lockdown-demand-for-health-insurance-plans-surges-in-ludhiana/story-l5qLJVNRswGfenBRrfcEgK.html
20-04-2020||City||CT University and University Business School organise webinar to discuss cyber security challenges||CT University (CTU), in coordination with the Cybertrix Club, organized Edit-a-thon as part of the Syberthon 2020, an online event that was focused to address the cyber security challenges in the lockdown imposed due to Covid-19. The participants were given a time slot to submit online Wikipedia articles on cyber security that were reviewed by the experts.The guest speakers were Kala Baskar, former director in-charge, Centre for Cyber Forensics and Information Security University of Madras; Manavpreet Kaur, community relations specialist at Wikimedia Foundation; and Rajeeb Dutta, Google certified software professional. Harsh Sadawarti, vice-chancellor of CTU, inaugurated the event and shared his views on the importance of extracurricular activities during the pandemic. He said, “The pandemic has posed risks of increased cyber-attacks in organisations due to high dependency on personal and unsecured networks.”Baskar shared information about the new cyber threats and ransomware and suggested precautions that can be taken while working online from home. Similarly, Manavpreet Kaur spoke about the relevance of Wikimedia programme and its importance to reduce the psychological stress of the students who are staying home alone.University Business School, PURCUniversity Business School, Panjab University Regional Centre (PURC), organised a webinar on ‘Covid-19: Economic consequences and future strategies’. As many as 110 participants from different states including Madhya Pradesh, Chennai, Jammu and New Delhi participated in it.PURC director Ravi Inder Singh welcomed chief guest RK Singla, dean research, Panjab University (PU), Chandigarh, and all the participants.While introducing the theme of the webinar, he said that mankind is passing through its worst phase of health crisis which is accompanied by an economic crisis. “There is lot of anxiety among the people about the economic issues and the basic objective of organising the webinar is to provide a platform to the people wherein they can discuss the important economic issues emerging out of Covid-19,” he added.Sandeep Kapur, professor of management and controller of finance, Panjab Agriculture University (PAU), Ludhiana, in his discussion on the theme “Vulnerability to black swan: Thoughts on emerging new normals” talked about the three types of recession which the world has seen. Harish Anand, economic advisor to Vardhman Group of Industries, in his analysis of the impact of Covid-19 from macro and micro economic perspectives, said, “Businesses having clean balance sheets, sufficient liquidity and working on the models of profitability will not find any problem in their survival and revival, but the businesses under debt are going to suffer.”Lakhwinder Singh, director of Centre for Development Economics and Innovation, Punjabi University, Patiala, said, “Industries will face labour problems post Covid-19 and it will be difficult to attract the labour back.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ct-university-and-university-business-school-organise-webinar-to-discuss-cyber-security-challenges/story-MjjByCEJ5QBMCloRacs2wK.html
20-04-2020||City||Maharashtra: Huge fire in Palghar factory, no casualties reported||A huge fire broke out on Monday afternoon in Palghar in Maharashtra in a factory making fibre items for toys and two engines were on the spot along with dozens of personnel to douse the blaze, said a fire brigade official, adding there were no reports of casualties as yet.The fire started at around 3:30 am and smoke caused by chemicals and fibre items going up in flames could be seen from a distance on Palghar-Manor Road, he added.“The road leading to Arihant Industrial Corporation, where the fire broke out, has been sealed. Dousing operations are underway,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-huge-fire-in-palghar-factory-no-casualties-reported/story-2GMugGTETuH4qtKvJL58bN.html
20-04-2020||Lucknow||Freedom will come with terms & conditions this time!||Actor Karann Nathh is making most of quarantined time in keeping himself fit and watching all films that he missed of late. “You can pass the time and find things to keep yourself occupied. We all need normalcy and freedom but I think it will be with the terms and conditions this time. Things will not be the same! I’m sure lots will change in our lives after the pandemic ends,” says ‘LOC: Kargil’ actor.The suave actor was last in Lucknow to promote his theatrical release ‘Guns of Banaras’ which was extensively shot in Varanasi. “Shooting in majestic Varanasi and putting up there was an interesting and memorable experience for me. I miss the UP cities as they are different places all together.”Nathh and his team plans to bring his film on the digital space soon. “OTT is the place to be and soon I will not only bring ‘GoB’ on it but as and when the lockdown gets over, I will start taking up offers for web series. Last year, I denied a few series including a pivotal role in recently streamed ‘Special Ops’ as I was shooting for my film in the same period. It was a great role and has shaped up really well in the series.”He is happy that his father Rikku Rakesh Nath, a producer, asked all his family including his sisters and their families to shift in together as the lockdown was announced. “My father thought it was a time when the entire family should to be together and takes care of each other. My sisters are asking care of kitchen and we are getting delicious home made food to eat. But I feel worrisome for many out there who are without food. My team and family are doing our bit too hope it reaches out to deserving.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/freedom-will-come-with-terms-conditions-this-time/story-YNq4j5xtN9YERVs9iI4vML.html
20-04-2020||Lucknow||Realistic filmmaking spaces will see a change: Mishra||Director Sudhir Mishra suffered a major set-back during in the ongoing lockdown phase. His father Dr DN Mishra, also a Lucknowite, passed away on April 2.“My sister could not come. Later, we did a small puja at home. He suffered a heart attack. Now, I am taking care of my mother and slowly started with my normal life,” he said over phone.The ‘Hazaaron Khwaishen Aisi’ director was wrapping his next film ‘Serious Men’ based on Manu Joseph’s novel when the lockdown happened.“I have already shot the film in Mumbai and Goa with Nawazuddin Siddiqui. It’s a story of a father and son. The editing part has also been done. I just need a month or so to complete the VFX and other parts. The film is for Netflix,” he said.Mishra also supervised the season 2 of OTT series ‘Hostages’. “I directed the first part, but in this season, I am the show runner (creative director). This series has already been shot and its editing and background work in on. The team is working from their homes using whatever possible technology.” Both projects are expected to hit the digital space later this year.He feels the storytelling will change after everything reopens after the lockdown.“Will we be able to tell the stories post-Covid-19 phase that is a big question for all film makers. Creatively there will be a conflict in mind of writers on what kind of stories to tell and what will be accepted. Tall talks of humanity…for poor and needy have been exposed and they are the ones who are suffering the most. We need to live with this truth!”The ‘realistic’ filmmaking spaces will see a tremendous change post-pandemic phase. “It’s fine for those who make fantasy films but for makers like us who make ‘Yatharth apne samay ki filmein’ (realistic cinema of current times) will have to consider these aspects too,” Mishra said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/realistic-filmmaking-spaces-will-see-a-change-mishra/story-2mFDFApkE54Mup5tQZUXQP.html
20-04-2020||Kolkata||Mamata Banerjee asks Centre to provide reasons for deployment of IMCTs||Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday asked the Centre to give valid reasons for the deployment of Inter-Ministerial Central Teams (IMCTs) in select districts across India including a few in West Bengal.“We welcome all constructive support and suggestions, especially from the Central government in negating the COVID-19 crisis. However, the basis on which the Centre is proposing to deploy IMCTs in select districts across India including a few in WB under the Disaster Management Act, 2005 is unclear,” said Banerjee in a tweet.The Chief Minister urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to share the criteria used for the deployment of IMCTs.“I urge both Honb’le Prime Minister Narendra Modi Ji and Home Minister Amit Shah Ji to share the criterion used for this. Until then I am afraid, we would not be able to move ahead on this as without valid reasons this might not be consistent with the spirit of federalism,” she said in another tweet.Six IMCTs have been constituted by the Centre to assess the situation regarding the violations of lockdown, social distancing norms and attack on doctors, and submit a report to the Central government.Earlier in the day, the Central government said that the reported violations of lockdown measures pose a serious health hazard to the public and risk for the spread of COVID19.According to the Ministry of Home Affairs, IMCTs will focus on compliance and implementation of lockdown measures as per the guidelines, supply of essential commodities, social distancing, preparedness of health infrastructure, the safety of health professionals and conditions of the relief camps for labour and poor people. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/mamata-banerjee-asks-centre-to-provide-reasons-for-deployment-of-imcts/story-MfDU5Ljxj0vCiTfYyogf2O.html
20-04-2020||Chandigarh||1.3 million tulips bloom amid lockdown in Kashmir, tourists miss chance to behold the sight||The 1.3 million tulips that have bloomed in one of Asia’s largest tulip gardens in Kashmir make for a spectacular sight. Sadly, these dainty flowers will wither away in a week with neither tourists nor locals getting an opportunity to appreciate their beauty due to the lockdown imposed to check the spread of the novel coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The 30-hectare tulip garden at ‘Siraj Bagh’ has transformed into a sea of colour but looks desolate without any visitors. Director floriculture Farooq Ahmad Rather said, “This year, we had increased the number of tulips to 1.3 million. We were hopeful that the garden will give a fillip to tourism. However, Covid-19 wrecked havoc on our plans. The tulips have started withering and within the next week or by the end of this month, the flowers will fade away.” Located on the foothills of Zabarwan Mountains along the banks of the Dal Lake with over 55 varieties of red, yellow, pink tulips, the tulip garden had bloomed around the same time last year with around 1.2 million bulbs attracting 2.58 lakh visitors. Of the visitors at least one lakh were outsiders.People would look forward to the Tulip Festival, an annual event, which showcased the large variety of flowers and promoted tourism in the stateIn 2018, around 1.9 lakh people had visited the garden.“This year we had increased varieties of tulips, increased the area of the garden and had formed interesting patterns hoping for a heavy footfall but there is no one here to appreciate the fruit of our labour,” Rather said.The department annually spends Rs 70 lakh on its maintenance. “The tourist season began with the Tulip Festival and lasted a month. The garden brought business to hoteliers, transporters, traders and houseboat owners,” he said, adding that the gardens brought hundreds of crores to the tourism industry. The department hasn’t suffered much of a loss but the tourism industry has been severely hit.KASHMIR’S CONNECTION WITH TULIPSKashmir’s connection with tulips dates back to hundreds of years. Initially, the flowers were grown on muddy roof tops. As time passed, the tulips were grown in kitchen gardens and flower beds when in 2005-06 the then government decided to turn the ‘Siraj Bagh’ in Srinagar into a Tulip Garden. Around 20 hectares of the 30-hectare garden is covered with flowers. The Tulip Garden had opened in 2007 on a slope with multiple terraces. It overlooks the scenic Botanical Garden. The tulip bulbs were brought from Holland and other European countries. Besides tulips, others flower such as hyacinth, pansy, daffodil and ranunculus add glamour to the garden.The life-cycle of a tulip flower is 15 days but officials had increased the span of the overall bloom by adding late-blooming varieties of tulips.“We have early blooming and mid-blooming tulips and now we have added four new varieties of late blooming tulips so that the garden remains open for a month,” floriculture officer Shayeq Rasool had told HT last month.Tourism nosedived last year after the Jammu and Kashmir government issued a travel advisory asking tourists and pilgrims to leave a few days before the central government revoked the special status under Article 370 of erstwhile state and split the region into two union territories on August 5. For months, restrictions remained in place with no phones and internet as the region remained shut.Though the restrictions were later removed, phones restored and the travel advisory revoked, but the tourists did not visit the place. Now, with the Covid-19 lockdown, Kashmir’s tourism has been hit again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/1-3-million-tulips-bloom-amid-lockdown-in-kashmir-tourists-miss-chance-to-behold-the-sight/story-AdlSOupKp6GqKjsXOSgx3M.html
20-04-2020||Patna||No relaxation of any kind, lockdown to remain imposed till May 3: Bihar DGP||Refuting certain rumours about easing coronavirus restrictions, the Director-General of Police (DGP), Bihar on Monday clarified that there is no relaxation in the lockdown. However, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has allowed the resumption of some activities.“There’s a lot of rumours going around, I’m reiterating it again and again that there’s no relaxation of any kind from today. Lockdown will go on for common man till 3rd May, just like it has, till date. Everyone has to stay at home. There’s no relaxation,” said Gupteshwar Pandey, DGP Bihar“MHA has allowed the resumption of some activities, so if people related to those activities come out of their houses, then common man should not think that they too can step out of their homes now,” he added. If anyone comes out without a reason, strict action will be taken against them, the DGP added. So far, 93 people have been tested positive for COVID-19 in Bihar. Meanwhile, India’s total number of coronavirus positive cases rose to 17,265 on Monday including 14,175 active cases, 2,546 cured/discharged/migrated and 543 deaths, according to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/no-relaxation-of-any-kind-lockdown-to-remain-imposed-till-may-3-bihar-dgp/story-SkYOLiho4BpzHrjNXd18VN.html
20-04-2020||Pune||Pune’s 40 deg C plus rain set to continue with thunderstorm forecast||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued a warning for various parts of central Maharashtra, with hail, thunderstorms and rain forecast for April 20-21. Pune, on Sunday, saw light-to-moderate rain in several areas, this despite a maximum temperature of 40 degrees Celsius. Mahabaleshwar also reported thunderstorms with the maximum temperature at 32.7 degrees Celsius.India Meteorological Department ’s thunderstorm forecast, apart from Pune and Ahemednagar also holds for Kolhapur, Satara , Sangli and Solapur.According to an India Meteorological Department official, there is a western disturbance as a cyclonic circulation over northeast Afghanistan and Pakistan, with a trough running roughly east-northeastwards. A trough/wind discontinuity runs from south Tamil Nadu to south Marathwada across interior Karnataka with a fresh western disturbance likely to affect the western Himalayan region from April 23, 2020. The day’s maximum temperatures were above normal at most places over east Rajasthan, central Maharashtra, Vidarbha, Rayalaseema, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-s-40-deg-c-plus-rain-set-to-continue-with-thunderstorm-forecast/story-kQLR5MZ0lIbzhMD5CEo0fP.html
20-04-2020||City||Ludhiana police chief first in line as DMC&H starts Covid-19 tests||The Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMC&H) started testing for Covid-19 from Sunday, first checking police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal and deputy commissioner Pradeep Agrawal and other police and administrative officials, who, fortunately, tested negative.Sharing details, the institute’s secretary Prem Gupta said concessions were being offered for the tests which cost DMC&H Rs 6,000. “However, while the patients admitted or coming directly to the hospital will be charged Rs 4,500; costs for a sample received from the government will be Rs 2,500.”According to directions received from the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) only 30 samples will be tested per day for the first week, which will be increased to 40 in the second week.“We will increase the testing scale from 80 per day in the third week to 200 per day in the fourth week. We have also ordered 800 kits to match the speed of tests and soon will be able to test all samples collected in Ludhiana district,” Gupta said.As protection of paramedical staff and doctors from Covid-19 was also prioritised, “Personal protection equipment (PPE) kits will be provided to the 16-member staff of the microbiology department each day to ensure they work without any fear,” said Gupta.Pre-test trails at the microbiology lab of DMC&H were done on two samples of suspected flu patients for a week, which were also analysed by PGIMER labs and the results compared. Since its results were satisfactoryDMC&H was given green signal to conduct the Covid-19 tests.Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh had proposed the names of DMC&H and Christian Medical College and Hospital to Prime Minister Narendra Modi during a video conference and stated that the two prestigious medical institutions were capable of conducting Covid-19 tests. The CM had also sought the requisite approvals to begin the testing facility.At present, the state has three government laboratories, including Government Medical College, Amritsar, Government Medical College, Patiala, and Guru Gobind Singh Medical University, Faridkot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-police-chief-first-in-line-as-dmc-h-starts-covid-19-tests/story-UpeqoWWA5vlHYjPRdrstwL.html
20-04-2020||Pune||700 special officers on lockdown duty in Pune||For the next eight days, police will enrolled more than 700 special police officers to support the lockdown efforts in the city, said Pune police commissioner K Venkatesham on Sunday.This decision was taken after a day after deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar instructed the administration to strictly implement lockdown rules in the city for at least eight days more, to control the spread of Covid-19 (coronavirus).Crowds were reported from several areas in the city as the rush to buy vegetables, mutton and chicken amplified in the wake of the deputy CM’s announcement.According to Venkatesham, the police have started being more strict in the implementation of lockdown, he said, “We have to break the chain of increasing Covid-19 (coronavirus) cases in the city. We request residents to cooperate with the police department. With the stricter implementation of lockdown rules, there will be more pain in terms of supply of essential supplies in the city. I would like to appeal to everyone to come out only if it is absolutely necessary. We request people over the age of 60 not to come out of home at all,” said Venkatesham.According to statistics shared by police, actions were taken against 642 persons on Sunday, while many were made to sit and perform yoga as punishmentThe city currently has 586 Covid-19 positive cases, with 50 deaths, till Sunday.Taking note of surge in infection, Pawar on Saturday pulled up officials from the administration and police department, asking them to implement the lockdown rules strictly.To increase efforts to reduce crowd on streets, district collector Naval Kishore Ram held meeting with officials. “To bring down Covid-19 positive numbers, we have to make every possible effort in next eight days so that people will stay at home,” said Ram.Vinit Kadam, a resident of Katraj, said, “We are not getting enough vegetables and at some shops, they are sold at a very high price. So today (on Sunday) we preferred chicken.”While chicken was sold between Rs 180 to Rs 200 per kg, mutton was sold at Rs 650 to Rs 750, depending on type and quality.Another resident Asim Banekar from Swargate said, “It has become difficult to get basic vegetables like potatoes and onions. Our request to the government and police is to please allow small vegetable vendors with proper precautionary measures to conduct business.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/700-special-officers-on-lockdown-duty-in-pune/story-jkyetUDeXeOc4ICaQODUyN.html
20-04-2020||Pune||Monday Musings: Sassoon’s doctors, nurses deserve our applause||The abrupt removal of a popular General from the midst of a raging war demands close scrutiny. What were the extraordinary reasons for the sudden removal of Dr Ajay Chandanwale as the dean of BJ Medical College – Sassoon General Hospital last week? After all, he was at the forefront of Pune’s response to the global Covid-19 pandemic, with our city being one of the hotspots. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been repeatedly saying that we need to applaud our doctors, nurses and other health workers for fighting on the frontlines, and not demoralise them in any way. It is our health workers-- and not the politicians and bureaucrats-- who are the backbone of India’s war against the coronavirus. If something was seriously amiss in Dr Chandanwale’s leadership, then, certainly, an inquiry should have been instituted and appropriate action taken after the pandemic was brought under control- not in the midst of the battle.Predictably, a large section of the rank and file of Sassoon Hospital protested publicly against Dr Chandanwale’s removal. They met Pune divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar to register their protest and demanded the reinstatement of Dr Chandanwale. The next day they worked with black bands. At least one senior doctor and four nurses from Sassoon have tested positive and are in quarantine. The nurses and lower health staff have been demanding safer working conditions and this is the reality of all government hospitals across the country. As is well-known, the completion of Sassoon Hospital’s new 11-storeyed building was delayed by the public works department (PWD) for almost nine years. Once the coronavirus pandemic hit Pune, it was hurriedly made operational with intensive care unit (ICU) facilities and isolation beds in a matter of two-three weeks.Credible voices in the medical fraternity are unanimous that Dr Chandanwle’s abrupt removal was wrong. Politicians, such as the senior city Congressman Arvind Shinde, have blamed the former dean for the high number of Covid-19 deaths at Sassoon, and other alleged acts of mismanagement. Indeed, as of April 18, 42 of the total 51 Covid-19 deaths in Pune, did occur at Sassoon. As Dr Chandanwale and the Sassoon administration explained, the biggest reason for these deaths was late admissions and high co-morbidity. The political-bureaucratic bosses chose to blame the former Sassoon dean for this rather than examine and address the delay in admissions and rectify the weak links in the ‘referral chain’ of Covid-19 patients. Is this a case of fire happening somewhere and the fire fighting happening somewhere else? We will know in a matter of just a few weeks from now. Watch this space.abhay.vaidya@hindustantimes.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/monday-musings-sassoon-s-doctors-nurses-deserve-our-applause/story-9n1MiqdjERSOoHSc8L29HI.html
20-04-2020||Kolkata||Covid-19 kits supplied by ICMR-NICED defective, says West Bengal||The West Bengal government has alleged that the Covid-19 testing kits supplied by the NICED, ICMR’s nodal agency in the state, a fortnight ago, are “apparently defective” as they show “inconclusive results” leading to repeated confirmatory tests and delaying diagnosis of the disease.The ICMR-NICED authorities said it could be possibly because the kits “have not been standardized” and it is considering the matter “very seriously”.West Bengal has reported 12 deaths and 276 cases of COVID-19 affliction.“The apparently defective test kits supplied by ICMR-NICED, Kolkata, have started to throw up a large number of inconclusive results, necessitating a repeat/confirmatory test run, thereby causing a delay in the generation of the final test report,” the West Bengal department of health and family welfare has tweeted.The “high number of repeat/ confirmatory tests are causing delays and other attendant problems at a time when we are battling a pandemic,” it said, adding the Incian Council of Medical Research needs to look into it immediately.The department claimed that the problem of defective kits has been faced not just by government labs in the state but other testing labs in the country.The state health department had faced no such problem when the testing kits were supplied directly by the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, it said.Recently, the supplies to government laboratories in West Bengal have been routed through ICMR-NICED, Kolkata, the department tweeted.When contacted, NICED Director Shanta Dutta said,”It is unfortunate that test kits have not been standardised to yield appropriate results. It is difficult for each medical college to standardise them, because of which there were different and inconclusive results.” She said the matter was “very seriously considered” by the ICMR.“Initial NIV kit was an assembled one where the NIV had procured the primer and probes from the US, standardised the kit in their laboratory with other reagents and controls, and distributed it directly to other VRDLs (Virus Research and Diagnostic Laboratory).“When demand for the kit icreased, it was difficult for the NIV to cope up with it. Then ICMR started procuring readymade kits and supplied to VRDLs through 16 depots across the country,” she said.West Bengal on Sunday received 10,000 rapid antibody testing kits from ICMR and is expected to start using them soon in areas with a high number of COVID-19 patients.The rapid tests will be conducted at the hotspots, clusters, containment zones or as a surveillance tool for epidemiological purposes in areas which have not reported any case so far. PTI SCH NN SK SK||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/covid-19-kits-supplied-by-icmr-niced-defective-says-west-bengal/story-UZKCnUHJc3OSRmOKbX6LtN.html
20-04-2020||City||700 army personnel reach J&K to man the frontiers||The lockdown imposed to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has in no way compromised the security at our borders. A train carrying 700 defense personnel from Bengaluru arrived at the train station in Jammu on Monday.“A special train run by the Indian Railways for the movement of military personnel from Bengaluru to Jammu arrived at 5am this morning,” an officer said, requesting anonymity.“The men are being sent to the frontiers. The train has brought personnel from different parts of South India such as Bengaluru, Belgaum and Secunderabad. They are here to join duty here after completing different courses,” the officer said. Notably, Pakistan has been relentlessly shelling Indian posts and villages along the border for a month now.The official said, “All precautions, including maintaining distance, and taking care of personal hygiene were taken during the journey.” The train, soldiers’ equipments and belongings were disinfected thoroughly and all soldiers were screened at the Jammu railway station.The special train was received at Jammu station by station director Chetan Taneja along with military personnel.“Adequate arrangements were made at the station by the army and the railway authorities to ensure that all the norms of social distancing were maintained,” said Taneja.“The railway station was thoroughly sanitised before the arrival of the train. Thermal scanning was conducted to ensure no soldier was running a fever,” he said, adding that the railway station was sanitised again as soon after the soldiers left the station for their respective units,” he said.The train driver, guard and railway staff was also screened by the assistant divisional medical officer, railways.The railways is running freight trains as well as parcel cargo express trains to ensure the availability of essential commodities across the country.We have converted six bogies into an isolation Covid care coach at the Jammu railway station, added Taneja. However, late evening a defence spokesman said that 700 army personnel arrived here from Bengaluru.“Army ensured that all personnel had undergone the mandated quarantine period as also social distancing was adhered to throughout the journey, as also during detraining and screening at Jammu before being transported to their respective units,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/900-army-personnel-reach-j-k-to-man-the-frontiers/story-QTGnmIemNcmLjjBv8E3MCJ.html
20-04-2020||Delhi||Delhi delivery boy’s 16 high-risk contacts will remain under quarantine: Official||Sixteen people, who tested negative for Covid-19 after coming in contact with an infected delivery person in Delhi, will have to remain under quarantine, an official said on Monday.BM Mishra, South Delhi’s district magistrate, said they will be released from the government facility at Chhatarpur only after they finish their quarantine and test negative for Covid-19 at the end of their quarantine.“We had identified the 16 high-risk persons linked to the delivery person from Malviya Nagar and kept them under institutional quarantine. The test results of all the 16 persons, including the owner of the food joint where the delivery boy worked, have come negative,” Mishra said.“Also, none of the 72 low-risk contacts to whom the infected person had delivered food over the past one month have shown any Covid-19 symptoms so far. But, they will continue to be under home quarantine and are being strictly monitored,” he said.The delivery person, who tested positive on April 14, is being treated at the Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality hospital in Tahirpur.According to police, the delivery person was an employee of Box 8, and the pizza was from the kitchen of the adjoining restaurant MOJO Pizza, also located in the same building. Police said that apart from serving its own menu, Box 8 has a tie-up with multiple food chains. Mishra said the delivery person was not feeling well for nearly a month and had visited several hospitals.“He had a cough but some hospitals had dismissed it as common flu. But when he didn’t recover, he went to Safdarjung Hospital for a check-up from where he was referred to RML,” he said. Box 8 had issued a statement on its Twitter account on April 16.“After all precautions and vigilance, in an unfortunate turn of events, a delivery partner of our Malviya Nagar kitchen in south Delhi has tested COVID positive yesterday,” Box 8 had said.“The delivery partner has been keeping well and getting the required medical attention. All his co-workers have been quarantined and we have shut down the Malviya Nagar kitchen in South Delhi for the next 14 days,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-16-high-risk-contacts-linked-to-the-pizza-delivery-boy-test-negative/story-eySQXdntpZJaL3hpQhjblN.html
20-04-2020||Chandigarh||20-yr-old Jamaat attendee tests positive in Panchkula, taking Covid count to 18 in Haryana dist||The total number of coronavirus cases in Panchkula stood at 18 on Monday after a 20-year-old man from Nava Nagar village on Pinjore-Baddi road tested positive. However, active cases in the district stayed at 15, as a 37-year-old who had attended a jamaat event was cured and discharged from civil hospital in Sector 6. Panchkula civil surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur said the 20-year-old had recently attended a Tablighi Jamaat event in Sirmaur, Himachal Pradesh. With this, the count of Jamaat attendees who have tested positive in Panchkula is seven. Officials said the man had also visited Bijnour, Uttar Pradesh, and returned to Pinjore thereafter. As per information, he self reported to the civil hospital in Sector 6, Panchkula, on April 4. After medical screening, he was kept at a quarantine facility in Mouli village, Raipur Rani, with other jamaat attendees.His close contacts and few other families of his village have been advised to observe home quarantine. Panchkula deputy commissioner (DC) Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said samples of 952 people have so far been taken of which, 18 turned out positive. He said reports of at least 172 samples are awaited. Nearly 130 people, who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat events in different states, including Maharashtra and Rajasthan, have been quarantined at Nada Sahib gurdwara and Mouli village in Panchkula. The Covid patient from Panchkula who recovered and was discharged from civil hospital, Sector 6, on Monday is a resident of Banoi Khuda Baksh village in Pinjore, and was among the first three jamaat attendees that tested positive in the district on April 9.District Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Rajiv Narwal said, “As part of protocol, samples of all three men that tested positive on April 9, were taken, however only one tested negative. He was discharged after his second sample returned negative results on Monday evening.” The 37-year-old man along with two other men - 18 and 80, had attended a Tablighi Jamaat event in Sikar, Rajasthan, last month.With this, a total of three patients in Panchkula, with the first two being woman salon worker and a staff nurse, recovered and were discharged on April 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/20-year-old-jamaat-attendee-tests-positive-in-panchkula-taking-coronavirus-count-to-18-in-haryana-district/story-GS2Wew0QudO4dMGr3wzOkO.html
20-04-2020||India||Covid-19 crisis: Social reformer Sri M’s foundation urges people to support the needy||The Covid-19 pandemic has massively hit the economically weaker sections of the society. The daily wage earners, the homeless and the migrant labourers are still facing difficulty in procuring even a meal a day. In such times, it’s the NGOs that have come forward to extend help. The Satsang Seva Mission is one such initiative by The Satsang Foundation (TSF), which is enabling distribution of cooked food and other essentials to those in need. READ | This is how good Samaritans are helping Delhi survive in lockdownDuring the initial days when the lockdown was announced, a number of migrant construction workers appeared before a gated colony in Noida, saying they hadn’t eaten for a number of days. A member of TSF, who resides in that colony, cooked and fed a cluster of about 15 of their families. Upon informing TSF about this situation, dry rations were organised for the labourers living in this location. Sri M, TSF’s founder and social reformer, says, “While the government under the leadership of the Prime Minister is working round the clock to deal with the situation, solutions to such serious situations can only be found through public cooperation and active participation.” Joining the fight against Covid-19 crisis, the foundation distributed Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), masks and sanitizers to health care providers. And the volunteers of the foundation in Delhi got some cloth masks made from requisitioned tailors — who are currently out of work — after sourcing some surplus cloth from exporters. About 400 regular three ply masks were also provided to cancer patients at the night shelters outside All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS). Besides, the NGO has carried out several activities, for the larger cause of humanity. Bela Mahendru, executive secretary of TSF’s Delhi Kendra, adds, “We distributed 470 ration bags for four weeks, in Noida and Gurugram, and also provided AIIMS, Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital and the Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital with a number of N95 and 3 ply masks. Dry ration was also provided to feeding about 8,000 people in a shelter for the homeless at Yamuna Pushta. Currently, we are distributing 10,000 cloth masks to the families of daily wagers, slum dwellers and the homeless throughout the city. We have also received a request to provide dry ration to 500 homeless rickshaw pullers.” READ | The power of social media: Strangers across India connect to help the needyBut this pandemic can’t be fought alone. That’s why Sri M encourages everyone to help each other brace the present situation where lockdown is essential to stop the spread of coronavirus. “It will be a good idea to help the lesser privileged understand how to protect themselves and assure them that this shall also pass. You may add to these activities by joining hands in any way, including funding the projects [for relief] to the best of your ability. This is our nation, and it’s our duty to guard it and contribute to its well-being.” Follow @htlifeandstyle for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/covid-19-crisis-social-reformer-sri-m-s-foundation-urges-people-to-support-the-needy/story-LkeZBEpTgUsjCPadDbq4YN.html
20-04-2020||City||Maharashtra: Man detained for bid to sell unborn baby of kin via Facebook||A 30-year-old man was detained after he allegedly tried to sell the unborn baby of his sister-in-law, police said on Monday.The woman, who is seven months pregnant, separated from her husband sometime back.Following her separation, the accused, Shivshankar Tagade, a resident of Ranjangaon Shenpunji area here, wanted that his sister-in-law should remarry someone.But as her unborn child from her earlier marriage posed a hindrance, Tagade and the woman decided to sell the baby after birth, a police spokesperson said.They allegedly tried to fix a deal through Facebook by contacting those who wanted a child, the official said.The women and child welfare department got information about this and alerted the police.On Sunday, the cyber unit of police foiled their attempt to sell the unborn baby and detained Tagade, he said.A case was registered against the accused under provisions of the Juvenile Justice Act and further probe in the matter was underway, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-man-detained-for-bid-to-sell-unborn-baby-of-kin-via-facebook/story-JHiUJYzAe59FEaiJroEMeP.html
20-04-2020||Chandigarh||SFI demands inclusion of sanitary napkins among essential commodities in Himachal Pradesh||The Student Federation of India (SFI) has demanded that the state government include sanitary napkins among essential commodities and ensure their continued sale.The SFI leaders said that due to the lockdown imposed to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus disease (Covid-19), women and girls have no choice but to use unsafe clothes as sanitary napkins are not available, which can increase the risk of infections.They have also demanded the construction of a sanitisation tunnel in all educational institutions of the state to ensure the safety of students, staff members and visitors and to waive off a month’s rent for students along the lines of the Maharashtra state government.Leaders demanded the state government pay pending scholarships of students and grant a special allowance to undergraduate, post graduate and research students.SFI state president Raman Tharta said students are facing a myriad of issues. “We want quick and student-friendly decisions from the state government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sfi-demands-inclusion-of-sanitary-napkins-among-essential-commodities-in-himachal-pradesh/story-SufRGpyNdG41RD1VwZT6wI.html
20-04-2020||Delhi||Arrests in Jamia violence & NE Delhi riot cases made after analysis of forensic evidence: Police||Investigations into the Jamia Millia Islamia violence and Northeast Delhi riot cases were done impartially, and arrests were made after analysis of forensic evidence, the Delhi Police said on Monday. The police’s reaction came after some lawyers and activists criticised it over the handling of the cases.“While investigating Jamia and northeast (Delhi) riot cases, Delhi Police has done its job sincerely and impartially,” the Delhi Police tweeted. “All the arrests made have been based on analysis of scientific and forensic evidence, including video footage, technical and other footprints,” it said.Last year in December, police had allegedly entered the Jamia Millia Islamia campus after protests over the Citizenship (Amendment Act), being held a few metres away from the varsity, turned violent.The Delhi Police is committed to upholding the rule of law and bringing conspirators, abettors and culprits of the Northeast Delhi riots to book and secure justice to victims, the police said.RThe communal clashes in February had claimed 53 lives and over 200 people were injured. “It will not be deterred by the false propaganda and rumours floated by some vested elements who try to twist facts to their convenience,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/arrests-in-jamia-violence-ne-delhi-riot-cases-made-after-analysis-of-forensic-evidence-police/story-jelNIRe5ruQ6MktmoMKLmI.html
20-04-2020||Lucknow||‘Take strict action against Palghar culprits’, UP CM urges Uddhav Thackeray||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday said he has urged his Maharashtra counterpart to take strict action against the culprits involved in the lynching of three men in Palghar district.“Spoke to Chief Minister of Maharashtra Uddhav Thackeray yesterday evening regarding murder of saints of Juna Akhara Swami Kalpvrikshgiri, Swami Sushilgiri and their driver Neelesh Telgarhe. I have urged him to take strict action against the culprits,” he said in a tweet in Hindi.In another tweet, Adityanath said, “The Chief Minister of Maharashtra said that some persons have been arrested, and strict action will be initiated against rest of the accused persons after identifying them.” On Sunday, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray had said the culprits involved in the lynching of three men in Palghar district will be brought to justice.“The Palghar incident has been acted upon. The police has arrested all those accused who attacked the 2 sadhus, 1 driver and the police personnel, on the day of the crime itself.“Nobody guilty in this heinous crime and shameful act will be spared and they will be brought to justice in the strongest way possible,” the CM said in late night tweets posted on his official Twitter handle.Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh has already announced a high-level inquiry into the incident, that occurred on the night of April 16 when three men from Kandivali in Mumbai were headed towards Surat in a car to attend a funeral.Their vehicle was stopped near a village in Palghar district. The trio was dragged out of the car and beaten to death with sticks by a mob on suspicion that they were thieves.The deceased were identified as Chikne Maharaj Kalpavrukshagiri (70), Sushilgiri Maharaj (35), and their car driver Nilesh Telgade (30).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/take-strict-action-against-palghar-culprits-up-cm-urges-uddhav-thackeray/story-D6hgcNJm0bSAekzBGVXlDP.html
20-04-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand HC advocates’ body provides help to distressed lawyers amid Covid-19 pandemic||The Jharkhand High Court Advocates’ Association has said lawyers are facing financial stress during the Covid-19 outbreak-triggered lockdown and it has reached out to its distressed members, providing assistance to them with both cash and kind.Twenty-four members of the Association, who sought financial help from it, were provided with Rs 5,000 each, while several others received essential commodities, said Dheeraj Kumar, the Treasurer of the Association.“The lockdown has been imposed to contain the coronavirus spread and advocates are also facing financial problems. The Association contacted senior lawyers and got donations, which were transferred to the accounts of 24 advocates, who approached the Association,” Kumar said in a statement.Of the courts in Jharkhand, the high court is hearing only very urgent matters through video conference, while others are closed during the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-hc-advocates-body-provides-help-to-distressed-lawyers-amid-covid-19-pandemic/story-1xQCHy6QhZB8eiorlA0afN.html
20-04-2020||City||Haryana Police inspector opens fire on family in Kaithal after an argument, kills son||KARNAL: Satbir Singh, 57, a Haryana Police inspector, opened fire on his family members in Kaithal on Sunday night, killing his 32-year-old son, Gagandeep Singh, and critically injuring another son, Pradeep Singh, 30.Kaithal superintendent of police Shashank Kumar said that the inspector’s two daughters-in-law were also injured in the incident that was triggered by a family dispute.While one of the daughters-in-law jumped off the roof of the house in the Police Colony of Kaithal soon after the firing, the other was also hospitalised with head injuries.Pradeep was rushed to a local hospital from where he was referred to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences, Rohtak, as his condition was critical.The inspector was being questioned, while a forensic team was at the site to investigate the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-police-inspector-opens-fire-on-family-in-kaithal-after-an-argument-kills-son/story-xZhyuVOWJ1AkPJ09KMNTgM.html
20-04-2020||Chandigarh||Show us the way home, moan Chandigarh’s rickshaw pullers||There is no work, no earning, no certainty of food and no home to quarantine in. Such are the conditions of a majority of the rickshaw pullers in Chandigarh.Rameshwar a rickshaw-puller of Uttar Pradesh says, “Every year, at this time of the year, I used to return to my village to harvest wheat. Can I not get a pass to go home somehow?”He lives along with four others in roofed rickshaws meant for school children. The rickshaws are parked by the wall of the Government High School, Sector 35-A. The stove built by the wall of the school has not been lit for many days.Sunder, yet another rickshawala from UP, says, “We are not earning anything. I am very unhappy. I want to go home but how do I do that? Even the money I had saved for my family has been spent.”He breaks down while speaking to noted psychiatrist Simmi Waraich, a resident of Sector 35, who has taken it upon herself to provide a helping hand to the homeless daily wagers living in the corridors of the market and other open spaces.“They are now getting some food but it is not enough so some people are providing them with sugar, tea leaves and milk so that they can make some tea.”ELITE WORRIED ABOUT CLUSTERS What is sad is that some of the elite of the sector are worried that the rickshaw pullers are not safe because they live in clusters. However, an effort has been made to tell them the do’s and don’ts and the police has provided them with masks.Pramod Sharma, founder-coordinator, Yuvsatta (Youth for Peace), says “This section need to be treated with empathy for they are the most disadvantaged of the labourers. They have been providing services to the city while living in the open”.The rickshaw-pullers’ presence in the prestigious city is as old as the city itself. The cycle rickshawalas with their spacious Saharanpuri rickshaws started pedaling on the city roads from the 1950s as the earliest mode of transportation for the inhabitants here.Pinky Rani, project manager of Yuvsatta, in Bapu Dham Colony in the city’s Sector 26, points out that they are in dire straits and they only get meals once a day.“Earlier the pradhan of the colony was distributing some rice and dal in the evenings but that too has been stopped,” Rani says.‘PEOPLE LIVING AT HOME, RICKSHAW PULLERS WITH STRAYS’Raj Kumar, 38, says “There are around 1,000 rickshaw peddlers and vegetable sellers with carts who are on the brink of starvation here in our colony and the administration should help us.”In spite of the travails he is facing Sunder of Sector 35 says, “I know that I am not the only one in trouble, everyone is suffering but I just wish I was with my family in the village home!” Waraich says, “We need to reach out to these hapless people. We live in homes and some of us have two floors and a garden. They live in the open with stray dogs!”Vinod, a rickshawala living with eight others outside the quiet offices in Sector 35, says, “At present, there are only women are in our villages and they cannot do the harvesting so we are hoping we will get passes to return home!”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/show-us-the-way-home-moan-chandigarh-s-rickshaw-pullers/story-4ZJmVpMYgOP4sAGmvWpzYK.html
20-04-2020||City||84% cases in Himachal Pradesh asymptomatic, health department worried||As many as 84% Covid-19 cases in Himachal Pradesh have been asymptomatic, reveals government data.So far, 39 cases have been reported in the hill-state, of which 33 were asymptomatic and only six were symptomatic.Health experts say the figures do not portend well for containment efforts as asymptomatic patients may unwittingly spread the virus.Asymptomatic patients are carriers of the virus but do not exhibit any symptom, which makes their diagnoses and surveillance a challenge for authorities.Special secretary, health, and national health mission director Dr Nipun Jindal says, “That most positive patients are asymptomatic is a cause for concern as we only taking symptomatic cases. For community surveillance and epidemiological analysis, too, we are taking influenza-like-illnesses (ILI) cases in community.”At present, the state government is only testing people coming from outside the state and exhibiting flu-like symptoms. Fever was so far considered a major symptom.“The solution to this problem is strict home quarantine as these asymptomatic positive people will soon turn non-contagious as their immunity will overpower the sub-clinical infection,” he said.QUARANTINE COMPULSORY FOR RECOVERED PATIENTSAfter a patient who had recovered from Covid-19 tested positive for the virus again on Sunday, the health department has make it mandatory for recovered patients to stay in quarantine after being discharged.The man who tested positive again had been treated at Rajendra Prasad Medical College in Tanda in Kangra district and had been quarantined at Cheb after treatment.As many as 7,381 persons have been put under quarantine in the hill state so far, of which 2,188 are under active surveillance, while 5,193 have completed their observation period. As many as 2,553 persons have been tested for Covid-19, of which 2,337 persons have been found negative.RAPID TEST KIDS AWAITEDThe Himachal Pradesh government had requested the centre to provide 30,000 rapid testing kits but so far it has only received 4,800. Una, Solan , Sirmaur, Kangra, Hamirpur, Chamba are the worst affected districts in Himachal and as many as 85 panchayats in these districts have been declared red zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/84-cases-in-himachal-pradesh-asymptomatic-health-department-worried/story-IVlbBccucUdSHja6bHwR0I.html
20-04-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand starts screening 4000 migrant labourers after 1 tests positive for coronavirus||A day after a 24-year-old migrant labourer in a relief camp in Roorkee tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the Uttarakhand government has stepped up screening of about 4000 other such workers across the state. The migrant labourer, who tested positive for the coronavirus, had come to Rishikesh from Hathras in Uttar Pradesh to work but was caught on March 30 near Roorkee and sent to a relief camp. He along with three others were going back to Hathras by taking a lift from a truck driver. After he tested positive for the deadly virus on Saturday, 24 other migrant labourers who were staying in the same relief camp, were isolated by the health department. Their samples were also sent for testing to detect possible infection. Amit Negi, secretary of the state disaster management department who is looking after various government operations to contain the virus spread in state, said there are about 40,000 migrant labourers in Uttarakhand with 4000 of them in government relief camps.“The 4000 migrant labourers staying in relief camps are being screened by doctors daily to detect any rise in body temperature as a symptom of Covid-19 infection. They are being continuously monitored by the health department to ensure none gets infected,” Negi said.The senior bureaucrat added that most of the relief camps are in Haridwar, Dehradun, US Nagar, Pithoragarh and Haldwani areas of the state. “Doctors have been instructed to thoroughly examine migrant labourers in the relief camp. Apart from this, precautionary measures like maintaining social distance at the camps as well as while eating are also being strictly ensured to prevent the spread in the relief camps,” he said.The Uttarakhand government has said it is taking care of labourers from other states stranded in the state due to the Covid-19 lockdown. “We are taking all the necessary care of these migrant labourers here by providing them food and shelter for those who have nowhere to go. We are ensuring that nobody faces any problem regarding food and shelter,” Madan Kaushik, cabinet minister and government spokesperson, said.Uttarakhand has allowed industrial activities in rural areas and industrial estates of the state from April 21 with prior permission from state government and concerned authorities.It has, however, asked the industries to resume operations only with the available local labour and not from outside.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-starts-screening-4000-migrant-labourers-after-1-tests-positive-for-coronavirus/story-Jx38luAduVHIwNIBHB96jJ.html
20-04-2020||Bangalore||Civic officials wanted to shift suspected Covid-19 patients in Bengaluru, face locals’ ire||Some people clashed with civic body officials in Padarayanapura in Bengaluru on Sunday night when they reached the area reportedly to take suspected Covid-19 patients in quarantine, news agency ANI reported.Padarayanapura has been declared a red zone and officials of Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) identified 15 secondary contact of a Covid-19 positive patients, ANI reported.The locals were seen dismantling the set up of BBMP officials and shouting slogans against them, a video posted by ANI on Twitter showed. They also threw away the tables and chairs.They also broke the barricade and removed police post which was stalled in the area, ANI reported.Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa held a meeting with Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai and police officers on Monday morning over the incident. “I met the chief minister and briefed him. He told us to act strictly. I’ve told the same to my officials. We won’t tolerate such acts. We’ve arrested 59 people and five FIRs have been registered. I’m going to Padarayanapura. Will make sure others are quarantined,” Bommai said after the meeting.Watch: Padarayanapura: Quarantine rumour fuels violence in Bengaluru hotspot Soon after receiving the information of violence on Sunday, Bengaluru South Deputy Commissioner of Police had reached the spot and brought the situation under control.“Lockdown continues, please remain indoors. Tomorrow will be as it was till today. We Understand your situation and appreciate your cooperation,” tweeted Commissioner of Police, Bengaluru City, Bhaskar Rao. In Karnataka, 384 people have detected positive for COVID-19, of which 14 people have succumbed to the infection, as per the Union Health Ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/civic-officials-wanted-to-shift-suspected-covid-19-patients-in-bengaluru-face-locals-ire/story-xVhnE5PL05i3YjmvZjjtVI.html
20-04-2020||Mumbai||Toll collection in Maharashtra to resume from April 20||The Maharashtra government will resume toll collection on state highways from April 20. The state government had stopped collecting toll on March 29. In Mumbai, toll operations on the five entry/exit points (Dahisar, Mulund, LBS Marg, Vashi and Airoli) along with the Bandra-Worli sea link will also resume from April 20, a government official confirmed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/toll-collection-in-maharashtra-to-resume-from-april-20/story-qUqjoqLHEv31IRg65mrBSO.html
20-04-2020||City||Mobile games rescued Sirsa siblings from boredom in isolation ward||For eight-year-old Arush and six-year-old Aaina, online games came as a rescue from boredom at the isolation ward of Sirsa civil hospital. They had tested positive for Covid-19 along with their mother, and were admitted to the Sirsa civil hospital. Their mother, however, was in the isolation ward of PGIMS in Rohtak. When the health department gave permission to their father Amit Makkar, who runs a paying guest facility in Chandigarh and has tested negative thrice for the infection, to meet them at the isolation ward, the only demand his kids presented before him was of mobile phones.Amit said, “I was quite worried after my wife and both children tested positive for Covid-19. But, I heaved a sigh of relief as no one else was found infected and doctors finally allowed me to look after my kids.”He said the hospital staffers were polite and took best possible care of his children. “When I went to see them, Arush came running to me and asked me for a mobile phone so he can play games. I arranged phones for both of them,” he added. “They hardly knew about the seriousness of the disease, but I was worried. The medical staff gave me a PPE kit whenever I went to meet them,” Amit added. Chief medical officer Surender Nain said the condition of both the kids was stable and they have been spending time with their parents. “The health department is visiting their house daily to keep track of them. During their isolation time, we had also seen them studying in the ward, which was a sight to behold,” Dr Nain added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mobile-games-rescued-sirsa-siblings-from-boredom-in-isolation-ward/story-cTGzuNMVIiQxwNvOX0LfYN.html
20-04-2020||Mumbai||552 new Covid-19 cases; Maharashtra tally 4,200||Maharashtra on Sunday recorded its highest 24-hour jump in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases with 552 more infections, even as the state government plans to ease restrictions and resume industrial operations in rural areas from Monday. Of the new cases, which took India’s worst-hit state’s tally to 4,200, 456 of them were in Mumbai, taking the financial capital’s case count to 2,724. The Sunday spurt in cases rendered a blow to the rate of doubling of cases, after the relatively lower number of cases over the past four days. Maharashtra took 30 days to cross the 1,000-case mark on April 7, while it crossed the 2,000 mark in just six days on April 13. From 2,000 cases to 4,000, the state took six days.According to officials, the sudden rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in Mumbai is because of the backlog from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and a few private laboratories. The state health department said that some cases from Saturday evening had been waiting for confirmation. “We have to verify all the cases that we get, which takes time. Private labs send us the data first, then to BMC, so sometimes we observe discrepancy in reporting of cases,” said Anup Kumar Yadav, commissioner (family welfare ) and director, National Health Mission, Maharashtra. “We have increased the number of daily tests, so of course, the detection of new cases will rise. We shouldn’t say that the curve is falling depending on the data of one-two days. We have to consider data for at least a week before we can come to a conclusion,” he said.The state also reported 12 deaths on Sunday, taking the toll to 223. Of these, six were in Mumbai, four from Malegaon and one each from Solapur and Ahmednagar. Six of them were above 60 years of age, while five were between 40 and 60 years, according to the report released by the state health department. “Some of the test reports added to today’s tally are from tests conducted since April 12 in Mumbai, thus increasing the tally,” the report stated. According to officials from the health department, the verification of private laboratory reports by government laboratories takes a few days. “It leads to a sharp spike in numbers on the day the verification is done,” an official said.Maharashtra has conducted 72,023 tests, of which, 67,673 samples tested negative. A total of 507 patients have fully recovered. There are 87,254 people under home quarantine across the state, while 6,743 are under institutional quarantine. The number of containment zones in the state has reduced to 368, most of them being in Mumbai. State authorities have so far screened 23.97 lakh people, with the help of 6,359 teams, as part of its containment strategy.Earlier in the day, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, while announcing the relaxation of lockdown restrictions in rural parts of the state, clarified that the strict restrictions in containment areas and in Mumbai and Pune will continue at least till May 3. “We are relaxing restrictions in green and orange zones, which have zero or fewer Covid-19 patients, to a certain extent. The industrial operations in these zones will be allowed, but the employers will have to ensure arrangements for stay and food for the employees. The district borders will, however, remained sealed and no intra-district activities be permitted,” he said.The state government has also directed 10% of its employees to resume work from Monday. By doing this, the government wants to resume public services step-by-step. Maharashtra has only four districts (Nanded, Wardha, Bhandara and Gadchiroli) with no patients, while in 18 districts, the number (of Covid-19 cases) is in single digits. “We expect the industrial units in pharmaceuticals, agricultural sectors to begin operating from Monday. They are expected to follow the standard operating procedures laid down under the lockdown restrictions for their employees. There are 10.26 lakh registered MSMEs in the state, while 4.5 lakh are in areas which are partially exempted from April 20. We want 60% of them to be operational by the end of the month. However, major industries are in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) and Pune, where operations are unlikely to begin at least for the next few weeks,” said an official from the industries department.Some of the industries have been directed to operate at 50% of their workforce. The vehicles carrying workers will have to be restricted to 30-40% of the capacity of the vehicles, the restrictions imposed on the industries stated. The exemptions for e-commerce activities, shops selling sweets, snacks like farsan will begin operating from Monday in the areas that are not affected by Covid-19. “All these activities continue to be banned in MMR, Pune city, Nagpur city, which have been largely affected by the virus. We still are apprehensive about the pace of industrial and commercial activities in the state and urban parts will still continue to be under restriction. The industrial and commercial activities are majorly controlled in urban areas, which are still under the restrictions,” said an official from the state government.The MMR and Pune city remains to be the hotspot of Covid-19 cases, as 89.4% of the cases (3,262 of 3,648 on Saturday) and 90.5% of the deaths (191 of 211, as of Saturday) were from these regions, which are mostly urbanised areas. MMR and Pune accounts for less than 25% of the state’s population. The Maharashtra police have registered 55,393 cases related to violation of lockdown rules since March 22, the day the chief minister announced a complete lockdown in the state. The police helpline received 72,644 calls related to the pandemic, while 11,645 citizens have been arrested over the past four weeks. Of the total offences, 105 were for assault on policemen, while 567 were for violation of quarantine measures. The police have also booked 15 foreigners for visa violations. A total of 241 cases over objectionable posts on social media were also registered in the state.Meanwhile, Thackeray, in his video conference with district collectors and divisional commissioners on Sunday evening, said the last week of April and two weeks of May could prove to be crucial to judge the trend of the pandemic. “During this period, we will be in a position to judge if the trend is moving downwards or upwards. The battle has just started and will go on for the next three months. We have to convert the red zones into orange ones and orange zones into green ones,” he said.State health minister Rajesh Tope said the state has received 75,000 rapid test kits from the Centre. “We will begin the tests in the red zones very soon,” he said.Additional chief secretary, finance, Manoj Saunik, elaborated on the red, orange and green zones in the video conference. “The red zones are areas divided into outbreak area and cluster area, with more than 15 and less than 15 patients respectively. A red zone is converted into an orange zone after it sees no patient in 14 days. A green zone is converted from an orange zone after it does not register a patient in 14 days,” he said. Toll collection to resume from April 20Mumbai: The Maharashtra government will resume toll collection on state highways from April 20. The state government had stopped collecting toll on March 29. In Mumbai, toll operations on the five entry/exit points (Dahisar, Mulund, LBS Marg, Vashi and Airoli) along with the Bandra-Worli sea link will also resume from April 20, a government official confirmed. (with inputs from Rupsa Chakraborty)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/552-new-covid-19-cases-maharashtra-tally-4-200/story-aIFRQvBUJXqEYeLmxSTkRN.html
20-04-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University seeks information on completion of syllabus from departments||Panjab University dean university instructions (DUI), Shankarji Jha, has written to departments of the varsity seeking information on the status of completion of syllabus, as classes remains suspended amid the Covid-19 lockdown.“The university will give all departments at least three weeks to complete the syllabus and other practical work once the lockdown is lifted,” Jha said.The communication sent to the heads of departments (HoDs) states, “The vice-chancellor has asserted that after the lockdown has been lifted, departments will complete the syllabus and practicals by taking extra classes, so that examinations can be conducted in time. All decisions will be taken keeping the best interests of students in mind.”Jha has asked HoDs for their suggestions on steps to be taken and directed them to send their feedbacks by Tuesday.Earlier, the V-C had directed departments of the university and affiliated colleges to complete the syllabus by May 9 through virtual platforms. The decision was met with criticism from students and teachers and later, the varsity said enough time will be given to them once the lockdown is lifted. “Around 60% syllabus was completed by departments before the lockdown was imposed. So, two or three weeks will be enough to complete the syllabus after classes resume,” the chairperson of a department said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-seeks-information-on-completion-of-syllabus-from-departments/story-WdlPmtkaT0rVGjsDCMQpfP.html
20-04-2020||City||All eyes on corona, TB patients face neglect, cases may rise in Mumbai, warn experts||With most healthcare professionals focusing on Covid-19 cases, patients suffering from tuberculosis (TB), considered one of the biggest killers in Mumbai, are facing neglect, which doctors fear could lead to a rise in the number of cases. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) data shows that last year, 27,664 new TB cases were found in Mumbai. According to data on the civic-run Sewri TB hospital available with HT, diagnosis of individuals with TB in outpatient department (OPD) has dropped to 1,235 in March from 1,418 in January; follow-up of old patients has dropped to 1,050 from 1,125. In the past three months, 337 patients succumbed to the infection at the hospital. Data from the civic body shows 1,601 TB patients died in 2018 in Mumbai; data for 2019 is yet to be compiled. The situation is no different in private hospitals where footfall of patients has plunged by more than 70% since March, said health experts.“Medical experts are neglecting the treatment of TB patients even though the death rate of TB in Mumbai is much higher than Covid-19. Every day, around three people in Mumbai die of TB,” said Ganesh Acharya, a TB survivor. On March 24, the World Health Organization (WHO) also directed countries with high TB burden to “ensure that essential health services and operations are continued to protect the lives of people with TB”. “Patients with TB suffer from compromised lungs. If they contract Covid-19 infection, their survival chances will be extremely low. Keeping their immunity high and avoiding outside contact is therefore essential,” said Dr Lalit Anande, medical superintendent, Sewri TB Hospital. Moreover, currently, almost 40% Covid-19 cases are reported from the slums of Malad, Dadar, Govandi, Sion, Bandra and Andheri (East), which are also TB hotspots. Maintaining social distance in these overcrowded slums with community toilets is the biggest challenge for TB patients.“TB cases will rise drastically post this pandemic. The central government will have to take proactive steps for TB along with Covid-19 if it is serious about ending TB by 2025,” said Prabha Mahesh, TB advocate who is dealing with TB cases for 17 years.. “With symptoms of TB similar to Covid-19, many patients in overcrowded slums may go undetected with improper screening.”The civic body, however, has no concrete plan for hundreds of TB patients residing in Covid-19 hotspots. “We have instructed TB patients to avoid travel and home-quarantine. We are also testing TB patients for Covid-19 if he/she comes in close contact with an infected patient,” said Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, BMC.Currently, most doctors in the city’s 250-odd health posts are on Covid-19 duty at various hospitals. Many patients – including those suffering from multidrug resistant (MDR) TB – aren’t getting their regular supply of medicines owing to the lockdown, said experts and doctors. “For the first six months, MDR-TB patients need injections that can only be taken under the supervision of medical experts. With several private DOT clinics shut, they are unable to take the injections,” said Nandita Venkatesan, a TB survivor.Refuting the allegation, Dr Pranita Tipre, head of TB, BMC, said, “We are providing door-to-door medicines to patients, so they don’t miss their dose. We have started an isolation ward for TB patients at Sewri TB Hospital.”Many Covid-19 centres such as the Jogeshwari Trauma Centre and Seven Hills hospital (city’s biggest Covid-19 isolation centre) do not have sputum testing facilities, which doctors said is likely to delay treatment of suspected patients as the symptoms for Covid-19 and TB are similar. “TB survivors and patients are living in fear. I am treating a 35-year-old woman who gets anxiety attacks even if someone around her coughs or sneezes,” said Dr Sagar Mundada, a city-based psychiatrist. “She has developed severe obsessive compulsive disorder, and keeps cleaning rooms with disinfectants.”‘How do I administer injections without doctor?’ Last month, a 32-year-old Malad resident was diagnosed with multidrug resistant TB (MDR-TB). Her fight against the ailment has become more difficult during the ongoing lockdown, as clinics are closed and her medicines are not available easily. She needs to take Clofazimine tablets. She also needs to be administered with Mikacin injections either by a doctor or a nurse. “Finding a doctor or a nurse to administer injections has become a nightmare every day,” she told HT. The woman has been going to small nursing homes to get the injections administered but is worried as they are not following proper hygiene standards. “I develop anxiety as non-coronavirus patients walk around without masks and I am already suffering from one infection,” she said.Doctors suspect pregnant Covid patient had TBOn April 4, a nine-month pregnant woman, who was admitted to BYL Nair Hospital with severe respiratory distress, died within hours after her admission. Doctors conducted a coronavirus test on her, but also suspected that she had TB and informed about it to Sewri TB Hospital. “I asked Nair Hospital to send her X-ray and culture test, but the hospital didn’t conduct these tests, so her TB diagnosis were never confirmed,” the Sewri hospital doctor said. Two days later, her coronavirus results came positive. “As the post-mortem is not conducted for Covid-19 patients, we didn’t get the autopsy report,” said the doctor said. Sion woman was diagnosed after two weeks A 35-year-old slum dweller from Sion had to wait for more than two weeks to find out that she has TB. Later, Mushtaq Ansari, a local activist, helped her get her illness diagnosed. Ansari had come across the woman while distributing food in her slum on April 7. The woman told him she had undergone a TB test at Sion Hospital on April 1, but the doctors from the chest department were assigned duty in the Covid ward. “I went to the hospital with my reports but the doctors weren’t available. All the private clinics were also closed, so I couldn’t show my reports there either,” she said. It was on April 15 that doctors confirmed she has TB.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/all-eyes-on-corona-tb-patients-face-neglect-cases-may-rise-in-mumbai-warn-experts/story-o3ZlMmz5TFEwEDjCKIUqrL.html
20-04-2020||Delhi||35 people in Delhi’s Tughlakabad Extension test Covid-19 positive||As many as 35 people living in two lanes of Tughlakabad Extension in South East Delhi tested Covid-19 positive on Sunday, prompting authorities to step up vigilance and preventive measures in the area. According to government officials, the area has emerged as a new cluster within an already notified containment zone. Lanes 26 and 27 of Tughlakabad Extension were declared a containment zone on Friday after three people were tested positive for Covid-19.“Those who have tested positive are being shifted to a hospital. Containment measures are already in place in the area. Vigilance has been increased,” a senior district administration official said. The official said that their contact tracing is still underway.Poonam Bhati, councillor of Tughlakabad Extension, said that the area was initially declared a containment zone after three residents had tested Covid-19 positive on April 15.She said that during a house-to-house survey, some people exhibited symptoms, following which their samples were taken.“Samples of 93 people were collected on Friday from the area and 35 tested positive today (Sunday). The positive cases include children and elderly people,” Bhati said. The entire area has been sanitised, she addedBhati said that these 35 people are part of six to seven families.A similar incident was reported in Jahangirpuri of North Delhi on Saturday, wherein at least 26 members of an extended family had tested positive in the containment zone. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday had expressed concern over the movement of people among their relatives’ houses within containment zones.Meanwhile, the Delhi government on Sunday declared three new Covid-19 containment zones taking the count to 80 from 77 on Saturday. Delhi reported 110 Covid-19 positive cases on Sunday.Containment zones can comprise apartment blocks, gated communities, slums, streets or neighbourhoods. It is a complete quarantine zone and no one is allowed to step out even to buy essential goods. All entry and exit points, and internal lanes are barricaded in these zones. The authorities allow only select vendors to supply groceries and other essentials to the neighbourhood, with the help of residents’ welfare associations and civil defence volunteers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/vigil-stepped-up-as-35-in-tughlakabad-extension-test-positive/story-n6wATfGcm4j3KMYSfPSGSJ.html
20-04-2020||Delhi||All 11 Delhi districts now Covid-19 hotspots; NE district joins the list||Declaring all 11 revenue districts of Delhi as hot spots, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday directed the city administration to conduct a fresh assessment of the Covid-19 situation in Delhi – in terms of numbers, trends and patterns pertaining to the outbreak – by April 27. Based on this review, the government will decide on whether to relax the extended lockdown curbs.The move comes as the last district in the city (North East), which had reported no cluster cases of the coronavirus transmission till Saturday, was also identified as a hot spot after three containment zones were notified here on Saturday.“Delhi has 11 revenue districts. All of them have been declared hot spots,” said Kejriwal at a press briefing where he added that the Delhi government will not be relaxing curbs from Monday, which the Centre had allowed. The city also has 80 containment zones.A hot spot is a geographic area, which is put under surveillance and scaled-up test standards to check possibilities. A containment zone within a hot spot is a sealed area that is subjected to stricter surveillance, scaled-up testing, quarantine, periodic sanitisation, door-to-door health checks and supply of essentials at collection points or doorsteps.According to a senior official from the chief minister’s office, on April 15, when the Centre released a list of hot spots across the country, the North East and North West districts were not included as they did not have any notified containment zones. But, on April 17, North West Delhi got its first notified containment zone and the next day, North East Delhi got three. Both were technically notified by the Centre as hot spots on Saturday.Till Sunday, Delhi had around 2,003 active cases - with 45 dead, 26 in ICU and six on ventilator support.After extending the nation wide lockdown to May 3 the Union government on April 15 had allowed relaxations to certain “additional activities” from Monday provided that they did not fall under containment zones, among other conditions. In Delhi’s context, it included allowing self-employed service providers such as electricians and plumbers, and construction work where sites have provision for safe accommodation of workers.HT reported on April 19 that the Delhi government did not want to ease restrictions on grounds that the city-state is a “high-risk zone”.“The coronavirus is spreading fast,” said Kejriwal. “The situation is concerning but not out of control yet. With strict adherence to quarantine and social distancing norms, we need to keep it under control… For the safety of the people of Delhi, we have taken a decision. For now, there will be no relaxations in lockdown (in Delhi). One week later, we will conduct an assessment with the help of experts. Further calls on possible relaxations, if need be, will be taken on the basis of that.”HT accessed an order from chief secretary Vijay Dev issued soon after Kejriwal’s briefing that said: “The situation of Covid-19 in Delhi has been assessed, and in view of the present scenario, it appears to be necessary to maintain status quo, in larger public interest.”“Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 22 of the Disaster Management Act 2005, the undersigned (chief secretary) … hereby issues directions to all departments of Delhi to ensure status quo is maintained with respect to strict implementation of the consolidated guidelines enclosed in the order dates April 15 without any relaxation and additional activities till another comprehensive assessment on 27th April or further orders, whichever is earlier,” the order said.A senior government official said that for this assessment, the central government’s list of “additional activities would be under consideration. “There is no deliberation on expanding the relaxations beyond that as the revised guidelines of the Union government clearly said that the flexibilities should not dilute its purpose at any cost,” he said.Jugal Kishore, head of the community medicines department in Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital, said Delhi was not in a position to relax the lockdown.“Delhi is vulnerable because of its high population density. Mobility is directly proportional to chances of transmission and that is already visible to some extent after the first phase of 21 days’ lockdown. So, stricter restrictions is a necessary step at this juncture,” said Kishore, who is leading a roped in by the Delhi government to monitor testing.Kejriwal said that random tests in containment zones showed that those which maintained strict quarantine, showed better results. “Imagine the situation without a lockdown,” said Kejriwal. “If 3,000 people suddenly need ICU (intensive care unit) beds, 2,000-2,500 need ventilators, what would we do? We don’t have that many ICUs and ventilators. Countries such as Italy, Spain and USA have witnessed such tragic circumstances. Without lockdown, we too could have seen such a situation. The lockdown has saved the country.”“According to the guidelines issued by the central government, areas where cases are less, can be subjected to relaxations,” he said. “Hot spots and containment zones can’t be relaxed. In Delhi, all 11 revenue districts are declared hot spots now and the city currently has 77 containment zones.”.Citing findings of Delhi government’s own assessment, the chief minister said: “We have witnessed increase in the number of cases. Yesterday, out of the 736 test results processed, 186 people tested (Covid) positive and all individuals were asymptomatic which suggests that they would have compromised with isolation norms and potentially spread the virus without even knowing. This is a scary situation.”“I understand the pain of people,” he added. “We too could have allowed relaxations. But, if we give relaxation, what if cases go up and the ICUs and ventilators fall short. And people lose lives? We won’t be able to forgive ourselves.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/all-11-delhi-districts-now-hotspots-cm-calls-for-fresh-assessment-by-april-27-for-possible-relaxations/story-vgDn8cdxsrMGtWwo5kNm6O.html
20-04-2020||Delhi||No lockdown relief from govt in Delhi, migrant labourers brace for more hardships||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday clarified that no relaxation in lockdown rules will be provided for migrant labourers to go back to work in the city after April 20, triggering worry among outstation workers, some of who are down to their last rupee. The Central government, in a set of guidelines issued last week, had allowed these migrant workers to begin work from April 20, however, leaving the final decision of implementation on the state governments.The Delhi government on Sunday said it will not implement the guideline, as the number of Covid-19 positive cases were rising in the state.On Sunday, 35-year-old Mithun Kumar, a labourer who works for the Public Works Department (PWD) projects, opened his torn wallet to show two currency notes of ₹ 20. “This is all I have left. This epidemic has left me with nothing,” he said..Like Kumar, many construction workers, self-employed electricians, plumbers, carpenters and mechanics that HT spoke to said they were waiting for Monday, hoping they will be able to finally resume work after nearly a month. However, the Delhi government’s decision had left them dejected and in dire straits.“Our contractor has not given us our dues yet. He keeps saying that he will pay us when he has money. We can’t work and we can’t even go back home,” Kumar said.At the Barapulla Phase-3 construction site opposite Mayur Vihar, dozens of labourers sat playing cards, most of them unaware of Delhi government’s decision.“Even if construction work is allowed to begin, many of us will not stay. We will go home once the train services resume,” said Dileep Dev Sharma from West Bengal.These men said that their contractors has given them an assurance of payment for the time they weren’t working, but they haven’t been paid anything since March 10.Not only workers, but government agencies are also worried that the ban on construction work will only result in the delay of infrastructure projects. At present, at least five government projects are under construction only in south Delhi’s Chattarpur, for which 1,000 to 1,200 labourers have been kept in-situ.“This is a health emergency but stopping work would not just mean that the project deadlines will extend by several months. It will lead to heavy cost escalations too,” said a senior PWD official.The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC), which is also undertaking construction of phase-4, said that they will abide by the government order and no construction activity will be undertaken until further orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/no-lockdown-relief-govt-in-delhi-migrant-labourers-brace-for-more-hardships/story-XuAz4Z5TWyosesJtsCUUqK.html
20-04-2020||Delhi||110 new cases in Delhi push Covid tally across 2,000||With 110 new cases on Sunday, Delhi’s total number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases crossed the 2,000 mark. The total stood at 2,003 on Sunday, according to daily data provided by the Delhi government.Two more deaths were recorded on Sunday, taking the total death toll of the city to 45.The people who died on Sunday were a 70-year-old male and a 71-year-old female. Both deaths were reported from Rajiv Gandhi Superspeciality Hospital.Over 64% of these cases were recorded among people below the age of 50, according to a break-up of the case profile provided by the government. Of the 1,989 cases for which this data was available, 320 were in the age group of 50- 59 years and 386 were 60 years or older.However, more than half the deaths were among those aged 60 years and above, with 25 of the total 45 deaths in this age group. As per the data, 10 were aged less than 50 years, while 10 were aged between 50 and 59 years.Among those who died, 84% had co-morbidities, such as diabetes, hypertension, heart and kidney disease.The data also shows that Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital reported the highest number of Covid-19 deaths from the city, with 20 of the 45 deaths being reported from the hospital.The hospital had earlier said, “Most of the Covid-19 deaths that have occurred in our hospital are of patients who were referred from other hospitals at an advanced stage and had significant co-morbidities. The patients who are attending our hospital early in their course of the disease or do not have significant comorbidities are faring very well.”Lok Nayak Hospital, which has been treating the highest number of Covid-19 positive and symptomatic patients, has reported five deaths so far. Apollo Hospital, a private facility, has reported five Covid-19 deaths.Of those who have tested positive so far, at least 73 are healthcare workers.Of the 682 Covid-19 patients with moderate to severe symptoms admitted to nine government and private hospitals across the city, 26 are in the intensive care unit, with six persons on the ventilator.Another 912 Covid-19 positive people, with very mild or no symptoms, have been admitted to the 10 ‘Covid Care Centres’ created by the Delhi government in the DDA and DUSIB flats.Although Delhi missed the target of performing 20,000 RT PCR tests in five days, it has scaled up testing, with 2,104 samples being collected on Sunday. This takes the total number of samples collected in the city since mid-January, when the screening began, to 24,387.Delhi saw a second spike in the number of cases when the government scaled up its testing. The first spike in numbers was seen when a gathering of over 2,300 people were evacuated from Nizamuddin Markaz in March-end. The government did not provide data on how many of the samples collected on Sunday were from those connected to the gathering.Community testing with the rapid test kits was yet to begin in Delhi on Sunday, a day after the state government received 42,000 rapid test kits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/110-new-cases-in-delhi-push-covid-tally-across-2-000/story-KrFWgnI603MgSxIsEGTSIJ.html
20-04-2020||Delhi||IIT Delhi to resume classes from July 2||The Indian Institute of Technology in Delhi (IIT-D) on Sunday shared its revised academic calendar for the remaining semester that was suspended midway due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak and announced that it will resume classes from July 2 onwards. HT had last Sunday reported that IIT-D was considering restarting the current academic session from the first week of July. According to the revised academic calendar the institute shared with students and teachers on Sunday, the summer break is declared from April 25 to June 28. “Teaching for the second semester of academic year 2019-2020 will resume on 02.07.2020. Prior to that, students to be asked to return to campus in a phased manner as per a schedule to be finalized and communicated in due course,” the institute said in an email sent to all students and teachers on Sunday.“The resumed second semester of academic year 2019-2020 will have a 6-day teaching week (Monday – Saturday) with extra slots in the evening and Saturdays,” it added.While the exams for final-year students are slated to end by the end of July, for first-year students they will go on till August. The registration for the next academic year is expected in August.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/iit-delhi-to-resume-classes-from-july-2/story-fAxEEmO2QRKETlAUfebBfL.html
20-04-2020||Delhi||45-day-old is India’s youngest Covid victim||A 45-day-old baby infected with coronavirus disease (Covid-19) died on Saturday at Lady Hardinge Medical College (LHMC), making him the youngest person to die of the infection in the country. The baby had been admitted to the hospital’s paediatric intensive care unit soon after birth on developing the respiratory ailment.“Soon after birth, the baby had developed a severe acute respiratory infection and was admitted to the paediatric ICU. As per protocol, a sample of the baby was collected for Covid-19. The report came back positive on Friday and the baby died on Saturday morning,” said an official of the hospital, on condition of anonymity.Officials said the father of the baby tested positive for the infection on Saturday. But the authorities say it is still unclear how the baby was infected. Another 10-month-old child admitted to the same ward tested positive for the infection on Saturday evening, according to officials from the hospital. There were unconfirmed reports from the hospital that the baby had died on Friday before the test results came back.The 377-bed Kalawati Saran Children’s hospital associated with LHMC is one of Asia’s biggest paediatric hospitals. The ward in which both the babies were admitted was not a Covid-19 designated ward. The hospital has a Covid-19 ward in another building, where 15 positive patients are admitted currently.There were seven children on ventilator in the same ICU unit as the 45-day-old. After all of them tested negative and moved to another location in the hospital. Officials said the ICU has been sanitised.After the Delhi State Cancer Institute, the paediatric ICU ward of Lady Hardinge Medical College has become a hotbed for Covid-19 infections, with at least nine staff members – doctors, nurses, and sanitation workers – from the ward testing positive for the infection. One of these resident doctors tested positive on Sunday morning.“Initially, one of the resident doctors working in the paediatric ICU had gotten himself tested and the report turned out to be positive. After that, the surveillance teams traced the contacts of the doctors. Yesterday, two nurses tested positive and today five others have tested positive for the infection,” said a doctor from the hospital, on condition of anonymity.At the Delhi State Cancer Institute, 25 healthcare workers had tested positive for the infection, resulting in a temporary shutdown of the hospital. The hospital will resume its out-patient clinic from Monday morning.So far, at least 70 healthcare workers across the city have tested positive for the infection.The authorities are still contact-tracing to decide who all should go into quarantine and get tested. Another emerging hospital hotspot is Dr Ram Manohar Lohia hospital, where four nurses tested positive for the infection on Saturday. Two doctors, four nurses and one member of the sanitation staff have tested positive from the hospital so far.“At least 65 doctors who had come in contact with these hospital staff have been asked to go into quarantine. Apart from that, an ICU had to be shut down in the hospital and its staff quarantined. There will be more nurses and workers who might have been asked to remain in quarantine,” said a doctor from RML hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/45-day-old-is-india-s-youngest-covid-victim/story-5r0cZFVmAMjU1L6e3cmTaL.html
20-04-2020||Pune||Primary-level screening responsible for identifying 87% of Pune’s Covid-19 cases||As per data shared by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) health department, of the 501 positive cases reported in the PMC jurisdiction as of April 17, 438 or 87% were referrals from PMCs flu centre OPDs, hospitals or detected through house-to-house surveys.Only 50 positive cases were close contacts of Covid-19 patients and 13 had a foreign travel history. In the cases of the deceased too, of the 44 deceased as of April 17, 36 did not report any foreign travel history.According to Dr Sanjiv Wavare, assistant health chief, PMC, primary-level screening at various hospitals and also at high-risk areas, followed by isolation and quarantine of suspected patients has become crucial. “Screening at a primary level helps in alleviating fear from the minds of many people who think that they might have Covid-19 and it also helps contain the spread of the virus and break the chain,” he said.India’s apex research body, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) denies any community transmission yet. Dr Rajani Kant, scientist and head of research management, policy planning and coordination, at Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said, “We are closely watching things. We need to be vigilant, so that community transmission should not happen. But there are pockets where number of cases is more. These are identified as hotspots. But this does not mean that there is community transmission in all these hot spots yet.” According to the PMC data, patients who have flu-like symptoms are sent to flu clinics, if the symptoms are moderate, they are referred to one of the 11 dedicated covid health centres in the city. If the symptoms are severe they are referred to one of three dedicated covid hospitals. In case the person is negative, but has flu-like symptoms then the person is isolated at the Navle Engineering College hostel, Sinhgad; if the person is from a slum or a densely populated area s/he is advised home quarantine. Private hospitals like Ruby Hall Clinic are also focusing on screening patients showing any signs of flu. At least 30,000 patients have been screened here.Dr Nita Munshi, director of the laboratory and infection control department, Ruby Hall Clinic, said, “We have referred many suspicious cases post our three-stage screening to Naidu hospital to ensure that no corona patient enters the hospital premises. This also makes the hospital a safe place for other patients who come for other treatments. Till now we have sent the swabs of at least 100 patients admitted in our isolation ward to Naidu hospital.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/primary-level-screening-responsible-for-identifying-87-of-pune-s-covid-19-ve-cases/story-gc6RRB7M1ODMZC7GMaRMEK.html
20-04-2020||Pune||Police provide food to labour camp at Guru Nanaknagar in Pune||PUNE Police commissioner K Venkatesham promised to fulfil the supply and demand gap of essential commodities at the labour colony in Ambegaon, Guru Nanaknagar in Katraj which he visited on Saturday.HT had reported about the plight of the labourers in the edition dated April 16.The often neglected colony of Vadar community, which is a 600-700 metre long steep uphill trek away from the beginning of Guru Nanaknagar, also received relief after the police commissioner took note of their struggle to get basic necessity like water.“A day after you (HT reporter) came here, the big (senior) police officers showed up with relief and there was food in our house that will last for good 8-10 days,” said Ranjana Jadhav, 30, a mother of two who lives in the Vadar colony.With a 12-day old baby, Annuradha Jadhav, barely 20-years-old herself, was able to have a complete meal after days due to the relief provided by the police. She was left alone in a hut with her two daughters as her parents and extended family left for another house down the hill.“I live here with my daughters. I finally got some milk and she is sleeping,” said Jadhav.Saleem Shaikh, a volunteer from the region, has been providing meals in the area. However, the food provided by him was not nearly enough, according to the labourers living in Guru Nanaknagar.As a result of the severe shortage of food during the lockdown and the lack of information regarding the extension of the lockdown, the workers had tried to walk from Pune to their native places in Madhya Pradesh.They were intercepted by Kondhwa police station officials at Khadi Machine chowk and sent back to their houses on the hill in Guru Nanaknagar.The police joined forces with Shaikh and deployed the newly formed social policing cell for the task.Police sub-inspector Mahendra Patil of Bharti Vidyapeeth police station ensured that the shortage of food is met with.“On April 18, police commissioner paid a surprise visit to the labour colony and praised the work that we had put in. This form of encouragement is much more valuable than any award,” said PSI Patil.Five kg wheat or flour (whichever was available), 5kg rice, oil, sugar, tea powder, sugar, salt, and milk were among the relief package provided by the police. The supplies are sourced from multiple NGOs and volunteer donors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/police-commissioner-channels-relief-to-labour-camp-at-guru-nanaknagar/story-F376j15ZRiwhlr9LYxb7AK.html
20-04-2020||Pune||Arunachal CM thanks Pune police for helping students stranded in Pune||Pema Khandu, chief minister of Arunachal Pradesh, took to Twitter to thank Ravindra Shisve, joint commissioner of Pune police for helping students from the state who are stranded in the city.I would like to thank Dr Ravindra Shisve IPS Jt. CP Pune for providing timely help to more than 90 students from Arunachal Pradesh studying in Pune through essential supplies and ration during this time of crisis due to Covid19, (sis) tweeted Khandu on Saturday.Joint CP Shisve reached out to over 90 students in the city after his IAS counterpart from Arunachal Pradesh reached out to him for help with providing essentials to the students to survive lockdown. He has assured continued support to these students until the lockdown is lifted.The Arunachal CM also thanked other police officials from Maharashtra including those from Thane, Amravati, Sangli, Kolhapur, Navi Mumbai, Nashik and Satara for helping students from the state studying in these regions of Maharashtra.The lockdown will be on until May 3. Operation of trains, buses, and flights was suspended all over the country at the beginning of the lockdown leaving these students stranded in parts of Maharashtra and other states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/arunachal-cm-thanks-pune-police-for-helping-students-stranded-in-pune/story-xD0556CyxZjTISu8A0mdvJ.html
20-04-2020||Noida||Gautam Budh Nagar: Two more test positive for Covid-19, 59 active cases||As two more people from the district tested positive for Coronavirus disease, taking the total number of Covid-19 cases to 97 by Sunday evening, the district health department said it will start conducting rapid antibody tests (RAT) in the 30 hot spots to speedily assess the number of suspected cases. The two identified persons include a 12-year-old girl from Sector 8, who has been admitted to Sharda Hospital, and 40-year-old man from the Kendriya Vihar 2, who has been admitted at the Government Institute of Medical Sciences. Though officials were yet to ascertain the source of infection for either of the patients, health officials, since April 8, have shifted hundreds of people from the slums in Sector 8 and 5 to government quarantine centres as a precautionary measure. The step was taken after four persons, with one linked to Ceasefire, tested positive for Covid-19 in the Sector 5 JJ Colony. The girl, a resident of the slums in Sector 8, was confirmed as infected in her second test which was conducted as she was symptomatic.Meanwhile, the district administration has decided to start conducting rapid antibody tests—a supplementary tool which detects Covid antibodies in the bloodstream in about 15 minutes as opposed to the 24- to 48-hour testing time for the Real Time Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) molecular tests—to speedily assess cluster spread. However, RAT is known to show negative result during the initial stage of the infection.The district has received 1,000 RAT kits. Officials said they would go in vans to conduct random testing of suspects in and around hot spots. Meanwhile, GIMS has come up with a Covid triage kiosk with cubicles for doctors so they can talk to the patient through microphones, reducing the risk of contracting infection.“With this system in place, the doctor can observe patient at close quarters and ensure there is no communication gap. It will also help in keeping the medical staff safe. We are expecting that the initiative will help us in creating a better system to fight Covid-19,” GIMS director Dr Rakesh Gupta said.As on Sunday evening, there were a total of 4,212 cluster containment teams in the district, 4,15,369 houses had been surveyed and 13,24,278 persons screened. The health department had notified 1,967 travellers and 1,119 people were under surveillance. A total of 2,289 samples had been collected. Currently, there are 59 active Covid-19 cases in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/gautam-budh-nagar-two-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-59-active-cases/story-AcoQZoWI2CJ0ERFHRP8EyL.html
20-04-2020||Noida||No relaxation in commercial activities, lockdown rules to become stricter in Noida||Putting a stop to all speculations about commercial activities restarting in Gautam Budh Nagar from Monday, the administration made it clear on Sunday that after taking cognisance of the quantum of Covid-19 outbreak in the district, they have decided that no other activity except essential services will be permitted till May 3.Addressing a joint press conference with the chief executive officers of all three authorities in the district and the commissioner of police, district magistrate Suhas LY said that the rules of the lockdown will remain effective until May 3. “The district has reported 97 Covid-19 positive cases so far. Considering the current situation, 30 locations have been identified as hot spots and have been completely sealed under lockdown. For the hot spots containing a single case, we have decided to quarantine the zone up to a radius of one kilometre. However, there will a three-kilometre quarantine zone for a cluster with more than one Covid-19 case. The time has come for us to follow the lockdown rules in a more disciplined way,” he said.Stating that a two-kilometre buffer zone has been created outside quarantine zones, Suhas said that no activity other than the supply of essential commodities and visits from medical and sanitation teams will be permitted in these quarantine and buffer zones. “If no infection is reported during the next 28 days, the hot spot will be converted into a green zone. But since a major part of the district is divided into quarantine and buffer zones, we can’t allow other activities. Even the people involved in the door-to-door delivery of essential goods will be investigated for Covid-19 randomly,” he said.The district magistrate further said that no housing project or any other construction work will be allowed in the district. “Taking cognisance of the prevailing situation, permission for any type of operations in new industrial or commercial establishments will not be granted. Except for essential services, no activity will be allowed even in government offices. Even the passes issued earlier for the operation of essential goods and services in quarantine zones will be reviewed by the competent authority,” he said.Announcing relaxation for rural areas outside the quarantine zones, the DM said that work related to agriculture, animal husbandry and fisheries may be allowed, provided the guidelines on social distancing under the prescribed protocol of Covid-19 are followed. “Violation of orders issued for lockdown will be considered an offence under sections 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act-2005 and Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/no-relaxation-in-commercial-activities-lockdown-rules-to-become-stricter-in-noida/story-zEOo26mWLjvCQboNiV1amI.html
20-04-2020||Pune||All of Pune city, PCMC now a containment zone||All of Pune city has been declared a containment zone till April 27, said Shekhar Gaikwad, Pune municipal commissioner, in an order that was passed late on Sunday night. However, supply of all essential services will continue.The restrictions are in place from midnight, and as per the order, apart from the Pune police, PMC officials will now also be empowered to take action against offenders. The announcement comes in the wake of deputy CM and Pune’s guardian minister Ajit Pawar’s directions to the city’s administration and police, to ensure that a strict lockdown is in place, at least for another eight days. Pimpri-Chinchwad has also followed suit and declared the entire twin-township a containment zone till April 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/all-of-pune-city-pcmc-now-a-containment-zone/story-M55deCCKf0g9VG68SdYB0K.html
20-04-2020||Noida||Noida: 12 persons from high-rises booked for not wearing masks in public||As many as 12 persons were booked by the Sector 49 police on Sunday for violating the guidelines of the lockdown and not wearing masks in public as stipulated by the Uttar Pradesh government.Section 144 has been imposed in Gautam Budh Nagar district since March 15. It forbids the gathering of more than four people in an area. Besides, the entire country is in lockdown till May 3 in light of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) crisis and the state government has mandated the use of face masks in public.In light of these restrictions, 12 people from six high-rises in sectors 74, 76 and 77 were booked by the Noida police on Sunday.“All of them violated the guidelines and were roaming about for no essential work. None of them was wearing a face mask, which is also against regulations. They were booked, detained and later let go on interim bail,” Dharmendra Sharma, station house officer, Sector 49 police station, said.He said that the police have constantly been warning people against being on the streets for no reason and not wearing masks, but severe action is now required to control the situation.The police said that the suspects were out for unnecessary purposes like smoking cigarettes, meeting friends, etc.Six of the violators are from Supertech Capetown in Sector 74 (which is one of the district’s hot spots), two from Amrapali Silicon City in Sector 76 and one each from Amrapali Princely Estate (Sector 76), Elite Homes (Sector 77), Prateek Wisteria (Sector 77) and Ajnara Grand Heritage (Sector 74).The suspects were booked under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 271 (disobedience to quarantine rule) of the Indian Penal Code.“They were granted interim bail as the punishment for the violation is less than seven years in jail. They will get a sentence and will be fined,” the SHO said.On Sunday, nine FIRs were registered in the district for violation of the lockdown while 42 people were arrested in total. The police officials 659 vehicles, of which the owners of 261 were fined while five vehicles were seized. Two vehicles of essential services were permitted while checkposts were set up at 200 points in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-12-persons-from-highrises-booked-for-not-wearing-masks-in-public/story-T6Ru7x5eRz7hw5mU7lR7PK.html
20-04-2020||Gurugram||Stressed, 38-year-old policeman ends life||A 38-year-old police officer posted with the traffic unit of Gurugram allegedly hanged himself at his house in Rewari late Saturday night. According to the Gurugram police, the reason behind the incident is yet to be known. However, the local police and family members of the officer said that he was suffering from work-related stress. The police said that the deceased man, an inspector, was a resident of Rewari and lived with his family on rent. He used to travel to Gurugram for work every day. The officer was earlier posted as a station house officer (SHO) at a police station in the city and was transferred to the traffic unit recently. The incident took place when he returned home after finishing his shift. Dinesh Kumar, sub-inspector (SI), Model Town police station, Rewari, said, “He returned to his house around 11pm and had dinner. Due to the Covid-19 outbreak, he was sleeping in a separate room at home, as a precautionary measure. On Sunday around 7am, when his wife went to his room, she saw him hanging.” He added that the family immediately took him to a hospital where the doctors declared him dead on arrival.“The family has informed us that the deceased man was suffering from work-related stress,” the SI said. However, in a statement, Subhash Boken, spokesperson, Gurugram police, said, “There was no suicide note found from the spot. The officer’s family did not tell us any reason which led to the incident.”  However, the father of the deceased man said, “I am yet to know the exact details of the incident. But three or four days ago, I spoke with him. He told me that his son was very ill and he wanted to take an off from work so that he could take him to a doctor. But he did not get any leave, due to which he was stressed.” The deceased man’s body was handed over to his family member after a post-mortem examination on Sunday. The police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the code of criminal procedure (CrPC). Gurugram does not have a dedicated helpline to deal with such situations. A few major suicide prevention helpline numbers in India are +914066202000 from ‘Roshni’ (Hyderabad-based) and +914424640050 from Sneha India Foundation (Delhi-based).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/stressed-38-year-old-policeman-ends-life/story-HaY60rAyQVlHpMCkNjBdoJ.html
20-04-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19 lockdown: Construction, sweet shops to reopen today||Starting today, construction activities at private and public projects, courier services, opening of farsan and sweet shops will be allowed in the city. E-commerce websites, too, can begin deliveries, but only of essential commodities. However, these activities will not be allowed in containment zones. Also, those operating need to get a permission pass issued by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).The state had issued a circular dated April 17, giving permission to operate several non-essential activities in order to boost the economy. The BMC then on Sunday issued a circular listing the relaxation that will be granted in non-containment zones, such as allowing delivery of electrical appliances, subject to a pass from local ward offices of the BMC. The passes will be issued at ward offices between 7am and 9pm daily. However, after the Centre banned the delivery of non-essential items, the BMC said it will also follow suit. Praveen Pardeshi, municipal commissioner, BMC, said, “We shall be revising the same [earlier order] as informed by the state govt.”The BMC, meanwhile, has allowed carrying out commercial activities such as those related to fisheries, home delivery by restaurants and cable services. The civic body has urged that not more than two people should be in the lift at a time. The circular allows construction activities for public projects, construction, resurfacing, repairs of water supply, sewer and storm-water drain lines, construction repairs and pre-monsoon desilting. In case of private projects, the BMC will grant permission if workers are available at the site and all precautions are taken, states the circular.Agricultural product related trades, those involved in medical or health care and essential services will have to get passes from the ward office. The civic body has not allowed any industrial activity, considering the city is in the red zone. “As per directions, industries/industrial establishments will not be allowed to operate in Mumbai limits. No worker from a containment zone will be permitted to go to a workplace in industries/industrial establishments, permitted outside Mumbai,” stated the circular.Meanwhile, on Sunday, seven medical staff members of Bombay Hospital tested positive, taking the case count to 19. The Bombay Hospital has so far tested around 440 medical staff members. Dr Gautam Bhansali, consulting physician, Bombay Hospital, said, “All are in stable condition. We are going to ensure that our OPD for non-Covid patients starts in the coming few days.” The BMC has also made 810 community toilets free for public use. The city’s Covid-19 hotspot, Dharavi, saw 20 new cases on Sunday, bringing the count to 138 with 11 deaths, according to the BMC. Of the 20 new cases, the highest (6) cases were recorded in Fatima Chawl, followed by three cases from Kalyanwadi.Kiran Dighavkar, assistant commissioner of the G-North ward, said, “Most of the cases were detected in fever clinics.”A team of 17 doctors and 50 nurses has screened more than 40,000 people in the fever clinics and 223 have been identified and sent for laboratory tests, said a BMC official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-lockdown-construction-sweet-shops-to-open-from-today/story-KMHDwqFo0isl8dbuyRBZQO.html
20-04-2020||Gurugram||To operate in Gurugram, industries with MHA go-ahead must seek state approval through Saral portal||Industrial units and businesses in the district, which are eligible as per home ministry guidelines to resume operations, will have to apply to the Haryana government through the Saral portal and seek approval to do so. VS Kundu, CEO, Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA), who is also the monitoring official for the district for Covid-19, said on Sunday that there would be no automatic approval for resuming industrial operations in the city from April 20. The clarification came after the Haryana government brought out guidelines for the gradual easing of the lockdown across the state. Gurugram, Faridabad, Palwal and Nuh are included in the red zone due to the high number of Covid-19 positive cases in these districts. “Committees for the review of applications will be formed at sub-divisional level, municipal level and district level. Once these are approved, only then industries can operate,“ Kundu said, adding that though Gurugram is in the red zone (with 37 Covid-19 cases), certain areas will be open for industries to operate but not without approval.The Gurugram labour department, meanwhile, said that industries will be given permission gradually but the keyword would be preventing the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). “The industries that want to operate must be adequately prepared. We have to see whether there is space for workers’ lodgings, are facilities created to ensure safe work and travel, how many workers are required,” said Munish Sharma, additional labour commissioner, NCR.As per the labour department, there are around 1,400 small and large units in the Manesar industrial township and around 1,400 in Udyog Vihar, and they would have to route their applications through the Saral portal of the Haryana government to seek permission. “As per the SoP issued by Haryana government, applications of these firms would be processed in a decentralised manner so that decisions can be taken speedily. However, we will have to ensure that guidelines pertaining to safe working are followed,” said Sharma.Outlining the conditions under which the operations will be allowed, the additional labour commissioner said that cross-border movement of workers from Delhi or Faridabad will not be allowed, or if required, they will be allowed to cross over only once. “There will be no daily movement across the border. We prefer that people walk, cycle or take two-wheelers to work. The workers can also stay inside the units or nearby,” said Sharma, adding that permission for operating cabs and buses will also not be given.The department will also seek an affidavit from industrial and business units regarding their acceptance of the norms.In exceptional cases, the administration can allow the use of cars, but only one passenger and driver will be allowed. “It is not that we don’t want industries to resume operations but the priority is to contain the spread of the virus. So we want business units to take the precautions very seriously and adopt them in letter and spirit,” he said.As per the guidelines issued by the Haryana government, block-level committees will approve applications of industries or commercial establishments with 25 employees. As for companies with employees between 25 and 200, their applications will be scrutinised by the additional deputy commissioner or the municipal corporation. For companies with more than 200 employees, a committee headed by the deputy commissioner will provide approval.For the construction industry also, the labour department said that permission will have to be sought via the Saral portal and only those projects, which have labour on-site, will be considered for permission. Based on the area of operation, the administration will also issue passes to the workers to allow their movement and access to their respective workplaces. The industrialists of the city, meanwhile, said that they hope to get permission by the end of the week as both Manesar and Udyog Vihar industrial estates are outside containment zones.“We are expecting that the entire process of permission to smoothen within three to four days. It would be wise to start economic activity gradually so that we can move towards normalcy,” said Manmohan Gaind, vice president, Manesar Industries’ Welfare Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/to-operate-in-gurugram-industries-with-mha-go-ahead-must-seek-state-approval-through-saral-portal/story-480ngFHt78qchJlBvpj9ZP.html
20-04-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram to begin rapid antibody tests with 750 kits in Sohna containment zone||Gurugram will launch rapid antibody testing to detect cases of Covid-19 from Monday in Sohna containment zone. Health officials said they will be use the Rapid Testing Kits or RTAs only for those who show symptoms of influenza like illness (ILI).Gurugram so far has registered 37 Covid-19 positive cases, of which the highest number (14 cases) has been reported from Sohna. The 14 cases in Sohna includes 10 Tablighi Jamaat attendees, who are natives of Himachal Pradesh. The remaining patients are those who came in close contact with a Rajasthan-based Covid-19 caset.On Friday, the Haryana government received 10,000 RTKs from the central government. As per plan, blood tests to detect coronavirus antibodies through RTKs will be done at three Covid-19 hotspot districts – Gurugram, Nuh and Hathin in Palwal. “We have received 750 RTKs in the first phase and will be using it in the Sohna contamination zone. Our teams will be doing house to house surveillance and if any person with ILI symptom is traced, he/she will be taken to the Sohna sub-division hospital for antibody testing,” said Dr Jaswant Singh Punia, chief medical officer of Gurugram. There are six contamination zone in the city — Devil Lal Colony, Sun City Sector 54, Sector 39, Fazilpur village in Jharsa, Village Raipur in Sohna and Ward no. 11 Pataudi.The medical team designated for Covid-19 cases at the Sohna health facility will be trained by three to four rapid response team members on procedures to use the kit. “By collecting blood samples, we can now analyse whether antibody to fight against coronavirus is present in the body. The presence of antibody means the person has contracted the virus. The testing process in not lengthy, it takes only 15-20 minutes to deliver results. If anybody is tested positive, then nasal and throat swabs will be taken for Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR),” said Punia.PGIMS, Rohtak, the nodal hospital for Covid-19 in Haryana, has prepared a detailed plan for the usage of RTKs after the Indian Council of Medical Research issued a letter to the states on April 4 on starting rapid antibody tests for Covid-19 in clusters with containment zones and large migration gathering or evacuees. As per the state guideline, even if a suspected case with flu-like symptom tests negative for antibody, his/her swabs will be taken for RT-PCR and the person have to isolate or quarantine themselves for 10 days. Antibody tests will not be done on those having signs of Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) and high risk cases. Their samples will be directly collected for RT-PCR.The state is also conducting pool testing of Covid-19 samples. As per ICMR guidelines, pool testing allows tests of at least two to five samples together. “A specimen pool comprises of samples from multiple persons. They are mixed and tested together. It saves time and cost if the entire pool is negative. If one of the individual samples is positive, then all samples are tested separately. To ensure that the samples are not diluted in pooling and there are no false negatives, we are taking only three samples in a pool,” said Dr Dhruv Chaudhary, the nodal officer for Covid-19 in Haryana and the head of the department for pulmonary and critical care at PGIMS, Rohtak.He said that not more than five samples can be pooled for there is a higher possibility of missing positive samples with low viral load.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-to-begin-rapid-antibody-tests-with-750-kits-in-sohna-containment-zone/story-SzHOOYOlzPcZlQvejs6X8O.html
20-04-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Small-scale industries may not reopen before May 3 as owners say they can’t meet guidelines||The standard operating procedures (SOP) or the Covid-19 lockdown guidelines issued by the Haryana government have put many challenges before small-scale industries. Industry owners said they are unlikely to resume operations during the lockdown as the SOPS are not friends to their methods of operations.Of the 11 lakh industrial employees in the district, about 60% are engaged in small-scale industries, which work as feeder companies for big ventures such as Maruti, Honda and others.In light of the coronavirus outbreak, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a 21-day lockdown from March 25, which he later extended till May 3. However, the PM announced relaxations in resuming economic or business activities from April 20.Industry owners had been waiting for resuming operations here but as Gurugram has been notified as a Red Zone due to the number of Covid-19 cases and several containment zones, they are rethinking options.Firstly, owners say a major challenge for industry owners is the fear of FIR lodged against them, which is a provision in the SOP.“In case an employee gets infected with Covid-19, the government will register a police complaint (FIR) against the industry owner and the infected person, and his or her dependants will be put in 14 days’ quarantine,” says the SOP.VS Kundu, chief executive engineer of the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority and the Covid-19 in-charge of Gurugram, said: “Two years of imprisonment can also be awarded in case an employee gets infected with coronavirus at factory unit during lockdown period. There were many challenges before the government. Keeping all these in view, detailed guidelines have been issued so that lockdown guidelines are followed perfectly as per MHA (Ministry of Human Affairs Government of India) orders. Industries should resume only with minimum employee strength of 25-30%, as well as following other guidelines such as social distancing, sanitisation, transportation responsibility of respective employees and their movement passes, health, etc. All these will be the sole responsibility of industry owners.”Industry owners, on the other hand, say they prefer not to take risks lest their employees get Covid-19 infection.Sanjiv Bansal, a Basai-based industry owner, said, “I have told my employees to wait for May when lockdown ends. We are small scale industry owners and we cannot follow the SOP guidelines which we believe a majority of industry owners in the district will be reluctant to do.”Secondly, industry owners have been asked to upload pictures daily showing disinfection of plants, units, entry and exit gates, thermal screening of employees, social distancing guidelines being followed at their units, which owners say is not feasible.Atul Jain, a Manesar-based industry owner, said: “We cannot run our unit if our employees sit one metre apart, more so while sitting down for work. It is impractical and the nature of our operations does not allow and our product will suffer. For clicking and uploading pictures onto government portals, we will have to permanently engage at least two employees. If we engage a lesser number of employees, as per the SOP, then why would we put two out of this already reduced strength towards work that would not benefit us? I believe the SOP guidelines are not suitable for our small scale business models. Rather, they are very risky in the current scenario. I’d rather wait for the lockdown to end before restarting operations.”The third major issue, industry owners say, is the transportation of employees and products to and from Delhi.“Most of the buyers of our product are from Delhi and they cannot continue to operate during lockdown. In the Capital, the lockdown might just continue longer. The SOP does not allow any relief in this regard. We will not resume operations and wait for lifting of lockdown,” said Deepak Maini, a Sector 37-based industry owner.So far, there are six containment zones in Gurugram -- Devi Lal Colony, Sector 39; Sun City, Sector 54; Fazilpur village in Jharsa; Ward no, 11 Pataudi; Raipur village, Sohna. Till now, there have been 37 positive cases of Covid-19 from Gurugram.The SOP does not give clarity on the industries and commercial establishments qualify to apply for passes.TVSN Prasad, additional chief secretary, Industry department, Haryana, said, “Passes will be approved after scrutiny of applications by a committee as per the guidelines at local administrative level.”As per the SOP, one can apply online at Saral Haryana portal and the applications were allowed to be sent to concerned committee for scrutiny and approval from April 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-small-scale-industries-may-not-reopen-before-may-3-as-owners-say-they-can-t-meet-guidelines/story-cGW0RxxHX5wIayerPF0QjI.html
20-04-2020||Delhi||North MCD teachers on Covid duty yet to be paid for February, March||Teachers employed by the north civic body, who are currently deployed at the government’s food distribution centres in schools, are struggling to make ends meet due to non-payment of salaries since February.The teachers have been assigned this duty for the last few weeks, to help those in need due to the lockdown imposed to curb the spread of coronavirus (Covid-19).A 37-year-old teacher, employed at a school in Budhh Vihar, cycles through deserted roads to reach the school every alternate day. He measures the ration, distributes cooked food among the poor and maintains records of the centre. He says that despite performing the assigned tasks, he is unable to even purchase groceries and shops are refusing to give items on credit. “I’m the only earning member of the family. It’s become difficult to survive without a salary. We don’t know how to make our ends meet in this lockdown. The grocery shop near our home has stopped giving us ration on credit, since we could not clear bills of February and March. I don’t know what to do,” he said.Around 8,000 teachers working in 714 north civic body schools are facing hardships due to non-payment of salaries. The teachers’ association has reached out to Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia in this regard as well. In a letter sent to Kejriwal and Sisodia’s office on Friday, Ramnivas Solanki, the president of teachers’ association of the municipal corporation of Delhi (MCD) schools, said, “While the teachers of east and south MCD schools have received their salaries, those working in north MCD schools are not being paid since February. However, the teachers are given the responsibility of disturbing the cooked food and ration to the poor. They are risking their lives to help people amid the lockdown. Kindly please ensure that these teachers receive their salaries.”Officials of the north civic body said that they have not received funds from the Delhi government to pay the salaries. “We are waiting for the funds to be released by the Delhi government,” said north MCD commissioner, Varsha Joshi. However, Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said that is not the case. “We have paid all dues. North MCD has to check where all the money is going,” he said.The teacher’s association stated that the government should issue a notice for payment of salaries to MCD teachers, on the lines of directions issued to private schools. “The government has recently asked all private schools to pay the salaries of their staff on time. Why this discrimination with the MCD teachers?” said Solanki.A senior Delhi government official said that they have received the complaint and transferred it to the authorities concerned for further action. “We are looking into the matter. The Delhi government is also in contact with the north civic body officials,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/north-mcd-teachers-on-covid-duty-yet-to-be-paid-for-february-march/story-k4D3Z7phpSsI4RNoycBZXJ.html
20-04-2020||City||Maharashtra govt to probe Palghar lynching; 1 more incident in Dahanu||The Maharashtra government on Sunday ordered a high-level investigation into the Palghar mob lynching incident, in which three people were killed on Thursday night, even as another man was lynched on Friday night in Dahanu by a mob of 17 in the third such incident in the area within a week.The Palghar incident, which led to an uproar on Sunday as the video went viral, occurred when three men from Kandivli in Mumbai were heading towards Gujarat’s Surat in a car to attend a funeral on Thursday night. They had taken an internal road, as all major roads are shut owing to the lockdown. Their vehicle was stopped in Palghar district. The trio – Chikne Maharaj Kalpavrukshagiri, 70, Sushilgiri Maharaj, 35, and their car driver Nilesh Telgade, 30 – was dragged out of their car and beaten to death on suspicion that they were thieves. “Police have detained 101 people involved in the killing of three Surat-bound people in Palghar. I have also ordered a high level inquiry into these killings,” Deshmukh tweeted. The Maharashtra home minister also warned officials against giving any communal colour to the incident, as two of the three deceased were allegedly seers.Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said, “The Palghar incident has been acted upon. The police have arrested all those accused who attacked the two sadhus, one driver and the police personnel on the day of the crime itself. “Nobody guilty of this heinous crime and shameful act will be spared and they will be brought to justice in the strongest way possible,” Thackeray said in a tweet. Former chief minister and leader of Opposition in Assembly, Devendra Fadnavis said: “I urge the government to immediately set up a high-level enquiry.”Elaborating on the Dahanu incident, assistant police inspector Prakash Sonwane said: “The man hails from Tamil Nadu and was walking in the area. Due to the lockdown, he did not have means to find food. He doesn’t understand Marathi. We rushed to the spot and rescued him from the mob and brought him to the police station.” The police on Sunday arrested the 17 people and produced them before a local court. The man is being treated for his injuries in a hospital.Earlier last week, four personnel of Kasa Police were injured and the SUV of a skin specialist Dr Vishwas Valvi of Thane was destroyed by a mob at Saarni village in the district. (With inputs from IANS)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/17-villagers-attack-man-in-dahanu/story-HwvW1Url0RZdxcfH8EmB2H.html
20-04-2020||Chandigarh||His leave extension rejected, PGIMER medical superintendent expected to join active duty from today||The medical superintendent of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research has been asked to join duty after he had proceeded on a leave following the outbreak of novel coronavirus in the city in March. His application for leave extension was rejected on Sunday.A senior official of the institute, on the condition of anonymity, told the Hindustan Times that the leave application of Dr AK Gupta, medical superintendent and head of hospital administration, was accepted on April 1 keeping in view orders of the department of personnel and training (DOPT) allowing commuted leave without production of medical certificate to those officials who are above 50 years of age, and have conditions like diabetes, respiratory problems and renal disease.“The medical superintendent stopped coming to the office from March 23 and was working from home till March 31. In between he applied for medical leave from April 1 to 14, which was accepted by the administration. However, he further wanted to extend the leave which has been rejected by the administration keeping in mind the requirement of the officer who heads an important department involved in the management of the hospital and holds an administrative post,” the official said.The employees of the institute had written to the Prime Minister’s Office and the ministry of health and family welfare stating that it was unfortunate that the medical superintendent had been allowed leave at a time of national crisis under the garb of DOPT orders, and the stop gap arrangements made in his absence had miserably failed.“It is the need of the hour that office orders granting leave to medical superintendent are revoked, or alternately, a senior professor is appointed as the medical superintendent with all financial and administrative powers to effectively deal with the emergent situation,” said Ashwani Kumar Munjal, president of PGIMER employees’ union in a letter to the PMO.Director of PGIMER Dr Jagat Ram confirmed that Dr Gupta had proceeded on a leave that has not been extended and he is expected to join the duties from Monday.Dr AK Gupta, when contacted for his version, refused to comment.NEHRU EXTENSION BLOCK CONVERTED INTO COVID WARDThe UT administration has designated the Nehru Hospital Extension Block of the institute as a Covid-19 hospital where patients from Chandigarh and critical patients from the neighbouring states are admitted. At present, 13 patients from the city and seven patients from neighbouring states are under isolation and treatment at the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/his-leave-extension-rejected-pgimer-medical-superintendent-expected-to-join-active-duty-from-today/story-GWNX6o4v49yv6WQvkwdfbJ.html
20-04-2020||Chandigarh||Toddler among three of family found to be Covid-19 positive in Chandigarh||Three relatives of a 52-year-old woman who had tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday were also found to be infected, taking the total number of cases in Chandigarh to 26, the health authorities confirmed on Sunday.The three include the woman’s 56-year-old husband, 25-year-old son and one-and-a-half-year-old granddaughter, all of whom reside together in Sector 30. The three tested positive on Saturday night, said officials.However, with two more patients recovering on Sunday, the total of those discharged has reached 13, taking the number of active cases in Chandigarh to 13. The first case was reported on March 18.Health officials said two men who were discharged on Sunday are a 23 year-old resident of Sector 29 and a 32-year-old NRI from Canada living in Sector 33.Meanwhile, of the seven family contacts of the 50-year-old sanitation attendant of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh, who had tested positive on Friday, six have tested to be negative while one report is awaited. Eight remote community contacts of the same patient at Dhanas, where he resides, were sampled at the PGIMER on Sunday.RAPID ANTIBODY TESTS BEGINThe UT administration on Sunday started conducting rapid antibody testing on persons who have flu-like symptoms.UT health secretary Arun Kumar Gupta said nine tests were conducted as per the protocol of influenza like illness during house-to-house survey. “All turned out to negative,” he said.Meanwhile, district magistrate Mandip Singh Brar has ordered all pharmacies, including jan aushadhi shops, and doctors to maintain a record of those buying medicines for fever, cold, throat infection, flu and similar symptoms, and provide it to the director health services (DHS) on a daily basis via email or WhatsApp.NO RELAXATIONS IN STORE With the Union health ministry declaring Chandigarh a Covid-19 hotspot (red zone) and the entire city being designated as a containment zone, the UT administration has decided against introducing any relaxation from April 20. According to the Centre’s guidelines, some relaxations could be introduced only if there is no positive case for 14 consecutive days. All shops except those providing essential commodities, like vegetables, grocery and medicines, will remain closed. Clinics and hospitals can open, but have to strictly follow the norms laid down by the administration and Centre. All e-commerce activity is closed except for the supply of essential commodities.Earlier, as per the MHA guidelines, the administration had planned to allow services provided by self-employed persons, such as electricians and plumbers, besides opening of production units that require continuous process and supply chain, construction of roads and use of private vehicles for emergency services among other relaxations, which have now been ruled out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/toddler-among-3-of-family-found-to-be-covid-19-positive-in-chandigarh/story-dXn3LOPPQ2zGINidR16ujI.html
20-04-2020||City||Kharar flyover work to resume on April 20||Even as the district administration on Sunday “banned any additional activities (not already allowed under previous orders/exemptions)” in Mohali, it has allowed the National Highways Authority of India to resume the Kharar-Chandigarh flyover work from Monday (April 20).Already delayed by a year, the work was stopped on March 22, following the nationwide lockdown to prevent the spread of Covid-19.“We got a request from the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to start work on the project, we have approved it and it will resume work from April 20,” said Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan.NHAI project director Krishnan Sachdeva felt the conditions were right in the absence of traffic due to the lockdown. “We have already given directions to the labourers to start work from Monday,” he said.“The authorities concerned should not have suspended operations as it had nothing to do with Covid-19 and a great deal of progress could have been made in the absence of traffic,” said Kamaldeep Singh Tiwana, a resident of KhararOn April 16, former Punjab MLA Bir Devinder Singh had demanded that the state government direct Larsen and Toubro (L&T) Limited, which was executing the four-lane-cum elevated highway project, to resume work.The 10-km Kharar-Chandigarh road expansion project which entails construction of two flyovers and three bridges, is likely to miss its fifth deadline, two this year in January and March, with the NHAI confirming that it was not likely to be completed before September 2020.NHAI had handed over the Rs 368 crore project to L&T and the construction began in November 2015. It was to be completed by December 2018. However, in the past four years only 68% work was completed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kharar-flyover-work-to-resume-on-april-20/story-YjfvSCWyBOuLARXAHiSfBM.html
20-04-2020||City||200 Borstal jail inmates from Ludhiana shifted to Faridkot prison||As many 200 inmates lodged in Borstal jail have been shifted to Faridkot Jail due to coronavirus fear, on Sunday. Now, only 35 inmates are left in Borstal jail. The step has been taken to accommodate inmates of Ludhiana Central Jail, which is already overcrowded.Against its capacity of around 2,500 inmates, the central jail currently houses 3,350 inmates. Fearing spread of coronavirus, the prison department has decided to shift some of the inmates to other jails.Borstal jail will now accommodate some of the inmates from the central jail and other jails of the district.Confirming the development Borstal jail superintendent Mohammad Sharif said with the decongestion of the jails, the department could quarantine inmates inside the prison if needed.Earlier, the prison department has banned meeting of inmates and their family members for indefinite time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/200-borstal-jail-inmates-shifted-to-faridkot-prison/story-jCTzLCqZYVbWTBmvWxkF2H.html
20-04-2020||City||Dept flooded with condolence messages after ACP Kohli’s death||A day after the death of assistant commissioner of police (ACP, North) Anil Kumar Kohli due to Covid-19, the police department has been flooded with condolence messages from people of all walks of life. Kohli’s colleagues and other well wishers feel that the department should provide a job to his son.Police officials have been in contact with Kohli’s son and have assured him all help possible for the treatment of his wife, who has also tested positive for Covid-19.Kohli’s colleagues, who did not go to the crematorium to bid adieu to their friend, said they talked to his son over the phone and prayed for the departed soul at their homes.The police officials said that in case of the death of any officer in the line of duty, his or her family member gets a job in the department on compensation grounds. “As the ACP had fallen ill while performing his duty and later died in the hospital, his son should get the job. We will collectively raise the demand before the senior officers,” they said.70% police personnel test negative for Covid-19Meanwhile, no new case of coronavirus was found in the department, which brought a sigh of relief to the police. As many as 115 samples of police personnel were sent for testing, out of which 70% results were negative, while around 30% results are still awaited. Out of the three police personnel – sub-inspector Arshpreet Kaur, SHO at Basti Jodhewal police station, assistant sub-inspector Sukhdev Singh and constable Prabhjot Singh – who tested positive for Covid-19, two are admitted in Ludhiana hospitals and one is in a hospital Ferozepur.According to commissioner of police Rakesh Kumar Agrawal, “All three police personnel remain asymptomatic and their health condition has been graded as good by the attending doctors. The process of contact tracing and testing of their primary contacts has also been completed.” The health and safety of the police personnel who are either under home quarantine or admitted in hospital is being regularly monitored.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dept-flooded-with-condolence-messages-after-acp-kohli-s-death/story-unApglJMovsmmlkBlXvoBN.html
20-04-2020||Pune||Covid-19 positive woman gives birth to virus-free child in Pune||An infant born on Saturday to a Covid-19 positive woman in Pune has tested negative for the virus, the Sassoon General Hospital,, where the baby was born, said in a statement on Sunday.The male child was born through a C-section, and mother and child, are both in a stable condition, the hospital said.The baby weighs 3.5kg and is currently separated from the mother and under special care.The woman, aged 25, lives in Khadki and is under isolation because of her Covid status.A doctor from the hospital, requesting anonymity, said, “The child’s swab test results came back late on Saturday night and we are taking special precautions to ensure that the child remains uninfected. We may take a second swab test after a few days. The child is being fed by extracting breast milk, to avoid any contact with the mother who is a positive patient. The mother was admitted to the hospital on April 16 and the delivery took place on April 18.”A child born to a Covid-19 positive mother tested negative in Delhi’s AIIMS on April 16.According to the Centre for Disease Control and Prevention, USA, mother-to-child transmission of the Covid-19 infection during pregnancy is unlikely, but after birth, a newborn is susceptible to person-to-person infection. The Sars-Cov-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, has not been detected in amniotic fluid, breast milk, or other maternal samples.Sassoon hospital currently has five Covid-19 children, all in isolation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/covid-19-positive-woman-gives-birth-to-virus-free-child-in-pune/story-qYFLaxHAtw0KQdFpzl9t7L.html
20-04-2020||Chandigarh||Red Zone: Chandigarh Police seal 15 of 38 border points||shubkarman.dhaliwal@htlive.comThe local police on Sunday closed 15 of the total 38 border points leading to Chandigarh after the UT administration declared the entire city a containment zone.Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Nilambari Jagadale said, “Another 23 points are open for vehicles coming from nearby areas. Police personnel at these checkpoints will thermal scan all commuters entering the city.” Since Saturday, 2,906 four-wheelers and 2,418 two-wheelers have entered the city from other cities. Among these, 250 four-wheelers and 189 scooterists were denied entry.POINTS CLOSEDT-point near Punjab and Haryana civil secretariat leading to Nayagaon and KansalTogan barrierRoad connecting Maloya with Togan village Sarangpur barrierJayanti MajriBarrier near IRB Complex road, Sarangpur, towards village PadachhRoad from Manimajra towards Mansa DeviRoad from Mauli Jagran to Sector 17, Panchkula Road from Mauli Jagran to Sectors 17/18, PanchkulaRoad leading to Raipur Kalan Road near Sectors 52/53Badheri barrierDividing road near Sectors 55/56Road dividing Sector 48C and D Road dividing Sector 49C and D||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/red-zone-ut-police-seal-15-of-38-border-points/story-AxsrCxhtIQqYnSXXkhwf3J.html
20-04-2020||Pune||With 1,320 CCTVs in Pune under scanner, crowd tracker, keeps city police alert; helps trace lockdown violations||The violations of the countrywide lockdown by residents of Pune has prompted the city police to undertake innovative methods to track the unlawful gatherings of people. Between March 19 and April 16, the Pune police registered 6,558 cases of violation under Section 188 of Indian Penal Code (IPC). At least 23,290 vehicles were seized for violating vehicle movement prohibition orders in the same time period and 38,613 warning notices were also issued in the same period.With limited number of police personnel on ground to enforce the lockdown in a city like Pune, technology has come to the rescue. Deployed 5-6 days ago, the ‘crowd trackers’ help in identifying lockdown violations in realtime. “The Pune police have deployed a crowd tracker in their control room that has access to 1,320 close circuit television (CCTV) cameras all over the city,” according to Ashok Morale, additional commissioner of police, Crime, Pune. Without sharing details of how the cameras generate the alert, additional CP Morale said that the cameras keep track of at least 90 main spots in the city.The screen flashes red when more than five people assemble in an area, according to Bachchan Singh, deputy commissioner of police, Crime, Pune.“The objective is to improve enforcement and help the people on the ground. Once the alert is generated, the message is passed on the respective police station,” said DCP Singh.The project is run in association with the Smart City programme implemented by Allied Digital Services Ltd (ADSL), according to a police official.Quoting an example, Additional CP Morale said, on a single day, a place called Gotiram chowk had flashed an alert 78 times.In addition to technical support, the Pune police is also getting help from State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) and Crime Investigation Department (CID) officials wherever required. For example, 35 officials of CID and one company of SRPF are helping the officials of Kondhwa police station. Alternatively, volunteers of a private security company are helping the officials of Bharati Vidyapeeth police station.As form of immediate punishment, the police have started catching violators and making them perform yoga or sit-ups or release their pictures holding banners announcing them as violators.Action under Section 188 of IPC (March 19-April 16) Sr. No.-Police station- No. of cases registered- Seized vehicles- Warning notices 1- Samarth- 223-848- 7292- Faraskhana- 139- 842-9053- Khadak-159-717-4594- Deccan-65-246-4985- Shivajinagar- 25-1,915-7496- Vishrambaug-117-768-1,3437 -Zone 1 total-728-5,336-4,683 1- Shakarnagar-496-1,145-7132- Swargate-379-1,052-1,5333- Bharati Vidyapeeth-230-3,150-8334- Bund Garden-78-955-1,5805- Lashkar-103-492-9796- Koregaon Park-61-411-6517- Zone 2 total- 1,347-7,205-6,289 1-Kothrud- 404-242-2,6052- Warje Malwadi- 421-622-2,5013- Uttamnagar- 150- 1,578-2,2904- Sinhgad road- 506-2,088- 3,6825- Dattawadi- 555-1,093-4,7636- Alankar- 219- 217- 1,9877- Zone 3 total- 2,255-5,840-17,828 1- Khadki-112- 122-9392- Vishrantiwadi- 216- 213- 1,3523- Chatuhshrungi- 281- 512- 3664- Chandannagar- 160- 125- 6835- Yerawada- 469- 0- 1,7906- Vimantal- 200- 205- 7797- Zone 4 total- 1,438- 1,177- 5,909 1- Hadapsar- 234- 665- 6392- Mundhwa- 76- 966-4973- Kondhwa- 178-895-6184- Bibvewadi- 91-553-9435- Market Yard- 62- 140- 3416- Wanowrie- 147- 513- 8667- Zone 5 total- 788-3,732-3,904 Total all- 6,558- 23,290-38,613||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/with-1-320-cctvs-in-pune-under-scanner-crowd-tracker-keeps-city-police-alert-helps-trace-lockdown-violations/story-k70pwOvCPqTg2DkmeClgrI.html
20-04-2020||Delhi||Man climbs to Safdarjung Hospital’s terrace, threatens to jump; rescued||Safdarjung Hospital witnessed high drama on Sunday afternoon after an orthopaedic patient allegedly undressed, climbed onto the window’s overhang on the third floor and threatened to kill himself, police and fire officials said.Delhi Fire Services (DFS) director Atul Garg said around 2.42pm, the fire control room received a call regarding a suicide attempt by a patient at Safdarjung Hospital. The man claimed that he Covid-19 positive and threatened to slit his wrist and infect rescuers if they tried getting close to him. The patient also started spitting on a team of doctors and police personnel who were trying to rescue him.Also read: Meerut hospital apologises for ad which said no entry to Muslims without Covid-19 test“The rescue team members placed a net below the building so as to save the man even if he was to jump off. He was later somehow convinced to come down and rescued,” said Garg.Also read: India’s Covid-19 cases rise to 17,265, death toll at 543An official from the Safdarjung Hospital authorities, said, “The man was not infected. He is an orthopaedic patient and had some breakdown. He was breaking things. The doctors sedated him and took him back to the ward where he has been undergoing treatment.” Watch: Man threatens to jump from Delhi hospital building, spits at rescuersA senior police officer said that the Safdarjung Enclave police was informed that a patient had gone to the terrace of the hospital building and was attempting to jump down. “He was naked and shouting continuously. He did not listen to the doctors. Our policemen and rescue team of the fire department safely rescued him,” the officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/man-climbs-to-safdarjung-hospital-s-terrace-threatens-to-jump-rescued/story-NBiucBdx4Vf9YnKVmxOYcO.html
20-04-2020||Chandigarh||With 40.3mm rain, April 18 was wettest day of the month in Chandigarh since 1953||With 40.3mm of rain late on Saturday and in the early hours on Sunday, Chandigarh experienced its heaviest shower in a single day in April. The monthly rainfall of April at 58.6mm is also the highest since 2012, according to the weatherman. India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials also said there could be more rain in the coming week.As per IMD data, from 8:30am on April 18 to 8:30am on April 19 (period considered for tabulating 24-hour data) considered, the city received 40.3mm of rain, the highest ever in a day since the IMD started keeping records for Chandigarh in 1953. Previously, it was on April 26, 1998, that the city recorded 39mm rain, the highest in a single day.Explaining the reason behind this, IMD regional director Surender Paul termed it a freak weather occurrence which he said was becoming a more common phenomenon these days.“The unexpectedly high intensity of rain in Chandigarh can be attributed to the confluence of low level easterly winds with western disturbances. Usually easterly winds start in the region around the monsoon months, but this year they have started much earlier. Since Chandigarh is on the foothills of Himalayas, this region received the most rain. However, it is unlikely we will experience this again in this season,” he said.IMD scientist Shivinder Singh said that rain combined with thunder can be very unpredictable. “The Sector 39 IMD observatory recorded 40.3 mm rain, while in the same time period the Chandigarh airport observatory recorded only 4 mm rain. There were continuous light spells of rain due to thunder and they were concentrated in a small part of the city. Stations across the region only registered light to moderate rainfall, going only up to 20 mm.”IMD officials said there are chances light rain will continue in the city till Monday morning. After that, a brief dry spell can be expected with a rise in temperature. However, another system of western disturbances is likely to affect the region round Thursday, so the city can expect more rain in the coming week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-40-3mm-rain-april-18-was-wettest-day-of-the-month-in-chandigarh-since-1953/story-HMTBrj1cXhH5xCFv4R7e3K.html
20-04-2020||Pune||On the frontline: Vihar Seva group distributes 2,000 food packets daily to those in need... and in service||From day one of the lockdown (March 25) the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC)-based Vihar Seva group is distributing food packets to the needy. Starting with 150 packets, the organisation now delivers 2,000 daily. These food packets are also delivered to people involved with essential services and to shelter homes. Group member Manish Sonigara, gives us a peak into the method behind the outreach. What exactly is your role in the crisis?Our job is to provide food packets to all the needy people who are unable to get food due to the lockdown. We have a team of 55 people who are working for this initiative and we have donors who provide the finance for the initiative. While distributing cooked food packets we got to know from people that they have the required facility to cook food, but don’t have food supplies. So we provide rations to such people. I coordinate with the volunteers, right from purchasing raw material to ensuring the packets reach their destination.How does your day begin and roll out?Work is distributed in three teams – a group of volunteers prepare food, a group is involved in packing and a separate group distributes the packets. We deliver food packets in two shifts. By 7 am we start cooking. At 11 am another group of volunteers collect the packets and distribute them according to requirements. Same is followed in the evening shift, but fewer packets are distributed in the evening shift. These mostly go to security personnel, police officials and some NGOs.What precautions are you taking?We are following all the guidelines suggested by the government. All the volunteers use masks, hand gloves, sanitiser and even face shields. We follow social distancing while undertaking this initiative. The volunteers involved especially in distributing food packets are extra careful and make sure they take all the necessary precautions and even maintain distance while distributing packets. After my work is done when I reach home the first time I do is take a bath and get my clothes washed. I even avoid using the lift and use the staircase to avoid touching metals and to maintain social distancing.Food packets are distributed atDehu gaon, Talwade, Chikali, Nigdi, Akurdi, Bhosari, Kasarwadi, Chinchwad station, Ravet, Dange chowk, Theragaon, Pimpri, Pimpri gaon, Kalewadi, Pimple Saudagar and WakadIf food packets needed in these areas contactManish Sonigara 9822077617Bhadresh Shah 9423569815Santosh Lunkad 9372568688||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-000-food-packets-daily-to-those-in-need-and-those-in-service/story-dXFwUkjyY1PPHMoS9cjJqK.html
20-04-2020||Chandigarh||Visitors to be thermally screened at Chandigarh’s Sector 40; Sector 30 EWS Colony sealed off||UT adviser Manoj Parida inaugurated the initiative undertaken by the Sector 40 Fighters Welfare Club to thermally screen all outsiders coming into the area, take their contact details and sanitise their vehicles, on Sunday. Local area councillor Gurbax Rawat donated masks and gloves to the adviser on the occasion. A helpline for elderly and differently-abled residents of the sector was also launched.Parida said since Chandigarh had been declared a containment zone, other neighbourhoods should also follow suit. Taking a cue from this, councillor of Sector 30, Devinder Singh Babla, reached out to the police and got the EWS Colony in Sector 30 sealed, after four positive Covid-19 cases cropped up from there recently.“After talking to the police and administration, the whole area has been sealed and is being sanitised. We will provide essentials to residents, but, they can’t leave the area. I have urged health authorities to properly screen residents and ensure the disease doesn’t spread further,” Babla said.Both areas will remain sealed till the lockdown stays in effect and volunteers will be present at entrances to ensure those without passes aren’t allowed to enter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/visitors-to-be-thermally-screened-at-chandigarh-s-sector-40-sector-30-ews-colony-sealed-off/story-4gaR6QoTCLjq7TGtDS6xoK.html
20-04-2020||City||Can’t give up on responsibilities in trying times, says this social worker||My family is concerned about me going to hospital daily and they want me to apply for a leave until normalcy returns, but I cannot give up on my responsibilities because thing are difficult, says Chancal Matta, an assistant social worker who started her job at a non-governmental organisation (NGO) nine months back.24-year-old Chanchal has joined CanKids, the NGO that works for childhood cancer care, and is deputed at the paediatrician ward of Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH). The NGO has signed an MoU with DMCH last year. “The hospital is visited by a huge number of people daily, which is why there is always a risk but I’m taking all necessary precautions like practising social distancing, wearing masks and gloves and using sanitisers,” she said. A resident of Vishwakarma Town, Chanchal is the only breadwinner of her family. While supporting her grandmother, mother and two siblings, she ensures that all children taking cancer treatment at the hospital receive proper medication and treatment even during the lockdown. “Currently, 21 children are receiving chemotherapy in the hospital. Many parents do not want to bring their children to the hospital during the curfew, so we are providing them information about medicines on their WhatsApp. For the patients from other cities, we are ensuring that their treatment is not affected in any way,” informs Chanchal. Chanchal says it is support and motivation by her seniors that make the journey easier.“This is the time of uncertainty and difficulty. The news of positive cases and deaths due to coronavirus leaves one concerned about their loved ones and working with a positive attitude gets tougher at times, but I have supportive team members,” she says while especially thanking Shruti Kakkar, assistant professor, department of pediatric, for her support.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/working-in-the-times-of-pandemic-can-t-give-up-on-responsibilities-in-trying-times/story-bap3l1jocWIuwWFJMDCmUK.html
20-04-2020||Chandigarh||Ahead of earning season, lockdown slugs potters’ wheel into slow motion||Lali was only a teenager when she migrated from Haryana with her husband to ferry soil on their donkeys from the excavated area at the Capitol Complex in Chandigarh, where Le Corbusier designed the iconic buildings like the Punjab & Haryana high court, assembly and secretariat.Seen the ‘City Beautiful’ being built from a scratch, Lali, along with other potter families from her home state, decided to stay back and start a new life here. These potters were settled in the Kumhar Colony in Sector 25 and later 50 more were allocated land at the western corner of the city, New Kumhar Complex in Maloya, Sector 39.For the first time in the seven decades of being in Chandigarh, is Lali seeing the potter’s wheel move in slow motion and worries that the lockdown might put brakes on it ahead of their earning season — mid March to June. In this duration, potters earn enough money to for six to seven months.“Potters work mainly five-to-six months in a year – three to four months in summer and then two months around Diwali – and for the rest part, they live off the money earned during the said time. Now because of the lockdown, potters are unable to sell their products. This time, earthen pots for plants were in great demand and if the lockdown continues, no potter is going to make any money and will be forced to wait for Diwali to make a living,” says Lali, who is in her eighties and but doesn’t know her exact age. “My son Randhir makes the pots and other earthen products, and I used to sell them on a roadside.”The settlement of potters in Chandigarh is the largest in the region and apart from the Tricity, they sell their products in parts of Punjab, Haryana and Himachal. There are over 60 families, fulltime into the pottery business, residing at the New Kumhar Complex in Maloya. They mainly make earthen pots besides piggy banks and ewers (pitchers) during the summer season. Around Diwali, they make most earning by selling diyas and other small products. In the Sector 25 complex, over 50 families are in the potter business who make and diyas throughout the year.“In summer, my wife and son make products that fetch us around ₹1.25- ₹1.5 lakh in the wholesale market. Deducting raw material and other costs, we make enough to survive for six-seven months. If the lockdown is not lifted soon, we will lose our entire earning season and face unprecedented losses. The small potters might have to borrow money to make ends meet,” says Ved Prakash, 46, whose family hails from Koka Kulana in Jhajjar.“As the school dropout rate is quite high in our community, youngsters hardly get any job elsewhere and they are forced to stay in the family profession. Day-by-day the scope for pottery business is shrinking, so we can’t expect a good life from this line of work,” says Ved Prakash’s son Umesh, who left studies after Class 12 and doubles up as a part-time instructor in a small gymnasium in Maloya. “There is not much awareness about coronavirus in our area, and social distancing is not practiced much,” he reveals.The lockdown has also halted the supply of clayey soil, which is used to make earthen pots and other products. The soil (clayey) comes from Punjab.“With whatever soil stock is left with us, we are making earthen pots out of it and storing the finished products in a hope that things will be normalised very soon and we will be able to sell them in the market,” says Ishwar Singh, 48, whose father came to Chandigarh in 1952 from his native village Mangleshwar Majri in Rewari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ahead-of-earning-season-lockdown-slugs-potters-wheel-into-slow-motion/story-2MaEZsa8acPUrcpqG3c5sI.html
