21-04-2020||Gurugram||18 people placed under quarantine in Bhondsi jail after head warder tests positive for Covid-19||Eighteen samples of Bhondsi jail staff members were sent to the Civil Hospital on Sunday for Covid-19 testing, after a jail warder tested positive for the disease. The samples came out negative, said jail officials on Tuesday.The 40-year-old head warder of Bhondsi jail had tested positive on Saturday. Jai Kishan Chillar, superintendent of Bhondsi jail, said the warder was on leave for six days and had resumed his duties on April 16. “His sample was sent for tests as he had travelled to Bhiwani to meet his ailing wife. We followed the Covid-19 protocol, which states that anyone who goes out of the jail premises has to get tested for the virus before resuming work. Although he had no visible symptoms, we still took all the precautionary measures. He was put under quarantine after giving his samples for testing,” he said.Dr Jaswant Singh Punia, chief medical officer(CMO), Gurugram, said, “All the 18 samples tested were found to be negative. Even the patient, who was found to be positive, tested negative in the second test on Tuesday,” he said.The 18 people from whom the samples were taken were those whom the warder had met after returning from home. This group included his colleague, who drove him on a motorcycle to the Civil Hospital for getting tested. All the people are still placed under quarantine.To prevent contamination, the jail premises and all the barracks are regularly being sanitised by the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram ( MCG) and the medical teams, said jail officials.Chillar said they are not allowing any outsider to cross the boundary of jail premises and even the staff members are not being allowed to step outside unless there is any medical emergency. “We are taking all precautionary measures and ensuring all the staff members and inmates are using sanitisers and wearing masks. Also, social distancing of at least two metres is being observed,” he said.Jail authorities have converted a barrack into a quarantine ward for the inmates and in a portion of the staff quarters for the staff and their family members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/18-people-placed-under-quarantine-in-bhondsi-jail-after-head-warder-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-0HNJSZ7DNPpQsYcCxivqYI.html
21-04-2020||City||25 industries to resume operations this week||Gurugram: At least 25 industrial units and companies in the district can resume operations this week as they are likely to get approval by Wednesday morning, officials privy to the matter said on Tuesday. The development comes two days after the Haryana government released a standard operating procedure (SOP) for reopening industrial units amid the nationwide lockdown imposed to contain the Covid-19 outbreak.VS Kundu, who is the monitoring official for Covid-19 preparations in Gurugram, said that auto major “Maruti Suzuki India Limited (MSIL) would be able to commence production” at its Manesar plant from this week. Kundu is also the CEO of Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority. On Sunday, officials had said that industries would have to apply through the Saral portal for approval. On Monday, the state portal was opened for accepting online applications from the industries and companies.According to officials, within 24 hours from Monday afternoon till Tuesday afternoon, the portal received more than 500 applications from industrial units in the district, excluding units already in operations supplying essential goods. “We have received about 500 applications, of which 25 to 30 will be granted permission as their scrutiny is underway. Hopefully, by Wednesday morning they will receive permissions to resume operations of factories with strict guidelines of Covid-19 lockdown. The industries have been informed of the guidelines through media and by all other relevant sources,” Kundu said.The Gurugram labour department, too, confirmed that by Wednesday morning it will hand out permission to 25 to 30 firms for resuming operations. The companies, which are likely to be granted permission, range from a Korean firm requiring a single pass to auto major Maruti Suzuki, said labour department officials.Maruti Suzuki has applied for both of its plants at Gurugram and Manesar, but till now there is no communication from the government regarding approval, said a spokesperson for MSIL.The labour department, which is playing a key role in resumption of industrial activities, said that permissions are being given on ‘first come first serve’ basis, and units will be allowed to open in a gradual manner. “The process of approvals is dynamic and those companies which have already done the groundwork for social distancing will get preference. If permission is given for 100 passes, all of these should not be utilized in one go and employees should be called in a phased manner,” said Munish Sharma, additional labour commissioner, Gurugram.Sharma also said that initially passes are being given so that firms can mark spots for social distancing at entrance, mark six feet distance at shop floor, ensure lifts are not used and if used they should be divided into squares so that only three to four people are inside. “In rural areas such as Manesar, some industries at IMT Manesar are being given permission as we have limited number of passes. Construction projects inside the municipal limits will only be given permission if the labour force is staying at project sites,” the additional labour commissioner said.Meanwhile, industry owners expressed unhappiness over the delay in granting permissions as they have to pay salaries to employees for April. Representatives of various industry associations on Tuesday met deputy commissioner (DC) Amit Khatri in this regard.Pawan Yadav, president of IMT Manesar Industrial Association, said, “We are not in good financial condition to pay salaries to our employees this month and we have sought help from the DC. We hope the government will consider our appeal.”The industrialists stated that during March and April, a large number of labourers usually migrate to their villages for working in their farms, but due to lockdown this did not happen. They said that the small industries, which are not in good financial condition, will face a lot of problems if they are not able to pay salaries for April. “Despite giving passes, a number of workers are not coming citing transport and security issues,” said an industrialist, who preferred anonymity.When asked, Khatri said, “The industrial representatives met me and submitted their requests. I will do the needful.”In Gurugram, there are 11 lakh employees engaged in over 7,000 industries which are observing closure for the past four weeks.The labour department said that those BPOs, which are providing service to government, will be allowed to operate. IT and IT-enabled services companies will be allowed to operate at half the strength while they will also be allowed to shift their employees from Delhi or Faridabad for one time only, the officials said. Besides, only those employees would be allowed to work who either have a medical insurance or health insurance. The employees must also download the Arogya Setu mobile application, and strictly follow social distancing norms, the officials said.Kundu said that primary objective of government is to prevent the spread of the coronavirus pandemic. “All safeguards and measures will have to be followed by the firms to ensure there is no spread of the disease,” he said.In neighbouring Faridabad, officials said that resumption of industries would be done in phases and only units located in industrial estates would be allowed operations. “We have received applications from around 150 units and they are being scrutinized,” said Yashpal Yadav, deputy commissioner, Faridabad.On Monday night, the Haryana government withdrew its decision to allow the opening of book shops and showrooms selling air-conditioners and coolers.“In larger public interest, this order has been withdrawn,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/25-industries-to-resume-operations-this-week/story-I3UtZW8KIXKFJzemJbOUcN.html
21-04-2020||Gurugram||61 people, including 30 journalists, test negative for Covid-19 on day 2||At least 61 people, including 30 journalists, were tested for Covid-19 using rapid testing kits (RTKs) in the district on Tuesday. All were tested negative, according to district health officials. Earlier, Gurugram rolled out antibody testing for Covid-19 in the Sohna containment zone on Monday. It was two days after the district health department received 750 RTKs, which can provide results within 30 minutes.The health department took the decision to test city-based journalists after 53 TV reporters and camerapersons in Mumbai were found positive for SARS-CoV-2 virus on Monday.Journalists from local electronic and print media visited the old Civil Hospital to give their blood samples. Dr Jaswant Singh Punia, Gurugram’s chief medical officer(CMO) said that the antibody test for journalists will be done on Wednesday too. “Thirty journalists gave their blood samples and all of them were found to be negative. On Monday night, the district administration decided to test reporters and camerapersons after the reports of Mumbai-based journalists contracting the SARS-CoV-2 virus emerged. A lot of journalists in the city are visiting hospitals and slums and meeting people. Therefore it is important that we test them,” said Punia.Sudhir Singla, MLA Gurugram, who wrote to deputy commissioner Amit Khatri on this issue on Monday, said, “The plan was to test electronic media journalists and camerapersons on Tuesday and print media journalists on Wednesday. However, we saw a mixed group on Tuesday. More tests are likely to be conducted on Wednesday.”TESTING IN SOHNA CONTAINMENT ZONEThe health department team, on the other hand, comprising accredited social health activists (ASHAs), auxiliary nurses and midwives (ANMs) and medical officers, conducted a survey of more than 260 houses in the Sohna containment zone. At least 31 people were tested and all were found to be negative for Covid-19. Punia said that as a part of survey, they enquire about the health conditions especially flu-like symptoms, such as fever and cough in the last five to six days. “The suspected cases were taken to the Sohna sub-divisional hospital where their samples were taken. Their test results were shared by sending messages on their mobile numbers,” said Punia.The state health department has clarified that government will use the kits in hotspot districts, such as Gurugram, Nuh and Hathin in Palwal. In Gurugram, there are six containment zones, namely Devi Lal Colony, Sun City Sector 54, Sector 39, Fazilpur village in Jharsa, Village Raipur in Sohna and Ward no. 11, Pataudi.The district health department launched the antibody tests in the containment zone in Sohna after it reported 14 cases. On Monday, five antibody tests were conducted in Sohna, which were found to negative. Punia said that the test will also start in Pataudi, where six Covid-19 cases have been reported. Till now, 37 cases have been reported in the city, of which 26 have recovered and 11 are undergoing treatment. Antibody test helps in finding out whether a person has developed antibodies against Covid-19. A negative test does not prove that the person is free of disease. Health officials say it is likely that antibodies for coronavirus are not present in a patient’s blood in the initial stages of the infection.As per the state guideline prepared by PGIMS Rohtak, even if a suspected case with flu-like symptom tests negative for antibody, his/her swabs will be taken for RT-PCR test and the person have to be isolated or quarantined for 10 days. Antibody tests will not be done on those having signs of Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) and on high-risk cases. Their samples will be directly collected for RT-PCR.On Monday, Haryana also received its first shipment of 25,000 RTKs from SD Bio Sensor, a Korean company based in IMT Manesar. State health department said that additional kits would help in speeding up testing in containment zones, hot spots and asymptomatic cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/61-people-including-30-journalists-test-negative-for-covid-19-on-day-2/story-YH2UJAwDrCOxFp5vstX38O.html
21-04-2020||Gurugram||Reduced staff strength, regular sanitisation and drives to help workers mark lockdown in Grand Arch society||From accommodating essential staff within the complex to ensuring that they are well-fed, residents of Ireo Grand Arch in Sector 58 have been trying to ensure that everyone inside has it as easy as possible amid the ongoing national lockdown to curb the spread of coronavirus.The condominium has cut the number of working staff, operating with 70% of the usual strength. “We are operating with about 70% of the staff and have prioritised the tasks essential for running the condominium. The tasks were distributed so that critical technical operations don’t get impacted. Amid all these, we are making sure that workers are taken care of,” said Raman Chawla, president, resident’s welfare association.“Around 170 people are working within the complex, most of them in the day shift. Out of these, around 50 people were staying in the EWS flats. The remaining workers come from villages in the neighbourhood and their health condition is monitored daily. We have told all everyone that they can take leave if required, and there will be no deductions. They are being provided cooked meals three times a day. We wanted to make sure they are comfortable while they continue to deliver the essential services,” said Chawla.Residents have also been helping staff members staying in the complex. “Residents provide tea, coffee, and other refreshments for workers. Everyone plays a part in ensuring that they are well taken care of,” said Dipen Sanghvi, general secretary, RWA.The condominium also carried out a drive to provide ration to part-time workers like drivers, domestic helps and others. “We decided to help our part-time workers, around 500 of them, with ration kits comprising five kilos of flour, two kilos of pulses, cooking oil and biscuits. The kits were distributed, while adhering to the physical distancing protocols,” said Chawla. The RWA also appealed to residents to pay domestic helps and other workers full salaries.Chawla said that the condominium is tiding over the lockdown with the cooperation of residents and support staff. Early on, the condominium formed a Covid-19 task force comprising healthcare professionals, RWA board members, and two resident volunteers to take measures to contain spread on the premises. This was followed by the creation of a volunteer network for catering to the needs of the residents. The condominium has around 10 towers and a volunteer has been appointed as the point of contact for each tower.“The tower volunteers serve as the first line of contact. We have convinced senior citizens to take help from tower volunteers for any assistance. Volunteers are helping them in ordering necessities and technical assistance or any concern that may arise,” said Sanghvi.Of the three entry points, the condominium, with 756 flats, is using only one entry to surveil movement in and out. The society has barred the entry of part-time domestic helps, cooks, drivers and car cleaners. Walking of pets has also been banned, while deliveries are to be dropped off at the main entrance.Delivery persons are asked to deposit the packages in spaces reserved to each tower, following which there is a delivery distribution every few hours. “We carry out the distribution of delivery every two to three hours. There is a vehicle that goes around every tower, depositing the deliveries and the tower guard ensures that it reaches all floors. The residents don’t step out and the commodity is delivered in a contactless manner,” said Sanghvi.All persons entering the building are thermal scanned and mandatorily required to use sanitisers. A washing area has been provided at the entrance where visitors are required to wash their hands with soap. Further, anyone entering the condominium is required to have a mask in place. Inside, toothpicks and sponges have been placed within the lifts to avoid direct contact.“In our condominium, toothpicks have been kept inside the lifts and the lifts are sanitised five times in a day. A chart has been created and with each subsequent sanitisation of the lifts and other common areas, a note is made, and the progress shared with all the residents,” said Samiksha Ojha, a resident.She said that after the initial hiccups, most residents are adjusting to the restrictions in place and complying with directions to contain the spread of the pandemic.The condominium has a shopping area within the complex, which has shops catering to the daily needs of residents. Social distancing markers have been created to ensure that residents maintain a gap from one another and only two people are allowed in at one time. Besides, guards on duty ensure that residents adhere to physical distancing protocols and stand at a distance from each other.“Two of the shops are open and well-stocked. If residents feel the need to get anything extra, they can step out and get it from other retail chains in the vicinity,” said Sanghvi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/reduced-staff-strength-regular-sanitisation-and-drives-to-help-workers-mark-lockdown-in-grand-arch-society/story-UZS1VuJBvWQaBeee0BnJVM.html
21-04-2020||Chandigarh||Capt seeks ₹3,000-cr compensation from Centre for April||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday demanded interim compensation of ₹3,000 crore from the Centre for April on account of the Covid-19 national disaster.In a letter to Union home minister Amit Shah, the CM, while pointing to the alarming resource gap between the state’s anticipated receipt and committed expenditure, also asked for expediting the release of the state’s goods and services tax (GST) arrears of ₹4,400 crore for the last four months, to help the state overcome its resource constraint.Citing the lockdown that had substantial fiscal consequences for all states, Amarinder said the Government of India should compensate Punjab for its loss of revenue due to Covid-19. “While ₹3,000 crore for April is an estimate, detailed assessment of loss and requirement of funds for relief and rehabilitation will be submitted in due course,” he said, stressing that interim assistance should be so that the fight against Covid-19 was not allowed to weaken in any way.The state government had made a provision of revenue receipts of ₹3,360 crore for April 2020 in the state budget 2020-21, including ₹1,322 crore from GST, ₹465 from VAT on petroleum products, ₹521 crore from state excise, ₹198 crore form motor vehicle tax, ₹243 crore from electricity duty and ₹219 crore from stamp duty. “These receipts are expected to decline sharply as most economic activities in the state remain closed on account of the lockdown. On the other hand, committed expenditure such as debt servicing, pensions, salaries and relief measures for Covid-19 is budgeted at ₹7,301 crore for the month of April,” he said, resulting in the huge resource gap.(BOX)ASKS CENTRE TO ALLOW SALE OF LIQUORAmarinder, in his letter to Amit Shah, also sought the Centre’s permission to allow sale of liquor, in a phased manner, to mop up value-added tax (VAT) and excise revenue. “The home ministry should allow the state to take a conscious decision to allow the sale of liquor in certain areas in a phased manner with strict social distancing and other measures to prevent Covid-19,” he wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/capt-seeks-3-000-cr-compensation-from-centre-for-april/story-icwOzwWFYCQgn0Y6IyYe1H.html
21-04-2020||Noida||Neuter amid lockdown, best time to control stray dog population: Experts||With the dog breeding season around the corner, animal activists have called for neutering as many street dogs as possible to control their population, stating that the lockdown was a favourable time to do so.Veterinarians and experts said the suggestion “may sound cruel” but it would ensure dogs are treated better. They said increased neutering activity was needed in the city which sees its fair share of complaints about dog bites and resulting cruelty towards the animal. Neutering, a surgical procedure for removal of the reproductive organ of the animals, is a healthier and more humane way of animal birth control.They added that if not neutered, the upcoming breeding season would leave streets with more animals to be fed with lesser food sources; this would lead to more territory fights and man-dog conflicts as well. While most of the neutering or sterilisation units are shut due to the lockdown, a few such as People For Animals (PFA) had managed to neuter 20 dogs.“Neutering is an ongoing process, but it has stopped at most places due to the lockdown. However, we have managed to somehow continue this work. This is the best time to do so because there are fewer people feeding them; on normal days it’s difficult to catch the dogs. They come to us more easily and it’s easier to catch them gently and sterilize or neuter them,” said Kaveri Rana, president of PFA, Gautam Budh Nagar.She added that while dogs breed around the year, there are two major seasons depending on the age of the female—winters (December-January) and summers (June through August).“Of the 20 dogs we neutered 17 were females and 3 were males. Nineteen were rescued after they were injured, while one was lost. Each one of them was capable of producing a litter of at least six pups, which means in next few months there could have been over 100 additional dogs on the streets if we had not sterilised them,” she said, adding that population control amid animals is also important to reduce dog bites as neutering reduces aggression.Dr Krishna Yadav, a Noida based veterinarian whose clinic in Sector 122 is being approached by NGOs and activists for neutering rescued dogs, said, “It’s important to understand that we have to step up animal birth control especially now because breeding season is almost here and once the lockdown is over there will be issues like large number of road accidents, aggression and unhealthy dogs etc. and rising cases of man-dog conflicts. We have performed around 35 neutering surgeries since lockdown stated. A number of NGOs and animal activists bring rescued or abandoned dogs.”Pointing out that both the Supreme Court and Wold Health Organisation (WHO) recommend neutering, experts said neutering stray dogs was as important as feeding them.“The dog population rises exponentially, so say there are 6,000 dogs on street today; by the year end there would be over 8,000 even if we consider the highest mortality rates in the offspring. Neutering is an important task for better public health and animal welfare,” Dr Abhishek Dabar, official veterinarian at Noida authority’s animal shelter at Sector 94 which houses over 900 dogs, said, adding that though they have stopped neutering these days because of the lockdown, the process will be resumed after the lockdown.But Sanjay Kumar Mahapatra, head of Noida-based NGO House of Stray Animals (HSA), said the activity must be resumed as soon as possible. “Due to the lockdown, we have to cover as much area as possible to feed the dogs and we see a number of lactating females with as many as eight pups. Upcoming breeding season, they would breed again with a direct impact on their health and their offspring. Also, sustenance would be challenge; it happens all the time, and thus neutering is very much called for,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/neuter-amid-lockdown-best-time-to-control-stray-dog-population-experts/story-mYT62GKzL4THon5Cz21W4M.html
21-04-2020||Noida||Two more COVID-19 cases, total reach 102||Two more cases of Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) were identified in Gautam Budh Nagar on Tuesday taking the total number of cases in the district to 102. The new cases include a 23-year-old man from Sector 8 slums, where the total number of Covid-19 patients is now 11, and a woman in her 50s from C Block of Sector 19. Both the patients have been admitted at the Sharda Hospital in Greater Noida.According to the officials, the woman had gone for dialysis at a private hospital in Ghaziabad. She was tested at the same hospital for Covid-19 and her result showed she had contracted the infection. The Sector 8 patient was found negative in his first test but his second test showed he had been infected, officials said. Since April 8, officials have shifted hundreds of people from the slums in Sector 8 and 5 to government quarantine centres as a precautionary measure. The step was taken after four persons, with one linked to Ceasefire, tested positive for Covid-19 in the Sector 5 JJ Colony.Officials fear community spread in areas where there are no resident’s welfare associations and social distancing was not possible because of higher population density, such as the slums. The exact or direct source of infection is not known in both the cases, officials said, adding that they suspect the 23-year-old Sector 8 resident may have contracted infection from the other patients of the area. Officials are awaiting reports of more people from Sector 8. “We are in the process of identifying the exact source of infection for the two patients. We suspect the woman may have got infected during her hospital visit. We have taken multiple samples from Sector 8 and 5 to ensure there is no community spread. Most people who were found positive were already under quarantine at the government centers which reduced the chances of virus’ spread,” said a senior health official.Meanwhile, the district administration and local police are trying to intensify the lockdown in containment zones. According to officials, 70% of the total population of the district is in containment zones (32) as on Tuesday. On Tuesday, the police department registered seven FIRs and arrested 20 persons for violating Section 144 of the CrPC, which is in place in the district. Around 795 vehicles were checked and 323 fines were issued. Officials have also barricaded 200 check points in the district.The health department had notified 1,967 travellers, officials had collected 2,362 samples for testing by Tuesday night. A total of 102 cases have come out positive while 43 have been discharged. Currently, there are 59 active Covid-19 cases in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/two-more-covid-19-cases-total-reach-102/story-o1lWRriylAVOQMblA099wM.html
21-04-2020||City||Volunteer beaten up for objecting to 8 men playing cards amid lockdown||Greater Noida: A 26-year-old man was beaten up allegedly by eight persons for objecting to playing cards during the lockdown at Sakipur village in Surajpur. The victim, Sachin Kumar, is a volunteer for community kitchen being run to feed needy people in Greater Noida, the police said, adding that the incident took place on Monday evening when he was returning home.Sachin is a resident of Sakipur village. His father Yashpal Singh filed a complaint at Surajpur police station on Tuesday. Singh said that Sachin was returning home after attending a community kitchen in the neighbourhood in Sector Zeta 1. “A group of eight persons were playing cards in the neighbourhood and they were violating lockdown guidelines. My son advised them that they should maintain social distancing and stay indoor,” he said.Singh said that this led to a heated argument with his son and the suspects. “They verbally abused my son, who returned home. However, soon the suspects reached our home and thrashed my son with sticks and rods,” he alleged. Sachin received injuries to his head, hands and legs, and was admitted to a private hospital, the police said. His father said that the group has been playing cards regularly. “Four days ago, a police team had reached the spot and dispersed the crowd. We have no personal enmity with the suspects. But they believe we had shared the information with the police,” Singh said. Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Central, said that a case has been registered against the suspects under sections 506 (criminal intimidation), 452 (house trespass), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 504 (intentional insult), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), and 148 (rioting) of the Indian Penal Code. “A police team is conducting search to arrest the suspects who are at large,” Chander said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/volunteer-beaten-up-for-objecting-to-8-men-playing-cards-amid-lockdown/story-gxrFLnBXtipimjSfUfY61O.html
21-04-2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus outbreak: Don’t post derogatory remarks against state government on social media, IMA Maharashtra tells doctors||The Indian Medical Association (IMA), Maharashtra, has issued a letter to its members, asking them to use “non-offending language” while posting their comments on WhatsApp groups against the state government. Doctors in the state have criticised the move. According to IMA, government agencies have informed the association that some doctors are posting comments against the government and the decisions taken with regards to the Covid-19 outbreak. The letter, released by IMA on Monday, reads, “We received intimation from one of the officers at Maharashtra Cyber cell that spoke of the WhatsApp groups of doctors posting comments against the Maharashtra government and its officers.”The letter further stated that social media groups should be used to send messages and discuss news, and not for “derogatory comments on the government’s decisions”. “We may post our reactions to certain decisions but in non-offending languages,” it reads.The development comes at a time when 250 medical staffers have contracted the infection through cross-transmission in Mumbai’s hospitals. Many doctors have interpreted IMA’s diktat as a violation of freedom of speech. “Doctors on Covid duty are being attacked all across the state, but there is no law or proper security measures to protect them. Hundreds of doctors are contracting the virus on duty owing to lack of safety kits. We are the front-line staff but we don’t have rights to criticise the government,” said a senior pulmonologist from a south Mumbai hospital.However, Dr Avinash Bhondwe, IMA president, Maharashtra, has clarified that doctors are only being asked to refrain from offensive comments. He said, “We are not asking the doctors not to give their opinions. We are requesting them not to use any foul or abusive languages.”After the IMA released its letter, another letter with photo-shopped images was circulated in social media sites, which claimed that IMA is an agency of the state government and is trying to suppress the opinion of the doctors. Dr Bhondwe has decided to file a complaint with the cyber cell of the police against the fake letter. ‘White Alert’ on WednesdayIMA has asked its members to observe a ‘White Alert’ on Wednesday 9pm at their respective hospitals and light candles wearing their white coats to protest against an incident in Chennai in which a mob did not permit the burial of the body of a doctor who died of coronavirus.The association has also warned that if the central government doesn’t enact a law on violence against doctors and hospitals, IMA will observe a ‘Black Day’ on Thursday, during which all the doctors will wear a black badge while working.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/coronavirus-outbreak-don-t-post-derogatory-remarks-against-state-government-on-social-media-ima-maharashtra-tells-doctors/story-GATTdb9Wtauycori76vq6M.html
21-04-2020||Noida||Two men held for breaking through police barricade under the influence of drugs||Two Punjab-based men were arrested by the Sector 20 police for allegedly breaking through barricades on the Delhi-Noida Direct flyway in their SUV on Monday night. The police said they also recovered drugs from the duo.The suspects were identified as Rohit Sharma (30) and Puneet Singh (45), both are from Ludhiana, Punjab. According to police officers, the two were under the influence of drugs at the time of the incident.“In accordance with the lockdown norms, police barricades have been placed on the DND flyway like at several points in the city. Last night, the two suspects who were coming from the Delhi side drove their Xylo MPV towards the barricade. When a police team waved at them to stop, they crashed into two barricades and drove through them narrowly missing a police constable,” said RK Singh, station house officer, Sector 20 police station.He said the suspects fled and were then chased by a police team. “Their car overturned near the sector 12-22 crossing after which the two were apprehended. They were injured and taken to the district hospital for treatment from where they were arrested today” said the SHO.Police officers said that the two had broken guidelines of the lockdown and were in Delhi looking to procure some drugs. The police said they found 50 grams of chitta—a synthetic drug that mostly includes heroin— from the suspects.Based on the complaint of a sub-inspector, the suspects were booked under sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way), 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 307 (attempt to murder), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code along with relevant sections of the Narcotics, Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985.The vehicle and narcotics recovered from them were seized by the police. The duo was produced in front of a magistrate and later sent to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/two-men-held-for-breaking-through-police-barricade-under-the-influence-of-drugs/story-qOHfkDYDbojYZc6x3SEGuI.html
21-04-2020||Noida||27-year-old police constable killed in road accident||A 27-year-old police constable was allegedly killed on Monday night in a road accident on the Noida-Greater Noida Expressway when his motorcycle was hit by a truck. The deceased was identified as Rishabh Kumar. Kumar was from Modinagar and was deployed in the district with a police response vehicle (PRV) of the Dial 112 police helpline. According to police officers, constable Kumar was on his way to work when the accident took place.“The police helpline received a call on Monday night around 11.15 pm about an accident on the Noida-Greater Noida expressway in front of Gate number 4 of Amity University. A motorcycle had been reportedly hit from behind by a truck. A police team was rushed to the spot and found the victim dead. The man was later identified as Rishabh Kumar, a Noida police constable,” said Shailesh Tomar, station house officer, Sector 39 police station.Kumar lived in a rented accommodation near the expressway.Police officers said the truck driver fled from after the accident abandoning his vehicle which was later seized. The truck, which bears an Aligarh registration number, was carrying wheat grain, said the police adding they are tracing the owner and driver of the truck.The unidentified driver was booked at the Sector 39 police station under sections 279 (rash driving), 304 (punishment for culpable homicide not amounting to murder) and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) of the Indian Penal Code.Police officers suspect that the driver may have been speeding at the time of the accident, but said that will come to know more about the incident after the suspect is arrested.Kumar’s body was sent for an autopsy first and was brought to the district police line in Surajpur on Tuesday afternoon. Police officers, including the police commissioner, and Dial 112 personnel paid their last respects to Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/27-year-old-police-constable-killed-in-road-accident/story-MdI8W79LTjjFT3s7uKlgwN.html
21-04-2020||City||5 patients tested Covid-19 positive in March yet to recover||Ghaizabad: Five out of eight patients who were found positive for Covid-19 in late March are yet be discharged from various hospitals in the district. Health officials have raised concerns over this and said they are conducting regular tests of these patients to get two consecutive negative reports needed to declare them negative for Sars-Cov-2.According to the officials, the five patients include a 30-year-old man from Vaishali who has a travel history to Dubai and tested positive on March 26. The other is a 32-year-old employee of Noida-based company -- Ceasefire – who tested positive on March 26. Another case is of a couple from Savior Park high-rise at Mohan Nagar who were found Covid-19 positive on March 28. The fifth case is of a 34-year-old man from Duhai who was tested positive on March 31 after he came in contact with a positive patient.“This effect could be a result of high viral load. We possibly picked up the five persons when the infection was not at its peak. It takes about seven to eight days when the infection reaches its peak and takes another 10-12 days to decline. However, we are yet to get two consecutive negative reports of these five patients. In between, some test reports also got delayed and we are following up regularly,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer, Ghaziabad.Gupta said that two doctors from Max Hospital, Vaishali, who tested positive for coronavirus on April 14 and April 17, were found negative and discharged on April 20.“The two resident doctors of Max Hospital were discharged within couple of days. This may seem early, but the two could be cases where the infection was on decline and their two consecutive reports turned negative. They were sent home on Monday evening. One of the doctors who resides in Vaishali had to face resistance from locals. So, we had to take help from the police and administration and the patient was moved to his house,” the CMO said.A Max Hospital spokesperson termed the incident with one of its doctors as unfortunate, and said that the community was allegedly stigmatising health care workers instead of extending support.“After a week of their quarantining at the facility, two consecutive samples, collected from both doctors within 24 hours, tested negative. Hence, they have been discharged and asked to home quarantine for 14 days. Both the junior doctors were stable throughout their course of stay at the Covid-19 facility,” the spokesperson said.Till Tuesday evening, the total number of Covid-19 cases in Ghaziabad district stood at 46 and 13 of them were discharged from different hospitals. Gupta said that there was no new addition to the tally on Tuesday and the district at present has 33 active cases.Overall in the state, the total number of positive cases shot up to 1,294 and 140 persons discharged from different hospitals.“We now have a total of 1,134 active cases in UP. We will be introducing pool testing in different districts where the positive cases are less or in buffer zones outside the containment areas. We have also observed that maximum cases are coming from persons who are already in quarantine with us. So, we have been able to contain the outspread,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, UP’s principal secretary (health).The UP government on Tuesday also issued an order in which district magistrates have been directed to ensure that schools should not force students to deposit three months’ fees in advance, or debar students from online studies. Besides,the schools cannot take any steps to strike off the names of students, the order said.The communication by principal secretary Ardhana Shukla also stated that some schools were demanding the transport fees even though the schools are closed during the lockdown period. In her communication, she has directed that no transport fees should be charged by schools during the lockdown period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/5-patients-tested-covid-19-positive-in-march-yet-to-recover/story-sZuqf4SWGtlMzfz8DE4c0I.html
21-04-2020||Lucknow||UPPSC kick-starts online application process for PCS (Pre)-2020||PRAYAGRAJ The Uttar Pradesh public service commission (UPPSC) on Tuesday issued the detailed advertisement for its much-awaited combined state/ upper subordinate services (PCS) examination, 2020, commonly known as PCS (preliminary) exam-2020, and assistant conservator of forest (ACF)/range forest officer (RFO) services examination-2020. The commission had resumed working on April 20 amid lock-down.The advertisement also marked the start of the online application process from Tuesday itself, said UPPSC secretary Jagdish.He said that the advertisement is also available on the commission’s official website http://uppsc.up.nic.in for the benefit of the aspirants.UPPSC secretary said that last date for receipt of examination fee online in the bank was May 18, 2020, while the last date for submission of online application was May 21, 2020. As per the annual calendar of examinations of UPPSC, the PCS (pre)-2020 is proposed to be held on June 21.Presently 200 posts had been included in the PCS-2020 recruitment exam while formal requisition of vacant posts of ACF and RFO was still awaited from the state government. If any such requisition is received before the result of pre-examination, the same will be included in the examination, he said.The posts included in PCS-2020 consist of deputy collector, deputy superintendent of police, block development officer, assistant regional transport officer, assistant commissioner (commercial tax), district commandant home guards, treasury officer/accounts officer (treasury), cane inspector and assistant sugar commissioner, superintendent jail, manager credit (small industries), manager marketing and economic survey (small industries), executive officer grade-I/assistant nagar ayukta, district basic education officer/associate DIOS and other equivalent administrative posts, assistant director industries (marketing) and assistant labour commissioner among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/uppsc-kick-starts-online-application-process-for-pcs-pre-2020/story-mEL2F6phsaPaQ2076Clt6M.html
21-04-2020||City||Chaos at Delhi-Ghaziabad border after sealing over six Covid-19 cases||Ghaziabad: Hundreds of people, including those involved in essential services, were stuck on the border with Delhi on Tuesday after the Ghaziabad district magistrate issued an order to seal all borders, to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The escalating situation forced the DM, Ajay Shankar Pandey, to the border on Tuesday afternoon, accompanied by police officers.Pandey had issued the closure direction late on Monday, under provisions of the Disaster Management Act, prohibiting any travel between Ghaziabad and the national capital.The order came after at least six people in Ghaziabad, who health and district officials said had travelled to Delhi, tested positive for Covid-19.However, as a result of the directions on Monday night, hundreds of commuters were left stranded at the borders for hours on Tuesday.Doctors, transport workers and bankers were among those stuck on either sides of the border after the police refused to allow their entry or exit.“I was headed home to Raj Nagar Extension [in Ghaziabad] after night duty from my hospital. I was stuck up at UP Gate border as the police did not allow entries. From 8.30am to 11am, I was stuck, like hundreds of other people in their vehicles,” a doctor from a Delhi government hospital designated as Covid-19 facility, said.“The police did not allow me to enter, despite my producing my duty pass and ID card,” the doctor added.“I had to call up my contacts, who contacted the Ghaziabad police, after which I was allowed to leave. But all this took me about three hours to enter into Ghaziabad. The police even told me that I should stay in Delhi. I have more duties lined up on Wednesday and don’t know whether I will be able to attend to these or not,” the doctor said.Bishambhar Dayal, an employee of the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) from Sanjay Nagar in Ghaziabad, had to report for duty at 12.30pm on Tuesday and was headed to a depot at Sukhdev Vihar.“I came to the Kaushambi border, but the police did not allow me to go to Delhi. I showed them my ID card and my duty pass, but they still refused,” Dayal said.“I moved to UP Gate but the cops there too denied me passage to Delhi. So, I have informed my officers and went back home,” Dayal said.A number of ambulances carrying patients also got delayed at the border.Pradeep Jain, a senior officer with a central public sector enterprise and resident of Ramprastha Greens in Ghaziabad’s Vaishali, said he would prefer to work from home rather than attending office in Delhi’s Vasant Vihar.“I had to wait for two hours and many vehicles carrying essential items were stuck at UP Gate border. Tuesday was the second day when a few employees were directed to attend office. With these conditions prevailing, however, I would prefer to work from home,” he added.A woman banker, who had to go to her office in Karol Bagh, said the police did not allow her entry into Delhi and she had to call up her colleague who took bank keys in order to open the branch.This happened despite the order stating that “people involved in essential supplies or valid pass holders will be allowed to move.”Senior government officials of the national capital told HT that the UP government did not communicate the decision to the Delhi government on time. Later in the day, to resolve the gridlock, the Delhi government sent a team of officers — led by east Delhi district magistrate Arun Kumar Mishra, to meet his Ghaziabad counterpart.The Delhi Police also apprised Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal and chief secretary Vijay Dev about the condition at the border. Joint commissioner of police (eastern range) Alok Kumar on Tuesday said the “sudden” restriction by the Ghaziabad administration had led to the severe snarls at the borders.“Senior police officers from both Ghaziabad and Delhi came to the border. We are also in touch with the Uttar Pradesh administration to ease the situation as soon as possible,” Kumar said.A Delhi Police officer deployed at the border said they deployed eight companies (around 70 personnel) at the border.The Ghaziabad police, however, claimed no one working or involved in providing essential services was stopped.“People who are not attached to any essential services are not allowed to travel to Delhi. However, while there may have been some hiccups, those attached to essential services are not being stopped,” Anshu Jain, circle officer, Indirapuram, said.“We have also deployed the Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC), apart from civil police to maintain strict checks,” Jain said.Hundreds of commuters travel between Delhi and Ghaziabad from the UP Gate, Anand Vihar and Kaushambi and Loni border areas on a daily basis.Later in the day, Awanish Awasthi, UP’s additional chief secretary (home) said Ghaziabad and Noida officials have been asked to ensure the lockdown guidelines were followed to the hilt.“The Ghaziabad and Noida administrations have decided that only vehicles ferrying those involved in essential services will be allowed to enter and exit,” he added.(With inputs from Sweta Goswami and Anvit Srivastava)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chaos-at-delhi-ghaziabad-border-after-sealing-over-six-covid-19-cases/story-2CkCOGLgw0hDCdx5KCTA5O.html
21-04-2020||Noida||Noida entrepreneurs demand interest-free loans to cope with Covid impact||Entrepreneurs and factory owners have demanded interest-free loans and other benefits for a year to cope with the financial impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. They said that in the current circumstance, they will not be able to continue paying salary to staff as businesses are at a standstill.The state government has directed factory owners, entrepreneurs and other employers to continue paying salaries to their respective staff during the lockdown.Members of the Noida entrepreneurs’ association (NEA), an apex body representing at least 12,000 industrial units including micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME), said that the government should declare “zero period” until industries remain affected due to the pandemic.They estimate a loss of around ₹40,000 crore due to the shutdown in Noida. “Zero period means the government should completely waive off all taxes and charges, including lease rent, electricity charges and water charges. Salaries of the staff should be arranged under the Employees State Insurance Act. Importantly, they should provide us interest-free loans for a year to revive the industry after the lockdown. Without this, the industry will die and fail to continue operations because shutting down business has destroyed fund liquidity,” said Vipin Malhan, the president of NEA.The government, at present, has postponed payment of water, lease rent and electricity, including a moratorium for business loans. “Postponement will not help because the government is imposing interest on the postponement of instalments for all loans. The government must come up with a workable solution,” said Sudhir Shrivastava, spokesperson for NEA.He said that these 12,000 industrial units under them collectively employ at least five lakh workers directly and at least two lakh more, indirectly.The NEA has written to the Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath and top officials of the state industrial department, outlining their demands and concerns.“The NEA has submitted its representation regarding zero period, in view of Covid-19 pandemic, and interest-free loans to revive the industry. We have sent the representation to the UP government for decisions on these issues. The government is taking measures to ensure workers get salaries during the crisis. Micro industry workers are facing problems now. The decisions on demands will be taken by the state government,” said Anil Kumar, deputy commissioner of the District Industries Centre (DIC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-entrepreneurs-demand-interest-free-loans-to-cope-with-covid-impact/story-0pA8ZOMua2bGIeTcDYKyMK.html
21-04-2020||Mumbai||Epidemiological model studying spread of Covid-19 recommends testing and isolation||Rather than a lockdown, extensive testing to identify asymptomatic carriers and quarantining those diagnosed with Covid-19 with continued social distancing would effectively contain the pandemic in India, recommends the first India-specific epidemiological model for Covid-19 spread.Termed INDISCI-SIM, the first, detailed, state-level, epidemiological model for India has been developed by scientists from Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU), Chennai-based Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Indian Institute of Science at Bengaluru and Ashoka University.Gautam Menon, professor of biology and physics at Ashoka University, said INDISCI-SIM is the most detailed and versatile among current models for the disease’s trajectory in India. The model involves nine, different, detailed compartments – susceptible, exposed, pre-symptomatic, asymptomatic, mild symptomatic, severely symptomatic, hospitalised, recovered, and dead. Each stage is compared with non-pharmaceutical interventions (such as lockdown, quarantining and expanded testing) to draw an inference on propagation of the disease.“In case of the virus and depending on a person, the patient may take one of these nine paths. Our model demonstrates how one phase of a typical population will travel from one compartment to another,” said Bhalchandra Pujari of SPPU. For instance, the window of recovery is highest for tested asymptomatic individuals followed by mildly symptomatic, while it’s the least for severely symptomatic and critical. Pujari further said, “Extension or not of the lockdown after May 3, India must increase testing capacities faster than the propagation of the disease.”“We stress that a comprehensive testing and quarantining regime is the only real long-term solution until a vaccine is found,” said Menon. While emphasising that these simulations do not quantify the economic costs of lockdown, Pujari said, “Opening up transport pan-India is not a good idea as per our model.”Subsequent versions of the model will incorporate district level description, in addition to differing health care capacities across different regions and their implications for disease spread. Menon said the program will be made publicly available soon.On Tuesday, principal scientific advisor to the government of India K VijayRaghavan said on social media that the findings of INDISCI-SIM “are being looked at carefully along with other inputs”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/epidemiological-model-studying-spread-of-covid-19-recommends-testing-and-isolation/story-kZAZax8XI3mxR2Z7i35KhO.html
21-04-2020||City||Lockdown restrictions eased: Complying with conditions set by state government tough, say industrial units in rural Maharashtra||Although the state gave nod for industrial operations in rural areas from Monday, not many units have started functioning, as they are finding it difficult to comply with the conditions, which include responsibility of workers’ vulnerability to Covid-19.Maharashtra has 10.26 lakh registered MSMEs and 3,052 mega and large industrial projects registered in the state. All these industrial units (MSMEs and mega-large projects) employ 69.70 lakh workers and employees. On the lines of the Central government’s decision to allow industrial units to function partially, the state too relaxed the curbs, allowing 3,500 units to operate, only after they arrange for the stay, food and transportation for workers.“Industries are not very enthusiastic about beginning operations, as they are not finding it financially feasible to operate while complying with the stringent conditions. Making arrangements for stay, food and transportation is difficult and also costly and time consuming. Even if we begin the operations after compliance, marketing and supply of production will be a major issue amid lockdown restrictions,” said Ram Bhogale, former president, Maharashtra Chamber of Commerce, Industry and Agriculture. Bhogale said moreover, technical snags made getting permissions on the Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) portal tough. Rahul Desai of Yantrik Engineers, which has two units manufacturing industrial machines in Pune, has got permissions for operations. “Liquidity in the market has dried up and payments against our semi-finished and finished machines are stuck with clients. Banks and financial institutions are not willing to finance us. In such a situation, we can’t shoulder the additional burden of stay, food and health services such as medical cover. It would be difficult to continue operations for long in the given situation,” he said.P Anbalagan, chief executive officer, MIDC, said, “The conditions imposed are as per the central and state government notification that are issued in unusual situation of Covid-19. We have sorted the technical problem on the portal. Of the 3,500 applications, 60% of the industries have committed to make arrangements for accommodation of the employees.” Milind Kamble, president, Dalit Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, said they are in touch with the state to resolve the issues and get finance from banks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lockdown-restrictions-eased-complying-with-conditions-set-by-state-government-tough-say-industrial-units-in-rural-maharashtra/story-H8rFOaTvM26z7lFKGSBvcL.html
21-04-2020||Lucknow||Ghaziabad, Noida borders with Delhi sealed to check corona spread||The UP government on Tuesday decided to seal the borders of Ghaziabad and Gautam Buddha Nagar (Noida) with Delhi to check the spread of Sars-Cov-2 in both the districts.Only transport vehicles, health department teams, doctors, paramedical staff and people associated with essential services will be permitted to enter Ghaziabad and Noida from Delhi. The lockdown norms will be implemented strictly in both the districts. Addressing a press conference, additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi said chief minister Yogi Adityanath reviewed the relaxation in the lockdown granted by the state government according to the guidelines issued by the ministry of home affairs (MHA).No positive Covid case was reported in Ghaziabad and Noida on Tuesday, but earlier, there was a spurt in cases in both the districts. To check the spread of coronavirus, it was decided to withdraw the relaxation in the lockdown and seal the border of both the districts with Delhi. There would be limited movement across the border from Delhi to Ghaziabad/ Noida and vice-versa, he said.The state government has directed district magistrate, Gautam Buddha Nagar, commissioner of police, Noida and DM and SP, Ghaziabad to implement the lockdown strictly. The officers of both the districts had been empowered to take decisions according to the prevailing situation, Awasthi said.A health department officer familiar with the development said during the review of coronavirus cases in Ghaziabad and Noida, it was found that infected people moving from Delhi to these two districts were spreading the infection among the local people. The state government had identified hotspots in both the districts to contain the spread of the disease. People were screened and samples of suspected patients sent to the laboratory for test, he said. During the review meeting, the chief minister directed the officers to restrict the movement of people –both inter- district as well as from neighbouring states. He expressed concern over the entry of people from neighbouring states in Jhansi and Lalitpur districts located in Madhya Pradesh. The people were caught moving in the transport vehicles and trucks.The state government has called upon the migrant workers not to move during the lockdown. The nodal officers appointed by the state government will supply food and medicine at their stay in various states.The people entering UP would be lodged in quarantine centres, Awasthi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/ghaziabad-noida-borders-with-delhi-sealed-to-check-corona-spread/story-8JuAFZNn6bUGj3sofq4PWN.html
21-04-2020||City||Ambala: Three of family reported Covid-19 positive by private lab test negative again||Three of a family, belonging to the Shahzadpur block of Ambala, who tested positive for coronavirus on Sunday, have been tested negative in their third report, officials said on Tuesday.They were the contacts of Panchkula doctor who had been treating a positive patient.Chief medical officer Dr Kuldeep said, “Three persons of a family have now tested negative in subsequent reports after their samples were sent for testing at government labs. We’ve sent their samples again on Tuesday for confirmation.”On being asked whether the area will still be declared a containment zone, he said, “Yes, the officials of the health department will take more samples as many persons in the area had visited the doctor in Panchkula. The restrictions in the area will continue for some time. The same process will continue in the new colony, industrial area of Ambala Cantonment where the auxiliary nurse midwife (ANM) worker resides.”The worker had tested positive on Saturday as per the reports of the said Gurugram private lab. She was discharged from the hospital on Monday.All the patients had tested positive on Saturday and Sunday as per the reports of a private lab based in Gurugram after which the areas were declared containment zone and SOPs (standard operating procedure) were followed and more samples were taken. But within 24 hours, they all were tested negative in the reports from a government lab leading to questions on the disparity in such a short time.Taking stock of the situation, Haryana health minister Anil Vij on Monday ordered an inquiry after four patients tested negative within 24 hours of being declared infected and banned Covid-19 testing at the private lab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ambala-three-of-family-reported-covid-19-positive-by-private-lab-test-negative-again/story-OYLEiRe4d3ElYltZ9Q4X3L.html
21-04-2020||City||Jind admn ensures direct wheat procurement by agencies after arhtiyas go on strike||Farmers in Jind heaved a sigh of relief on Tuesday after the district administration ensured that the procurement agencies were purchasing wheat directly from them as commission agents continued to strike on the second day of procurement.Jind deputy commissioner(DC) Aditya Dahiya said that the procurement agencies purchased wheat from farmers across 50 centres out of the 98 in the district.“We are yet to analyse the figures of total procurement in the district for the second day. We have also been talking to village heads and procurement agencies to procure wheat, in case the strike continues. Our officials are in touch with commission agents and we are hopeful of a positive response”, the DC added.However, wheat procurement in Rohtak and Bhiwani districts picked pace on the second day.Balwan Singh, a farmer from Rohtak’s Sampla village, said that he had brought 35 quintals of wheat and sold the same to a commission agent.“I brought less quantity of wheat because the remaining 50 quintals have some moisture. Today I will get a good night’s sleep”, he added.In Dadri, as many as 44 farmers had visited six wheat procurement centres and sold 3,048 quintals of their produce.Dadri DC Shyam Lal Punia said that the turnout of farmers to the mandis was less than expected.“The farmers have been visiting all six wheat procurement centres in the district”, he added.Ram Kumar Ritolia, a commission agent, said that they will continue their strike until the government withdraws the e-procurement system and makes payments to farmers through commission agents.Sonepat deputy commissioner Ansaj Singh held a meeting with district officials and asked them to roll out a plan to procure wheat through agencies at Gohana and other centres, where arhtiyas are not participating in the procurement process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jind-admn-ensures-direct-wheat-procurement-by-agencies-after-arhtiyas-go-on-strike/story-gd71WR9TiiDuiXbJVFCcmN.html
21-04-2020||City||Punjab: ASI, 3 others arrested for trying to smuggle mobile phones hidden in carrom board into jail||Even as policemen around the country and Punjab set exemplary standards as frontline troops putting their lives on the line to combat Covid-19, an assistant sub inspector (ASI) was arrested with three others for allegedly trying to smuggle mobile phones hidden in a carrom board into Ferozepur Central Jail.Two other men with the ASI claimed to be social workers offering Covid-19 safety kits who also wanted to gift the carrom board to a jail inmate.Jail officials said ASI Rakesh Kumar with Sonu Puri and Deepak alias Deepu, visited the jail and asked for a meeting with the superintendent to “discuss social work”. They said they wanted to donate personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, masks and sanitiser bottles to the medical staff in jail to ensure they remained protected against Covid-19.However, when they said they also wanted to ‘gift’ a carrom board to inmate Deepak alias Tinnu, the jail officials got suspicious and searched them, to find five mobile phones, two chargers, three earphones and two data cables hidden in the carrom board.Investigations revealed the duo with the ASI were not members of any organisation involved with social service.The search also revealed Rs 38,500 with a Samsung mobile phone, police official Iqbal Singh said.The accused were booked under Section 52-A of the Prisons Act, 1894, 420, 511 IPC on the basis of the jail official’s statement.The four, including inmate Tinnu, were arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-asi-3-others-arrested-for-trying-to-smuggle-mobile-phones-hidden-in-carrom-board-into-jail/story-GeKPL6kIF6PJem4DGsinrO.html
21-04-2020||Lucknow||AU professor among 30 held for hiding travel history, violating travel norms||Prayagraj police late on Monday night arrested 30 persons, including a professor of Allahabad University and 16 members of Tablighi Jamat from Indonesia and Thailand, for hiding travel history and violating travel norms during lockdown imposed in view of the coronavirus pandemic.Among those arrested are seven from Indonesia, nine from Thailand and one each form Kerala and Bengal. Caretakers of Abdullah mosque in Shahganj and Hera masjid in Kareli have also been arrested, said police officials.They have been arrested under foreigners act, Epidemic Act and other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and will be sent to jail where they will be lodged in separate barracks, police officials said.Police said that foreigners have been arrested for visa norms violation mainly while all are also charged with failing to adhere to the Epidemic Act by not declaring the fact that they attended the congregation at Markaz.They also did not come forward for screening against COVID-19.On March 31, 30 persons, including seven Tablighi Jamat members of Indonesia, one from West Bengal, one from Kolkata and some locals were found staying at Abdullah Masjid near Allahabad Junction. Another nine-member group of Tablighi Jamat from Thailand was traced to Hera Masjid in Kareli area. All of them had visited Nizamuddin ‘Markaz’ and were quarantined at different guest houses of the city.An FIR was lodged against 17 Jamat members at Shahganj police station and 12 persons at Kareli police station. Some ‘mutawallis’ (caretakers) of mosques were also charged with arranging illegal stay of foreign Jamatis without informing police and the local intelligence unit (LIU).Later, a professor of Allahabad University was also quarantined and an FIR lodged against him at Shivkuti police station after it was found that he too had returned after attending Nizamuddin ‘Markaz’ but failed to inform officials and even helped Jamatis to stay at Abdullah Masjid.SSP Satyarth Anirudh Pankaj said 30 persons, including foreign Jamatis and a professor of AU have been arrested under Foreign Act, Epidemic Act and relevant sections of IPC. They will be produced before the court, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/au-professor-among-30-held-for-hiding-travel-history-violating-travel-norms/story-y2X9vmADbfuWrnB4ya6LWK.html
21-04-2020||City||Once mired in controversy, Gian Sagar medical college now becomes refuge for corona patients||The Gian Sagar Medical College and Hospital, Banur, which was shut down in 2017 following controversy over financial mismanagement and started again last year with a changed management, has now become a refuge for Covid-19 patients.As many as 51 patients are undergoing treatment at this private hospital, which has been notified as an isolation and treatment facility by the state government after coronavirus outbreak. The number of patients in the hospital is higher than those in all the three government medical college and hospitals in the state. Gian Sagar medical superintendent Col SPS Goraya (retd) said a total of 61 patients were shifted here from Mohali, the worst-affected district in the state, Fatehgarh Sahib and Rupnagar.Of these eight were cured of the disease while two others died.He said the hospital had offered to the Punjab government that it was prepared to make available isolation wards to quarantine suspected coronavirus patients.Later, the Punjab health and family welfare department notified the entire Gian Sagar Medical College and Hospital as an isolation facility even as it was decided that the hospital would continue to function normally as it had enough beds to quarantine suspected coronavirus patients.The hospital has made available 300 beds exclusively for coronavirus patients.“As of now, the hospital has 20 ventilators, but we can manage 100 ventilators if the government provides us more ventilators,” said Col Goraya.The hospital management last week signed a memorandum of understanding with the Punjab Health Systems Corporation wherein it was agreed that the hospital would make available 500 beds for Covid-19 patients, if the need arose, he added.Punjab health minister Balbir Sidhu said Gian Sagar was chosen as isolation and treatment centre, as it is was on the outskirts of the town and is fully equipped.The medical college, which was earlier run by the family of Pearl group chairman Nirmal Singh Bhangu, had run into rough weather due to financial mismanagement and shut down in 2017. The state government had then shifted its students to the government-run medical colleges in the state. However, it was started with a changed management last year due to personal efforts of chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/once-mired-in-controversy-gian-sagar-medical-college-now-becomes-refuge-for-corona-patients/story-QpJNTE8ogRjrShwXK3E3CO.html
21-04-2020||Lucknow||5,000 labourers stranded in Lucknow get ‘survival kit’||More than 5,000 labourers, who were working in Lucknow when the lockdown was announced, are stranded after being disowned by people they were working for, says a survey conducted jointly by the district administration and the Lucknow Nagar Nigam.“The survey was carried out as we had no data on number of labourers working in the state capital. Also, we were clueless on where they are putting up after being disowned by their employers,” said Mukesh Meshram, divisional commissioner.The need of the survey was felt even more when the administration started getting frantic calls from people informing us about stranded labourers with no food and water, said Meshram, adding: “We roped in Nagar Nigam to carry out a survey and covered all eight zones and tehsils. The figure, which came to fore, was much more than what we were expecting.”As per the survey, around 5,243 labourers from different states and districts and employed in Lucknow at the time of lockdown were stranded and facing difficulties.“Mostly from Bengal, Bihar, Delhi and Jharkhand, maximum numbers of labourers were found in Sarojininagar tehsil. The survey also includes their address and the states or districts to which they belong,” said the commissioner.“Once the survey was done, our priority was to ensure regular food supply to these stranded labourers. Hence we decided to prepare a survival kit and ensured its distribution among them,” he added.The survival kit included 30kg of essential food material, including rice, flour, gram, edible oil, potatoes, onions, spices, salt, sugar etc enough to cater to the family of four.An official said the kit had enough material to last for the entire lockdown period.Other than this, the administration has also launched a helpline 9415005004, or 9650682159 to report stranded labourers or those in need. Officials said after lockdown, the administration would ensure the safe return of these labourers to their home towns.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/5-000-labourers-stranded-in-lucknow-get-survival-kit/story-6uhrq4rXUiu6UtyxbMk9dP.html
21-04-2020||City||Navi Mumbai records five new cases, Panvel 4||Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) reported five Covid-19 positive cases and four cases were reported by Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) on Tuesday.The total count in Navi Mumbai is 74. Three people from Divagaon have tested positive, including a 43-year-old woman and her 22- year-old son. The woman’s husband had tested positive earlier. The area has already been declared as containment area.A 36-year-old resident of Karave gaon and a 26-year-old resident of Nocil Naka in Ghansoli too have tested positive.Municipal commissioner Annasaheb Misal said, “The positive report percentage is less than 2% of those tested. Residents should not panic.”PCMC has reported 39 cases including four new ones being reported on Tuesday. Among the new cases is a police personnel residing in Kharghar. He had been travelling from Kharghar to Bandra for work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/navi-mumbai-records-five-new-cases-panvel-4/story-1XLgUgF3XJB4JynJBR7j8O.html
21-04-2020||City||Maharashtra rolls back lockdown relaxation: Mumbai civic body says no to construction activities||As the state rolled back its decision to give relaxations during the lockdown owing to the increase in the number of people stepping out, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Tuesday said its order to permit pre-monsoon construction activities of private real estate projects, too, is withdrawn.Starting April 20, the state had allowed construction work, private courier services, home delivery by restaurants, farsan and sweet shops to remain open, with riders. Municipal commissioner Praveen Pardeshi, too, had on Sunday issued a circular stating construction of private projects can begin, provided workers are available at the site and they reside there through the construction phase. Earlier on Tuesday, the BMC issued 13-point guidelines, clarifying private developers can’t begin work on a new project and they have been allowed to carry out only urgent pre-monsoon work. However, the guidelines were withdrawn later in the day after the state announced that the restrictions up to April 17 have been imposed again. Vinod Chithore, chief engineer of the BMC’s development plan department, said, “Our order of allowing pre-monsoon construction activities now stands withdrawn, as the state has rolled back the relaxations given in the lockdown period. We do not need to issue any new order on the withdrawal, after the state decision.”The circular had stated that “work can resume at constructed or under-construction site, where works such as construction of retaining walls, or work of shore piling etc. to protect against landslide, waterproofing of terraces and such exposed areas, completion of basements and other sub-soil works had commenced prior to 14th March, 2020 and were required to be left as it is, due to commencement of lockdown”. The BMC’s guidelines had also said all workers will have to be tested using rapid testing kits, once they arrive, and an isolation facility will have to be set up for workers who fall sick. The civic body is awaiting rapid testing kits from domestic and international vendors. Harshul Savla, a developer in the island city, said, “The order was not practical or useful for all developers, considering only those who had labourers could start their work, whereas many developers do not have labour considering they have rushed back to their hometowns. Also, even if there was labour, the conditions put by the authorities to start work were exhaustive, and were not practically feasible.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-rolls-back-relaxation-mumbai-civic-body-says-no-to-construction-activities/story-1ZqJNy1pNR2xMDqx12L0YO.html
21-04-2020||Mumbai||Hospitals breach rules on release of bodies of suspected Covid patients: Fadnavis||Former chief minister and Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis has alleged that city hospitals are breaching Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) protocols by releasing dead bodies of patients as non-coronavirus despite the reason of death being noted as suspected Covid-19 cases. Fadnavis in a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday claimed civic-run BYL Nair Hospital has released 44 bodies wherein the patients had been admitted as suspected Covid-19 cases but died before swab tests were carried out, and added that these bodies have been cremated as non-Covid cases. He also forwarded two test case details in the letter from the hospital. “As per papers available with me, Nair Hospital alone has released 44 such bodies for cremation as non-Covid cases where swab tests were not carried out but they are suspected of being infected by coronavirus. Such instances are going on in other hospitals too. Overall, due to this, death rate of Covid-19 will come down but it increases chances of spread of the outbreak as high- and low-risk contacts of these people are not being screened or tested,’’ said Fadnavis. Fadnavis said Thackeray should immediately stop this practice and ensure that all hospitals follow the protocols; especially that of carrying out swab tests of the person admitted.However, BMC health officials claimed testing was being done as per protocols. Daksha Shah, deputy executive health officer of the BMC, said, “We are following guidelines of testing people who are dead. The testing is done by doctors based on clinical reasons, and anyone or everyone cannot be tested. There are deaths due to alcoholism, and we can’t conduct tests on such individuals.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hospitals-breach-rules-on-release-of-bodies-of-suspected-covid-patients-fadnavis/story-bsAmUD4nLAG8eMkudqdhBN.html
21-04-2020||Mumbai||Bandra school now a migrant camp||A day after migrants gathered outside Bandra Terminus expecting the resumption of train services to their hometowns, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) accepted the offer made by St Stanislaus School, Bandra to use the premises as shelter for migrants.“The Cardinal decided to offer this facility to shelter migrants, hence we approached the ward office for the same. Currently we have 15 migrants staying here. Every day two to three more migrants are being added,” said Fr Frazer Mascarenhas, manager at the school. Mascarenhas said they can accommodate 125 people in the school premises.Some NGOs, police as well as the civic body are bringing in migrants who are in need of a shelter to the school. Fr Nigel Barett, spokesperson of the Archdiocese of Bombay, said they haven’t yet received a response from Home Guards on their offer to use other schools as relief camps. Cardinal Oswald Gracias, the archbishop of Mumbai, had offered four schools to the Home Guards last week to set up relief centres and camps. “It has been observed that it is hard to convince migrants to stay at one place even at the camps, which is why they (Home Guards) might have not accepted our offer,” said Barett.With around 230 migrant labourers staying at Versova migrant camp, volunteers from a nearby church have decided to keep them entertained by arranging movie and songs nights.Betty Fernandes, parishioner from Good Shepherd church at Four Bungalows, said they were instructed by their parish priest to volunteer at the camp and that they have played two movies over the last three days.“These migrants are depressed and want to leave the camp because they have nothing to do all day. It is difficult to keep them in the camp as they don’t understand the intensity of the situation,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bandra-school-now-a-migrant-camp/story-sLfftSCgiZhf4LBRGJEk4L.html
21-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab industries remain lukewarm despite govt go-ahead||A day after it allowed industrial activities in non-containment areas in line with the Union home ministry guidelines, the Punjab government drew a lukewarm response from industries in the state.The 2,200-odd factories manufacturing essential goods, which were permitted to resume operations by the state government earlier, have continued to operate, but very few other industrial units came forward to seek permission to resume their operations in all the districts, except Ludhiana, on day two of the easing of the coronavirus lockdown norms.The officials of industries department received a few queries from local industries in some districts, but there were hardly any applications received from units for permission to resume production even with limited capacities. Around 60 applications were received through email In Ludhiana, where permissions were granted to resume production to 842 units in the past three weeks. “We have been getting these many requests for permission daily from mostly factories manufacturing essential items. Those which fulfil the norms are granted permission to operate,” Mahesh Khanna, general manager, district industries centre, Ludhiana, said.Barring spinning mills and some other medium and large units, most other industries in Ludhiana, which is home to 95,000 registered units, have decided not to resume operations. In other districts such as Amritsar, Patiala, Bathinda, Hoshiarpur, Tarn Taran, the number of queries ranged from three to 12 throughout the day. Darshan Singh, general manager, DIC, Bathinda, said he had received a few requests and would put up the file to the deputy commissioner after all formalities were complete. Punjab has a total of 2.52 lakh registered units.However, industries director C Sibin said the response in the first couple of days would not be the correct way to read the situation. “The government gave the go-ahead for allowing industrial activities in non-containment areas on Monday. The actual picture will become clear in one week’s time. Also, we are taking steps such online approvals to streamline the process,” he said. The state has 35 containment zones in 13 districts and five industrial districts of Ludhiana, Amritsar, Jalandhar, Patiala and SAS Nagar (Mohali) account for two-thirds of the coronavirus cases.The Union home ministry had on April 15 issued detailed guidelines allowing factories in rural areas, special economic zones, industrial townships, and industrial estates, besides export-oriented units (EoUs), in non-Covid hotspots and containment zones to reopen from April 20 onwards. However, the state government kept going back and forth for three days by first imposing stricter conditions related to boarding and loading of workers and transport on all categories of industries and then totally refusing to lift any curbs before giving the clearance for easing of the curfew norms.These flip-flops and stringent norms apart, industry leaders, battered by the month-long coronavirus-induced lockdown, continue to harbour doubts about the restoration of the broken supply chain, dip in demand and raw material. “Bulk and retail markets are shut in most parts of the country except for those selling essentials. If anyone resumes production, the problem is where is he going to sell and payments are also an issue,” PHDCCI (Punjab) ex-chairman RS Sachdeva said.‘APPLY ONLINE, START OPERATIONS’Industries minister Sunder Sham Arora said the industrial units which want to start operations can apply online, take permission and start operations. “The industries department has started the online approval system to facilitate them during the curfew period. The general managers of District Industries Centres have been authorised by deputy commissioners to issue the permissions,” he said in a statement. He said online facility would reduce the time and also dispense with the physical visits to offices for obtaining the permissions.Blurb: Industry leaders apprehensive about starting operations as they don’t find any market to sell the goods||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-industries-remain-lukewarm-despite-govt-go-ahead/story-AdZGreBy7GA9lATyig11BI.html
21-04-2020||City||UK’s first Sikh emergency doctor dies of Covid-19||Manjeet Singh Riyat, 52, an emergency medicine consultant who was hugely respected and much loved by colleagues and patients in Derbyshire, died on Monday after being infected by coronavirus, making him the latest Indian-origin medical professional to fall victim to the virus.Riyat, who gained his medical qualifications from the University of Leicester in 1992, was the first accident and emergency consultant in the National Health Service from the Sikh community and was instrumental in building the emergency medicine service in Derbyshire, his hospital trust said.Gavin Boyle, chief executive of the hospital, said: “I want to pay tribute to Mr Manjeet Riyat, who has sadly passed away…He was an incredibly charming person and well loved. Manjeet knew so many people here across the hospital, we will all miss him immensely.”Riyat’s colleague Susie Hewitt, said: “In 2003, Manjeet became one of four consultants in emergency medicine at the Derbyshire Royal Infirmary...Manjeet was enormously valued and much loved as a colleague, supervisor and mentor.”“Manjeet’s passion for teaching and contribution to medical education was a constant thread during his career…Despite his many achievements, Manjeet was most at home as a highly visible shop floor emergency medicine consultant,” she added. Riyat is survived by wife and two sons.Earlier this month, cardio-thoracic surgeon Jitendra Kumar Rathod, who gained his qualifications in India and moved to the UK, passed away in Wales. The Cardiff and Vale University Health Board described him as a ‘greatly respected’ doctor and colleague.Riyat, Rathod and east Sussex-based pharmacist Pooja Sharma are among over 50 non-white medical professionals who have passed away in the coronavirus pandemic. Frontline medical staff treating patients includes many Indian origin doctors and nurses.Initial hospital data suggests that minority non-white people in the UK constitute 35% among those in critical care hospitals, prompting an inquiry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/uk-s-first-sikh-emergency-doctor-dies-of-covid-19/story-ueOoW1jL1dGNLnGM6DOlGJ.html
21-04-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19 stigma: Doraha dairy owner feels his release from hospital may end bias against his family||26-year-old Liaquat Ali, who was discharged from the civil hospital here on Tuesday evening after recovering from the novel coronavirus, feels that his release from the hospital may bring an end to the discrimination his family has been suffering for over a fortnight now.Liaquat, a dairy owner, who lives with other family members at the outskirts of Rajgarh village in Doraha town, said since the time he tested positive for Covid-19, the sarpanch of the village barred his family from selling milk in the village. “My family was left with no option and had to travel to Ludhiana for selling milk,” he said.Narrating the series of events before he was tested positive, Liaquat said, after the aviation ministry shared his travel details with the local authorities, on April 2, he was picked by officials of the health and police department for the test.He added on April 4 morning, health authorities had sent him home stating that his test report was negative. Later, during the evening, the team arrived again and took him back to the civil hospital, stating that the revised analysis had showed him Covid-19 positive, he said.“Then began the ordeal of my family. My wife, children and parents were also taken to the civil hospital, but they all tested negative. Since then, the other family members, including my brother and their children, have been arranging vegetables and other grocery items from nearby villages for my family. With the fear of catching the virus, no one in our village wanted to come near my family members,” said Liaquat.‘I AM NOT A JAMAATI’Liaquat said like other Covid-19 positive patients, he was also not aware as to when he came in contact with the virus. “But the health department kept suspecting that I had attended the markaz at Nizamuddin in Delhi, from where I came in contact with the virus,” he said, adding that he had left home on March 16 and reached Vijaywara in Andhra Pradesh on March 18. Due to the lockdown, he took a flight from Hyderabad and reached Delhi on March 23.“I stayed at the airport that day as, due to curfew, no transport service was available. On the morning of March 24, I took a flight from Delhi and reached Sahnewal. During this time, I never visited Nizamuddin,” he said.‘TESTS ARE IMPORTANT’He urged the people not to fall prey to misconception and get the test done if they have any Covid-19 symptoms. “I was asymptomatic, still I tested positive. It is through timely detection only that we can win over this virus. We should also show respect to the doctors and paramedical staff, who are risking their lives, to save us,” said Liaquat, who spent most of his time reading spiritual books, particularly the holy Quran Sharif during his treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-stigma-doraha-dairy-owner-feels-his-release-from-hospital-may-end-bias-against-his-family/story-a4E2eOTzwQKj03v5mdZuIP.html
21-04-2020||City||Jalandhar mayor’s OSD among 5 test +ve, state tally reaches 256||Officer on special duty (OSD) to Jalandhar mayor is among the five persons who tested positive for coronavirus in Jalandhar on Tuesday, taking the state’s count to 256. District health department nodal officer Dr TPS Sandhu said that with this, the district has reported 53 positive cases so far, including two deaths. He said six persons have recovered from the virus. The district has second-highest positive cases in the state so far after Mohali, where 62 persons have been infected with the virus. Health department officials said that patients who were tested positive on Tuesday include 45-year-old OSD to Jalandhar mayor Jagdish Raja from central town locality, a close contact of corona positive Congress leader, 55-year-old mother and 20-years-old sister of 24-year-old youth who was tested positive on April 17, 56-year-old and 42-year-old menliving in PG accommodation at Pacca Bagh area were co-workers of 40-year-old patient of the Raja Garden area. The health department has so far collected 1,081 samples of which 851 have been found negative, report of 163 samples is awaited and 17 samples were found inappropriate. The officials further 561 cases of contacts of the patients found positive have been traced and their samples have been taken. Out of these, 547 contacts have been advised home quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jalandhar-mayor-s-osd-among-5-test-ve-state-tally-reaches-256/story-qMYBoOvH87uoxEmIRwLWuK.html
21-04-2020||Mumbai||Not the right time to settle political scores: Pawar on Palghar lynching||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Tuesday said that the incident of lynching of three people in Palghar should not be used to settle old political scores. In a related development, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) on Tuesday said that they will take legal action against BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra and national secretary Sunil Deodhar for making defamatory statements against their party over the incident. Pawar was referring to the incident on April 16 where three people, including two seers, were lynched by a mob at Gadachinchle village, Palghar district on the suspicion of being thieves. “The incident has nothing to do with the novel coronavirus. It was unfortunate, condemnable and should not have happened. Political scores can be settled later, this is not the right time for it,” said the NCP chief in a video interaction with people.BJP leaders Sambit Patra and Sunil Deodhar had also blamed CPI (M) leaders for the incident. CPI (M), in a statement issued on Tuesday said that they will take legal action against the BJP leaders. A statement by Narasayya Adam, former legislator and state secretary of the CPI (M), states that the Gadachinchle village where the killings took place has a BJP gram panchayat for the last ten years. “In this background to whom are the ringleaders of the killings connected?’’ reads the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/not-the-right-time-to-settle-political-scores-pawar-on-palghar-lynching/story-TaFksrHBNPaHnH1MnoiFeJ.html
21-04-2020||City||Mumbai reached 1K cases in 30 days, 2K in 6 days, 3K in 4||As the number of Covid-19 cases in Mumbai crossed the 3,000-mark on Monday evening, data provided by the state ministry of health and family welfare showed that while it took 30 days for the city to go from one confirmed case to 1,000 cases; the next thousand came in six days, and the one after that in four days.Mumbai breached the 1,000-patient mark on April 10, almost a month after an Andheri-based couple became the first to be infected from the city. On April 16, the city’s tally crossed 2,000 and since then, the virus multiplied rapidly, reaching 3,032 cases on April 20.The number of fatalities, too, have spiked in the past few days. The first Covid-19 death in Mumbai was recorded on March 17, when a 64-year-old man succumbed to the infection at Kasturba Hospital. The toll crossed 50 in 24 days, with 10 deaths taking the toll to 54 on April 9. On April 20, the toll was 139.Dr Daksha Shah, deputy director, health department, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), said, “Our testing rate is higher than other cities. Cases are increasing, but we are tracking people at an early stage through contact tracing, which reduces the chances of further spread. Of the total cases, 1,344 cases were detected through contact tracing, containment measures and fever clinics.”To identify symptomatic patients, the BMC has started screening people through special clinics. Civic officials confirmed that a total of 5,428 people have been screened in 138 special screening clinics and 2,039 swab samples have been sent for tests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-reached-1k-cases-in-30-days-2k-in-6-days-3k-in-4/story-ZTuhTVACl31zFtm8IHX6wM.html
21-04-2020||City||Three infants test positive in Dombivli and Thane||In second such incident in Kalyan-Dombivli, a six-month-old girl tested positive for Sars-CoV-2 in Dombivli West.As the child’s family came in contact with a positive person, all of them, two women aged 35 and 53, a man aged 62, were tested and kept in quarantine. They are now admitted to Shastri Nagar Civic Hospital, Dombivli.  “The whole family is being treated as they are asymptomatic and not at a high risk. However, all necessary precautions are being taken and they are being provided with necessary medicines,” said Dr Pratibha Paan Patil, epidemic officer, Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation.  Two weeks ago, a six-month-old boy who tested positive returned home in Kalyan. Meanwhile, a five-month-old baby and a one-year-old tested positive in Thane on Tuesday, becoming the youngest patients in the city so far. The five-month-old boy is from a family of five who had tested positive in Krantinagar slums in Rabodi on Sunday. The mother of the one-year-old, too, tested positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-infants-test-positive-in-dombivli-and-thane/story-pjgcXqsTw6YWaJDeBPpXcK.html
21-04-2020||Mumbai||Lots in the name, if the bungalow’s named Corona||For Celsia Bocarro, a resident of Bandra, the ongoing Covid-19 outbreak has brought with it a little humour as well. “A civic employee did say that he will never forget that he sprayed disinfectant on Corona,” quipped Bocarro, owner of a bungalow with a name that would catch everyone’s attention now — Corona.Located on the quiet St Leo Road in Bandra (West), the bungalow, built in 1963, is named Corona, derived from the Latin word for crown.The coronaviruses themselves are named after the Latin word because they have “crown-like spikes on their surface,” as per the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.“Everyone who remembers our bungalow’s name is now having a good laugh. Some who are getting to know now are taken by surprise,” said Erika Cunha, Bocarro’s daughter, who grew up in the bungalow and now stays in Malabar Hill.“I think people passing by would think we are just horrible people,” she quipped. Erika also took a picture of herself with the bungalow in the backdrop to share with her friends. “There is nothing we can do about it now. We are not going to change the name,” she said.Bocarro, however, said no one has told her anything about the bungalow’s name apart from the stray comment from a civic employee, undertaking a drive to disinfect the road two weeks ago.“I think people are just being polite to me,” she said. A retired microbiologist, Bocarro further said, “There is a Corona garden on St John Baptist Road where so many receptions have been held all these years. There is a saint named Corona. It means the crowning glory, on which we name the bungalow.”A known-name in Bandra circles, Bocarro’s late husband, Eric, was a trustee of the Bandra Gymkhana and also served as the president of the Salsette Society.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/lots-in-the-name-if-the-bungalow-s-named-corona/story-PiYjMlFuRVDUqyRhZ4K6hP.html
21-04-2020||Delhi||Kejriwal expands free ration scheme to cover an additional 3 million poor non-ration card holders||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal Tuesday announced that his government’s free ration scheme will be expanded to cover an additional three million poor, non-ration card holders in the capital.Laying forth his government’s food security plan in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, Kejriwal said the programme, in addition to a new food coupon scheme, will cover nearly half of Delhi’s population of around 20 million. Kejriwal, in a digital media address, also said the government will procure 60 ambulances in view of the increasing number of Covid-19 cases in Delhi.“As long as the impact of the coronavirus lasts and the poor are unable to earn their keep, we will ensure their food security. At least 7.1 million people have already been given 7.5kg of ration for free. Then, we gave 5kg ration for free to one million people who did not have ration cards,” he said. “Today, the government has decided to distribute free 5kg ration to another three million people. So in all, our food security scheme will now cover 11 million people, which is more than half of Delhi’s population,” Kejriwal said.The chief minister, however, did not specify the period till which the temporary relief will last, but hinted that it will continue until economic activities resume in the city. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government, he said, also decided to provide a daily items kit to all beneficiaries, besides the monthly free ration. “Every family with a ration card and also those with e-coupons will be given a basic kit comprising items of daily need, including cooking oil, spices, pulses, sugar, salt, and soap, among others, along with their ration for the month of May when the distribution begins from April 29,” Kejriwal said.In another welfare measure, aimed to cover several other temporary migrant workers who may not figure in the above two categories of people, Kejriwal announced a food coupon scheme, which he said will be delivered through the people’s representative of the state.Under the coupon scheme, every MP and MLA representing Delhi will be given 2,000 food coupons each to be distributed among temporary migrant workers, who do not have neither ration cards nor e-coupons (obtained after registering online). The food coupon will make the holder eligible to receive 5kg of free ration. Delhi has 70 MLAs -- 62 from the AAP and eight from the BJP — apart from seven MPs, all from the BJP.“The three million people who will get free 5kg ration are those who have applied online using ID cards like Aadhaar. But there are people in Delhi who do not have any ID card. Each of these coupons will be enable its holder to get 5kg free ration. The MPs and MLAs can give these coupons to people who do not have a ration card or any ID proof,” Kejriwal said.Kejriwal also said the government will start Covid-19 testing for media persons from Wednesday, at a centre which is yet to be disclosed by the government. “We have set up a centre. All media houses and journalists will be informed about it. Interested media persons can undergo tests from Wednesday morning at the centre,” Kejriwal said.A senior official in the chief minister’s office later said any media person working in the national capital and having a valid media ID card will be accepted for tests. The scheme will include photojournalists as well. The decision comes after more than 50 journalists tested positive for coronavirus in Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/kejriwal-expands-free-ration-scheme-to-cover-an-additional-3-million-poor-non-ration-card-holders/story-KYOY4I9iQ5bZBE5481gFtO.html
21-04-2020||City||Thane sees 2 Covid deaths; KDMC records 7 new cases||Two women, who were Covid-19 positive, died in Thane on Tuesday, taking the total death toll in the city to six. With seven people testing positive on Tuesday, the total number of cases in Thane is 155.Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner of Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC), said, “A 77- year-old woman from Vaity Wadi, admitted to Thane civil hospital, died on Tuesday. The woman had fainted few days ago and was taken to Jupiter Hospital. After initial treatment, she was moved to another private hospital, where she came in contact with a Covid positive person. She was then shifted to Thane civil hospital.”A 58-year-old woman, admitted to Horizon Prime Hospital in Thane, succumbed to the infection. She was a resident of Chirag Nagar in Thane (W) and had come in close contact of a Covid positive person. Malvi said, “Among the seven positive cases today are a five-month-old boy from Kranti Nagar; a one-year-old boy and his 28-year-old mother from Parsik Nagar.”Seven new Covid-19 cases were reported from Kalyan and Dombivli on Tuesday. Among them is a six-month-old baby and three family members from Dombivli. “We had quarantined 25 people after they came in touch with a Covid positive patient. From among them, seven tested positive,” said Dr Pratibha Paan Patil, epidemic officer, Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC).So far, KDMC has reported 85 Covid-19 positive cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-sees-2-covid-deaths-kdmc-records-7-new-cases/story-rGJkRWc6YVxjG1fPRKW1mN.html
21-04-2020||Mumbai||City now has 813 containment zones||A day after the city crossed the 3,000-mark for Covid-19 cases, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Tuesday increased the number of containment zones to 813, up from 721 on April 19. Of the 813, 306 are in the island city, 289 in the western suburbs and 218 in the eastern suburbs.Containment zones are areas that are sealed by the civic body, with help from the police, after a resident tests positive for Sars-CoV-2 or if close contacts of positive patients reside there. Currently, Worli, Byculla and Dharavi are the most hit areas.The ward with the highest number of containment zones is G-South (82), which covers Prabhadevi, Worli and Elphinstone Road, followed by K-West, which includes Andheri West in the western suburbs (72). It is followed by L ward in the eastern suburbs (69), which covers Kurla and parts of Sion. The H-East ward of Bandra East in the western suburbs has 58 containment zones. Over the past few days, containment zones in Mumbai went up from 381 on April 13, to 438 on April 15, 452 on April 17, 575 on April 18 and 721 on April 19.Meanwhile, an emerging hotspot of Covid-19 cases, Dharavi, is about to reach the 200 mark. The area reported one death due to Covid-19 and 12 new cases. The total number of cases in Dharavi has reached 180, with 12 deaths. Also, three new cases of Covid-19 were reported in Mahim. A 22-year-old man, 41-year-old woman from Prakash Nagar and a 29-year-old woman from Devdarshan area have tested positive.  The total number of cases in Mahim is 17.Moreover, a fire broke out at Rippon hotel which was turned into a quarantine centre in Mumbai’s Nagpada area. Five fire engines and four jumbo tankers were pressed into service at the ground-plus-three structure, said chief fire officer Prabhat Rahangdale. Most patients were brought to safety and search for missing persons was on at the time of going to press.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/city-now-has-813-containment-zones/story-vqMlJcMV8ermr2myke8B9L.html
21-04-2020||Delhi||EDMC health worker dies of suspected Covid, another tests positive||A 52-year-old woman sanitation worker of the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) died of a heart attack Tuesday at the Lok Nayak hospital, but doctors suspect that she may been suffering from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Her Covid-19 test results are yet to arrive.EDMC spokesperson Arun Kumar said, “We have been told that she had suffered a heart attack at the LN Hospital Tuesday and died, but her final Covid test reports are yet to arrive. So we can’t be sure of any underlying reasons for the heart attack she suffered.” Neither the area district magistrate nor the LN hospital authorities was able to confirm the development. However, the 52-year-old woman’s husband, over the phone, said, “We have been verbally told that she had contracted the coronavirus infection. We are not being handed over the body and have been told to reach the Nigambodh Ghat directly for her last rites. The doctors also said only a maximum of four people can be at the crematorium and a team of doctors will be there to supervise the last rites. She was only given a mask by EDMC to carry out her duties -- she did not even have gloves on.” Also, on Tuesday, a 35-year-old co-worker of the dead woman was Tuesday admitted to the Lok Nayak hospital after she tested positive for Covid-19. Officials said she works in the Dharampura area of Shahdara. EDMC officers said they were perplexed about how the two women could have contracted the disease when “they were not engaged in serving in or near quarantine centres or homes”.“As far as picking up garbage from quarantine homes is concerned, a special team -- whose members have been provided full personal protective equipment, including hazmat suits, masks, boots and gloves -- is doing it. These two women were only engaged in sweeping roads,” a senior health official of EDMC, who did not wish to be named, said.“However, we have started taking all precautionary steps such as spraying disinfectant in and around their homes. We are also working with the area district surveillance officer (DSO) to trace contacts of these women and sent all the women safai karmacharis, who worked with these two women, on leave,” the municipal health official said.Meanwhile, leaders of both the north and south Delhi municipal corporations wrote to the additional secretary in the Union health ministry to include municipal sanitation workers and anti-dengue/malaria workers in the national insurance scheme for health workers fighting Covid-19South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) former mayor Narendra Chawla said, “Our workers are risking their lives every day. The least they deserve is a proper health insurance cover.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/edmc-health-worker-dies-of-suspected-covid-another-tests-positive/story-IfgTQTWnLPIlAyAxJiK1AO.html
21-04-2020||City||Punjab govt reaches out to rural area students through TV, radio channels||To reach out to students in rural areas of the state in the wake of the lockdown, the Punjab government has started reaching out to the students through television and radio channels from Tuesday. The move was taken up by the state education department to resolve the problems being faced by the students as a large number of them do not have access to smartphone or Internet. A significant number also face connectivity issues.The department has tied up with DTH channels such as Swayam Prabha Channel (20 on JIO TV app), DD free Dish network (117) and Dish TV (New Channel 939), which will telecast recorded lecturers of teachers for students of Class 7 and 8 for two hours daily from 9am to 11am and the same session will be telecasted from 4pm to 6pm on the same day.Punjab followed the school education department, Haryana, which had started the distance education programme through television, Edusat, last week. The initiative has been taken up by the department on the directions of Punjab education minister Vijay Inder Singla and a letter has been sent to all district education officers (secondary) and school heads to inform the students to take benefit of these classes. The department is also tying up with more channels so that the lectures can be telecasted for every class. The department has also roped in some radio channels such as FM Radio 100.2, Doaba Radio and Chann Pardesh (through radio app). To listen to this programme, students can download the app from the Google Play on their android and iPhones.School education secretary Krishan Kumar said, “The tie-up has been made with the television and radio channels to reach out to all students in the state. The students are advised to stay at home with their families and study through these mediums. The study material is now made available to them and they can clear their doubts with their teachers as they are just a call away from them.”SURVEY CONDUCTED BY GOVT SCHOOL TEACHER A government school science teacher of Patiala, Jasvir Kaur, has conducted a survey to know how many students have television sets at their homes on April 2. It was revealed in the survey that a total 5,453 (88.84%) students have TV set at their homes. The teacher also enquired regarding the cable services they have opted and it was learnt that 3,369 (56.55%) students have Dish channels and 1,484 (24.91%) have fast way. A total of 7,000 students participated in the survey. STUDENTS APPRECIATE THE MOVEA Class 8 student of a government school, Bija, Ankita Rani, said, “I tried to attend the classes through Iscuela app but faced internet issues and then shifted to television. I had been facing problem for the past 20 days, but now I am able to study without any interruption through television.” Class 7 student Gagandeep Singh of government senior secondary school, Chaunta, said, “The classes through radio and television will be beneficial for the students who do not possess a smartphone. I am one of them and I remained glued to television for two hours and found the session very beneficial.”Class timingsFM Radio 100.2- (11.30am to noon), 2pm to 2.30pm (for students of Classes 6 to 10)Chann Pardesi (through the app) 1pm to 3pm for students of all classes 6 to 10Doaba Radio (through the app) 3pm to 4pm for students of all classesTelevisionDD free Dish Channel (117)- 9am to 10am for Class 710am to 11pm for students of Class 8Dish TV (939) 9am to 10am for Class 710am to 11pm for students of Class 8 Swayam Prabha 20 Channel on Jio app9am to 10am for Class 710am to 11pm for students of Class 8||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-govt-reaches-out-to-rural-area-students-through-tv-radio-channels/story-rWd0yaF1YG0liWIiO4Vh5H.html
21-04-2020||City||Reports of Covid-infected Chandigarh elderly woman’s kin awaited||A day after an 82-year-old woman from Sector 18, Chandigarh, tested positive for Covid-19, reports of her eight family members from Panchkula were awaited on Tuesday. The woman was admitted to a private hospital in Panchkula after being sampled at the civil hospital. Meanwhile, no fresh case was reported and the district count stood at 18.Also, the health teams carried out medical screening of other jamaat attendees at the quarantine facility in Mouli village in Raipur Rani after a 20-year-old man from Nava Nagar village in Pinjore tested positive on Monday. He had attended a tablighi jamaat event in Sirmaur, Himachal Pradesh, in March. Besides sanitisation, check-up of his close contacts and few other families of the village was also carried out by health teams. They have been advised to observe home quarantine.Also, the district health department teams have initiated door-to-door survey of families in residential sectors and are preparing records of persons living in each house, including medical history of elderly people. Panchkula deputy commissioner (DC) Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said samples of 1,142 people have been taken of which, 18 turned out positive and 961 persons tested negative. He said reports of at least 134 samples are awaited. Nearly 130 people, who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat events in different states, including Maharashtra and Rajasthan, have been quarantined at Nada Sahib gurdwara and Mouli village in Panchkula.In another case, samples of an 80-year-old woman, resident of Sector 21, Panchkula, who died on Monday at the civil hospital, returned negative result on Tuesday. The woman who had trouble breathing was taken to the hospital on Sunday night. Later, she was shifted to the ICU after her condition deteriorated, but died during the treatment. Her samples were taken on being a suspected Covid-19 patient.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/reports-of-covid-infected-chandigarh-elderly-woman-s-kin-awaited/story-RB5WfuV2GYAyfglZ621rRM.html
21-04-2020||Chandigarh||Staff safety a priority, says PGI after workers demand action for negligence||Contract workers of the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh, have written to the city’s police chief demanding that an FIR be registered against the institute’s administration for their negligence due to which two workers have been infected with Covid-19. However, the institute has stated that extensive measures have been undertaken for safety of its staff at all levels.Chairman of PGIMER’s contract workers union, in a letter to UT’s senior superintendent of police, has stated that officials of the institute failed to establish standard operation procedures and did not draw a road-map for dealing with patients up to April 2. As a result, they said, two healthcare workers have been infected.Although the institute has not responded to the allegations, a separate press release quotes the institute’s director Dr Jagat Ram on the matter. “It goes without saying that the safety of our front line warriors is of utmost importance to us. We, in PGIMER, currently follow a roster system wherein a health care worker (HCW) performs duty for 7 days in the Covid unit, during which they stay in designated isolation rooms within PGIMER campus after their daily shifts,” says the director in the press release.The statement adds that after seven days of duty, HCWs are quarantined in single occupancy rooms, either within the campus or at off-site hotels specifically designated for this purpose by the UT administration. This roster, however, is subject to change based on trends of Covid containment in India and subsequent requirement of health care workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/staff-safety-a-priority-says-pgi-after-workers-demand-action-for-negligence/story-Iz6sQgaGHwGh1IyBHmwWsL.html
21-04-2020||City||Dissolved oxygen content up from 8% to 56.5% in UP stretch of river Yamuna||The water quality in the stretch of river Yamuna that passes through Uttar Pradesh has improved considerably, thanks to the lockdown that has closed industries and kept people away from the river.A report on water quality of river Yamuna, prepared by the Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB), said the dissolved oxygen (DO) level in the river has gone up in the range 8% to 56.5% during the lockdown period at six locations -- upstream, Vrindavan (39.6%), downstream, Vrindavan (38.46%), upstream, Mathura (48.3%), downstream, Mathura (56.5%), upstream, Kailashghat in Agra (12.5%) and downstream at Taj Mahal, Agra (8.0%) -- when compared to the pre-lockdown period.According to UPPCB officials, the study took into account the pre-lockdown period (as on March 7, 2020) and lockdown period (as on April 8, 2020). “To assess river health, we need to study f three parameters – DO, BOD and total coliform. It is required that BOD should be low and DO higher. If DO is low, then the aquatic life will not be able to survive. Likewise, contaminants in form of total coliform should also be low in order for improved water quality,” Utsav Sharma, regional manager, UPPCB, said.A periodic report released in January 2020 by the UPPCB states that the DO level ranged between 1.5 milligrams/litre (mg/l) and 4.8mg/l at the 14 sampling points, starting at Okhla Barrage and ending at Firozabad in Uttar Pradesh.In contrast, officials during the latest study found that on April 8 (during the lockdown period), the values of DO were considerably higher than on normal days and ranged between 5.4mg/l and 7.4mg/l at the six locations. On March 3 (pre-lockdown), the DO values ranged between 4.6mg/l and 5.6mg/l at these locations.The biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) -- the amount of dissolved oxygen needed for organisms to break down organic material present in water -- also came down and was in the range of 17.6% to 23.1% during the lockdown period.Another parameter of river water quality is the total coliform content. If the total coliform bacteria are found in a water sample, it indicates surface contamination has reached the water. The UPPCB study indicated that the total coliform content declined in the range 12.9% to 38.6% during the lockdown period, when compared to the pre-lockdown period.“The decrease in total coliform in April 2020, as compared to that in March 2020 at all (six) locations indicates that the improvement in the water quality is principally due to dilution as a result of increase in water flow,” the report said.According to UPPCB, the average discharge of water in river Yamuna from the Gokul Barrage during the pre-lockdown period (March 5 to March 7, 2020) was about 3,120.70 cusecs. But it was 7,938.3 cusecs during the lockdown period (April 6 to April 8, 2020), an increase of about 154.4%.Experts said the data gathered during the lockdown period will provide a useful baseline for further studies. “The lockdown was unprecedented. The data will give us a useful insight on the effect of pollution on the river’s health. Until now, our focus was more on treatment of sewage/drains etc. But during the lockdown, the drains/sewage are still discharging into the river, but industrial discharge is minimal. Now we will know how much industrial/commercial activities impact the river. Since the industrial activity is significantly reduced, in the future, we need to focus on the removal of all such sources of pollution,” Manoj Misra, convener, Yamuna Jiye Abhiyan, said.“Near Okhla, there is reduced DO level but it increases near cities such as Vrindavan and Mathura. That is because for this 150km stretch of the river, there are no major cities along it. So the river gets a period of relief. The lockdown period study will also help us know the level of flow needed to maintain the health of Yamuna,” Misra said.However, UPPCB officials said during the lockdown, the water quality of the river at all the locations was found under category ‘D’ which is useful for ‘propagation of wild life and fisheries’, still a far cry from category A, or fit for drinking after treatment.“A study of tributaries of river Yamuna is also being done for the pre-lockdown and lockdown period,” an official of UPPCB, on condition of anonymity said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dissolved-oxygen-content-up-from-8-to-56-5-in-up-stretch-of-river-yamuna/story-Yz61Ivb8IHK0BwRpi5GGBK.html
21-04-2020||Delhi||Ration shop owner tests Covid positive in Roop Nagar, 1,648 beneficiaries put in home quarantine||A ration shop owner in Roop Nagar neighbourhood tested Covid-19 positive, following which the district administration has directed all beneficiaries of the fair price shop – as many as 1,648 – to remain in home quarantine. They have also put the locality under surveillance for the next 14 days, a senior government official said Tuesday.This is the first such instance of a ration shop owner getting infected in the capital. The person has no history of travel to foreign countries. The health department is in the process of tracing his contacts, a senior government official said. A similar case in Gujarat’s Surat last week had set the alarm bells ringing for fear of a community spread, and the municipal corporation of Surat had reportedly asked all beneficiaries of the fair price shop to visit the nearby health centre for a medical examination.The test result of the ration shop owner in Roop Nagar, which HT has seen, showed that his sample was collected on April 18 and the report came on Monday.District magistrate (central) Nidhi Srivastava confirmed the case and said the administration is taking all necessary precautions and have asked all beneficiaries of the shop to remain in home quarantine.A health department official further confirmed that they have been approached by other residents of the area who are proactively participating in ensuring proper isolation and quarantine. Some of them have proposed to the government that the area be declared a containment zone and sealed.“The ration shop owner was feeling unwell last week and first visited the doctor on April 15. His family members have been sent into quarantine and they are scheduled to be tested on April 25. The shop has 1,648 beneficiaries registered. This is a matter of concern. The patient in this case has been admitted to a private hospital and his family is unsure about any financial aid from the government,” Shailendra Kumar, president of public distribution system welfare association, said.Meanwhile, Tuesday, the Delhi government issued an order directing all fair price shop dealers to update records of their stocks and beneficiaries on a day-to-day basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/ration-shop-owner-tests-covid-positive-in-roop-nagar-1-648-beneficiaries-put-in-home-quarantine/story-UzZmtHYl4icadVoDEHA58H.html
21-04-2020||Delhi||Four constables of Nabi Karim police station Covid-19 positive, 20 cops infected so far||Four constables of the Delhi Police posted at central Delhi’s Nabi Karim tested positive for coronavirus (Covid-19) after 80 personnel of the police station were screened till Monday. All four were asymptomatic and their testing was done after Nabi Karim was declared a containment zone.With the four new cases, the total number of police personnel infected with the virus rose to 20. Of these, 12 personnel are from Nabi Karim and Chandni Mahal police stations in central Delhi. Eight personnel at the Chandni Mahal police station had earlier tested positive for the virus. The station was sealed last week, as the building was in a containment zone and two constables had tested positive for Covid-19.“The Nabi Karim police station has not been sealed yet as everyone else, besides the four, tested negative. So far, screening of more than 150 personnel of the two police stations has been done. Of them, 12 have been found positive and they all were asymptomatic,” said Sanjay Bhatia, deputy commissioner of police (central).Of the four personnel, three were on picket duty while one was deployed on the station premises. “We are trying to ascertain the source through which these police personnel got the infection. The entire police station building was disinfected and sanitised,” the DCP said.On Monday, six personnel — five from the Chandni Mahal police station and one head constable posted with the anti-terrorism wing of the special cell — were found positive for the virus. It was the highest single-day rise of Covid-19 cases among the police.Of the 20 personnel infected with the disease, an assistant sub-inspector with the traffic police, who was the first to be diagnosed, was discharged from the hospital last Friday.The other personnel infected with the virus were posted at AIIMS Trauma Centre police post, at the Delhi airport, at a police picket in Bara Hindu Rao, and in Burari. A policeman staying in Model Town police colony tested positive after his wife, nursing staff at a government hospital, was found infected. Their son had also tested positive for the virus.Two deputy commissioners of police (DCPs) of the South West district and as many as 300 personnel of other ranks, who had come in contact with the infected personnel during duty, are in home-quarantine at present. The DCPs tested negative for the virus and are likely to resume their duties from Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/four-constables-of-nabi-karim-police-station-covid-19-positive-20-cops-infected-so-far/story-CMusrvOHH1f8PdW1GcnZQL.html
21-04-2020||City||Mohali man held for falsely claiming non-availability of ration||A resident of Kumbra village in Mohali was arrested for raising a false alarm over non-availability of ration, on Tuesday. The accused has been identified as Roshan. Police said he called on the helpline saying he does not have supplies at home. The call was forwarded to the Phase 8 police station, who asked him to collect rations from them. However, the police team distributing ration to residents of the village, found supplies were given on the accused’s address around two days back. When Roshan reached the station, the police team took him to his house where they found about 50kg ration stocked up. He was arrested and sent to the hockey stadium in Phase 9 that has converted to a temporary jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-man-held-for-falsely-claiming-non-availability-of-ration/story-1VqmPofrfOq7zm2GffBMSN.html
21-04-2020||Mumbai||Seven TikTok users arrested for violating lockdown rules||The Mumbai Police, coming down heavily on TikTok users who are trying to make videos by violating social distancing norms or mocking the police, arrested seven people in two days. On Monday, the Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) police arrested five youth – Avinash Varma, Jalis Siddiqui, Salman Shaikh, Sajid Shaikh and Nafiz Ansari – for making TikTok videos on empty roads, bylanes and society premises. Investigations revealed that they made around 40 videos since the lockdown, in most of which they performed movie dialogues or monologues on roads, by taking advantage of the lockdown and violating social distancing norms. Anand Mulay, senior inspector of BKC police station, said,” We received a complaint from a person claiming that a group was violating social distancing norms and making TikTok videos in the BKC area. We registered an FIR [first information report] first with the help of local informers and then technical team tracked them and arrested them from Sant Gyaneshwar Nagar and Bharat Nagar areas.”Meanwhile on Tuesday, the police booked two youth – Salim Shaikh, 24, and Fahad Shaikh, 27, from Shivaji Nagar. Shaikh, who has more than 5 lakh followers on TikTok, enacted a video while walking near Mahavir Hospital at Baji Prabhu Deshpande road in Govandi, while Fahad was recording him. In the video, Shaikh allegedly told his followers that he is a celebrity and the police will not arrest him for being on the road. After the video was reported, the police tracked the duo down, brought them to Shivaji Nagar police station and made a confessional video in which the duo were made to apologise and admit that they were not wearing masks and that the law is equal for all. All the seven accused have booked under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Epidemic Diseases Act.Last month, the Shivaji Nagar police had booked a biker and a pillion rider for stepping out for a joyride during the lockdown after their video went viral. Twenty-year-old Sarfaraz Ali was riding the bike, while Mohamedali Shaikh, 22, who was seated pillion, was recording their video on Tilak Nagar flyover, as the duo went rode at more than 100km/hour in the morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/seven-tiktok-users-arrested-for-violating-lockdown-rules/story-gzwgZBnk2hmkwVxpzR8PVO.html
21-04-2020||City||Coronavirus lockdown: History sheeter attacks policemen with brick in Ludhiana, ASI injured||An assistant sub-inspector (ASI) suffered head injuries after a snatching history sheeter attacked him with a brick in Chhawni Mohalla on Tuesday.The accused, identified as Kush Gill, threw the brick from the second floor of his house on a PCR motorcycle squad when they were patrolling the area, asking residents to stay inside their houses. Victim ASI Surinder Singh has been admitted to civil hospital, while the accused has been arrested and booked for attempt to murder by division number 4 police. He is already facing trial in three snatching cases.Assistant commissioner of police (central) Waryam Singh said they had received information that some people were roaming around and playing cricket in the streets of Chhawni Mohalla, defying curfew orders. “Following the input, a PCR motorcycle squad, compiling ASI Surinder Singh, reached the spot and dispersed the youth roaming around and playing outside,” he said. “When the PCR team was asking people to go inside their houses, Gill went up on the second floor of his house and threw the brick on the cops,” the ACP said. While ASI Surinder Singh suffered an injury, ASI Damanjit Singh escaped unhurt in the incident.‘WAS NURSING GRUDGES FOR PAST INCIDENT’During interrogation, the accused told the police that the PCR teams had “insulted” him few days back when he was told to step inside his house in front of other residents. Following this, he nursed grudges against the police personnel and attacked the visiting cops, ACP Waryam said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-lockdown-history-sheeter-attacks-policemen-with-brick-in-ludhiana-asi-injured/story-WaapbpcqhwUCBbaqgaMVdL.html
21-04-2020||City||Mohali man booked for curfew violation, misbehaving with Chhatbir Zoo staff||chandigarh@hindustantimes.comThe Mohali police have booked a 25-year-old man identified as Surjit Singh, a resident of zoo colony, for violating curfew and misbehaving with staff of Mahendra Chaudhary Zoological Park, popularly known as Chhatbir Zoo, for creating awareness regarding coronavirus. In wake of the complaints regarding curfew violations, a team from the zoo was sent to the colony to carry out door-to-door awareness and direct residents to stay indoors, police said. However, Surjit, who was drunk, not only misbehaved with the team but also abused them verbally and also refused to follow the guidelines, police added.As per sources, Surjit’s father works as a keeper at the zoo, however, due to the virus outbreak, he was not put on the duty these days. Surjit, who is unemployed and is always found playing cards, had been caught violating curfew norms despite restrictions, sources said.The field director of Chhatbir Zoo, M Sudhagar, said, “We were forced to reach out to police after the residents kept violating rules relating to restriction on movement besides failing to adhere to social distancing.” “After Surjit misbehaved with the team, we lodged a police complaint against him,” he added. A case under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 269 (any act likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered at the Zirakpur police station. Surjit is yet to be arrested.In order to reduce the risk of spread of coronavrius among animals, the zoo authorities had directed the staff to stay indoors and ensure there are no visitors in the area. However, it was noticed that a few residents were defying the restrictions blatantly. Also, despite a checkpost by the zoo authorities at the entrance of the colony, residents were found moving out on one pretext or another.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-man-booked-for-curfew-violation-misbehaving-with-chhatbir-zoo-staff/story-XKadJhsLJYCNj4ydbCaZgM.html
21-04-2020||City||Mohali society elects new RWA team||Rana Nayar has been elected president of residents’ welfare association of Parkwood Glade, Sector 116, Kharar-Landran Road. Office-bearers and seven executive members for a one-year term, from April 2020 to March 2021, have been elected. Mahinder Singh Bagga has been elected patron, Baljit Rana, vice-president; Narender Nain, general secretary, RP Singh, joint secretary, Brij Pal, treasurer and Subhash Mehta has been elected adviser.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-society-elects-new-rwa-team/story-jsKO5V0dGTggTjJ88O9v8L.html
21-04-2020||Mumbai||Glass walls and PPE kits to shield cops on the frontline during Covid-19 pandemic||The city’s police force is taking various measures to stay safe as they work on the frontline of the Covid-19 pandemic. At Andheri (East) police station, a glass wall has been erected which acts as a shield between the complainant and officer. At Powai and MIDC police stations, complainants are allowed in the compound but they have to communicate with officers through the windows of the station’s building. No one is allowed inside unless to report a serious crime. Veeresh Prabhu, additional commissioner of central region, said, “We have one officer at the entrance of each police station who handles all complaints. The officer is given the necessary personal protective equipment.”At Vakola police station, which has 19 containment zones, only one complainant is allowed to enter at a time. “The complainant is allowed in only if he wears a mask and uses sanitiser,” said Kailash Avhad, senior inspector.Similar measures are being taken at Malwani police station in Malad (West) and Khar police station. Dilip Sawant, additional commissioner, north region (Goregaon to Dahisar), said, “We are using a new ozonisation technique to disinfect the police station and vehicles.” Rashmi Karandikar, DCP (port zone) which consists of Wadala, Sewree, Sagari and Yellow Gate, said, “We are allowing entry only to those visitors who have serious problems. For all others, our officers address issues outside the station.”The Maharashtra Police will also give ₹1 lakh in advance to police personnel who tested positive for Covid-19, to pay for medical treatment. Till now, 49 personnel have tested positive in the state. Vinayak Deshmukh, assistant inspector general, law and order, Maharashtra Police, confirmed the development to HT. 1,330 booked for not wearing masks Veeresh Prabhu, additional commissioner of central region, said, “We are not getting many complainants since the area has the highest number of containment zones, but we have one officer at the entrance of each police station who handles all complaints. The officer is given all the equipment like masks, gloves, and sanitiser. We have asked the officers to be cautious while handling documents brought by complainants.”Between March 20 and Monday, Mumbai Police booked 1,330 people for not wearing masks. Another 185 FIRs were lodged on Monday, including 110 for gathering in one place, and 60 for not wearing masks. The remaining FIRs were against shops operating despite being non-essential services. In all, 320 people were booked and 196 arrested on Monday. Police commissioner warns violators, pledges help for labourers Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh, who paid a visit to the Dharavi slums, warned violators of police action and also pledged to help people who need food supply. Veeresh Prabhu, additional commissioner of police, central region, confirmed the visit by Singh. “The police commissioner carried a flag march with around 500 policemen. He thanked the Dharavi residents for cooperating with the police but also warned that violators will not be spared. He said we have to ensure that people do not run out of food supply, especially migrant labourers. Police are arranging food using different contacts,” said Prabhu.Labourers gathered at Oshiwara day after Bandra incident; 1 held for assaulting cop A 29-year-old construction labourer was arrested on Sunday by the Oshiwara police for allegedly assaulting a 57-year-old constable. Police said that on April 15, a day after thousands gathered in Bandra, around 300 labourers gathered at Vaishali Nagar in Oshiwara, demanding food. One of the labourers manhandled the constable and was arrested. The police managed to disperse the crowd after facilitating food supplies to them. Gutkha worth ₹4 lakh seized in Wadi BunderDongri police on Tuesday seized gutkha worth ₹ 4 lakh being smuggled in a tempo. The tempo was found abandoned in Wadi Bunder area on P D’Mello Road by patrolling police. On checking the vehicle, several sacks containing gutkha were found.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/glass-walls-and-ppe-kits-to-shield-cops-on-the-frontline-during-covid-19-pandemic/story-Ta37xGzbJWAlLrkUEQlz4K.html
21-04-2020||Chandigarh||16-year-old Rupnagar boy whose father died of Covid-19 recovers||The 16-year-old resident of Chatamali village in Rupnagar district, who tested positive for Covid-19, was discharged from Gian Sagar Hospital, Banur, on Tuesday, after two consecutive swab tests came back negative.The boy’s father was the first positive case reported from the district and died at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, on April 8.The boy and his mother also tested positive, and were shifted to Gian Sagar Hospital on April 6. The three members of the family are the only positive cases that have been reported from the district, so far.The mother’s test reports are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/16-year-old-rupnagar-boy-whose-father-died-of-covid-19-recovers/story-QjEdqOmoDX9mXLUZMqOw0O.html
21-04-2020||City||Chandigarh Golf Club distributing food to the needy amid Covid-19 lockdown||The Chandigarh Golf Club is preparing 600 meals per day and distributing them to the needy at Indira Colony (IT Park) and Bapu Dham Colony in Sector 26. The club will continue distributing food packets for two weeks. The club is also supporting over 250 caddies with ration and monetary assistance. The caddies earn wages on a daily-basis and their income has stopped amid the Covid-19 lockdown.Business council donates fogging machines, masksChandigarh Business Council donated two fogging machines, 500 bottles of sanitisers and 2,000 three-ply masks to municipal commissioner KK Yadav, on Monday. CBC president Neeraj Bajaj said they will arrange more masks and safety equipment for the MC in the future. Sector 9 RWA donates masksChandigarh Members of the Sector 9 residents’ welfare association (RWA) donated N-95 masks to Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), on Monday. The donation was made by president of the RWA, Justice GR Majithia (retired), for the safety of doctors and medical workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-golf-club-distributing-food-to-the-needy-amid-covid-19-lockdown/story-UTF3QtmxyKlfVh5gVpzeAM.html
21-04-2020||Chandigarh||Hypertension patients should not discontinue medicine amid Covid-19 outbreak, say experts||Experts said since hypertensive patients are at highest risk of becoming dangerously sick due to coronavirus, they should keep on taking their medicines and non-adherence to treatment could be dangerous. Even as the medical fraternity rushes to put in place effective and credible treatment protocols to curb the global pandemic, some studies have suggested that ACE inhibitors and ARBs commonly used to treat blood pressure could aggravate the symptoms of COVID-19 infection. Clearing the air on the matter, public health experts and medical practitioners from premier institutions across the country stated that it is too early to draw such conclusions and non-adherence to treatment could be dangerous.Dr Yash Paul Sharma, professor and head, department of cardiology, PGIMER, Chandigarh, said people with hypertension are indeed at a higher risk of catching the coronavirus.Citing a recent systematic review and meta-analysis that appeared in the International Journal of Infectious Diseases that assessed the prevalence of co-morbidities in Covid-19 infected patients, Sharma said hypertensive patients with the underlying disease were more at risk. He added that Covid-19 patients had fatality rate of 8.4%, 13.2%, 9.2%, 8% and 7.6% in those with hypertension, cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, chronic respiratory diseases and cancer, respectively.“As such, avoiding blood pressure medications is a risk India cannot afford to take as our healthcare systems are already stretched because of the Covid-19 spread,” he said.Dr Garg, professor and head, community medicine of Maulana Azad Medical College and Associated Hospitals said, “Hypertensive persons are best advised, in addition to their blood pressure medication, to follow non-pharmacological approaches such as yoga, stress management and low calorie intake to keep their blood pressure levels under check.”Dr Sonu Goel, professor, department of community medicine and school of public health, Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) spoke on the need of monitoring other risk factors such as tobacco use.Dr Tom Frieden, president and CEO, Resolve to Save Lives, an initiative of Vital Strategies, said evidence from around the world showed that people with hypertension should not forego their regular medicines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hypertension-patients-should-not-discontinue-medicine-amid-covid-19-outbreak-say-experts/story-T6bD2bYdWqjNQwiYv3PYUK.html
21-04-2020||Delhi||Yamuna water improves during lockdown period, CPCB analysis shows||There has been a “significant improvement” in the water quality of river Yamuna in the national capital during the lockdown period, thanks to polluting industries being shut and people keeping away from the river, as per an analysis done by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and submitted to the Yamuna monitoring committee, a body appointed by the National Green Tribunal.This came a day after the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) came out with its report based on tests of samples collected from nine locations. It, too, had concluded that the overall water quality had improved by up to 33%, though it is still not being fit for bathing. The CPCB report is based on water samples collected from three major locations --- Palla (the entry point of the river in Delhi), Nizamuddin bridge (between Wazirabad and Okhla barrages where 14 drains discharge into it) and Okhla barrage upstream (after discharge from 16 drains).The CPCB also took samples from two major drains --- Najafgarh and Shahdara --- that contribute at least two-thirds of the hydraulic ( sand, silt and gravel) load in the river, the report said. The samples were collected on April 6, 2020, and have been compared with the results of tests done in March 2020. The nationwide lockdown was announced on March 24 to contain the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. “The analysis indicates that there is considerable improvement in water quality, in terms of DO (dissolved oxygen), BOD (biochemical oxygen demand) and COD (chemical oxygen demand), when compared with the pre-lockdown period, at all three monitored locations. However, water quality at Nizamuddin and Okhla upstream did not meet the primary water quality criteria for bathing,” the report stated. BOD means the amount of oxygen required by the river to maintain its flow. The prescribed BOD standards are 3 milligrams per litre (mg/l). The lower the BOD, the better the water quality. COD indicates the presence of industrial effluents in a water body. A reduction in COD means that the amount of effluents in the river is also going down.DO is an indicator of how much oxygen is present in the river for the survival of aquatic life. The higher the DO, the better the health of the river. As per the report findings, at Palla, post-lockdown, the BOD was 2mg/l, down from 7.9mg/l (pre-lockdown).The DO here was 8.3mg/l, compared to 17.1mg/l (pre-lockdown) and COD was 6mg/l, down from 28mg/l (pre-lockdown). The pH levels (a measure of acidity in the water measured on a scale of 0-14) were 7.8 in April as compared to that of 8.7 in March. “The results comply with the primary water quality criteria for outdoor bathing with respect to analysed parameters of pH, DO and BOD,” the report said. At Nizamuddin Bridge, the analysis results showed that pH was 7.2 as compared to 7.3 in March, BOD levels were 5.6mg/l from.57 mg/l and COD was 16mg/l as compared to 90mg/l previously. DO levels were not detected. “The results do not meet the primary criteria of being fit for bathing with respect to DO and BOD,” it said. At Okhla barrage (upstream), the report said the results do not meet the prescribed standards for bathing. The pH was 7.1 as compared to 7.2, BOD was 6.1mg/l from .27mg/l, COD level was 18mg/l from 95 mg/l. DO was 1.2 mg/l, but could not be compared as values for March could not be detected. “Though water quality does not meet the primary criteria, there was a considerable reduction in concentration of BOD (77.41) and COD (81.05%) levels, which can be attributed to no industrial effluent discharges and the stretch of about 7.5km (after Nizamuddin Bridge) that might be helping in self-purification of river Yamuna,” it said. It further said the waste water quality in the two drains ---Najafgarh and Shahdara --- has also shown improvement of about 30-45% in BOD levels, though the drains, even with this improvement, had BOD levels of 56 mg/l and 89mg/l, respectively. The report has attributed the post-lockdown overall improvement in the water quality to various factors, including release of abundant fresh water from Wazirabad Barrage and availability of dilution in the river; no industrial effluent discharge (only about 35.9MLD); good penetration of solar radiation in water body, owing to the washing out of bottom sediments and colloidal form of pollutants; and reduced human activity such as throwing of religious offerings, materials and solid waste; bathing and washing of clothes in the river. The two-member Yamuna monitoring committee had asked the CPCB and DPCC to test water quality during the lockdown period to ascertain the reasons behind the seemingly cleaner Yamuna. Seeing both the reports, the committee has observed that one of the major reasons behind the water being cleaner was the availability of fresh water that allowed dilution of pollutants. “As per data obtained from the Delhi Jal Board (D JB), there was a fivefold increase in the water released into the river from Wazirabad during the lockdown, which was less than 1000 cusecs prior to the lockdown. Besides the closure of industries and reduced human activity too has contributed to the better health of the river,” the committee concluded in its report Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/yamuna-water-improves-during-lockdown-period-cpcb-analysis-shows/story-4v49aV6ywKvHVHXT4V6vOI.html
21-04-2020||City||50 challans issued for public urinating, spitting in Delhi||50 challans issued for public urinating/spittingA total 50 challans for open urinating and spitting were issued on Monday and Tuesday in Delhi under the new directions of the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), which has made these acts punishable under Section 51 (b) of the Disaster Management Act.Thirty-three of these were in north Delhi alone, of which, in only one case the new on-the-spot fine of Rs. 1000 was realised. “The rest were challaned to the area magistrates,” said north body commissioner, Varsha Joshi.In south Delhi, 17 such challans were issued in Greater Kailash, Hauz Khas, Lado Sarai, Vasant Kunj, Chhatarpur and Mehrauli.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/50-challans-issued-for-public-urinating-spitting-in-delhi/story-gNdtIUvKF6AsRc1uYvk3YL.html
21-04-2020||Chandigarh||Irregularity in issuance of passes delaying wheat procurement in Ludhiana||Even as a week has elapsed since the process of wheat procurement commenced in the state, the authorities concerned have failed to streamline the process of issuing curfew passes to the arhtiyas, who distribute them among the farmers. The arhtiyas rued that the passes are issued to them with a gap of a day due to which the procurement process is getting delayed. Also, if the farmer is not able to transport the produce on the same day then the pass turns void. Bharti Kisan Union (Lakhowal) Harinder Singh Lakhowal said that the farmers are facing problems in transportation of their produce due to shortage of passes. “The market committee is issuing passes to arhtiyas with a gap of a day, forcing them and their labourers to sit idle in the markets as a major portion of the grain markets remains empty,” he said.The farmers are also facing harassment as hey have to wait for their turn to transport their produce to the grain market. For instance, if the combine harvest develops snag or the farmer is not able to arrange trolley on a particular day, they won’t be able to transport their produce the next day as the pass is valid only for only one day.“The government should issue regular passes to the arhtiyas so that the farmers could bring their produce on daily basis. If the procurement continues at this pace then the government would not be able to achieve the target in 45 days,” said Lakhowal.One of the arhtiyas at the Gill road grain market requesting anonymity said that the market committee is providing only five passes to arhtiyas in a day. “When we contacted the market committee, the officials claimed that they are working as per the directions issued by the state government to reduce rush at the markets. The officials have asked us to directly procure the produce of big farmers at their farms only, however, it is not possible as it will require transportation of labour and machinery for the whole process,” said the arhtiya.Market committee chairman Darshan Lal (Laddoo) Baweja said that the passes are being issued in phased manner as per the guidelines of the state government to avoid rush at the grain markets. “This year is different. The farmers cannot compare it with the previous years.We have to take precautions to contain the spread of Covid-19,” he added.Chairman recommends cancellation of licences of 3 arhtiyasAfter some arhtiyas were caught illegally operating at the main vegetable market (sabzi mandi) near Jalandhar Bypass on Friday night, the chairman of market committee has sent recommendations to the secretary of market committee to cancel the licences of three arhtiyas.On April 17, a few arhtiyas had illegally assembled a large number of vendors at the vegetable market . A video of the same had gone viral and following a tip off, the police had arrested four vendors who were present there.Market committee chairman Baweja said, “After watching the video, I sent a recommendation to the secretary of the market committee that action must be taken against the three arhtiyas and their licence should be cancelled.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/irregularity-in-issuance-of-passes-delaying-wheat-procurement-in-ludhiana/story-tXJcpZWKwJ3SVAR8L5VQXO.html
21-04-2020||Chandigarh||Probe ordered after video of Chandigarh woman constable arguing with Punjab police officials goes viral||After a video of a woman constable arguing with a Punjab police personnel went viral on social media platforms the Chandigarh police on Tuesday ordered a probe into the matter.Constable Usha Yadav posted at the challaning branch of the traffic unit was asked to report for duty at the Sector 23 checkpoint because of the lockdown due to Covid-19. However, according to sources who did not want to be named, she was on her way from Nayagaon to Chandigarh when she found the road barricaded by Mohali police to prevent movement of people because of the curfew. The video shot by an unidentified person captured her misbehaving with the sub-inspector and his team, demanding that the barricades be removed to allow her through as she used the route every day for her commute.The police officials at the check post are heard denying her permission to pass, citing clampdown orders from the Mohali administration and the district police chief and asking her to use another route instead.Taking note of the incident, senior superintendent of police (SSP) Mohali, Kuldeep Chahal wrote to his UT counterpart Nilambari Jagadale, seeking action against Yadav.“A fact finding report has been sought on the incident and it will also include details of the daily conduct of the woman officer in question. We have also communicated to the Mohali police that in future they should be more accommodating towards members of the Chandigarh police force. They should not be stopped when going to or returning from their duty,” said Jagadale. Meanwhile, the official probing the incident recommended her transfer to her parent unit, the reserve battalion (IRB), stating that numerous complaints had been filed against her in the past.“Her language and behaviour is rude. She has been posted in traffic since 2018 and her behaviour is not good with the public as well. There have been numerous informal complaints against her in the past as well and multiple warnings were given to her,” the investigating official mentioned.He recommended that “she may be transferred to her parent unit (IRB) and a suitable substitute provided against her.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/probe-ordered-after-video-of-chandigarh-woman-constable-arguing-with-punjab-police-officials-goes-viral/story-YdPGkSr7QdsnMuiDG3Ib7I.html
21-04-2020||Mumbai||Kidney ailment patient dies while waiting for Covid-19 test report||A 30-year-old chronic kidney ailment patient succumbed to his disease at the government-run St George Hospital while waiting for his Covid-19 report. Later, the hospital released the body for burial without the report, which is a violation of the guidelines of the Union health ministry.Mohammad Rabbani, a resident of Bihar, who was suffering from a chronic kidney ailment for the last three years came to Mumbai in the second week of March to stay with his brother- Mohammad Jinal, 36, with the hope of getting cured. His brother took him to the government-run JJ Hospital.“Doctor had told us that if his condition deteriorates, he would require dialysis. But due to the lockdown, we couldn’t take him to the hospital for it. Soon, he stopped eating,” said Jinal, who resides in Byculla.With the help of activists, an ambulance was arranged that took him to BYL Nair Hospital, last week. But as the hospital was in the process of getting converted into a Covid-19 facility, they refused to take a non-Covid patient. Soon, his condition worsened.On Sunday, the patient was rushed to JJ Hospital. But the hospital refused to admit the patient and referred him to St George Hospital which doesn’t even have the testing facility.Brijesh Gadhia, a member of Kidney Warriors Foundation who helped the patient with admission said, “He was admitted in the intensive care unit of St George Hospital, but it was too late as the patient kept waiting for the test report for Covid-19.”On Monday night, the patient was declared dead and his body was handed over to his brother who performed his last rites at Bada Qabrastan, Mumbai Central. This is without getting the test result of the patient, which is considered as the violation of the guideline of the Union Health Ministry, that has specified guidelines for the burial of Covid-19 patients to stop any possible spread of infection.“He has two daughters in our village, I don’t know what will happen to them. I am so scared that I haven’t been able to tell them yet about his death,” said Jinal.The dean of JJ Hospital, Dr Ranjit Maheshwar said, “I am unaware of it but will investigate the matter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/kidney-ailment-patient-dies-while-waiting-for-covid-19-test-report/story-WiUvyXq5Pe0iRkTJXIBGgP.html
21-04-2020||Chandigarh||Amid lockdown, Ludhiana residents raising morale of police personnel||During the lockdown duty, the police personnel deployed at different checkpoints in the city are being treated with lot of regard and respect by the city residents. The personnel say they have never witnessed such gratitude towards their department before. Residents’ acknowledgement is undoubtedly boosting their morale to fight the Covid-19 crisis undeterred. “The news of assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Anil Kohli’s death due to coronavirus has been very disheartening for us. Our families are extremely worried about our safety. But the moral support that we are getting from the police chief, state government and our city residents is actually helping us a lot in boosting our morale,” one of the police personnel said.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Pardeep Kumar, 46, who is deployed at the checkpoint installed on Ferozepur Road near Verka Milk Plant, said that in the past 27 years of his service, he has never seen residents treating the policemen in such a respectful manner. “With this respect and gratitude, our willpower to perform duty has doubled. I feel proud of being a policeman and with this high spirit, I can easily fight with the situation,” he added.The messages floating on various social media platforms — ‘Proud of Punjab of Police’, ‘Salute to our heroes’, ‘God bless the cops on duty’ and ‘Brave sons and daughters of the city’— are also encouraging our front-line warriors. Initially, it was quite unusual for them when commuters paused and greeted them with a thank you, but not anymore. “At times, when residents come across us, they enquire not only about our well-being, but even our family members’ well-being. While some of them even give us blessings. This gesture simply makes our day,” said head constables Gurjant Singh and Sohan Das, adding that this has never happened in the past. Both the head constables are the part of PCR team and work for 24 hours in a stretch on alternative days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/amid-lockdown-ludhiana-residents-raising-morale-of-police-personnel/story-ItH99jct79BEa83sCQcUmJ.html
21-04-2020||City||These corona warriors are down, but not out||The police personnel, battling coronavirus in isolation wards of hospitals, have no option but to reach out to their loved ones through mobiles.They are also uploading videos on social networking sites showing that they are facing the disease courageously and will defeat it ultimately. A video of constable Prabhjot Singh, who was a gunman of assistant commissioner of police (ACP, north) Anil Kumar Kohli and was tested positive for Covid-19, has gone viral. In the video, he is doing pushups in the isolation ward of the civil hospital, Ferozepur.Cop makes Tiktok videoPrabhjot has also recorded a couple of tiktok videos of his workout from the ward of the hospital on the song ‘Mainu lagda jadan ch beh jun aitki corona tere yaar de sohniye’. Doctors have also advised him light exercise to avoid exertion. Prabhjot said, “I joined the police force in 2016. I am a regular gym-goer. I am in contact with my family over mobile phone. I also exercise in the ward. I will go through a Covid-19 test again and am sure that I will beat the virus.”Expressing grief over the death of ACP Kohli, he said Kohli was a brave and honest officer. His death is a great loss to the department, he added. Sub-inspector Arshpreet Kaur, admitted to Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) here, after being tested Covid-19 positive, has also recorded a video, which was shared by the Punjab Police on their social networking sites.In the video, Kaur, who had not initially showed any signs of the virus, said, “I appreciate all my colleagues, deputed on frontline duty and battling against coronavirus.” The sub-inspector has also requested people to stay indoors and help the police in implementing curfew properly. The sub-inspector said, “I will join her duty immediately after I am discharged from the hospital.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/these-corona-warriors-are-down-but-not-out/story-GOYFBXlc1FaxvjFxBxwS4I.html
21-04-2020||Lucknow||Don’t deploy cops with history of illness on Covid-19 duty: UP DGP||Uttar Pradesh director general of police (DGP) on Tuesday asked senior authorities to ensure that police personnel with history of illness are not deployed on frontline of Covid-19 duty.Directing authorities to make a list of personnel, who are above 55 years of age, and those having history of health issues, DGP Hitesh Chandra Awasthi said those who are vulnerable must not be given Covid-19 duty.Issuing a detailed circular to all district police chiefs, the DGP asked authorities to strictly follow the directive to ensure that men in force do not get exposed to the deadly virus.The circular said the personnel suffering from diseases related to respiration, lungs, heart and diabetes should be kept free from frontline duty.As per the circular, the frontline duty included anything in which people have to come across unknown persons like hospital duty, quarantine security, rapid action team, duty along with health workers etc.The directives said the district authorities should be very cautious while deploying police personnel who are above the age of 55 years as they could be vulnerable to infection.The DGP circular stated that those deployed on the frontline duty should be regularly briefed to strictly follow standard operating procedures especially in containment zones and other places where they are likely to be exposed to coronavirus infection.He also asked senior authorities to ensure that safety kits were given to personnel deployed for duties in containment zones or along with health workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/don-t-deploy-cops-with-history-of-illness-on-covid-19-duty-up-dgp/story-WiaRQZkKV9Agt3e26prClJ.html
21-04-2020||City||IIT Ropar researchers design doffing unit for healthcare workers||Researchers at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Ropar, have designed a doffing unit for healthcare workers. The special doffing unit, which is separated from the donning or clean room, has been designed by a team of researchers, including Khushboo Rakha, assistant professor at the department of metallurgical and materials engineering, Dhiraj Mahajan, associate professor at the department of mechanical engineering and senior scientific officer Naresh Rakha.Rakha said the unit was developed taking into consideration the safety of healthcare workers who spend a lot of time in close proximity with patients and are involved in high risk activities such as placing patients on ventilators and collecting and handling samples.She said that personal protective equipment (PPE), including masks, gloves and gowns, that keep nurses and doctors safe need to be fitted, worn, and removed in a specific way. “However, it has been reported in the past that healthcare workers make mistakes while wearing and removing PPE, which exposes them to pathogens,” she added.Rakha said it was imperative to maintain sterile conditions in the doffing station, the place where healthcare professionals remove their PPE at the end of their duty. Explaining the model of the doffing station, the researcher said, “The unit involves use of three well established and documented germicidal technologies; chemical disinfectants, negative pressure rooms and ultra-violet germicidal irradiation (UVGI). The unit begins with a disinfection tunnel using a safe and effective disinfectant recommended by World Health Organisation (WHO).”“After doffing/removal of PPE (through prescribed procedure), healthcare workers should place the PPE in one of the two chutes for reuse or proper disposal. Both the chutes will be attached with UV-C germicidal tubes for disinfection before further removal. The unit will be maintaining ‘Negative pressure outlet,’ which will significantly lower the risk of virus transmission through air,” she said.Rakha said that UV-C type germicidal bulbs/tubes will be installed in the entire space to disinfect the room after every doffing session or alternatively every 2-3 hours and that no person would be allowed inside the station during UV-C disinfection session.The researchers also recommend the use of copper or brass-70%Cu to be used for door knobs/handles and taps in this chamber because of its anti-microbial properties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/iit-ropar-researchers-design-doffing-unit-for-healthcare-workers/story-Tsu48i3kB12WnUkZKyOkYL.html
21-04-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh administration decentralises food distribution, but a long way to go||Facing flak from the public, the Chandigarh administration has decentralised its cooked food distribution, shifting the responsibility from the food supplies and consumer affairs department to all three sub-divisional magistrates (SDMs) to feed the poor. While residents say food availability has gone up in the past couple of days, a lot still needs to be done. Farmilla Devi, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) councillor from Dadumajra, an area that has nearly 5,000 poor families, said cooked food is distributed at three points in her ward, but inadequate distribution results in long queues. “People also have to wait for hours for getting free ration. The problem is that local councillors are not being involved in the process,” said Devi, adding that city BJP president Arun Sood had sought intervention of UT administrator and, hopefully, they will be involved. SEVERAL AREAS STILL UNTOUCHEDThe UT media bulletin on Tuesday claimed to have distributed cooked food to 1.30 lakh people. This, according to deputy commissioner (DC) Mandip Brar, has doubled in the past one week. Though Brar said the situation on ground has improved, there are areas where the supply is still poor. Satish Kainth, councillor from ward number 11, which has more than 3,000 poor families living in Sector 53 (Nehru Colony), Sector 55 (Indira, Kamal and Adarsh colonies) and Palsora village, said, “The administration has only set up a single distribution point at the Sector 56 community centre for such a huge area. I spoke to area SDM SK Jain several times but things have not improved,” said Kainth. Jain could not be reached for comments. MORE DISTRIBUTION POINTS NEEDEDAs per the information, the UT still has 19 major distribution points, which seems insufficient given that each point, on an average, is catering to more than 5,000 people now. The DC said he has already directed all SDMs to visit the field and explore new points for distribution. “There is definitely a need to have more points to further streamline the distribution but it is a matter of great achievement that UT has started feeding over 1 lakh people on a daily basis,” said Brar. “It is a challenging job feeding a large number of residents. There was food shortage for a few days after resources of some NGOs had dried up, but the UT has now begun providing ration to them. Besides, food preparation has increased in kitchens run by the administration,” the DC said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ut-decentralises-delivery-system-but-a-long-way-to-go/story-vwTH1CoSgY16z7R0v20FQO.html
21-04-2020||City||2 deaths, 44 fresh cases in Pune||PUNE Two deaths were recorded Pune late on Monday night, taking the death toll related to Covid-19 in the city to 52.As per the ciavic health department, 42 fresh cases were recorded in the 24-hour period between Monday evening and Tuesday evening. The total number of Covid-19 positive cases in Pune district now stands at 708. In addition, 19 patients were discharged form various hospitals in the city, taking the count of Covid-19 cured and discharged patients in the city to 87. Of the two casualties, one is a 57-year-old female admitted to Sassoon General hospital on April 19. The woman suffered from Type 1 respiratory failure with pneumonia and acute respiratory distress syndrome and diabetes. The second fatality was reported from the Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital, a 51-year-old female who was admitted on April 19. She also suffered from acute hypoxemic respiratory failure due to Covid-19, with diabetes and obesity. Of the 87 discharged, 76 are from Naidu hospital; one each from Sahyadri nagar road hospital, Bharati Vidyapeth hospital and the Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital; two from Jehangir hospital and three from Sassoon and three from KEM.As per the house-to-house surveys, on from March 15, a total of 750 teams have surveyed 39.81 lakh people. A total of 131 patients have been admitted to flu clinics in the city on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-deaths-44-fresh-cases-in-pune/story-GSAUDDEREHAsaUrX7pEdZP.html
21-04-2020||Chandigarh||No fresh Covid case, Chandigarh tally at 27||No fresh case of Covid-19 was reported in the city on Tuesday, however, the report of 24 persons tested on Tuesday is awaited. After the last case confirmed on Monday, the number of confirmed cases in Chandigarh stands at 27, with 13 cases being active. As many as 14 people have recovered and no one has succumbed to the virus in the city so far.Health officials said the 25 contacts of the 82-year-old woman from Sector 18, whose case was reported on Monday, have been traced. Blood samples of all twelve household contacts of the patient as well as two more family contacts living in an adjacent house have been drawn. Three community contacts have also been traced and are under watch. Reports of all suspected persons is awaited.Two family contacts of the 52-year-old woman from Sector 30, who tested positive last Friday, have also tested negative. Meanwhile, the patients’ community contact, residing in Sector 21, also tested negative. Another community contact who is residing in Punjab has been traced and information has been conveyed to the Punjab health department, officials said.About 497 people have been tested in Chandigarh so far. As many as 24 people are suspected to be infected, while 600 are in quarantine. Meanwhile the UT administration has stopped the use of rapid testing kits for Covid after the Indian Council of Medical Research on Tuesday told states to stop using the newly-distributed Chinese kits for the next two days following reports of varying accuracy in the results across the region. Chandigarh health secretary, Arun Gupta, said they have stopped testing after the communication from ICMR. Around 9 persons tested with these kits all tested negative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-fresh-covid-case-chandigarh-tally-at-27/story-ae3w91msb92LSnQis3irUI.html
21-04-2020||Lucknow||Online teaching training program for AMU faculty||Professor Tariq Mansoor, vice chancellor of Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) has launched a four-day online teaching training programme for AMU faculty. It will be extended to two-week subject refresher course and three-week orientation programme for assistant professors. The course is organised by the UGC Human Resource Development Centre in technical collaboration with the MNF Computer Centre, AMU.820 teachers are enrolled for this course, including deans of faculties, principles of colleges, directors of centres, chairpersons, professors, associates, and assistant professors from diverse streams.In his inaugural address, Mansoor reiterated the need of online teaching for AMU faculty in the wake of the nationwide lockdown. He said that while we take all precautions to keep the pandemic at bay, we must adapt new and innovative teaching methods to benefit our students and let the academic calendar suffer no time loss. He said students should be motivated to spend on technology for education including a good laptop, smartphone and internet connectivity.Course coordinator professor Abdur Raheem Kidwai, director UGC-HRD Centre, AMU has planned interactive online sessions on virtual classroom by Dr P M Khan, director MNF Computer Centre, Google classroom teaching and assignments by Dr Asim Zafar, dean of computer science, MOODLEs by Dr K Srinivas, head ICT, NIEPA, New Delhi, online video presentations by Dr S M Khan, dean of psychology, AMU and OERs by Dr Zafar Iqbal, MA Library, AMU.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/online-teaching-training-program-for-amu-faculty/story-YZhLsipgfUvfKRkasN3snM.html
21-04-2020||Lucknow||73 foreign jamaatis to be sent to temporary jails post quarantine period||MEERUT Seventy-three foreign Tablighi Jamaat attendees who have completed their quarantine period and have tested negative would be shifted in temporary jails under the judicial custody, authorities said on Tuesday.District administrations in Saharanpur and Meerut have identified juvenile centre and a few other buildings to be converted into temporary jails, in both the districts, to keep the foreign jamaatis.Sanjay Kumar, divisional commissioner of Saharanpur said that these foreign jamaatis attended the event at Nizamuddin, Delhi and thereafter visited different districts. They were traced and many of them were found infected with the coronavirus. While many of them were placed under quarantine, others were sent for the treatment.Cases of foreign act and violation of visa rules were registered against them. “54 jamaatis who have completed their quarantine and tested negative would be kept in temporary jail. Courts will hear their cases,” said Kumar.Similarly, 19 foreign attendees will also be shifted to temporary jail in Meerut. SP (city) AN Singh said, “We have identified at least two buildings where the foreign jamaat attendees will be kept during their trials in the court”. He further said, “The 19 jamaatis will complete their quarantine period in a couple of days”.The arrested jamaatis are from Bangladesh, Sudan, Malaysia, Kazakhstan and many other countries. These attendees arrived here as tourists and have been charged with travelling across the country violating visa rules and performing religious activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/73-foreign-jamaatis-to-be-sent-to-temporary-jails-post-quarantine-period/story-YPglc0ZLwkR3hUSn0H5kpJ.html
21-04-2020||City||7 booked in Bhiwandi for gathering on terrace for prayers||The police have booked seven people for gathering to perform namaz in a building in Bhiwandi on Monday.They had gathered on the terrace of their building at Vaza in Bhiwandi to perform namaz but the police came to know about this. Cops reached the spot and booked them. The Bhiwandi city police said they have registered a case under 188, 269 and 270 of the Indian Penal Code. In another case, the police booked two people for ferrying around 60 labourers in a truck whom they had assured to drop at their villages in Uttar Pradesh.Rajan Yadav, 29, and Obidur Rehman Chaudhary, 39, arranged a truck and were ferrying around 60 labourers to Uttar Pradesh when they were caught in a nakabandi. Vaman Bhoir, inspector from Shanti Nagar police station, said, “The two first told us that they are going to the company which comes under essential service. After checking, we come to know that the two were taking the labourers to their villages in Uttar Pradesh.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/7-booked-in-bhiwandi-for-gathering-on-terrace-for-prayers/story-Bbe2qEGuIuN47L21lnjOqJ.html
21-04-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University gears up for testing Covid-19 samples||Panjab University (PU) is upgrading its laboratories and training its manpower to gear up for testing Covid-19 samples.Earlier, PU along with the Institute of Microbial Technology (IMTECH), Indian Institutes of Science Education and Research (IISER), Institute of Nanoscience and Technology (INST) and PU had been identified as potential testing sites department of biotechnology, government of India.Faculty of science dean Prince Sharma said, “We are in process of preparing a biosafety level 2 lab with equipment.”“However, we will take samples in inactivated form so that their no risk of getting the infection,” he said.PU has nine reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) machines in different departments and a database of all these have been prepared.The varsity has a pool of around 40 research scholars who are ready to volunteer to carry out RT-PCR tests. Out of these, a group of 10 has been identified as trained manpower.Whenever the need arises, these research scholars will be given a short training and they will be ready for testing. “They may be provided hostel facility for accommodation or curfew passes,” said Sharma.IMTECH will serve as the hub for collection of samples and processing them for inactivation or ribonucleic acid (RNA) isolation and then will distribute these, along with kits, to the spokes centres, including IISER, INST and PU for testing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-gears-up-for-testing-covid-19-samples/story-Fjt8G2U4nfp0VE4oQfj7IO.html
21-04-2020||City||Door-to-door garbage collection: Ludhiana MC to collect and dump masks, gloves separately||In view of the rising cases of coronavirus, Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) has directed the garbage collectors to keep the used masks and gloves received from households in separate bags. Such bags will be dumped at the secondary dumping points from where they will be transported and buried at the main dump site of the MC on Tajpur Road (Jamalpur Awana) by A2Z company. MC health branch officials said it was possible that if a resident is coronavirus positive, the gloves and masks disposed by him/her could infect the garbage collectors also. Meanwhile, MC commissioner Kanwalpreet Kaur Brar has issued directions to the health branch officials, who have initiated training of the garbage collectors across the city. The collectors have been given gloves and masks, and have been directed to spread awareness among the residents for keeping the masks and gloves separately. One of the health branch officials, requesting anonymity, said, “Though the garbage collectors have been told to collect the gloves and masks separately, no household is complying to the guidelines. If needed, the collectors will have to segregate the masks from the garbage.”MC chief Brar said, “Masks and gloves come under hazardous waste. In case of the houses of residents who have been quarantined, an alternate system has been put in place and the company lifting bio-medical waste from the city collects garbage from them.”MASKS, GLOVES AND SANITISERS DISTRIBUTED AMONG OFFICE STAFF Days after distributing masks, gloves and sanitisers to the field staff, MC on Tuesday started giving away the same to the ministerial staff deployed in its zonal and sub offices. Mayor Balkar Sandhu said, “Each and every step is being taken to ensure the safety of MC staff who are working to keep the city safe at this time of crisis.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/door-to-door-garbage-collection-ludhiana-mc-to-collect-and-dump-masks-gloves-separately-amid-coronavirus-lockdown/story-w3OjFlNn7ezHmbRRcPpL0K.html
21-04-2020||Chandigarh||Class IV employee ends life in Ludhiana, mentions ATM PIN in suicide note||Ludhiana: A class IV employee of the municipal corporation ended his life in Jawahar Nagar camp on Tuesday.The deceased has been identified as 38-year-old Surinder Kumar, who hailed from Kangra in Himachal Pradesh, and was deputed at zone-D office of the municipal corporation. Surinder’s younger brother Joginder Kumar, who lived along with him, said that on Monday night after having the dinner both the brothers had gone to sleep. “Around 10:00am on Tuesday morning, when I woke up, I saw my brother’s body hanging with the ceiling fan. I was shocked. I raised alarm and informed the police,” he said.Police said, though the reason behind his extreme step is yet to be ascertained, they have found a suicide note in which he has mentioned about the PIN number of his debit card, so that his family could withdraw cash from his account.ASI Bhupinder Singh, in-charge of Kochar Market police post, said that prima facie it seems the deceased was in depression. The police are also probing his brother’s role, but did not find anything suspicious. “We are waiting for his wife to reach Ludhiana to record her statement. The Himachal police have been approached to issue curfew pass to the family so that they can reach here,” he said.Surinder had got the job on compassionate ground after his father’s death. He is survived by his wife and two children, who live in Kangra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/class-iv-employee-ends-life-in-ludhiana-mentions-atm-pin-in-suicide-note/story-SqjhDnqh7iOUs9wVqHcQoK.html
21-04-2020||City||Anganwadi workers hold protest from rooftops in Ludhiana||Anganwadi workers in the district staged a protest from rooftops on Tuesday asking the government to provide health insurance at par with that of other government employees working during the time of pandemic.The call for strike had been given by the Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU).The CITU, a leading trade union, had called for the protest demanding better wages for workers, food for their families, protection and safety of jobs, etc.“We are also working in the field like police officials, MC workers and other employees, but the government has not provided us the health insurance cover like others. We are also putting our lives at risk every day,” said Anju Mehta, district press secretary of the Anganwadi Mulazim Union.Mehta criticised the Centre and the state government for asking them to be frontline warriors, but without ensuring their safety and livelihood.Presently, there are 2,487 Anganwadi centres in the district with two workers in each centre.“The government has ignored us in all respects. While the administration is assigning us duties of distributing ration and pensions among the people amid lockdown, but it has not even provided us face masks, sanitisers or gloves for duty,” she added.The workers, holding protest from rooftops, held placards with the message ‘Bhashan Na Do, Rashan Do’ (Give ration, not speech).Mehta claimed ration distribution in the district had not been carried out effectively due to insufficient supply of ration.“In the first week, we started the process of filling forms for the distribution of ration, but that was stopped after a few days due to lack of supply. We can only start effective distribution of ration among the needy, if the government ensures enough supply,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aaganwadi-workers-hold-protest-from-rooftops-in-ludhiana/story-uQP3QUWX7LRbB00W8UrXTM.html
21-04-2020||City||98% samples taken in Haryana test negative for Covid-19||About 98% of the samples taken in Haryana have tested negative for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), shows the data accessed from the Haryana health department. As per the figures, the Haryana government has so far sent samples of 14,560 people, 12,253 of which tested negative. Only 255 — about 2% — have tested positive for the infection, whereas reports of 2,069 samples sent to different labs in the state are awaited. Even in most of the districts, about 99% of the samples collected have tested negative, raising questions over the criteria set for the sampling as the country is already reeling under the shortage of testing kits. In Karnal district, total 585 samples have been sent for examination of which, only six (1.15%) came out positive. 521 samples have tested negative, while reports of 55 are pending. In Panipat, of 395 samples, 364 tested negative, whereas reports of 27 are awaited. Only five persons (1.37%) in the district were found infected and four of them have been cured and discharged. Similarly, 536 samples were sent for examination from Kurukshetra district and reports of 489 came out negative. Results of 45 samples are pending. As of now, only two persons, 0.40% of the people examined, have tested positive. They have been cured. A senior official in the Haryana health department, on the condition of anonymity, said, “Yes, we can see that most of the samples tested negative. On the one hand, it is a good thing; but on the other, the huge number of negative reports has raised many questions as there already is shortage of testing kits in the country.” “In fact, all 98 samples sent to Covid-19 lab in Karnal’s Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College from Ambala on Monday have tested negative,” he added. In this regard, most of the officials in the health department were reluctant to speak and maintained that they were following the guidelines issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). “We test only suspected patients and it is an expansive exercise. We take samples of only those people who fit in the criteria. Many of the patients are asymptomatic, but we need to examine them,” said Dr Sheelkant Pajani, nodal officer for Covid-19 in Ambala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/98-samples-taken-in-haryana-test-negative-for-covid-19/story-Mvn6RDQrBenr06mQTZeuuL.html
21-04-2020||Chandigarh||PGIMER disabled employees demand exemption from essential services||Persons with disabilities working at Chandigarh’s Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) have not been exempted from attending essential services despite orders issued by the Central government’s department of personnel and training (DoPT) on March 27 to this effect.In a letter to the PGIMER administration on April 7, employees with disabilities had asked for implementation of DoPT orders that all ministries and departments, while drawing up a roster of staff required to attend essential services within their respective ministries and departments, should keep in mind that persons with disabilities are exempted. No response, however, to the letter has been received.In another letter issued later, the employees have said: “All the department heads should be asked to draw a roster keeping in view the DoPT guidelines, which has not been done after passing of more than two weeks since we wrote to the institute.”Around 100 disabled workers in the institute are affiliated with DoPT.Commenting on the matter, Satyaveer Dagur, president of the Disabled Employees’ Union of the institute, said it was getting increasingly difficult for the staff to report for duties due to non-availability of transport, which the institute should have provided.He demanded that PGIMER implement the Central government’s order.PGIMER spokesperson, Dr Ashok Kumar, said the orders will be implemented soon. “I need to check with the administration about what can be done on our part. We will implement the orders.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pgimer-disabled-employees-demand-exemption-from-essential-services/story-ENww6FKdkyc2KtIHYwf9VM.html
21-04-2020||City||Social distancing missing at Ludhiana’s wholesale medicine market||If complete chaos is being witnessed at Sabzi Mandi, the epicentre of Covid-19 infection in Ludhiana, social distancing was completely amiss at Pindi Street wholesale medicine market in Chaura Bazar here.The biggest wholesale drugs and medical supplies market of the northern region, Pindi Street has been seeing huge rush these days.Not giving two hoots to government’s guidelines concerning Covid-19, the traders appear least bothered about the spread of the virus.From the rush at Pindi Street, it appears that no lesson has been learnt from the death of ACP Anil Kohli, who is suspected to have caught the Covid-19 infection while managing crowd at Sabzi Mandi.“The market has been receiving rush just like any other day. While some shops have got the license to operate, there are many wholesalers who are operating illegally. Instead of taking action against the violators, even the police are looking the other way,” said one of the employees working for a drug store in the market. Another employee said that even schedule H drugs, particularly de-addition drugs, are also being sold unabatedly. “Even ayurvedic medicine wholesalers are receiving huge rush of people demanding immunity booster medicines. While the business could be justified, but what if a COVID-19 positive patient, who is asymptomatic, enters the market and spread the virus. There should be some mechanism in place. We are poor people and do not have any other source of earning. If we object, we will be thrown out of the job,” said the employee.Ludhiana Wholesale Chemist Association president GS Chawla said that like everyone else, the chemists are also worried about their health and the well being of our children and they are taking every precaution to protect themselves from the virus.“There are 400 wholesalers in the narrow streets of the market. Of the total, nearly 200 have the pass to supply medicines. Besides the owners of these wholesale shops, 800 to 900 people employed in these shops visit the market daily. Apart from them, traders from other parts of the state also visit the Pindi Street market. The crowd mainly involves these people and rush mainly appears because of congested street,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/social-distancing-missing-at-ludhiana-s-wholesale-medicine-market/story-V5c6BzPgCCSCGoNH5Y4nlN.html
21-04-2020||City||Vehicle ferrying critically-ill war veteran halted for 3 hours in Kinnaur||A private vehicle ferrying a critically-ill war veteran was halted for three hours by the local police at Chaura checkpoint in Kinnaur on Tuesday.Piare Lal, 74, who had fought in the 1965 and 1971 wars fought against Pakistan, was referred to the Ex-servicemen Contributory Health Scheme Polyclinic in Sector 47, Chandigarh by the local doctors on April 18. However, as the banks were closed, his family members decided to travel on a later date. On Tuesday, the vehicle ferrying Piare Lal was stopped by the police and his relatives were asked to produce travel documents amid the lockdown imposed in the state.His family members said that they even applied for a curfew pass and despite showing the referral slip to the police, their vehicle was halted for three hours at Chaura checkpoint.However, their vehicle was allowed to move following the intervention of a police officer posted in Shimla. “It is a matter of concern that a private vehicle for a medical emergency was stopped at Chaura,” said Kinnaur MLA Jagat Singh Negi.Negi also said stranded children of Kinnaur superintendent of police Saju Ram Rana had been brought from a red zone in Delhi about a week ago.However, a police spokesperson said that they were issued interstate curfew pass on April 13 so that they could come back from Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/vehicle-ferrying-critically-ill-war-veteran-halted-for-3-hours-in-kinnaur/story-MFmdqiR9UYOh23ZPdYB6NL.html
21-04-2020||City||Stranded amid lockdown, 250 depart from Amritsar airport||As many as 250 residents of the UK, including 28 Indians, who were stranded in the country after the nationwide lockdown, departed for London from Amritsar airport via a special flight started by the British government on Tuesday.Of these 250 passengers, around 120 were taken to the Amritsar airport from Ludhiana by four Volvo buses arranged by the British High Commission.The commission had tied up with KTC Transport Company to ferry the passengers from the different districts of the state to the airport. The bus drivers, who had been provided the list of passengers by the commission, verified the ID numbers provided to the passengers before they boarded the bus.On Tuesday morning, a number of green card holders had gathered near the Bhai Bala Chowk in Ludhiana. Most of the passengers that were travelling back home were elderly. Among them, an 82-year-old Amarjit Kaur, a resident of England, said, “I came to Ludhiana on March 3 to meet my relatives and for some personal work. I had to return on March 31, but the flights were cancelled.”“A few days ago, I wrote a mail to the British High Commission that I want to go back home to my family. Soon, I received a reply and they asked me to reach near Bhai Bala Chowk today morning,” she said while adding that she was worried about her VISA that will expire on May 1.Meanwhile, Punjab’s special chief secretary (disaster management COVID-19) KBS Sidhu had also confirmed on Twitter, “Amritsar International Airport: British Airways special chartered flight for London departs shortly. 222 (UK) + 28 (Indian) Total PAX 250.”On Friday, the British Airways had announced 17 charter flights to airlift the residents of UK from India. Among these, four flights will depart from Amritsar airport on April 21, 23, 25 and 27, while the other flights will depart from Ahmadabad, Bangalore (via Ahmadabad), Delhi, Goa and Mumbai, as per the release issued by the Press and Communications, British High Commission, New Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/stranded-amid-lockdown-250-depart-from-amritsar-airport/story-olpK4VZb6GgrY9Lx30sshO.html
21-04-2020||City||Seeking ration for hungry families, women knock at Zirakpur MC door||“We are eating just one meal a day as we are running out of ration,” said Sukhi Devi of Sukna colony in Zirakpur, who violated the curfew to get some food for her hungry family.She along with about 50 other women of her colony collected outside Zirakpur’s municipal council office, in violation of the curfew, to demand ration. The women gathered at the MC office after they heard about ration being distributed there. Sukhi Devi, a daily wager doing construction work, has been out of work for about a month now. “No one has come to provide ration in our colony. How do we feed our children as we have no money?” she asked.Sukna colony is located near Zirakpur MC office where most residents are daily wagers. They are picked up from labour chowk in Zirakpur for work at a number of construction sites. But the curfew put an end to their earning.Bimla, another resident of the colony, said, “Milk and vegetable vendors are coming to the colony everyday, but not even once have authorities supplied us with ration. Khilaye kya jab na atta hai na chawal (what should we eat when there is no flour or rice?”Saroj Bala said “They distributed ration here, but why are they not giving us some? The chakkis in the area are also closed so even if we have grains we can’t use them. If you can’t give us ration, at least allow chakkis to operate so we can have some flour.”However, Mohali additional deputy commissioner (ADC) Aashika Jain said that ration has been distributed across the district. “I will have their claims verified and only after that we will help. But they should also have to face action if their claims are false ,” Jain said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/seeking-ration-for-hungry-families-women-knock-at-zirakpur-mc-door/story-krlRvVcvrhI4YyA7hWTJeO.html
21-04-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn asks PU to pitch in with blood donation||As blood donation in city hospitals has reduced in the wake of coronavirus outbreak, the administration has asked Panjab University (PU) to organise blood donation camps on its campus.In a letter to the university, UT principal secretary, home, Arun Kumar Gupta, has said, “It is understood that some students, faculty and staff are staying on campus. So, it is requested that blood donation camps may be organised on campus... in association with the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32.”The move comes as city-based government hospitals are left with only a week or 10 days’ worth of blood stock.GMCH director principal Dr BS Chavan said, “Yesterday, we had only 200 units of blood left. Our daily requirement is of 25-30 units, which means, we are left with hardly one week’s worth of stock.”At the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), around 40 people donate blood every day, 30 of whom are voluntary donors. Currently, the demand has reduced to about 80 units (blood and blood components), while the collection has come down to 100-150 units. The hospital staff and NGO workers have been making hundreds of calls every day to those in the list of volunteer blood donors and organisations. PU CONSTITUTES PANEL Meanwhile, PU vice-chancellor Raj Kumar has constituted a 15-member panel to coordinate for the blood donation. The panel includes dean university instructions (DUI) Shankar Ji Jha and dean students welfare (DSW) Emanual Nahar, and Dr Keshav Malhotra.The committee has been in constant touch with the blood banks of GMCH, PGIMER, Government Multi Speciality Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, and Rotary and Blood Bank Society Resource Centre, Sector 37, where university students and employees can donate blood.PU Campus Students Council (PUCSC) president Chetan Chaudhary, who is also a member of the panel, has requested all the students of the university to come forward and donate blood.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-admn-asks-pu-to-pitch-in-with-blood-donation/story-hrOOCs0AMOEF8ajeFaW2rM.html
21-04-2020||City||72 people who attended Covid-positive man’s funeral, quarantined||Around 72 people, who attended the funeral of a 44-year-old Covid-19 positive man at Lokmanya Nagar on Monday, have been quarantined by the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC). The 44-year-old’s test report came after his death, which led to a panic among crematorium staff. They said those who were on duty were not provided with protective gears and also have not been quarantined. Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner of TMC, said, “The medical officer said none of the crematorium staff had come in direct contact with the body and all necessary precautions were taken. So we did not feel the need to quarantine them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/72-people-who-attended-covid-positive-man-s-funeral-quarantined/story-gDaj8yvsbACq7wsDWGUidJ.html
21-04-2020||City||Ludhiana: Officials ignoring ration distribution duty warned of strict action||If any official ignores or fails to perform his/her duty of ration distribution during lockdown/curfew, strict action under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the IPC would be taken against such an employee.Issuing this order, district magistrate-cum-deputy commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal said, “It has come to my notice that some officials (especially in the police commissionerate area) are either not reporting for duty in offices or remain absent after reaching there.”He said, “As ration distribution in the city is being done at the police station level, all SHOs have been directed to register FIRs against such officials and inform the office of the district magistrate.”Agrawal has also directed the commissioner of police, SSPs of Khanna and Ludhiana (rural), all additional deputy commissioners, SDMs, tehsildars, sub-registrars, naib tehsildars and other officials to strictly comply with these orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-officials-ignoring-ration-distribution-duty-warned-of-strict-action/story-meWsFLTGzp8D9TTWsk6VpK.html
21-04-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC will not have summer vacation if lockdown lifted on May 3||In light of the curtailed working of the courts due to the Covid-19 lockdown and to cover up for lost time, the Bombay high court administration and registry on Tuesday decided not to avail the one-month summer vacation period starting May 7 if the lockdown is lifted. According to officials, in the event of the vacations being cancelled all the benches of the high court at Mumbai, Nagpur and Aurangabad will work an additional 30 minutes and will sit from 10.30 am till 5 pm. During normal course the courts used to convene at 11 am.Confirming the decision taken by the court administration and registry, SB Agarwal, registrar general, said that apart from the HC, all subordinate courts including district courts would also have to cancel their vacations and work on regular basis if the lockdown is lifted on May 3. Agarwal however added that in the event of the lockdown being extended, the current arrangement of hearing urgent matters on select dates between 12 noon and 2 pm could continue through video conferencing.Earlier on April 16, following the extension of the Covid-19 lockdown period which was extended from April 14 to May 3, the HC administration had said that the current arrangement of hearing only extremely urgent matters through video conferencing from 12 noon to 2 pm on stipulated dates would continue till May 5. The HC had said that it would take a review of the situation on May 4 and said that all interim orders and arrangements passed by it and its subordinate courts would be in force till June 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-will-not-have-summer-vacation-if-lockdown-lifted-on-may-3/story-0TvYWuE2eazoBKja525jRM.html
21-04-2020||City||Close shave for SDM after vehicle comes under avalanche in Kashmir||A sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) of north Kashmir along with his security guard and driver were rescued by the army after the vehicle they were travelling in came under an avalanche in Kupwara district on Tuesday.Karnah SDM Bilal Mohiuddin Bhat, his special police officer (SPO) and driver were on their way to Kupwara from Karnah when they were hit by a snow avalanche near Sadhna Top.A video of the rescue operation was shared on social media in which the army men are seen giving solace to the trapped travellers. “Don’t worry,” an army man could be seen gesturing to the passengers.Kupwara superintendent of police Shriram Ambarkar Dinkar said army’s 7 RR battalion is close to where the vehicle came under an avalanche.“The vehicle got damaged, but all three people were rescued. There were minor injuries to the driver and SPO due to the breaking of the glass panes,” Dinkar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/close-shave-for-sdm-after-vehicle-comes-under-avalanche-in-kashmir/story-slOdmIl4YdvlFu9sZ2MnLP.html
21-04-2020||Chandigarh||6, including 5 from Dera Bassi Covid-19 hotspot, discharged from Banur hospital||Six people, including five from Jawaharpur village, the Dera Bassi Covid-19 ‘hotspot,’ were discharged from the Covid Care Centre at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur on Tuesday after recovering from the virus.With this, the count of total recoveries in Mohali district has gone up to 14.District epidemiologist Dr Renu Singh said that those discharged included two women aged 39 and 61, a boy aged 12, and three men aged between 42 and 43.Apart from those from Jawaharpur village, one person named Abdul Razaaq from Mauli Baidwan village was released. Notably, Jawaharpur has witnessed highest number of Covid-19 cases in the state after a panch and sarpanch did not observe self-isolation norms.Singh said the patients would be quarantined for 14 days as a precautionary measure at the district level quarantine centre in Sector 70, Mohali, and then sent home.All the patients were admitted to hospital on April 6 and their samples taken after they came in contact with other positive cases. While lauding the health teams at Gian Sagar Hospital’s Covid Centre, Dr Singh said all the doctors, nurses, paramedical staff there were real warriors performing their duty with hard work and dedication while risking their lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/6-including-5-from-dera-bassi-covid-19-hotspot-discharged-from-banur-hospital/story-tLTUN5DyDlxua8QQPVIgPI.html
21-04-2020||City||Coronavirus outbreak: Ludhiana hospital disburses advance Covid-19 claims worth ₹48 lakh||Amid the ongoing coronavirus lockdown, Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH), the only exempted provident fund (PF) trust in the district, has disbursed Rs 48.63 lakh advance among its employees as Covid-19 advance withdrawal claim. The hospital’s move comes after the Union labour ministry’s March 30 notification that had relaxed the rules of PF withdrawal to help people in financial distress amid the pandemic.Exempted PF establishments are the ones that have exemptions of filing employees’ provident fund (EPF) returns with the Employees Provident Fund and Organisation (EPFO) and manage their workers’ PF accounts as well as funds.‘28 ADVANCE WITHDRAWAL CLAIM REQUESTS SETTLED’CMCH finance manager Amit Aggarwal said that so far, the establishment has settled all the 28 advance withdrawal claim requests they had received from their employees. “Since the government’s notification, we have received around 28 claim requests from our staff, including nurses, lab technicians and doctors. We are settling all the withdrawal claims of Covid-19 within 24 hours of requests,” he said.On Monday, the EPFO head office had shared that till date, the private PF trusts across the country have disbursed a total of Rs 481.63 crore to their employees as the Covid-19 advance claim. “It is heartening to see that CMCH, the only exempted establishment covered under the jurisdiction of Ludhiana regional office, rose to the occasion and extended benefits to its employees in a timely manner,” said EPFO regional commissioner Dheeraj Gupta. Since the imposition of the lockdown by the government, the EPFO has also settled a total of 6,934 claims, including 2,613 Covid-19 advance claims, and disbursed Rs 17.71 crore in the district till date, he said.“I appeal to all the establishments employing 100 or less people with 90% of them having wages less than Rs 15,000 to take benefit of the financial relief under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana under which both the employees and the employers’ shares will be paid by the government for the next three months,” Gupta said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-outbreak-ludhiana-hospital-disburses-advance-covid-19-claims-worth-48-lakh/story-gPO58nMgLx5DDNeItTGjBI.html
21-04-2020||Mumbai||Schools come up with safety guidelines to follow once lockdown ends||In order to ensure the safety and wellbeing of students once schools open, a group of educationists from the country have come up with a list of suggestions and recommendations that schools could adhere to once the lockdown ends. Drafted by SLN Global Network, a group which consists of school heads, academicians and education experts, the suggestions include measures to be taken before and after schools reopen. In addition to basic precautions like sanitisation of the school campus, temperature checks of staff and avoiding outside visitors in schools, the document also lists out recommendations on classroom functioning. Some of the suggested measures include having one student per bench with six feet distance between two students, rotational online and offline classes for students and splitting the class into two and conducting double shifts to ensure that all students don’t have to come at the same time. The document also suggests the formation of a core committee consisting of the school heads and medical professionals to conduct safety audits of campuses, recommend home quarantine for students if required and to prepare for any kind of health emergencies. “The anxiety level among the parents post the Covid-19 Lockdown might remain high until a vaccine is found. Hence schools have to start incorporating changes in their campus and innovate structures which enable them to function with a blended learning education model (school + online+ home) if they wish to retain the trust of parents when it comes to being a safe campus. These conversations have started taking place elsewhere in the world and in India, we wanted to initiate them. These are suggestions, not guidelines, as context will vary from school to school,” said Francis Joseph,co-founder, SLN Global Network. With the lockdown being postponed until May 3, most CBSE and ICSE schools have already started their new academic years online while children from the state board are also being sent online study material.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/schools-come-up-with-safety-guidelines-to-follow-once-lockdown-ends/story-UFwPgEcArKrjMx07qywFrJ.html
21-04-2020||City||Working in the times of pandemic:‘EPFO has taken special measures to resolve grievances during lockdown’||In view of the special situation created by the lockdown, the Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) here has also taken special online measures to resolve the grievances of employers and employees raised via social networking platforms such as Facebook, Twitter and WhatsApp. Stating this, Shivendra Verma, a data processing assistant (DPA) with the EPFO, said, “Besides addressing the grievances on priority, I ensure that all technical issues raised by employees and employers are also resolved to their satisfaction immediately.” “At a time when work is being carried out through electronic medium, we cannot afford any sort of technical glitches. We are keeping our systems up to the mark so that transactions and data update continue without issues,” said Verma. Verma, who is going to the regional office of EPFO in Shyam Nagar on a rotational basis with others, said the entire department staff members are working hard and more intensely than normal days. “Since the government has relaxed norms for making advance PF deposits and withdrawals, we are settling more claims than we did on normal days. The office is settling claims within 24 hours. Since, we represent a region that employs a large number of workers, each of us is making extra effort to resolve grievances and disburse the claims without delay,” he said. “We are also working under many health and family pressures. Stepping out of home during this time of pandemic is also scary and risky, especially for me. I was diagnosed with aplastic anemia in 2014, the treatment of which includes medicines to suppress one’s immune system. After that, the doctor advised me to take all preventive measures throughout my life. People with low immunity like me are more at risk of coronavirus, so I have been taking all the necessary precautions to protect myself while on duty,” he said. Verma’s wife Prembala is also an employee in the PF office.They have two children Sachita, 13, and Arnav, 10. The family likes to watch Ramayana and Mahabharata, that made a comeback on the national television last month. “While my kids are fond of cartoons, Ramayana and Mahabharata have been our all-time favorite,” said Verma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/working-in-the-times-of-pandemic-epfo-has-taken-special-measures-to-resolve-grievances-during-lockdown/story-0HvOsvq7PWxF11XD2IhU6K.html
21-04-2020||City||Two held for drug peddling in Ludhiana||Although a curfew has been imposed in the state, drug peddlers are smuggling contraband. The special task force (STF), Ludhiana, arrested two drug peddlers on Monday night and recovered 360gm heroin from their possession.The arrested accused have been identified as Vijay Kumar alias Bholu, 26, of Kailash Nagar; and Karan Kumar alias Kannu, 23, of New Anandpuri. The supplier of drugs, who has been identified as Sushant Kumar alias Shanky of Kailash Nagar, is yet to be arrested.STF assistant inspector general (AIG) Snehdeep Sharma said, “Sub-inspector Gurcharan Singh arrested the accused near Nanda Colony following a tip-off. They were on a bike and were stopped for checking. The STF team recovered 360 gm heroin, which was hidden under the seat of the bike.”The AIG said, “Vijay Kumar is a hosiery worker, while Karan Kumar is in marketing of hosiery machinery. The latter is already facing trial in a case of drug peddling.”The accused said that they work for Sushant Kumar, who supplies drugs to the addicts through them. “We have been drug peddling for the past two years,” they added.A case under Sections 21, 29, 61 and 85 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Drugs and Substances (NDPS) Act was registered against them at STF, Mohali. A hunt is on for the arrest of Sushant Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-held-for-drug-peddling-in-ludhiana/story-sn37dtB4ZrCjn6eFNgh9QL.html
21-04-2020||Chandigarh||Legal services authority starts mental health counselling amid Covid-19 lockdown in Chandigarh||The state legal services authority (SLSA) in association with department of health, Chandigarh, has started counselling sessions for the public over phone.The services were started following directions from Justice Jaswant Singh, judge at the Punjab and Haryana high court-cum-executive chairman of the SLSA.“The present scenario amid the Covid-19 lockdown has lead to an unprecedented change in lifestyle and had a huge impact on the mental health of people. Cases of depression and anxiety have been rising and become a huge concern,” an official statement said.The statement mentioned how people do not have access to authentic and credible information regarding medical misconceptions being circulated, leading to anxiety.The counseling sessions will be conducted from 3pm to 5pm on all working days by medical officer Dr Nisha and clinical psychologist Urvashi. They will be free of cost and complete patient – doctor confidentiality will be maintained, the statement added.“To make an appointment, people can contact the authority through local helpline numbers, 70871- 12348, 1516 and 15100. After the appointment is fixed, the client will receive a call during the allotted time,” as per the statement.“The project is its preliminary stage and depending on the response, the possibility of scaling it up will be considered,” the statement added.Mahavir Singh, member secretary, SLSA, and Ashok Kumar Mann, CJM-cum-secretary, district legal services authority, will be in-charge of monitoring the ground level implementation of the programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/legal-services-authority-starts-mental-health-counselling-amid-covid-19-lockdown-in-chandigarh/story-RFfKKPF31G5B9TwW3h6YoJ.html
21-04-2020||Mumbai||Self-plagiarism will not be accepted in any new research work: UGC||Reusing one’s own published work in academia without proper citation will now constituteplagiarism according to the University Grants Commission (UGC).In a notice issued on Monday, the apex body regulating all higher education institutes inthe country said that self-plagiarism will not be accepted in any new research work. “Reproduction, in part or whole, of one’s own previously published work without adequate citation and proper acknowledgement and claiming the most recent work as new and original for any academic advantage amounts to ‘text-recycling’ [also known as self- plagiarism] and is not acceptable,” said the notice issued by UGC secretary Rajneesh Jain.In 2018, the UGC issued the Promotion of Academic lntegrity and Prevention of Plagiarismin Higher Educational Institutions Regulations in an effort to curb plagiarism. The UGC’s recent notice banning self-plagiarism is yet another part of its initiative to restrict academic piracy. According to the regulatory body, text-recycling of self-plagiarism can be in the form ofrepublishing the same paper already published elsewhere without due and full citation or even publishing smaller or excerpted work from a longer and previous work in order to show a larger number of publications. Reusing data already used in a published work, or communicated for publication, in another work will not be accepted. Researchers can neither publish smaller parts of a longer study as new work nor paraphrase their own previously published work. To be able to do any of these, they must give full citation of their published work, said the UGC adding that self-citations will not add to the researcher’s citation index or h-index in global academia.The UGC has directed university authorities involved in academic performance evaluation andassessment to be on the lookout for self-plagiarism while deciding promotions, selections, credit allotment and award of research degrees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/self-plagiarism-will-not-be-accepted-in-any-new-research-work-ugc/story-eu69P3XW2SksEn9VG50Z3N.html
21-04-2020||Mumbai||CET announces online admissions for medical and dental courses||To avoid delay in admissions to post-graduate medical and dental courses due to the Covid-19 lockdown, the state common entrance test (CET) cell has started online admissions. In a circular released on Monday, the CET cell requested state medical and dental institutes to share contact details of staff handling admissions and make arrangements for an online payment portal, so that students can pay the fees and confirm admissions once the seat allotment list is released on April 24. “While otherwise, a candidate would report physically to pay fees and confirm his/her seat, right now we’ve given students two options. In case of heavy lockdown due to Covid-19 in their area, one can visit the institute’s website to complete seat confirmation whereas if they are from parts of the state where lockdown status is lenient, they can physically visit the institute for the same purpose,” read the circular. The medical admissions process is otherwise divided between pre and post announcement of the seat allocation list. While the forms and preferences are filled online, candidates’ documents are verified individually by the state CET cell. Once the list is announced, students are expected to physically visit the college with required documents and pay the fees. Due to the lockdown, this entire process will now be done online. The CET cell has also requested institutes to go lenient on students given the outbreak. “Colleges are advised to sympathetically deal with admissions and only essential documents as per the information brochure should be demanded from candidates. In the event of candidates getting upgraded institutes in the consequent rounds or cancellation of admission, the fees deposited by them should be refunded within two working days,” adds the circular.While results for National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test-post graduate (NEET-PG) was announced in February, the admission process was delayed due to the lockdown. While currently there is little clarity over the lockdown period, officials said they can’t delay the admission process any further. “Candidates finished filling preferences online and the three rounds of common admissions too can be conducted online. Once this process is over, we will wait for the higher authorities to decide when to start the new academic year,” said a senior CET official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cet-announces-online-admissions-for-medical-and-dental-courses/story-r6v0sB0IM6tCIDjkeOAmDK.html
21-04-2020||City||Five booked for partying at a Vashi hotel||Five people, including a hotel owner from Vashi, were booked after the police raided the hotel and found them drinking on the terrace on Monday night. The police found three men and a woman having a party. The hotel’s owner was also booked for negligence. All five have been booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and Epidemic Diseases Act for not following lockdown norms and not practicing social distancing. The police also seized a bottle of imported whisky from them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/five-booked-for-partying-at-a-vashi-hotel/story-UDrkZyRbyAWioTwMwDUzZO.html
21-04-2020||City||Thane cops perform aarti of violators||In a bid to stop people from violating lockdown ordersThane police officers on Monday stopped bikers near Hiranandani Meadows at Chitalsar to ask why they were out. Some of the riders, who failed to give satisfactory answers, were asked to wait in batches, following which the police officers performed aarti of the violators. A total of 38 people were caught on Monday evening. Assistant police inspector S Rokde said, “We are tired of telling people to not come out of their houses. We often find bikers roaming outside without a reason. We had to adopt another way of driving home the message. We performed their aarti and told them that it was their duty to be safe and keep others safe.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-cops-perform-aarti-of-violators/story-mkVDBoZUJkcizlFroCWVoO.html
21-04-2020||Pune||On the frontline: This virus strain appears to be mild in nature, says Dr Arvind Parmar, RMO, Naidu hospital||Dr Arvind Parmar, Resident Medical Officer, Dr Naidu Infectious Diseases Hospital With a career spanning 28 years, Dr Arvind Parmar is among the team of doctors who is taking care of Covid-19 positive patients at the institutional quarantine facility at Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) Dr Naidu Infectious Diseases Hospital. Here’s what he had to say about his work. What exactly is your role in this crisis?Along with other medical officers, my primary role is to examine the patients who come from different parts of the city, ask them their symptoms and look for any important symptoms, examine their vitals and take X-rays of the chest. If the patient is asymptomatic, then he or she is advised to stay home and be quarantined. If the patient is in direct contact with a positive patient or staying in a hotspot area or has a foreign travel history and is symptomatic, then we admit the patient and go for nasal and pharyngeal swab. Our other role is going to the wards and taking rounds of the wards where the patients have been admitted. Thus, we have the dual role of examining patients in the OPD (out patients department) and taking rounds of the wards.How does your day begin and roll out?I wake up at 6 am and carry out my regular exercise for about an hour, take hot water bath and eat light breakfast and reach the hospital for duty. At 1 pm, I have my lunch which is provided by the hospital and before leaving the hospital in the evening, I sanitize myself with a spray which has been prepared by the hospital. On reaching home, I directly go to the bathroom to take hot water bath and after that take rest. The clothes I wear are put in hot water as the virus does not survive at 30 degrees Celsius. What precautions are you taking?I start my day with my mask on my face. After reaching the hospital, I am provided with head-cap, gloves, apron and goggles when I am in the OPD and taking the round in the patient wards. Now and then, we clean our hands with sanitisers. I see to it that the patient is seated at a distance of one metre from me and have masks on their face. I also ensure that they don’t touch the case papers, tables, chair. After examining each of the patients, we sanitise our hands. We see to it that we don’t touch our eyes, face, nose and ears so to avoid getting infected. We take the highest precautions and observe all the safety guidelines while dealing with the patients.What is your assessment of the Covid-19 crisis in Pune? How is it unfolding?My assessment as far as Naidu Hospital is concerned is that the virus strain is mild in nature and if precautions like social distancing and staying at home is taken, then we can overcome this crisis. Clusters where infections are rampant have been identified and concentrated effort must be taken in those clusters. We must ensure that each and every person belonging such clusters is sanitised. In line with what Prime Minister Narendra Modi who has appealed to the countrymen to stay indoors, we should all stay inside our houses to overcome the Covid-19 COVID crisis. What gaps do you see in healthcare and relief work?No such gaps, but the police department has to be alert because we see soon many people coming out and secondly, most importantly, a team of psychiatrists should be formed to take on the after-effects of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/on-the-frontline-this-virus-strain-appears-to-be-mild-in-nature-says-dr-arvind-parmar-rmo-naidu-hospital/story-gvkZew5S6uVxEuqOAdONyO.html
21-04-2020||Chandigarh||On Badnore’s call, RWAs, councillors help seal high-risk localities in Chandigarh||After the initiative by Fighters Welfare Club in Sector 40 to seal off their sector, Chandigarh administrator VP Singh Badnore has asked local authorities and organisations to replicate the model in other sectors which are contaminated zones. Following this, parts of Sector 30 and Dadumajra have been sealed and some RWAs are making individual efforts to seal their localities. Adviser to UT administrator, Manoj Parida, also reached out to mayor Raj Bala Malik on Tuesday to rope in all local area councillors to help residents seal their sectors. On Monday, Badnore had asked authorities and local organisations to identify and seal localites that were contaminated, to contain the epidemic.Sector 30, where four positive cases have been detected, was sealed by the efforts of local area councillor Devinder Singh Babla. Speaking to HT, Babla said, “Police have sealed the EWS colony area. Residents cannot leave this area even during curfew relaxation hours.” On Tuesday a CTU bus delivered fruits and vegetables to Sector 30 residents. For the task, vendors wore PPE kits and used wooden sticks to enforce social distancing.As government offices opened from Monday, many societies in Sector 13 have also restricted entry by keeping only one entrance open. KL Sachdeva, secretary of Modern Housing Complex (duplex) resident welfare association (RWA), said, “After a meeting with Manimajra station house officer (SHO) , we closed gate number 4 and 5. Only gate number 3 is open. However, we have written to the SHO to seal gate number 4 with barricades till the curfew is in effect.”Residents of Sector 38 West have also sealed parts of their localities. As per Pankaj Gupta, RWA president here, they have kept only one exit point open which is monitored 24/7 by guards. “Nobody can enter without a movement pass. Vendors have been given RWA identity cards without which they cant enter.”Entry to apartment societies in southern sectors is strictly banned and all their gates are closed. Vice president of Sector 49 RWA, Jatinder Mehta, who lives in the Chandigarh Housing Board society here, said, “With help from the police, we have barricaded entry points and kept only one gate open. Previously, many unauthorised vendors were coming here from Punjab side but now no one can enter without a valid pass.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/on-badnore-s-call-rwas-councillors-help-seal-high-risk-localities/story-yOXj120iISFNCErSmynyJJ.html
21-04-2020||City||No fresh Covid-19 case reported in HP in two days||No fresh case of coronavirus infection was reported in the state for the last two days, officials said on Tuesday.So far, 39 confirmed cases have been reported in the state including one fatality. Cases were reported from the bordering district of Kangra, Una, Solan and Sirmour, Chamba and Hamirpur.Una is the worst-hit district with 16 cases, followed by nine in Solan and six in Chamba and five in Kangra. Two cases have been reported in Hamirpur and one in Sirmour. So far, 11 patients have recovered and discharged from hospitals across the state. Two of them are home quarantined and nine have been shifted to institutional quarantine facilities.One cured patient has tested positive again and admitted to Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College, Tanda.The state currently has 23 active cases while four are undergoing treatment outside the state. Of the 23 active cases, 18 are either linked to Tablighi Jamaat workers or their primary contacts. Of the confirmed 39 cases, 25 had Jamaat links.So far, the authorities have identified 1,113 Jamaat workers or their primary contacts and put them under quarantine.To date, 3,341 samples have been tested in Himachal Pradesh out of which 2,933 came out negative and reports of 369 are awaited, said additional chief secretary (health) RD Dhiman. As many as 8,298 persons with travel history to coronavirus-affected countries have been put under surveillance of which 2,918 are quarantined at home or institutional facilities and 5,380 have completed the mandatory 28-day quarantine period, and the remaining have left the state, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-fresh-covid-19-case-reported-in-hp-in-two-days/story-ElGexL73nTRr3xETKsQYMM.html
21-04-2020||Lucknow||What led to change in plan for relaxation of lockdown||CRUCIAL FACTORS Spurt in corona cases, lax enforcement of lockdown and attacks on medical teams prompted govt to do a rethink A lot changed between two Sundays and that was enough to throw a spanner in the Uttar Pradesh government’s plans to relax the Covid-19 lockdown for a partial resumption of economic activities from Monday.On Sunday, April 12, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath held two meetings and spoke about lockdown relaxations.He said the state would look forward to initiating partial relaxation in the lockdown to support economic activities. These meetings were held with cabinet members and the Covid-19 management Team-11.At that time, the chief minister had been highlighting that Uttar Pradesh was doing far better than other states on Covid-19 containment, despite being the most populous state.Initially, the date for partial relaxation was April 15, the end of the first phase of the lockdown, but then it was extended to April 20.But, things were not looking up by Friday, April 17, when the chief minister held a meeting with district magistrates and district police chiefs.The chief minister expressed displeasure over violation of the lockdown, rising number of Tablighi Jamaat related Covid-19 infections, and an overall rise in positive cases.He got his feedback on the situation from the state intelligence wing, Covid control rooms and CCTV footage. The next day, additional chief secretary (Home) Awanish Kumar Awasthi sent a letter to all the district magistrates and the district police chiefs, noting that the performance of 40 of the 75 districts was ‘unsatisfactory’ in adherence to the lockdown.All the high Covid-19 incidence districts fell in this category-- Agra, Gautam Buddha Nagar, Lucknow, Meerut, Ghaziabad and Kanpur. The letter had set the tone for the state to rethink the proposed relaxations in lockdown.The primary criteria on which the districts’ performance was gauged were: high number of Covid-19 cases, high number of Tablighi Jamaat members, attacks on police and healthcare providers.The number of positive cases rose drastically in several districts between the two Sundays. For instance, Agra had 104 cases on April 12 and the number rose to 240 by April 19. Lucknow’s case count jumped from 32 to 165, Gautam Buddha Nagar’s from 64 to 95; Ghaziabad’s from 27 to 41, Meerut’s from 51 to 74 and Saharanpur’s from 28 to 72. The number of total positive cases in the state shot up from 483 to 1,100.The death toll went up from five on April 12 to 17 on April 19, according to state health department figures.Additional chief secretary (Home) Awanish Kumar Awasthi said: “The idea behind the communication to the districts was to make the underperforming districts get their act together, go intensive in the containment of Covid-19 and wage a war against the virus to eradicate it from Uttar Pradesh.”Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday (April 19) night made it clear to district magistrates that there would be no easing of the lockdown in hotspots and asked the principal secretary, health, not to open 19 sensitive districts, which have reported 10 or more coronavirus cases each. Issuing these instructions at separate meetings, he empowered district magistrates to take a call on lockdown relaxations. He underscored that DMs of 19 sensitive districts should decide on the basis of ‘awareness and alertness’ after intimating the government.All the district magistrates announced the status quo on the lockdown and continued the restrictions as they were.On Monday evening, the additional chief secretary announced: “The state now has 322 hotspots.”HOW CASES JUMPED IN SEVEN DAYSThe number of positive cases rose drastically in several districts between the two Sundays. For instance, Agra had 104 cases on April 12 and the number rose to 240 by April 19. Lucknow’s case count jumped from 32 to 165 during the same period, Gautam Buddha Nagar from 64 to 95; Ghaziabad from 27 to 41; Meerut from 51 to 74 and Saharanpur from 28 to 72. The number of total positive cases in the state rose drastically--from 483 to 1,100.The death toll went up from five on April 12 to 17 on April 19, according to state health department figures.40 UNSATISFACTORY LOCKDOWN DISTRICTSMeerut, Baghpat, Hapur, Ghaziabad, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Bulandshahar, Saharanpur, Muzaffarnagar, Shamli, Agra, Mathura, Firozabad, Mainpuri, Bareilly, Badaun, Moradabad, Bijnor, Rampur, Amroha, Sambhal, Lucknow, Kheri, Rae Bareli, Sitapur, Barabanki, Sultanpur, Kanpur City, Kanpur Dehat, Kannauj, Jalaun, Prayagraj, Pratapgarh, Varanasi, Ghazipur, Azamgarh, Kushinagar, Basti, Gonda, Bahraich and Balrampur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/what-led-to-change-in-plan-for-relaxation-of-lockdown/story-N3RWuXSbDDUJ1FDg8mP9aO.html
21-04-2020||City||CITU, CPI(M) demand food and shelter for labourers in Himachal||The Centre of Indian Trade Union (CITU) on Tuesday staged a silent protest in the state and demanded financial assistance worth ₹7500, shelter and ration for labourers. They also demanded that the government stop retrenchment of media, information iechnology (IT) and industrial workers. CITU state president Vijendra Mehra said the state and central government had failed to protect the daily wage workers and labourers during the ongoing coronavirus pandemic. Mehra alleged that most of the industries in the state had not paid wages to contract labourers since March 22. He said that the workers who used to receive ₹ 10,500 as salary were only paid ₹2,000 at the Shimla Municipal Corporation’s Solid Waste Management Plant in Tutu. There are many industrial workers who have not received salary since the announcement of lockdown. This is in violation of Central government’s directions of March 20 and 29, according to which workers should get their wages and salaries without any deductions, Mehra said.CITU has warned the Union and state government that they will intensify the protest if their demands are not fulfilled.Apart from this, Communist Party of India ( Marxist) leader and Theog’s Legislator Rakesh Singha, Himachal Pradesh Kisan Sabha President Kuldeep Tanwar and Former Mayor Sanjay Chauhan staged a sit in protest outside SDM office demanding food and shelter for labourers.‘SINGHA THREATENING OFFICIALS’Meanwhile, state Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers have condemned CPI(M) protest and have accused Rakesh Singha of threatening government officials.State BJP spokesperson Shashi Dutt said that at a time when government officials are serving the people by putting their lives on the line, CPI(M) leaders are trying to gain political leverage by misbehaving and threatening government officials instead of helping people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/citu-cpi-m-demand-food-and-shelter-for-labourers-in-himachal/story-ovqiBT7TIw57vmMFdM9dwN.html
21-04-2020||Mumbai||Surgically treatable defect in foetus, HC rejects MTP plea||The Bombay high court on Monday refused permission for medical termination of pregnancy (MTP) of a 24-year-old woman from Aurangabad district after noticing that the foetus suffered from congenital defect of the lung, but it was surgically treatable.The 24-year-old labourer from Domegaon had moved the high court after a local doctor found defects in the foetus and sought permission of medically terminating the pregnancy, which had crossed the 20-week limit set by the Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act, 1971.Acting on her petition, the court, on April 15, had ordered the woman to be examined by a panel of experts at the local government hospital.The panel, in its report to the high court, indicated that the foetus suffered from the congenital defect of the lung, but did not recommend termination of the pregnancy, as the defect was treatable surgically after birth.“In view of the clear and unequivocal finding, the prayer made in the petition cannot be considered,” said justice Prasanna Varale, while rejecting the petition.In another case, the judge allowed a 29-year-old teacher from Aurangabad to medically terminate her 24-week long pregnancy in view of the expert medical panel’s opinion that termination was necessary, as there was a substantial risk to the foetus if born.In this case, the panel said the foetus suffered from a defect of serious magnitude and the child if born, will survive with multiple major surgeries and it will not be able to lead a normal life even with medical assistance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/surgically-treatable-defect-in-foetus-hc-rejects-mtp-plea/story-8x2VwLAHchP36iHpHkyYOL.html
21-04-2020||Mumbai||Two killed in a brawl over parking in Mumbai, four of a family arrested||RAK Marg police have arrested four persons of a family, including two women, for allegedly killing a 22-year-old man and a 16-year-old on Tuesday following an altercation over parking a motorcycle, on Tuesday. Another minor was injured in the attack.According to the complaint filed by the minor, the scuffle broke out near a municipal school at Sewri at 12.30am. The four accused, Karim Yusuf Shaikh, Yusuf Uman Shaikh, Minaz Yusuf Shaikh and Mehraj Yusuf Shaikh, attacked three persons including the victim Shahid Razak Patel, 22, and two minors with sharp weapons.One minor succumbed to injuries. The other minor is seriously injured and is undergoing treatment at KEM hospital, said RAK Marg police officials.“Karim has a criminal antecedent and was recently released on bail in a murder case. We have arrested all the four accused of a family,” said Sunil Sohani, a senior police inspector.All four accused have been booked under section 302 (punishment for murder), 307 (attempt to murder), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace), 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/two-killed-in-a-brawl-over-parking-in-mumbai-four-of-a-family-arrested/story-maQD9EEtY8euj0By4ozHJJ.html
21-04-2020||City||Chemists in Himachal told to keep record of people buying medicine for cough, fever||The Himachal Pradesh director general of police (DGP) SR Mardi on Tuesday asked chemists to keep a record of people purchasing medicine for cough and fever.Chemist shops are required to keep a record of those buying these medicines as it may help authorities in contact tracing, said the DGP in his daily video message.Mardi said as per lockdown guidelines inter-state and inter-district movement will remain prohibited.Movement of labourers will be allowed only if they want to return to work, said Mardi.He also warned the people of the state against religion-based discrimination. “We have been receiving complaints of discrimination on bases of religion at ration shops and even hospitals,” he said.The state police chief asked the people from posting and sharing hateful messages on social media.Strict action will be taken against those found discriminating on bases of religion or sharing communally instigating messages, added the DGP.Mardi said till date a total of 1,143 FIRs had been lodged across the state for curfew violations, unauthorised entry into the state, hiding travel history and jumping quarantine.As many as 982 persons have been arrested and preventive action has been taken against 415 others.A total of 911 vehicles have been seized and a cumulative penalty amounting to ₹13.88 lakh has been realised from offenders.Authorities have also identified and quarantined as many as 1,113 people with links to the Tablighi Jamaat. As many as 256 of them had attended the Markaz congregation and 857 are their primary contacts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chemists-in-himachal-told-to-keep-record-of-people-buying-medicine-for-cough-fever/story-Ab81w2ejzq40oKjFK5YotK.html
21-04-2020||Mumbai||53 mediapersons test coronavirus positive in Mumbai||At least 53 mediapersons from Mumbai have tested positive for coronavirus, a city civic official said on Monday.During a special camp organised at the Azad Maidan here on April 16 and 17 for COVID-19 testing of scribes, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) collected swab samples of 171 mediapersons, including electronic and print media journalists, photographers and cameramen.“Out of the 171 mediapersons, 53 tested positive for coronavirus,” BMC spokesperson Vijay Khabale said, adding that most of those who tested positive are asymptomatic at present.All the mediapersons found infected with coronavirus will be kept in isolation and a process was underway to find out suitable places to the purpose, he said.Efforts were also on to trace their high and low risk contacts.On Monday night, the BMC decided to isolate the 53 media persons at a hotel in Goregaon for the next 14 days.Meanwhile, Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar has decided to place herself under quarantine after some journalists with whom she had interacted recently tested positive for the coronavirus infection.Till Monday, Mumbai recorded 3,032 COVID-19 cases with 139 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/53-mediapersons-test-coronavirus-positive-in-mumbai/story-qIK6cjFW0DUC3PaRAeYkcL.html
21-04-2020||City||10,000 cases of influenza-like illness detected in HP, says CM Jai Ram||During the active case finding campaign launched by the state government, 10,000 cases of influenza-like illness have been detected across the state, officials said on Tuesday.Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said that over 70 lakh people have been covered under the campaign. The CM said that during the active case finding campaign launched across the state, 10,000 cases of influenza-like illness have been detected of which 700 cases have been tested and different categories of patients are kept under observation.Thakur said that the state government is in constant touch with people stranded outside the state and has urged the respective state governments to ensure their proper care. He asked people to remain wherever they are as the government would ensure their return to the state as soon as the situation normalizes.CM said that plying of private vehicles for emergency services including medical emergency must be allowed even without curfew passes. He said only two persons are allowed in private vehicles whereas four persons in official vehicles including drivers.He added that the state government was ensuring smooth plying of trucks and other private carriage carrying essential commodities and vegetables to ensure its adequate availability in the state. He said that vehicles should be sanitised and drivers and conductors should be medically examined. He directed the officers to keep a constant check on hoarding and profiteering and strict action against erring shopkeepers.He asked the officers that farmers should be allowed to harvest their crops and motivated to implement social distancing while working in the fields. He said that steps must also be taken for the procurement of their produce so that they do not face any inconvenience due to imposition of the curfew. He said that shops dealing with farming inputs should be allowed to open to facilitate the farmers and horticulturists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/10-000-cases-of-influenza-like-illness-detected-in-hp-says-cm-jai-ram/story-gHcyYlSOX3WBLO3sXAFJvL.html
21-04-2020||Mumbai||IL&FS Fraud: HC quashes criminal proceedings against two key auditor firms||In a major relief to auditor firms BSR & Associates, a KPMG affiliate, and Deloitte Haskins, which is accused of conniving in the IL&FS subsidiary IFIN financial fraud case, the Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday quashed criminal proceedings against the audit firms in the special court. However, the court did not stay the proceedings in the NCLT. After pronouncing the order on the request of the Central government, HC stayed its order for eight weeks to allow the investigating agency to challenge the order before the Supreme Court. The court, however, specified that interim protection of the auditor firms from coercive action would continue.A division bench of chief justice Bhushan Dharmadhikari and justice Nitin Borkar who conducted proceedings through video conferencing on Tuesday held that the firms could not be prosecuted by the special court as they had already resigned as auditors of IL&FS before the alleged fraud came to light. The counsel for BSR also argued that the criminal proceedings against them were initiated a day after Serious Fraud Investigation Office (SFIO) had filed a 32,000 interim report and hence, it was not possible for the government to arrive at a conclusion within such a short span and initiate criminal action against them.The SFIO had, however, argued the report was final and not an interim report as being portrayed by the audit firms. The Central government had submitted that the report was being labelled as interim as investigations were on against 79 firms, however, the action against the two firms was based on investigations which pointed to their role in the fraud.The operative part of the order upheld the firms’ contentions about the criminal proceedings being invalid and set aside the trial against the two auditor firms. The bench justified its decision stating that while section 140 (5) of the Companies Act was constitutionally valid, it could not be applied to firms that had resigned. The bench, however, did not pass orders on the other plea by the firms to set aside the five-year ban imposed on them by NCLT.After the order was pronounced, the bench stayed its order for eight weeks and said the interim protection against any coercive action against the firms granted in September 2019 would continue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/il-fs-fraud-hc-quashes-criminal-proceedings-against-two-key-auditor-firms/story-g3iCmHAqprY28AhC7sxdzK.html
21-04-2020||Mumbai||HC directs jail authorities to expedite former DU professor’s parole plea||The Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court (HC) has directed Nagpur jail authorities to process the parole application of former Delhi University (DU) professor GN Saibaba who was convicted and sentenced to life imprisonment for his alleged Maoist links expeditiously. Saibaba had filed for parole due to health issues and to visit his ailing mother in Hyderabad. However, after his application, filed on April 2, remained undecided by the jail authorities he approached the HC seeking directions to expedite his application. Jail authorities informed the court they had sought a report from Hyderabad, but due to Covid-19 pandemic it was delayed and would only be possible only after the lockdown is lifted. After hearing the submissions, the court accepted the stand of jail authorities and posted the matter for consideration on May 5. The bench of justice Vinay Joshi, however, directed the authorities to make an endeavour to obtain the report and process the application expeditiously.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-directs-jail-authorities-to-expedite-former-du-professor-s-parole-plea/story-oJ94yM3BW8VAG7slJTl3XM.html
21-04-2020||Mumbai||Andheri RTO plot scam: HC refuses to quash FIR against former PWD secy||The Bombay high court (HC) has refused to dismiss a first information report filed against Deodutta Marathe, the retired secretary of the public works department (PWD), in connection with the alleged fraud in implementing a slum rehabilitation scheme on the Andheri regional transport office (RTO) plot and construction of Maharashtra Sadan in DelhiA division bench of chief justice BP Dharmadhikari and justice NR Borkar dismissed a petition filed by Marathe seeking to quash the FIR registered against him by the Mumbai anti-corruption bureau (ACB) in June 2015. The ACB has booked Marathe along with several others for fabricating records and twisting facts to extend undue benefits to the developer, M/s KS Chamankar Enterprises.Marathe was accused of suppressing actual floor space index (FSI) available to the developer and instead showed a lesser FSI, thus causing loss to the government.However, Marathe’s counsel argued that all the documents relied on as proof showed that he opposed the proposal submitted by M/s Chamankar. His counsel further submitted that despite his opposition, elected office bearers like the then deputy chief minister Chhagan Bhujbal went ahead with the project and as such, the petitioner cannot be blamed in the matter.Besides, Marathe’s counsel claimed that the proposal was finalised in August 2006, two months after his client had retired from service.The contentions, however, failed to impress upon the bench and it rejected the petition, saying that there was enough material to try Marathe for the offences charged and the material cannot be examined pre-trial.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/andheri-rto-plot-scam-hc-refuses-to-quash-fir-against-former-pwd-secy/story-ngRvk8OIZ6JupaO4CIOqhM.html
21-04-2020||City||Now, 14 Jhajjar panchayats donate ₹2.08 crore to Haryana Covid-19 relief fund||After the Bal Jattan panchayat in Panipat district donated ₹10.5 crore to the state coronavirus relief fund on Sunday, 14 more villages in Jhajjar followed in its footsteps and contributed ₹2.08 crore to help fight against the pandemic.Jhajjar deputy commissioner (DC) Jitender Kumar told HT over the phone that 14 village panchayats in the district have come forward to provide a financial aid of ₹2.08 crore to the state Covid-19 relief fund.“The Badsa panchayat donated ₹1 crore, followed by Kheri Jasaur (₹51 lakh) and Chara and Kaloi (₹11 lakh each), among others. I thank all these villages for their grand gesture. I hope other panchayats and people will too come forward to make contributions towards the state corona fund,” DC added.After making the highest donation among all the villages in the district, Badsa sarpanch Naresh Devi said that their primary goal is to help the government in all the ways to defeat the deadly virus.“The government has given everything to our village, including extension of AIIMS campus and a school. Our main aim is to save lives from the pandemic. The health department officials have been doing door-to-door screening in our village after so many Jamaat attendees tested positive in huge numbers. Despite this, neither our village nor the district has reported a single case of coronavirus. We stand by the government, administration and Covid-19 warriors,” she added.The sarpanch said the volunteers of her village have been providing food and other essential items to policemen, who are deployed outside the AIIMS extension campus and the outskirts.When asked about the steps taken by her to combat the virus, Devi said they had stopped supplying hand pump water and only clean tanker supply was being provided to the villagers.Acting sarpanch of Kheri Jasaur, Deepak Kumar, said that the village panches and residents unanimously extended their support to donate ₹51 lakh to the state corona relief fund.“We want to ensure that the government receives the financial aid it needs to combat the disease. We also hope to get linking roads, a new school building and stadium once this health emergency subsides,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/now-14-jhajjar-panchayats-donate-2-08-crore-to-haryana-covid-19-relief-fund/story-Q53pCAczdnJIwuTWWWNMLP.html
21-04-2020||Lifestyle||Life in the times of lockdown: A virtual twist to kitty parties||The nationwide shutdown due to the coronavirus pandemic hasn’t hindered the spirit of the womenfolk in the Capital as kitty party groups have figured a way around it. The monthly get-togethers have now become virtual, mastering the art of socialising while social distancing.A 52-year-old resident of Civil Lines, Sushma Kapoor, and her gang believe that fighting self-isolation can be gloomy, but social distancing doesn’t mean disconnecting. Kapoor says, “In the beginning of the month, we were weighing the options, and rescheduled the kitty twice due to the scare of coronavirus. Then my son suggested that we could still host it online.” So, Kapoor downloaded a video conferencing app and asked her social circle to do the same.To this, another kitty group member, Sapna Seth, a 43-year-old Delhi based entrepreneur, adds, “When my meetings can go online, why not my kitties?” Seth also feels that, in such testing times, all you need to do is stay connected with your close ones, and this is the best way to utilise technology.Her group has also downloaded a mobile app to play Tambola or Housie on phones, for entertainment within the group, and are using various modes of online money transfer for the kitty amount.Dress codes and themes ensure that the participants enjoy these virtual parties with the same excitement. Deepa Goyal, a college professor, shares, “For this month’s spring theme, we wore floral prints and pastel hues on the conference call.” She adds, “Even though we were eating in our own homes, some of us managed to prepare the same dishes. It felt like we were all together in fighting the isolation.”Interact with the author/sanchita_kalra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/more-lifestyle/life-in-the-times-of-lockdown-a-virtual-twist-to-kitty-parties/story-6hmpbS4Gq7wQV051lCoruM.html
21-04-2020||Chandigarh||Ferozepur cops given immunity boosters||The Ferozepur division forest office distributed immunity boosters among police personnel as part of their comprehensive plan to combat the novel coronavirus on Tuesday.“Cops are at high risk of contracting Covid-19 so we have developed an immunity boosting drink for those dealing with the pandemic on the frontlines,” said Kanwardeep Singh, divisional forest officer, Ferozepur.The divisional forest office will distribute 10,000 masks and immunity boosting concoctions among the cops. This will also boost the incomes of self-help groups in the vicinity.The herbal drink is being distributed free of cost as per guidelines of the Ministry of Ayush,” said the DFO.“The idea was to provide refreshment as well as bolster cops’ immunity systems as well,” he saidForest Self Help Groups (SHG)comprising of women in Moga and Faridkot are making masks and supplying them to local authorities at a cost of ₹10. The material used and method of preparation is as per the guidelines of government of India.So far, 1,500 masks have been distributed in different areas of Ferozepur, Moga and Fazilka districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ferozepur-cops-given-immunity-boosters/story-4DQuJS4i9WBtOQkHGI0FTP.html
21-04-2020||City||Late Bhai Nirmal Singh’s daughter cured of Covid-19, discharged from hospital||Jaskirat Kaur, 30, the daughter of late Padma Shri awardee and former hazoori ragi (Gurbani exponent) at the Golden Temple, Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa, was discharged from Jalandhar’s Civil Hospital on Tuesday after she tested negative for Covid-19. A resident of Lohian Khas under Shahkot sub-division in Jalandhar district, Kaur tested positive and was admitted to hospital two days after her father died from heart attack on April 2, a day after he was diagnosed with Covid-19 after returning from a trip abroad.Kaur was treated by a team of doctors led by senior medical officer Dr Kashmiri Lal.She was discharged after two of her samples that were tested at the Government Medical College, Amritsar, on April 17 and 19, came out negative.Thanking the hospital staff, Kaur said they cared well for her, especially Dr Lal, who she said treated her like a daughter.Urging everyone to take precautions against the disease, she also praised Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh for making special efforts to treat Covid-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/late-bhai-nirmal-singh-s-daughter-cured-of-covid-19-discharged-from-hospital/story-8r1OS6qgBOngGgxlPijWkK.html
21-04-2020||Chandigarh||98-year-old woman from Moga is Punjab’s strongest corona warrior, tweets chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh||She may be close to turning 100 but the coronavirus pandemic has made her a warrior who stitches face masks for people on the streets to battle it out. She is 98-year-old Gurdev Kaur from Moga town in Punjab. “We are making face masks and distributing among passers-by free of cost,” says Gurdev Kaur in a video shared by chief minister Amarinder Singh on Twitter on Tuesday.  The strongest Corona Warrior of Punjab is 98-year-old Gurdev Kaur from Moga who with her family is stitching masks for Punjab. Such selfless dedication of Punjabis is proof of how strong we are & that we will overcome any challenge which comes our way. Thank you @BBCPunjabi pic.twitter.com/poNOZ3fuQeHer bleak vision does not let her down and she finds support in her daughters-in-law and grandchildren who are all involved in sewing masks for a cause. “We all love to do charity and do it as much as possible,” she says, appealing to people to follow lockdown norms and help one another. “Take precautions to prevent oneself from this disease. They (government functionaries) also advise us to stay at home,” she says, adding the family works from 8am to 4pm. “I have no vision in one eye and had a cataract operation in the second eye 25 years ago. The vision in that eye is very good,” she says. Appreciating her gesture, the chief minister said in a tweet: “The strongest corona warrior of Punjab is 98-year-old Gurdev Kaur from Moga who with her family is stitching masks for Punjab. “Such selfless dedication of Punjabis is proof of how strong we are and that we will overcome any challenge which comes our way.”All over Punjab, people are making handmade face masks to help shield doctors, nurses and many others from coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/98-year-old-woman-from-moga-is-punjab-s-strongest-corona-warrior-tweets-chief-minister-capt-amarinder-singh/story-uMZmwrkrXJE0c4xG5Zy93O.html
21-04-2020||Chandigarh||One dead in a road mishap in Shimla||A man was killed and his wife was injured in a road mishap near Kumarsain in Shimla district on Tuesday.The victim, Randheer Mehta, 59, and his wife Anita Mehta 52, are residents of Shamatala village in Kumarsain, Shimla.The accident took place around 10am on Halyana-Shamathla link road near Kumarsain when the driver lost control of the wheel. The vehicle skidded off the road onto another road.Police rushed the couple to the Mahatma Gandhi Medical Services Complex, Rampur Bushahr, but Randheer was declared brought dead while Anita is undergoing treatment.Deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Abhimanyu Verma confirmed the report and said the police were conducting the investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/one-dead-in-a-road-mishap-in-shimla/story-IH2ulbKBeR7i5fEDA8XqgO.html
21-04-2020||Pune||On the frontline: We clean public toilets thrice a day with jetting machines, chemicals, says PMC sanitation inspector||Sanitation inspector Inamdar Imamuddin Sirajuddin also known as Baba Inamdar has been working in the Pune Municipal Corporations’s (PMC) solid waste management department for 30 years. Armed with a BA, LLB diploma in labour law and labour welfare, and a diploma in information technology with a post graduate diploma in human rights studies, Inamdar is proud of his work. He was awarded a prize in population Census silver medal 2001 from APJ Abdul Kalam for his work in Pune. He speaks to HT about how maintaining hygiene in the city will help curb the virus.What exactly is your role in the crisis?My job is to oversee garbage collection, waste segregation, cleaning of public toilets. In addition to this, I conduct door-to-door surveys to help identify persons with flu-like symptoms. I visit houses to collect medical waste, such as used masks, which are collected separately and disposed in the incinerator. My job also involves motivating the staff, training them to maintain social distance, making a list of positive patients and as directed by the doctors, to shift them to hospitals for checking. I also look after the cremation process of Covid-19 patients. I have helped in the cremation of six bodies as no one was ready to take responsibility. Now we have formed a team for handling cremations.How does your day begin and roll out?I leave my house at 6.30 am and start coordinating with my team once I reach office. I also exercise in my office and walk as much as I can. I coordinate the movement of garbage trucks which include ghanta gadi, small vans, and bulk carriers. I also need to check on the drivers, staff coming for collection.At 8 am, I deal with the teams who visit positive patients’ homes and areas. I also help out with the team that does house-to-house survey at micro level. Then I go to the hospitals. In my rounds during the day, I visit schools in Ghole road which is under my jurisdiction to check upon the labourers and to clean the place. We clean public toilets in the city thrice a day with jetting machines using chemicals. I work until 7pm.What precautions are you taking?I don’t eat anything outside; I wear mask regularly, use sanitiser and soap. As a supervisor I must follow all the rules so that my team will follow them too.What is your assessment of the covid crisis n Pune? How is it unfolding?PMC is doing a good job by making sure that residents follow lockdown norms. We all must act responsibly to win war against Covid-19 and ensure social distancing in public places.What gaps do you see in healthcare and relief work?We are all working together as a team. The only problem we face is that patients hide their history which makes puts us in a dangerous situation. I appeal to patients that if they have the symptoms then they must be open about their travel history.It is also noticed that if one person in the slums is found positive, the other positive people tend to run away, then with the help of the police and ambulance, we have to find them and send them to the hospital. This makes our work difficult.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/on-the-frontline-we-clean-public-toilets-thrice-a-day-with-jetting-machines-chemicals-says-pmc-sanitation-inspector/story-MvXmNm7AfZuDxAhjFDBoYP.html
21-04-2020||Pune||Collector says no permission for construction to resume in Pune for another week||With construction work coming to a halt in the city, developers associated with the Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India (Credai) have approached the district administration to allow them resume their construction operations in non-covid hotspots, as per the revised guidelines issued by the home ministry.However, on Monday, Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram, has stated that no permission will be given.Naval Kishore Ram said, “We would not be giving permission to resume construction work to anyone for another week. It is not just the hotpspot zones, but both Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) are now under lockdown, hence, besides essential services, everything else will be shut. Regarding the government notification for resuming work post April 20, we will reassess the situation in a week’s time.”“This is a move which will bring some relief to the stalled construction activities in areas outside of the hotspot zones. We will give a letter to the district administration asking for permission to resume work on the projects. The site will be closed and contained,” said Satish Magar, president, Credai Maharashtra.According to Credai, the city has are 10,000 under-construction projects, with 10 lakh labourers on construction sites due to the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/collector-says-no-permission-for-construction-to-resume-in-pune-for-another-week/story-gR17hF1FEL8VZZYYAeJrVO.html
21-04-2020||Chandigarh||Doctor, 4 others test positive for Covid-19 in Rajpura; dist count up to 31||Five more positive Covid-19 cases, including a doctor, were reported in Rajpura on Monday, taking its count to12 and that of Patiala district to 31.One of the patients is the daughter of a 60-year-old woman who tested positive last week. The doctor she (the daughter) visited last week has also contracted the disease.Giving details, Dr Harish Malhotra, the district civil surgeon, said reports of 19 samples taken from Rajpura came late at around 11pm on Monday.“Of the total samples, five were positive. All are contacts of earlier seven positive cases in Rajpura,” he said. Patiala city has 19 cases.“We have rushed our teams. The process of containing the area and shifting patients to the isolation ward of the Government Medical College has been initiated,” Malhotra said.“We are identifying the contacts of the fresh patients,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/doctor-4-others-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-rajpura-dist-count-up-to-31/story-a8EkO7kWPbyfiShm1ji0OK.html
21-04-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal villagers take up hunting amid lockdown||Several Himachal residents have oiled their guns and set their sights on the state’s rich forest reserves with the state under lockdown to check the spread of the novel coronavirus disease (Covid-19).There have been multiple incidents of poaching. Traps set to snare wild animals and birds have been discovered across the state. Deer and bears have been poached and some unsuspecting dogs also ended up in the hunter’s crosshairs this week. DEER CARCASS, GUNS RECOVEREDPolice arrested three people for hunting wild animals in the forest area near Anandpur village in Shimla on Tuesday. Those arrested are Bhuveshneshwar, 27, of village Dhaiyath, Arki, an Alpine retreat employee, Purna Thakur,55, of Bhogh Village and Manseej Thakur, 25.The vehicle, which had a Haryana licence plate, was intercepted during curfew. The meat had been packed in polythene bags.The occupants confessed to have killed a barking deer.Their arms were seized and a case was registered under sections of the Indian Penal Code and Wildlife Act.ANIMALS COME CLOSE TO HABITATIONWith lack of human activity, wild animals are coming close to habitation. “Few people are taking advantage of the situation and hunting down animals. Forest teams are trying to keep a tab on hunters,” said Shimla divisional forest officer, wildlife, Shimla, Rajesh Sharma. The dense forests near Chail, Shimla and Solan are a habitat to many animal and bird species, bears, deer, hare, fox and leopards. The towns also have a substantial number of Kaleej and red jungle fowls.LABOURERS PUT OUT SNARES TO KILL WILD ANIMALSBenmore councillor found as many as six stray dogs entangled in steel wires and snares put up near Jakhu to trap birders and wild animals. The dogs were rescued with the help of locals and finally the case was taken up with municipal commissioner Pankaj Rai who later handed over the case to the police.“The dogs were entangled in the wires and had suffered wounds and cuts,” said Kimi Sood councillor.Similar incidents were also reported from Totu ward. No arrests have been made.HUNTERS GUN DOWN BEAR IN KULLUIn Kullu, hunters killed a black bear near a stream adjoining Kharaga and Mawa Khadh in Kullu district’s Anni, three days ago. Hunters also pelted stones on the police party, which reached the forest area. Police confiscated the carcass of the bear, which was later handed over to the forest department.The forest veterinarian said the bear had died due to bullet injuries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-villagers-take-up-hunting-amid-lockdown/story-Af2vjGfMXB5Ra0S2szRAFN.html
21-04-2020||Chandigarh||Milkha Singh’s daughter fights Covid-19 pandemic from the frontline in New York hospital||Legendary sprinter Milkha Singh’s daughter and ace golfer Jeev Milkha Singh’s elder sister has been running a “marathon” in New York -- not on a track but at a hospital, battling the Covid-19 pandemic that has ravaged the world.Mona Milkha Singh is a doctor at the Metropolitan Hospital Center in New York, attending to emergency patients of coronavirus, which has so far claimed more than 40,000 lives in the US alone while causing over 1.5 lakh deaths worldwide.“She is basically an ER (emergency room) doctor in Metropolitan Hospital Center in New York City. So, when someone comes with the coronavirus symptoms, she has to treat them,” Jeev, a four-time European Tour champion, told PTI.“She checks the patients, stabilises them, performs intubation (insertion of artificial ventilation tube into a patient) before they are sent to special wards to quarantine the Covid-19 patients,” he added.PATIALA MEDICAL COLLEGE ALUMNA GETS CALL FROM HOME EVERY DAY54-year-old Mona passed out of Patiala Medical College before moving to the US in the ’90s. She has been working there for more than 20 years.“I am so proud of her. She says it is like running a marathon every day. She has been working five days a week, sometimes day shifts, sometimes night shifts, 12-hour shifts and it is tough but she has to do the job as best as she can.” Her 48-year-old brother from Chandigarh said the job is a stressful one and sometimes he feels scared for her.“I feel worried. When you are treating people, anything can happen, so we talk to her everyday. My mom and dad also keep checking on her.“We keep asking how she is feeling and if there are any symptoms. I tell her to stay positive and boost her immune system,” said Jeev, also a five-time Asian Tour winner.‘BE RESPECTFUL TO FRONTLINE WORKERS’New York has reported nearly 250,000 confirmed cases and over 18,000 fatalities, forcing the government to extend its lockdown till May 15 to contain the fast-spreading disease.However, the lockdown is also giving rise to a lot of mental health issues among people, who also need equal attention.“With New York in partial lockdown, she gets a lot of patients who are suffering from depression as they are not used to staying at home,” Jeev elaborated.“There are people who come with bullet wounds, people who are having anxiety attacks, youngsters with drug overdose or old people getting heart attacks, basically any kind of emergency, she has to treat them all,” he said.The Chandigarh-based golfer also called for greater respect for the frontline workers, who have been attacked in India while performing their duties.“It is my humble request to every citizen of the world to respect the frontline workers because they are there to help us, whether it is the doctors, police, people who pick up garbage ... we must be respectful, kind and grateful to them and make sure they are taken care of,” he said.The dreaded virus has infected more than 20 lakh people across the globe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/milkha-singh-s-daughter-fights-covid-19-pandemic-from-the-frontline-in-new-york-hospital/story-OeSMhbOQCWGTGJk131Y1SK.html
21-04-2020||Chandigarh||Seven arrested for violating curfew in Gurdaspur||Seven people were arrested for violating curfew here on Tuesday. Those arrested are Kamaljit of Amamwara Chowk, Ravinder Kumar of GT Road, Gurdaspur, Tarlok Chand of Jattuwal village, Kishan Chand of Main Bazar, Rajiv Thapa of Berian Mohalla, Sunil Kumar of Androoni Bazar, and Kushal Chand of Gali Krishna Mandir.Station house officer (SHO) Jabarjit Singh said a case had been registered under section 188 (disobeying public servant’s order) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/seven-arrested-for-violating-curfew-in-gurdaspur/story-c5OkP5p8tW7x8v7P37c97N.html
21-04-2020||Kolkata||‘Anti-federal campaign’: Trinamool on Centre’s Covid-19 team in Bengal||Trinamool Congress (TMC) Rajya Sabha leader and national spokesperson Derek O’Brien alleged on Tuesday that while the states in India were fighting a battle against novel coronavirus, the Narendra Modi-led Central government was fighting some states instead of fighting the virus.“About 70%-80% of the districts chosen for the Central teams’ visits are from states ruled by opposition parties. Why no district from Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat is part of the list?” O’Brien asked.“All states are fighting corona but we are sad to note that the Centre is fighting a battle against some states,” O’Brien said. The MP termed the sending of central teams to the state without consulting the state government in advance as an “anti-federal campaign.”Two inter-ministerial teams from the union government landed in Kolkata on Monday to visit seven districts to inquire into issues regarding proper implementation of the lockdown and moves taken by the health administration. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday had strongly objected to this visit, terming the Centre’s decision as ‘unilateral’ and ‘undesirable’.On Tuesday, while addressing the media, O’Brien and the party’s Lok Sabha leader Sudip Bandyopadhyay accused the Centre of playing politics during a national crisis.“The centre needs to explain on what basis the seven districts were chosen,” Bandyopadhyay said, adding that the number of testing in the state had increased to 400 tests per day on an average and that it would increase to 600 per day Tuesday onwards. Taking digs at the Centre, O’Brien said, “We, despite our political differences with those governing Kerala, have no hesitation in acknowledging that Kerala has done a lot of good things just like Bengal has done too. Of course, there is scope for improvement in Bengal. But we restrained ourselves from criticising the Centre. We raised the issue on March 5 and 6 in Parliament. “When we washed our hands or wore marks in the Parliament, it was called a gimmick. We did not ask why the Centre woke up late because our chairperson asked us to refrain from indulging in politics at this hour.” Of the two central teams, the one for four south Bengal districts is supposed to visit North 24-Parganas on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/why-not-uttar-pradesh-or-gujarat-trinamool-on-covid-19-team-in-bengal/story-IruF5KdFP8A9usMpDYbYfO.html
21-04-2020||Kolkata||Thunderstorm, heavy rain to continue in Kolkata till Friday||Thundersquall and heavy rain lashed the city and some other districts in West Bengal as the Met department on Tuesday forecast enhanced thunderstorm activity across the state till April 24 owing to the formation of low pressure.Dum Dum airport area in the city recorded 44.4 mm rainfall till 8.30 am on Tuesday over a 24-hour period, while the highest precipitation in the state was at Barrackpore in the northern suburbs of Kolkata at 57 mm, the Met said.Owing to the presence of a trough of low pressure over eastern Uttar Pradesh and Bihar and strong moisture incursion from the Bay of Bengal, enhanced thunderstorms along with lightning, moderate rainfall and gusty wind will occur over the districts of West Bengal from Tuesday to Friday, the weatherman said in its forecast.The other places in the state that recorded moderate to heavy rainfall during the 24-hour period were Burdwan (48.8 mm), Bankura (42.4 mm), Panagarh (28.4 mm), Jalpaiguri (21.8 mm) and Salt Lake (15.4 mm), the Met department said.A nor’wester passed over Kolkata at 5.25 am on Tuesday with a wind speed of 56 km per hour, which lasted for a minute, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/thunderstorm-heavy-rain-to-continue-in-kolkata-till-friday/story-An4SfRI5TPLFLL3KUTeGWN.html
21-04-2020||Kolkata||WB Guv Dhankhar requests Mamata to avoid confrontation with centre to combat Covid-19 crisis||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Tuesday requested Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee to cooperate with the centre to combat the corona crisis and avoid confrontation. “My appeal to all: Support government @MamataOfficial to contain and combat corona curse. My request to CM Mamata Banerjee to synergetically cooperate with the Central Team @PMOIndia to wean away the miseries of people. Cooperation and not confrontation between Centre and State must,” Dhankhar tweeted.According to the data published by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, 392 Covid-19 positive cases have been reported from West Bengal out of which 12 have died and 73 have been cured.A total of 18,601 confirmed cases have been reported in India including 590 deaths. 3,252 people, who were Covid-19 positive, have recovered or migrated, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said on Tuesday. (This story has been published from a wire agency feed without modifications to the text. Only the headline has been changed.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/wb-guv-dhankhar-requests-mamata-to-avoid-confrontation-with-centre-to-combat-covid-19-crisis/story-MJu2Zu27tkx9IedusTyytO.html
21-04-2020||Lucknow||Out of 754 samples, 8 test positive for Covid-19 in UP: Report||Out of the 754 samples tested on Monday for Covid-19, results of eight are positive, said King George’s Medical University (KGMU), Lucknow.So far, Uttar Pradesh has reported 1184 Covid-19 positive cases, according to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.India’s total number of Covid-19 positive cases stands at 18,601 including 3,251 cured/discharged, one migrated and 590 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/out-of-754-samples-8-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-up-report/story-Ws1CtGsn42Iek2W7J6xlYP.html
21-04-2020||Chandigarh||Damage to domes at Kartarpur gurdwara in Pakistan is not an issue, says Akal Takht jathedar||Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh on Tuesday endorsed the Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (PSGPC) stand that the damage to five domes at the newly built congregation hall at Kartarpur Sahib gurdwara after a recent thunderstorm was not an issue.In an informal talk with the media at Golden Temple here, Giani Harpreet Singh said, “This is not a big thing. The PSGPC has already issued a statement that the domes have been repaired and affixed at their places. So, this is not an issue at all.”Five domes on the roof of the entrance to the newly built congregation hall in the complex of the gurdwara, the last resting place of Sikhism founder Guru Nanak, were damaged after they fell down on Friday night due to high velocity winds. Bhai Gobind Singh, the granthi of the gurdwara, said the domes are made of fibreglass and were re-affixed after repair on Sunday.India had officially taken up the issue after Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) president Manjinder Singh Sirsa raised this issue with the government.A long-pending demand of the Indian Sikh community was fulfilled when the 4-km-long corridor was opened on November 9 last year from Dera Baba Nanak, a border town, to Kartarpur gurdwara. This is a visa-free access to the historic gurdwara for Indian devotees. However, the corridor is closed due to the Covid-19 outbreak at present.‘CHANGE LIFESTYLE TO FIGHT CORONA’On the national lockdown to fight the coronavirus outbreak, Giani Harpreet Singh, who heads the highest Sikh temporal seat, said, “The government has imposed a lockdown, which is good, but it alone is not a permanent solution to the coronavirus problem. For a permanent solution, we need to change our lifestyle and improve our eating habits. Junk junk food and revive desi (local) dishes. Farmers of Punjab should opt for organic farming and discard chemical spray because of the health hazards. Besides, we have to remove the fear of this disease from our minds.”‘SET ASIDE POLITICS, HELP NEEDY’On the lack of arrangements for the needy, he said, “The Centre’s responsibility is bigger in this unprecedented situation. It must fund the state governments, so that they can help the needy. However, such relief activities should not be politicised, because everyone, whether he’s a Congressman, Akali or Communist, turns hungry and everybody needs essential items.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/damage-to-domes-at-kartarpur-gurdwara-in-pakistan-is-not-an-issue-says-akal-takht-jathedar/story-my0QidQqMMnzmzypFuDXHK.html
21-04-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka Minister asks CM to screen journalists for Covid-19 in the state||Alarmed by reports that 53 media persons have contracted coronavirus in Maharashtra, a Minister on Tuesday urged Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to screen all the journalists in Karnataka.During the regular Covid-19 related briefing on Monday, a reporter had raised the issue of 53 journalists in the neighbouring state testing positive for the disease, with Minister for Primary and Secondary Education S Suresh Kumar.In Maharashtra, out of the 171 scribes examined medically, 53 were found to have the viral infection.In his letter to the CM, Kumar said a similar test should be carried on the journalists in Karnataka.“The journalists wanted a similar kind of screening to be carried out on them. Therefore, please direct the health and the information department immediately to conduct the screening of journalists who are in contact with public,” Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-minister-asks-cm-to-screen-journalists-for-covid-19-in-the-state/story-YZFNG5Sj8rBapbE0YrmnbO.html
21-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab cop whose hand was cut off in Patiala on road to recovery, will need five months of physiotherapy||The policeman, whose hand was chopped off by a group of nihang Sikhs in Patiala, is recovering as his treatment is underway at Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh.“Assistant sub-inspector Harjeet Singh, whose hand was chopped off and later replanted fighting off an attack, while enforcing curfew at Patiala Sabzi Mandi on April 12, is recovering as his treatment is underway at PGIMER,” the hospital authorities said in a statement.Harjeet Singh has since been promoted as sub inspector.The PGIMER director said that it will require four to five months of physiotherapy for his hands to become functional.“Singh was operated on April 12, the surgery has been successful. It was a complicated surgery as the hand was chopped off. For functional success, it will require 4-5 months as physiotherapy is needed,” PGIMER director Dr Jagat Ram said.According to the doctors treating the injured policeman, the reattached part has survived and circulation has been established which is good sign. In the next step, combined efforts from doctors and the patient are required for restoring the functionality. “Blood saturation in his fingers (reattached part) is equal to the normal blood saturation value by which we can say that the muscularity (blood flow in the hand) has been established. It is a big relief. He will be discharged within 10 days if all goes well,” Dr RK Sharma, head of the plastic surgery department at PGIMER, said.The policeman’s hand was chopped off, and a few others were injured when a group of nihangs allegedly attacked them at a vegetable market in Patiala district on April 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-cop-whose-hand-was-cut-off-in-patiala-on-road-to-recovery-will-need-five-months-of-physiotherapy/story-wll8hOxaRnL1zlai9aHpDP.html
21-04-2020||Education||Tilka Manjhi university to streamline e- teaching||Taking note of the fact that it may take some time before the formal class room teaching is restored, the Tilka Manjhi Bhagalpur University (TMBU) has decided to streamline the online teaching platform.Vice- chancellor (V-C) AK Roy Monday held a meeting with the university officials to discuss the same.He said during a review of the online teaching activity, it was found that over a hundred teachers are conducting e- classes and many of them are making available e-content of the study materials to students.However, he admitted there is need of making things systematic. “There is also a need to screen the content of the study material given to the students as well as the quality of online teaching,” Roy said.The teachers are conducting classes with the help of available Information and Communication Technology (ICT) facilities, including learning and social media apps. Roy said that the heads of postgraduate departments besides principals of constituent colleges, at their respective units, have been entrusted with the responsibility to screen the study material and make sure that there is no compromise in quality teaching.Also, the teachers would be now required to submit a weekly report in a prescribed format, the V-C said. He said it was decided in the meeting that the links will be made available to the university by teachers.The email id of university computer centre is being made available to teachers to forward the links, he added. Roy said that once the screening of study material is done, only then it will be uploaded on the official website of the university and other constituent colleges.Meanwhile, the university has also decided to start the tentative preparations to conduct the pending examination of different courses from May 15 if the lockdown is lifted by that time. It was decided that the pending examination of three-year degree course will be the priority.Taking into consideration the 2019-20 session of the degree, the first part will be regularised in case there is no major delay in holding the examination, said an official. The university officials decided to focus on commencing part one examination immediately after the lockdown is over.During the meeting it was also stated that the university officials will start attending the office from April 24. However, entry of outsiders in administrative building will remain restricted till further orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/tilka-manjhi-university-to-streamline-e-teaching/story-bY0JqznXaYEVypc1DVGFdM.html
21-04-2020||Patna||Son abroad, 79-yr-old woman in Patna gets CRPF aid during lockdown||The Central Reserve Police Force (CPRF) jawans brought relief to an elderly, bedridden 79-year-old woman in Patna’s Chhajjubagh locality earlier this week, as she was bearing horrifying pain alone, with a hapless caretaker amid complete lockdown.The woman, identified as Chinamma Eapen, is among the scores of senior citizens in India, whose children live abroad.The old lady, whose son lives in Chicago with his family, was operated for femur fracture before lockdown. She was confined to bed with 30 surgical staples near her thigh.Doctor who operated on her had advised her to visit hospital on April 13 to get the stitches removed. However, her ill health, vulnerability to Covid-19 exposure and movement restrictions due to lockdown prevented her from taking the risk of going to hospital.Advised by an acquaintance, the distressed septuagenarian called up CRPF 131 battalion, Patna, seeking medical assistance.“On April 18, the CRPF control team received a call from the old woman who narrated her ordeal to them”, said a CRPF official.Moved by Eapen’s plea, commandant D P Bhardwaj instructed the CRPF team to reach her at the earliest for help.Dr Vivekanand, senior medical officer associated with 131 battalion, reached Eapen’s residence with medical kit and equipment.He said “After brief medical examination, her staples were removed under aseptic condition followed by wound dressing. Now there is no possibility of infection. She has been counselled for taking proper care of wound. I hope she will get healed and would be able to walk in a couple of weeks. Our team also helped her to download and use Aarogya Setu mobile application.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/son-abroad-79-yr-old-woman-in-patna-gets-crpf-aid-during-lockdown/story-boi4Kclo125fyrgeLmHGTM.html
21-04-2020||Education||Patna University restricts entry of staff from Covid hotspots||The Patna University (PU), which resumed working on Monday, issued a notification stating no employee from coronavirus hotspot zone is required to visit the office for any reason.PU registrar Manoj Kumar Mishra, said, “Officials living in Covid hotspot zones need not to come to the university office. However, they are instructed not to go out of the station and stay in touch with university headquarters via telephonic communication. No entry pass would be issued to employees living in Sultanganj and Khajpura locality and the already issued passes for these localities will be treated as cancelled.”All the offices of Patna University and its constituent units were closed since March 24 for the strict implementation of nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus.Earlier on April 17, the chancellor’s secretariat had directed the vice-chancellors to ensure the presence of all officers including pro-VCs, registrars, financial advisers, finance officers at their respective universities. They were also instructed to take disciplinary action against the officers found absent without prior permission.Following the direction, PU had notified that presence of all officers and section officers is mandatory from April 20.Mishra said that the office has been resumed only for essential work. The employees coming to office have been instructed to wear mask and maintain social distance during their working hours.The university has switched to digital platforms in early April to compensate the academic loss to students by conducting online classes. The Patna University created its Youtube channel on April 7 and has raised 1.44 thousand subscribers so far with more than 7,000 views on its video lectures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/patna-university-restricts-entry-of-staff-from-covid-hotspots/story-PqwHPuEIMnwY2QcnzKr0vJ.html
21-04-2020||Mumbai||After 50 journalists test positive for Covid-19 in Mumbai, I&B Ministry to issue advisory||After more than 50 journalists were found coronavirus positive in Mumbai, Information and Broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar on Monday said precautions must be taken by all and his ministry would issue an advisory in this regard.“It is shocking that more that 50 journalists of electronic media, particularly camera persons, have been found Covid-19 positive in Mumbai. Every journalist should take proper care,” said Javadekar in a post on social media platform Twitter.The minister said an advisory was being issued to all newspaper and media establishments to ensure that adequate care and precautions were taken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/after-50-journalists-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-mumbai-i-b-ministry-to-issue-advisory/story-lbRUId7QluFMnnPEk5qq7I.html
21-04-2020||City||2 doctors in Panvel test positive||Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has a total of 37 Covid positive cases with the latest case being of two doctors and a patient. Municipal commissioner Ganesh Deshmukh said, “A 54-year-old doctor residing in Kharghar tested positive today. He practises at Sewri in Mumbai. He has been admitted to MGM Hospital in Kamothe.”Another doctor from Khanda colony has tested positive. One Covid positive patient was admitted to the hospital on Sunday.Navi Mumbai reported three Covid-19 positive cases on Monday while one case was reported by Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC).The total Covid positive count in Navi Mumbai is 69 cases. There are 19 containment zones in the city.Two people, who work in a company at Rabale, MIDC, have tested positive. They were among the 40 workers of the company quarantined after an engineer in the company had tested positive. Six workers have tested positive, of which, two live together in Navi Mumbai.A 22-year-old resident of Kopar Khairane has tested positive. He works on a contract basis in a company in Rabale.Navi Mumbai municipal commissioner Annasaheb Misal said, “We are taking steps to ensure people do not have to go out of their houses even for essential goods. We have an app for ordering groceries and vegetables.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-doctors-in-panvel-test-positive/story-emcBVHrpwHkAQQLJ5NQhAM.html
21-04-2020||City||Thane records 2 Covid deaths; Dombivli 1||Thane Municipal Corporation recorded two deaths of Covid-19 patients on Monday, taking the death toll to four. A 60-year-old resident of Tekdi Bungalow and a 44-year-old man from Lokmanya Nagar in Thane, who had tested positive for Covid-19, have died. Five more positive cases were reported on Monday, taking the toll of positive cases to 148. The Lokmanya Nagar resident was admitted to Kalwa hospital for pneumonia on April 17 and he died the next day. The test reports came out after he died. “There were around 40 people who attended the funeral and all of them have been asked to self-quarantine. We have sealed Lokmanya Nagar area completely till April 26,” said Sandeep Malvi, public relations officer, TMC.Lokmanya Nagar and the neighbouring Shastri Nagar have been sealed. Out of the 22 medical shops in the area, only 11 have been given permission to remain open.A 30-year-old man from Dombivli, who had tested positive for Covid-19, died on Monday. This is the third Covid death in Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC).The man was being treated at Neon hospital at Kalyan Shil road.“The man tested positive on April13. He was earlier taken to Kasturba for testing and later sent to Neon Hospital for treatment. His father and mother-in-law have tested positive,” said Pratibha Panpatil, epidemic officer, KDMC.On Monday, three new cases of Covid-19 were reported in Kalyan-Dombivli, taking the total number of cases in KDMC vicinity to 78. On Monday, KDMC shut a shopping mart in Wayle Nagar, Kalyan (West) after it learnt that a 39- year-old man from Kalyan (East), who has tested positive, had visited the mart. “The shopping mart has been completely sealed and those working in the building have been asked to be quarantined. Residents living nearby have been asked to be home quarantined. Those who visited the mart have been asked to be quarantined. If they have any symptoms, they should report to us and get tested. Our medical team has already prepared a list of 30 people,” said Patil.KDMC commissioner Vijay Suryavanshi has warned residents of containment zones of action if found outside.“We have declared hotspots in the city. On Sunday, several people from hotspot areas of Ayre village were found roaming outside. They were taken to the Vasant Valley quarantine centre. Now, they will have to be there for 14 days,” he added.TMC asks for affidavit for self-isolation Those who have given samples for testing have to be self-quarantined till the reports are out, said TMC. They also have to submit an affidavit, stating that they have provisions to self-isolate at home. “Not everyone has facilities to self-isolate. We are ready to provide an alternative but the patient has to provide an affidavit. This has been initiated as a precautionary measure as there are many asymptomatic cases as well,” said Sandeep Malvi, public relations officer, TMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-records-2-covid-deaths-dombivli-1/story-0vN6BPRAkGj7yrivBbyEeK.html
21-04-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body will not use drones to disinfect coronavirus containment zones||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has said that it will not use drones to disinfect containment zones in the city and has termed the process “useless.”Last week a citizen had suggested the BMC to use drones to disinfect those containment zones which were inaccessible, said BMC insecticide officer Rajan Naringrekar.“After a discussion with experts on the feasibility, we realised that drones are ineffective in cleansing major touch points which have been identified across the containment clusters,” said Naringrekar.Currently, there are more than 720 containment zones across Mumbai, with the maximum ones at Worli, Prabhadevi, Byculla, Girgaum, Mazagaon and Tardeo.The insecticide department had identified five main touch points that citizens in containment zones need to be aware about to control community transmission. These touch points include common toilets, stair handles or railings connecting two or three-storied structures, parapets connecting one settlement to the other, sitting areas such as concrete platforms outside slum structures and door handles. “Drones are not in a position to treat these touch points. It will release the disinfectant on rooftops or surfaces where the virus is not present, rendering the activity completely useless,” said Naringrekar.These unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) are currently being used by the Mumbai Police to monitor the movement of citizens during the lockdown and make announcements in densely-populated containment areas where traversing by foot is difficult, he added. “Also, large network of cables in these zones will hinder spraying disinfectants,” said Naringrekar. Meanwhile, the confusion over the usage of disinfection chambers continues to prevail among state bodies despite the Centre’s advisory against its usage.While spraying disinfectants has been recommended for cleaning purposes, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare issued an advisory on Saturday that spraying disinfectants or using tunnels on individuals or groups “was not recommended under any circumstances as it is physically and psychologically harmful”. “Even if a person is potentially exposed with the Covid-19 virus, spraying the external part of the body does not kill the virus that has entered the body. Also there is no scientific evidence to suggest that they are effective even in disinfecting the outer clothing,” the advisory read. But in Maharashtra, disinfection tunnels have been installed across the state and the government plans to install more such chambers across market places, government buildings and railways stations. “This is an unscientific process, which can lead to severe skin problems as well health effects, if the sodium hypochlorite solution in the tunnel is inhaled in large quantity. It is best to be avoided,” said Dr Jerryl Banait, dermatologist and Supreme Court petitioner in Covid-19 matters.However, the BMC has clarified that it will not be using disinfection chambers. Naringrekar said BMC will continue not to use disinfection chambers. “It gives a false impression that a person is cleaned and they will neglect the use of sanitisers or hand washing,” he said.Union health ministry’s advisory•Spraying chemical disinfectants on individuals or groups is not recommended under any circumstances as it is physically and psychologically harmful•Even if a person is potentially exposed with the Covid-19 virus, spraying on the external part of the body does not kill the virus that has entered the body•Spraying chlorine on individuals can lead to irritation of eyes and skin and potentially gastrointestinal effects such as nausea and vomiting•Inhalation of sodium hypochlorite can lead to irritation of mucous membranes to the nose, throat and respiratory tract•Use of such measures may lead to a false sense of disinfection, safety and hamper public observance to hand washing and social distancing measures||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-will-not-use-drones-to-disinfect-coronavirus-containment-zones/story-ZZjYKXx2EUpwTRTa27BXVN.html
21-04-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra government awaits experts’ nod to initiate rapid testing process for coronavirus||Even as some states have already started conducting rapid diagnostic tests to detect the presence of Covid-19 antibodies in patients, the Maharashtra government is yet to take a decision on the issue. Maharashtra has received the approval to acquire the rapid testing kits (RTKs) from the Centre. But the state said that it is in consultation with experts on the issue and will apply for the procurement process only after a policy is formulated on it. The presence of antibodies could indicate if a person is infected. The central government had procured 5.5 lakh RTKs from China for antibiotic diagnosis among suspected Covid-19 patients. While Jammu and Kashmir has received the kits, Delhi has started testing on Monday.“We are yet to decide if it is a good idea to use the diagnosis, as several experts have said that these tests lead to false reporting of positive cases. This testing is not scientifically proven and needs more research. So we will wait until our expert panel decides on it. Many European countries have stopped this procedure due to loopholes in the tests. It is better to be cautious instead of rushing under pressure,” said Anup Kumar Yadav, commissioner (family welfare) and director, National Health Mission, Maharashtra. When a person contracts Sars-Cov-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, the body develops antibodies as a defence. In the first week, IgM antibodies are produced and gradually, IgG antibodies start growing, which remain in the body for almost a month. With the help of these two types of antibodies, it can be found if a person is infected or was infected at some point of a time. However, according to the World Health Organization (WHO), in some cases, antibodies are not produced in the bodies of patients carrying the Covid-19 pathogens. Thus the world health body issued an advisory stating, “WHO doesn’t currently recommend the use of antigen-rapid diagnostic tests for patient care.”However according to experts, rapid diagnostic tests have been fruitful for community-based testing as it takes only 15 minutes to get the result of the analysis. This can be helpful for a state like Maharashtra where 65% of the patients have been diagnosed as asymptomatic. “Rapid diagnosis may provide a false report as sometimes antibodies don’t produce in the body within a certain window period. But in the case of analysis of a larger community, it can be helpful to understand the presence of the virus through IgM and IgG antibodies,” said Dr Lancelot Pinto, an epidemiologist from Hinduja Hospital. “It is not perfect science but can be helpful for a population with higher asymptomatic patients,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-awaits-experts-nod-to-initiate-rapid-testing-process-for-coronavirus/story-xN5dEjpJBvvFyeujG5MVEK.html
21-04-2020||City||Vashi toll booth sees traffic as Navi Mumbai Police conduct checks during lockdown||As the state lifted some restrictions on Monday, many government officials reported to work in Mumbai and Navi Mumbai, leading to heavy traffic at the Vashi toll booth in the morning, with the police conducting checks of vehicles to ensure that only those in the essential services and government bodies are permitted to pass through the check-post.“As many government offices opened today and some officials were required to be on duty, many have taken out their private vehicles to travel. We have allowed those with valid permissions. We had to ensure that cars are plying only with one passenger and a driver and bikes with only the riders, there were traffic snarls between 9.30am and 11.30am on the roads towards Mumbai and Navi Mumbai at the Vashi toll junction,” said inspector Bhanudas Khatavkar from Vashi traffic police.The Navi Mumbai police issued a warning to the other citizens against leaving the city limits without valid passes or reasons and said they will such commuters will not be permitted to enter the city in the evening.“Seeing a spurt in the vehicular movement, we have decided to work on zero-tolerance level. Anyone venturing on the road or going to Mumbai or Thane without a valid permission will not be allowed back in evening,” the Navi Mumbai Police tweeted.Congestion was reported in the evening too, as around 50 police personnel were deployed to conduct checks on vehicles before permitting them to enter the city limits.As operations at Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT) and the Agricultural Produce Market Committee in Vashi resumed, there was an influx of goods vehicles too, said police officers.The police on Twitter also reiterated that the “opening of industrial and construction activities are not allowed in the MMR [Mumbai Metropolitan Region] and red zones”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/vashi-toll-booth-sees-traffic-as-navi-mumbai-police-conduct-checks-during-lockdown/story-1zHB9Kp5xScGTvTThZomXM.html
21-04-2020||Mumbai||Maha virus case count goes up to 4,666; death toll rises to 232||Maharashtra’s coronavirus case count on Monday went up to 4,666 with the addition of 466 patients — the second-highest single-day jump after Sunday’s 552 cases.On the day the nationwide lockdown was partially relaxed across the state, Mumbai crossed the 3,000-case mark as 308 more people tested positive, taking the city’s count to 3,032.The death toll of the state touched 232 as nine deaths were recorded on Monday. Of them, seven are in Mumbai, taking the city’s toll to 139, and two in Malegaon.The state health minister Rajesh Tope said there was no need to be afraid as although the number is rising, there is improvement in the situation. “The doubling rate of the state has now reached seven days, up from two days. We are trying to increase it even further,” Tope said. He said the state is conducting maximum tests across the country. ”So far, we have conducted 76,000 tests in the state and in Mumbai alone, 50,000 tests were conducted. We are also doing surveillance and contract tracing aggressively,” he added.Monday was the 17th consecutive day the number of new cases in the state was in three digits. A total of 4,181 cases were reported in April alone, after the first coronavirus disease (Covid-19) case in the state was reported on March 9. The mortality rate of the state has significantly dropped to 5.30% (223 till Sunday) from 7.41% (148 last Monday [April 13]).However, it continued to be higher than the national mortality rate of 3.14% till Sunday, revealed data from the state medical education department.Meanwhile, three new districts — Parbhani, Nandurbar and Chandrapur — reported its first cases in the past few days. Chandrapur has two and Parbhani and Nandurbar one case each. After this, only four districts — Nanded, Wardha, Bhandara and Gadchiroli — do not have a single case, as of now.“The number is still not very alarming, except that of Mumbai. All the other areas are quite under control. In Mumbai, it is limited to certain areas and we still believe that the growth is not exponential,” said a senior official, requesting anonymity.“The concern should be that they [cases] are not spreading to other places and that with geometric progression. The number of infected people in the three districts (Chandrapur, Parbhani and Nandurbar) is minimal,” said the official.The state health department has conducted 76,092 tests at various public and private facilities till date. Of them, 71,611 people tested negative. State currently has 364 containment zones. Around 5,648 survey teams, comprising doctors and assisting staff, have screened more than 20.85 lakh people. A total of 331 patients have been discharged from hospitals. It has also kept 6,879 patients at government quarantine facilities, while 93,655 are home quarantined, said state health officials.Lockdown was imposed in the state from the midnight of March 23 and was lifted partially after 27 days on Monday.Even as the number kept rising, the state government lifted restrictions in many of the areas. It has allowed construction work in the municipal corporation and municipality areas, including Mumbai and Pune, with a rider that prior permission from the municipal commissioner will be needed. It has allowed taking up all urgent pre-monsoon works. It has also decided to allow industries to operate in all rural areas of the state. Manufacturing and other industrial establishments in special economic zones, industrial townships of only non-containment areas are allowed, except in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) and Pune Municipal Corporations (PMC) limits. It has further allowed construction activities of roads, buildings and irrigation projects outside municipal corporation limits.“It will take a couple of days to streamline all things. We need to understand their difficulties and what more changes are required. All these need to be understand and acted upon. As public health is our top priority, we have put many conditions on industrial for operating,” said Harshdeep Kamble, development commissioner (industries).Officials said that many of them would be facing other difficulties such as requirement of labour, work order, availability of raw material etc, and thus a few days are needed to start operations.Meanwhile, the Maharashtra government has set up an online system to provide permission to industries to operate and has received over 1,300 applications so far. Officials said that they are still collating the figures on how many industries resumed operations from Monday.“To provide permission to the industries to start their operations in the state, we have set up an online system where they have to apply. They will have to submit requisite details, such as number of employees, travel arrangements for workers and other such details. They will also have to give self-certification on the conditions such as social distancing and others, which are required to be fulfilled, for starting operations,” said the development commissioner“The applications will be reviewed by the concerned district collector and permissions are being issued within hours. We are still collating the data,” Kamble said.“We have given permission to 1,355 industrial units for starting operations today. Of them ,752 are in MIDC areas and 603 are outside MIDC areas. Most of the permissions are given in Nashik district. Apart from this, Ahmednagar, Satara, Sangli, Amravati, Nagpur and Yavatmal are the districts where permissions have been given to the industrial units,” said a senior official from the industries department, wishing not to be named.Tope on Monday said that 75,000 rapid testing or antibody test kits will be made available to Maharashtra and the tests will be carried out soon. The minister also said that hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) tablets will also be given as prophylaxis to health workers, quarantined people. However, those with heart ailments and under the age of 15 and over age 60 will not be given HCQ.“The Centre has now approved rapid testing, and we have decided to conduct 75,000 rapid tests. It will be done as per the advisory of the Centre. Those with high fever and persistent cough will undergo this test. Similarly, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has also said that hydroxychloroquine can be given as prophylaxis to limited number of people like healthcare workers, those in quarantine,” Tope said. The minister hinted that HCQs will be used for quarantine patients in Dharavi.The state government has also got the nod from the ICMR to start plasma therapy. The plasma from the recovered patients can be used on critical patients, to help them build antibodies to fight Covid-19.The minister also outlined the zoning done by the state government to allow lockdown relaxation. He said that those districts that have had no new Covid-19 cases in the last 14 days will be marked as an orange zone, while the districts where there have been no new case in the last 28 days will be marked as a green zone. The districts that have more than 15 cases are marked as red zone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-virus-case-count-goes-up-to-4-666-death-toll-rises-to-232/story-pXyaCv0ScZyX1Ckrx6l1ON.html
21-04-2020||Mumbai||Textbook publishers stare at huge losses||After the extension of the national lockdown to May 3, school books publishers in the state are staring at big losses as the peak season for textbook and study material publication is hit. With the lockdown in place, publishers have not been able to print and distribute textbooks, notebooks and reference material, thus losing out on a large chunk of their yearly business. Many publishers have requested the government to consider allowing them to operate as an essential service. Narendra Nandu, president, Bombay Booksellers and Publishers’ Association, said, “We are all staring at big losses as our peak business happens during March-May. During this time, we print textbooks, reference material and notebooks for the new academic year that begins in June...We are going to formally request the government to come up with some solution.” He said medium publishers are likely to lose nearly ₹50 lakh due to this. Publishers alleged that with online publishers allowed to operate, print publications are getting an unfair treatment. Deepak Sheth, director of Sheth Publishers, said even if the government permits printing, there are other permissions which need to be taken care of. “Our staff will not be able to come if transport is not available. Hence, all these things need to be considered before taking any decision,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/textbook-publishers-stare-at-huge-losses/story-InwcpEOVLx3xWBeZxQHBGJ.html
21-04-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai Police responded to 19,600 tweets since the 1st lockdown in March||The Mumbai Police, which has deputed a dedicated team of around eight police personnel to handle its Twitter handle @MumbaiPolice, have responded to around 19,600 tweets since the beginning of the lockdown. The Mumbai Police each day received around 600 to 800 tweets from people with a majority of it being about lockdown violation and medical emergencies. On the other hand, the police received 19,715 complaints on its phone helpline 100 during the same period. “A team of seven to eight personnel, mostly officers, is working in three shifts to handle the queries on Twitter. Since lockdown, we have received between 600 to 800 tweets daily. While going through the tweets, we have noticed sometimes a number of people tweet about the same things, while some people also tweet multiple times regarding the same thing. A majority of these tweets are queries related to Covid-19, which is either a medical emergency or about people violating lockdown rules,” said Pranaya Ashok, DCP (ops) and Mumbai Police spokesperson. Ashok said that following the complaints received on twitter, several people were given emergency passes to travel for medical emergencies or FIRs were filed. Jijamata Nagar in Worli is becoming difficult to manage as slum-dwellers are coming out of jam-packed areas to beat the heat. The police are making regular announcements asking people to stay at home. Sukhlal Varpe, senior inspector, Worli police station, said, “Jijamata Nagar has around 10,000 slums with 40,000 people..We suspect the pandemic came here from Dharavi as sanitary works living here used to work there.”A police officer patrolling the slums said, “People come out of their houses for some or the other reason. The most common reason is to get medicine as they know we will not stop them in that case”“In Janta colony, a containment zone in Dadar (West) affected with 76 cases and four deaths, over a thousand families were running short of ration. With help of Reliance and Vandana NGO, we were able to supply them with ration,” said zonal DCP Niyati Thaker. Mumbai Police Commissioner Parambir Singh on Monday led a march of 500 policemen in Dharavi along with Quick Response Team , Riot Control Police and State Reserve Police Force asking people to stay at home. A total of 4,298 FIRs have been lodged since lockdown including 120 on Sunday. On Sunday, 45 were booked for gathering in one place, 44 for not wearing mask, and 24 for illegal use of vehicles. 182 people were booked and 106 were arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-responded-to-19-600-tweets-since-the-1st-lockdown-in-mar/story-Cin6QBW4Lx20WzYqLvlpRL.html
21-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab extends work hours to help factories tackle labour shortage||After going back and forth on opening industrial activities in non-containment zones for three days, the Punjab government on Monday relaxed the working hours in factories to help them deal with labour shortage.The labour department issued a notification to relax the provisions of the Factories Act, 1948, to extend the working hours in a day to 12 hours from the existing nine hours for optimum utilisation of labour.“In the wake of the crisis due to Covid-19 pandemic, there are restrictions on movement of labour, leading to shortage,” according to a notification issued by principal secretary, labour, VK Janjua, to allow the extended hours of work in exercise of powers under Section 65 of the Act.However, the factories will have to pay wages to workers at “twice the ordinary rate of wage” provided for overtime in the Act. The factories have also been directed to adhere to all precautionary measures advised by the Centre and the state government for maintaining sanitisation and social distancing. The orders will remain in force for three months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-extends-work-hours-to-help-factories-tackle-labour-shortage/story-YXA7evheup6xxAIeHkV99I.html
21-04-2020||Noida||Covid-19 positive patient gives birth in GB Nagar, total cases reach 100||Three more cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) were reported from Gautam Budh Nagar on Monday. The total number of cases in the district was 100 till Monday night. Officials said that patients include a 33-year-old woman from the Tech Zone 4 area of Greater Noida, who gave birth to a boy around 1pm on Monday at the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS), Greater Noida. The woman’s husband is a doctor with Jaypee Hospital whose sample reports are awaited. Officials think that he possibly acted as a carrier. He has now been quarantined, they added. Recently, a 62-year-old Muzaffarnagar woman who had come for an operation to Jaypee Hospital, was found positive for Covid-19. The woman had undergone surgery for pancreatic tumour at the hospital on March 7. The doctor’s wife was shifted from Jaypee Hospital in Sector 128 to GIMS on Sunday night.GIMS director Dr Rakesh Gupta said that both mother and child are doing fine and are under observation.The baby has been kept under observation away from the mother to ensure that the infection is not transmitted to him. A team of doctors and the medical staff lead by the chief medical superintendent and head of the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology Professor Shikha Seth conducted the woman’s caesarean surgery. Officials had made special arrangements in the operation theatre as this was the first case where a Covid-19 patient needed an OT. “Both mother and child are doing well. We will conduct a Covid-19 test for the baby on Tuesday as it can be performed only after 24 hours of birth. He is currently under observation. The chances of him getting the infection are almost zero as it can happen only after the child consumes the mother’s milk which won’t happen in this case. We are happy that our team successfully conducted the surgery after taking all required precautions,” Dr Rakesh Gupta, director, GIMS, said.The second identified Covid-19 patient is a 52-year-old woman from Sector 34, Noida, who works with a private hospital in Patparganj, Delhi. Officials said that she was exposed in the operation theatre of the hospital. The woman is being treated at the same hospital’s branch in Delhi’s Saket area, where there are isolation wards for Covid-19 patients.The third patient is a 61-year-old woman from Block B, Sector 55, Noida. The woman is a cancer patient and her condition was stable at the time of admission at the Sharda Hospital, officials said. Her source of infection is yet to be identified. She is undergoing chemotherapy. The cluster containment teams in the district have visited 453,822 houses, around 1,166 travellers have been identified while 1,448,890 persons have been screened.By Monday night, the health department had notified 1,967 travellers and collected a total of 2,309 samples. Of the 100 cases that have come to light, 43 persons have been discharged. Currently, there are 57 active Covid-19 cases in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/covid-19-positive-patient-gives-birth-in-gb-nagar-total-cases-reach-100/story-2AdWx3T5eZf3rlwYv4MkUM.html
21-04-2020||Lucknow||Human sacrifice: Man kills two-year-old daughter in Muzaffarnagar||In a barbaric case of human sacrifice, a 30-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly killing his two-year-old daughter on the advice of a friend in Kakrauli police station area of Muzaffarnagar on Sunday night, police said. After filing an FIR, both the accused have been arrested. The body of the victim was also recovered, buried in a nearby field and has been sent for a postmortem examination, police said. Ram Mohan Sharma, circle officer Bhopa, said, “On Sunday, at around 10 pm, accused, Wajid strangulated his two-year-old daughter Tarannum to death while other family members were sleeping. He then slit her throat with a sharp object and buried the body in a nearby field.” “At around 11 pm, victim’s mother, Rehana, filed a complaint at Kakrauli police station. Police soon arrested Wajid from his residence and recovered the body. However, the (other) accused managed to flee. He was later arrested,” police said.The main accused and father of the girl, Wajid, was working as a labourer at a brick kiln in Khaikheda in Kakrauli police station area and was residing in a nearby area along with his wife Rehana and five children--- three daughters and two sons. According to the police, during interrogation Wajid said that there were disputes going on in his family for many months. When he discussed it with Irfaan, another labourer at the brick kiln who was allegedly interested in witchcraft, he advised him to sacrifice his daughter to maintain peace among the family members. Police also said that Wajid is continuously changing his statements and there is a possibility that he had murdered his daughter out of frustration. Wajid also said he murdered his two-year-old daughter as she reminded him of his past girlfriend, the police said. Police said that FIR was registered against Wajid and Irfaan under the charges of murder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/human-sacrifice-man-kills-two-year-old-daughter-in-muzzaffarnagar/story-49TjsTOkWHmWv0gOPEipnJ.html
21-04-2020||Chandigarh||82-year-old Chandigarh woman tests positive for Covid-19, takes city count to 27||An 82-year-old woman from Sector 18, Chandigarh, tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday and was admitted to a private hospital in Panchkula after being sampled at the civil hospital there.With this, Chandigarh’s count went up to 27, but with one more patient cleared of the disease on Monday, the number of persons discharged stands at 14 and active cases at 13.An asthma patient, the woman had been staying in turns with her three sons at their homes in Chandigarh and Panchkula and according to initial inputs one of her sons had travelled to Singapore on February 11 and returned on February 22. He had also visited a flu clinic on April 5 but the exact source of transmission had yet to be ascertained, health officials said.Dr Ashok Kumar, spokesperson of the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), said another patient discharged on Sunday was a 23 year-old resident of Sector 29.Two children aged 16 and 13, of a Sector 30 resident who tested positive on Friday last week, were also sampled at the Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16. Meanwhile, all 15 contacts of a positive case of Kacchi colony, Dhanas, have turned out negative.RETESTING SYMPTOMATIC PATIENTS POST RECOVERYMedical authorities in Chandigarh have also decided to retest symptomatic patients who have recovered from Covid-19. Himachal Pradesh has recently reported a case in which a patient who had recovered retested positive.Arun Gupta, UTs principal health secretary, said that patients who had recovered from the disease and showed symptoms after the day-mandatory quarantine would be tested again.Meanwhile, data analysis by authorities on Monday showed the rate of doubling of Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh on Monday at 25.4 days against the national average of 7.5 days. Doubling of cases means the number of days in which active cases double. For this usually data of the current day is compared with data collected a week back. The government considers any district to be hotspot if doubling rate is less than four days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/82-year-old-chandigarh-woman-tests-positive-for-covid-19-takes-city-count-to-27/story-U5qIo3YRYoFimAU56wYR2O.html
21-04-2020||Gurugram||Govt caps movement passes for industry workers, to be issued on first-cum-first-serve basis||The industry and commerce department of Haryana has now capped the number of passes to be issued by local administrations for industry workers by issuing a fresh set of instructions on Monday. The additional guidelines were issued a day after the government had released a standard operating procedure (SOP), allowing industrial and other establishments in the state to apply on the SARAL portal for permission to resume factory operations after a gap of almost four weeks due to nationwide lockdown.The power to approve passes rests with three different committees in a district headed, each by sub divisional magistrate (SDM), additional deputy commissioner (ADC) and commissioner Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) and deputy commissioner (DC), for permission of movement to industry owners, on a first-cum-first-serve basis.“Initially, permissions will be granted by the committees on a first-cum-first-serve basis restricting the total number of industrial workers/employees as per given the instructions,” said the letter from the department.First category is for industries applying for passes for up to 25 persons.“An SDM-level committee shall grant permissions to a maximum of 1,000 persons per block in rural areas and 1,000 persons per town in urban areas in their jurisdiction in the first phase,” said the letter.The second category is for industries applying for 25 to 200 persons.In this category, the ADC as well as the commissioner of concerned civic bodies shall grant permissions to a maximum of 2,000 persons each in their jurisdictions in the first phase.The third category comprises approval of passes for industries applying for more than 200 persons and concerned DC can grant permissions to a maximum of 3,000 persons in the district in the first phase.The letter, however, does not say what it means by “first phase”.TVSN Prasad, additional chief secretary, industry department, Haryana, said, “This is a lockdown period and the government has to ensure movements remain under control of local administration, which is why the approval passes have been capped. As things move forward and the situation improves, the local administration will take a call as per the prevailing situation and allow more industries.”After the SOP was issued, many industry owners in Gurugram expressed concerns over clauses such as FIRs for violations and two years’ imprisonment to the industry owner in case an employee gets infected with Covid-19.According to industry owners, capping of approval passes in the district is a clear indication that the government does not want to grant permissions to all industries at the same time during lockdown till May 3.“There was no point in capping approval passes. There is also no clarity on how long the first phase will last. There are many concerns and we have written to the Haryana government over the same,” said Deepak Maini, an industrialist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/govt-caps-movement-passes-for-industry-workers-to-be-issued-on-first-cum-first-serve-basis/story-mqkKsSUqVcUZICYYT9lLOM.html
21-04-2020||Gurugram||Stay safe and help others: The lockdown mantra of this Gurugram society||A community fridge placed in front of HEWO 1 Apartments in Sector 56 is helping residents reach out to those in need of food. The initiative, started around a year ago, is proving to be quite useful in the current situation, say residents. Placed right next to the main gate and run through seven days of the week, there is no lock on the fridge and passersby can pick any item at any point of the day, they said. “Residents are contributing to the fridge by placing packets of home-cooked food. As soon as items are placed, some one or the other picks it up,” said Virender Singh, the vice-president of the residents’ welfare association (RWA). Minisha Bhardwaj, an artist, who stays in the building, says residents are taking safety precautions while placing the food. Also, those placing food post on the apartment social media group, ensuring that only healthy persons contribute. “The fridge is touched by a lot of people. So, you have to ensure that it is safe for those contributing as well as those collecting the food. Every time someone places an item in the fridge, they put a message on the WhatsApp group,” said Bhardwaj.The society has also accommodated all staff members, mostly from nearby villages and slums, at vacant apartments and makeshift quarters in the changing rooms adjoining a swimming pool. They use the cooking facilities to prepare food, while residents, sometimes, provide them with tea and snacks. Dry ration — rice, dal, oil, sugar and salt, among other items — were recently distributed to them by the RWA. At the gate, security guards have been provided with infrared thermometers to measure the temperature of those entering the society. They are directed to mandatorily sanitise their hands and sanitisers have been provided at each tower lobby. The RWA has also procured its own supply of sodium hypochlorite, commonly known as liquid bleach, for sanitising the complex twice a day. Special attention is given to commonly used areas — elevators, lobbies and stairs. The society has a grocery store, which has now been expanded to include vegetables and fruits. In the initial days of the lockdown, it had to depend on food delivery trucks of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG).“We now have a shop for fresh vegetables and fruits, so that residents don’t have to step out. The shop has been provided to him (grocery store owner) rent-free. A rate card has been displayed outside the store and he has to sell it as per the government rates,” said Singh. He added that only one resident is allowed inside the shop at a go, while others have to wait outside on the markings to ensure social distancing. All online deliveries are currently restricted to the gate. Residents are expected to pick up their orders to ensure that non-residents don’t the society. Following the lockdown, the society worked hard to gather the travel histories of residents. Tower volunteers called up each of the 200-odd families residing in the society to find out if they had recently travelled. “It was tiring to call up each family, but then the task was done at the end. We called up each household, asked for their travel history over the past 15 days. Not all of them came forward, so we had to cross-check with neighbours too,” said Diksha Babhoota, a resident, who helped record travel histories of residents.After the collection of travel history, the society asked three families to home-quarantine, as they had recently returned from foreign trips. “They were strictly told that they cannot step out. At the same time, we ensured that all their essential needs were catered to by the security team,” said Singh. The society put in place a no-walking policy and even informed residents via circulars of the same. However, some continue with their old routines. “We have a few residents who continue to take walks. They are few in numbers. We are strictly enforcing masks in public spaces. Residents have to wear masks every time they step out of the apartment,” said Singh. He added that for the time being, pet owners have mostly chosen to remain indoors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/stay-safe-and-help-others-the-lockdown-mantra-of-this-gurugram-society/story-UtWMwtRR8enUPVXUp7Da3M.html
21-04-2020||Noida||Mercury to remain below normal for the week, region likely to see light rain||With the mercury level in the region dropping a notch on Monday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted the temperatures to remain well below season’s average for the rest of the week. The weather department has also predicted patchy rains in Noida and adjoining regions in the coming days.According to the IMD, because of an approaching western disturbance – a phenomenon that causes rains in the region—Tuesday and Wednesday might experience light drizzling towards the evenings with chances of thunder and good rains on April 23 (Thursday).“The mercury will remain well below the season’s average, and in the maximum temperature will be between 32 and 33 degrees for the next two or three days. The temperatures for the rest of the week will also be likely below the season’s average,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecast centre, IMD. “ There are chances of light, patchy rain on Tuesday and Wednesday as well, and on April 23 the region might experience good rainfall,” he added.On Monday, the maximum temperature was recorded at 34.1 degrees Celsius, four notches below the season’s average, against 35.2 degrees Celsius a day earlier. The minimum temperature was recorded at 20.2 degrees Celsius, two notches below the season’s average, same as Sunday.“The mercury is expected to be below normal for the entire week as, after Thursday, another western disturbance is expected to hit the region around 25th and 26th,” said Mahesh Palawat, director of private weather forecasting agency, Skymet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/mercury-to-remain-below-normal-for-the-week-region-likely-to-see-light-rain/story-2wLCsHjnGNd5zRpggjN6VI.html
21-04-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 outbreak: 16 high-risk contacts linked to pizza delivery boy test negative in south Delhi||Sixteen people who were in direct contact with a food delivery person from south Delhi who is suffering from Covid-19 have tested negative for coronavirus, but will remain in institutional quarantine in a facility in Chhatarpur, according to government officials involved in containing the spread of the coronavirus disease.The people will be sent home only after they test negative a second time on the completion of their mandatory 14-day quarantine period, the officials said, adding that no one in the 72 households the man had recently delivered food to showed any flu-like symptoms.“We had identified 16 high-risk persons linked to the delivery person from Malviya Nagar, and have kept them under institutional quarantine. The test results of all the 16 persons, including the owner of the food joint where the delivery executive worked, have come negative,” district magistrate (south) BM Mishra said.“None of the low-risk contacts to whom the infected person had delivered food over the past month have shown any symptoms so far. But they will continue to be under home quarantine; they’re being strictly monitored,” he added.The delivery person, who tested positive on April 14, is being treated at the Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality hospital in Tahirpur.According to the police, he is an employee of Box 8, and the last order he delivered was a pizza from the kitchen of the adjoining restaurant MOJO Pizza, also located in the same building in Malviya Nagar. Police said that apart from serving its own menu, Box 8 has a tie-up with multiple food chains.While larger food delivery chains and essential supplies providers have strict processes to ensure the safety of their deliveries, smaller firms may fall below the radar, prompting government officials to consider drafting standardised norms.Mishra said the delivery person had not been feeling well for nearly a month.In a statement on its official Twitter account on April 16, Box 8 had said: “After all precautions and vigilance, in an unfortunate turn of events, a delivery partner of our Malviya Nagar kitchen in south Delhi has tested COVID positive yesterday….The delivery partner has been keeping well and getting the required medical attention. All his co-workers have been quarantined and we have shut down the Malviya Nagar kitchen in South Delhi for the next 14 days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-outbreak-16-high-risk-contacts-linked-to-pizza-delivery-boy-test-negative-in-south-delhi/story-Y9V6Zp9SNcKsH3unwxpmOJ.html
21-04-2020||Noida||GB Nagar to issue safety guidelines for delivery persons||The Gautam Budh Nagar administration is working on safety guidelines for delivery persons working with organisations providing delivery of essential items. The move follows last week’s incident in Delhi’s Malviya Nagar, wherein a delivery boy of a restaurant tested positive for coronavirus (Covid-19) and subsequently, 72 families and 17 of his colleagues were placed in quarantine.Officials said that it is important to ensure the safety of delivery boys as it can lead to the spread of Covid-19 in societies across the district where they are providing services.“We are going to start conducting random Covid-19 tests of delivery boys involved in door-to-door services, especially in the hot spots and containment areas. We have asked all service providers to ensure that delivery boys are following mandatory measures, such as wearing masks, using sanitisers and ensuring social distancing. The firms have to keep a tab on the health of their employees by checking their temperatures on a regular basis,” said LY Suhas, district magistrate, GB Nagar.“We are soon going to issue detailed and strict guidelines pertaining to delivery boys. Special attention will be paid to delivery boys working in containment areas,” said Suhas.The chemists’ association of Gautam Budh Nagar has asked their delivery persons to drop off the packages at the main gate of the society and maintain a high level of hygiene.“We have given sanitisers and masks to all our men involved in home deliveries. We have strictly told them to deliver medicines at the main gate only. We are also requesting people to make online payments or through payment apps. At shops also, people have started using sanitisers before and after swiping the debit card. The safety of delivery boys is important for people receiving the services also. We have asked those running medical stores to immediately contact the health department if a delivery person has fever, cold or any Covid-19 symptom,” said Anoop Khanna, president, chemists’ association.From Monday, officials also started barricading hot spots. Only essential services will be allowed in containment areas and movement of vehicles or people will not be allowed. The containment drive is going to be intensified, said Suhas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/gb-nagar-to-issue-safety-guidelines-for-delivery-persons/story-QzqrL0Q7CUGGfkxMn3b6zH.html
21-04-2020||Delhi||Life on the front lines: Three of a family infected, fourth in quarantine||When the lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19 was announced on March 24, a family of four in north-west Delhi’s Model Town was worried. A policeman, a nurse, and their young sons -- they knew they faced a high risk of infection because of their jobs.Even as the nurse continued to work, the family went to great lengths to ensure that they did not infect each other, their colleagues, their neighbours, or their house help. Each member stayed in a separate room at their four-bedroom house in Model Town Police Colony; they paid their domestic help and car cleaner for the month, and asked them to stay home during the lockdown; the 52-year-old policeman, who had undergone a heart surgery months earlier, took his pending leave to stay home; and the family cut off all physical contact with their neighbours. “It was an exemplary act. They went out of their way to keep their neighbours away, not to save themselves but to protect the others,” said Vijayanta Arya, deputy commissioner of police (north-west).But despite their efforts, the disease got to them. Three members of the family — the couple and their younger son (21) — tested positive for the virus between April 11 and 13. For the last week, the three have been confined to a room at the Lok Nayak Hospital.The couple’s 23-year-old son is in home-quarantine.The woman, an assistant nursing superintendent at Lok Nayak hospital, went to work every day, and knew that if her family was affected, she would be the source. “There was no public conveyance from home to hospital, so my husband would drive me home every day. I knew that once I was infected, he would get it too,” the nurse said.She began showing symptoms in early April. “My nursing colleagues were regularly serving Covid-19 patients without being equipped with personal protective equipment (PPE). I must have contracted the disease from them,” she said, even as the authorities are unclear about the source of her infection.She was hospitalised on April 9, and two days later, an RT-PCR test confirmed that she was Covid-19 positive. The family of four was moved to Lok Nayak Hospital. On April 13, her husband and 21-year-old son tested positive as well. However, their older son tested negative and was sent home.“We think he didn’t get the infection because he has better immunity and we ensured we avoided contact with him. But my younger son began cooking for us once I fell unwell. He would serve me food and collect my utensils. Maybe, that is how he got infected,” she said.The three was allotted a separate small room at the hospital. The proximity at least allows them to talk to one another.“We are so close to each other, and yet, so far. In the hospital room, our beds are at a distance of a metre from each other. We cannot watch a film together on one mobile phone. We cannot exchange phones or share our chargers. Even our meals arrive separately,” said the 52-year-old assistant sub-inspector (ASI) with the Delhi Police’s provisioning and logistics department.In the hospital room, the couple spends all day on the phone — either attending to calls from relatives or calling up their son at home. The younger son spends time watching films on the phone. But the couple says their main concern is their son back home.“My son may be able to handle the home-quarantine emotionally, but he is in isolation and staying alone, at the end of the day. When relatives call us, we ask them to call up my son after disconnecting the call,” the policeman said.Once in a while, the family encounters a familiar face, as the nurses attending them know the woman as a senior . They say that the presence of acquaintances around them gives them a “feeling of being with an extended family”.“I tell them that I’ll join them as soon as I am discharged and allowed to serve,” said the nurse.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/life-on-the-front-lines-three-of-a-family-infected-fourth-in-quarantine/story-knfK3HPAnOxY5BCTSt0V8H.html
21-04-2020||Delhi||Capital readies more quarantine centres||Districts across the national Capital have been asked to identify additional quarantine centres, including paid facilities, for suspected Covid-19 patients, as the number of positive cases in the city spiked to 2,081 on Monday.According to a report accessed by HT, Delhi has 17 institutional quarantine centres that are currently accommodating 3,220 suspected patients. Of this, 2,852 persons are linked to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation that took place in Nizamuddin in mid-March, while 368 were categorised as ‘others’ (contact related).As per the report, there are only 1,185 vacant beds in all of Delhi’s quarantine centres. Gauging the pace of new positive cases and the increasing number of containment zones in the city, district magistrates have been asked to arrange for additional centres and also offer the option of paid quarantine in hotels.The South West zone is one of the first districts to have its quarantine plan ready. “As part of our exigency plan, we have already identified four additional quarantine centres, two of which will be paid and the others free. In case there is a sudden need for more quarantine centres, we will be able to start these within a few hours of intimation,” said Rahul Singh, district magistrate (South West).The subdivisional magistrates of the district have roped in hotels, such as Taj Vivanta and ITC Welcome in Dwarka, to set up paid quarantine facilities. Free quarantine centres at the Chaudhary Brahm Prakash College, which is centrally air-conditioned and has attached bathrooms, and the Police Training College in Jharoda Kalan have been kept on standby, with 362 beds in total.In the South district, officials said they have sent a proposal to the health department to keep three hotels ready. “At present, we have around 150 people living in our quarantine centres. We have zeroed in on three hotels, in and around Green Park, to provide paid facilities,” said the official, on condition of anonymity.However, revenue officials in New Delhi district said the need for additional quarantine centres has not yet arisen in their area. “Our existing centres still have at least 252 beds available. So, we are yet to go on to the next phase of getting more centres ready,” said a senior revenue official of New Delhi district, on condition of anonymity.In the Shahdara district, there was no vacancy as of Monday. “Our quarantine centre at Delhi Police residential complex has a capacity of 450 people. But, despite having 141 beds vacant, we are temporarily keeping the vacancies suspended because some more recently tested positive for Covid-19. So, the rooms and all other areas are undergoing thorough sanitisation and disinfection at the moment,” said a revenue official of Shahdara district.At present, the biggest quarantine facility in Delhi is in North district’s Narela, where flats of the Delhi Development Authority are being used. The centre has a capacity of 1,260 beds, of which only 176 were available as of Monday.Earlier, the paid quarantine centres in Aerocity near the Indira Gandhi International (IGI) Airport was the largest quarantine facility in the country. The paid centres, set up in five plush hotels of Aerocity, were shut by the Delhi government on April 10 after all 608 persons who were using the facility successfully finished their quarantine. Most of them were passengers who had arrived in Delhi from other countries and had to undergo the mandated quarantine.A quarantine facility has a dedicated team of doctors and health workers, besides centre-wise dedicated sanitation staff. Such a facility is different from a Covid Care Centre (CCC), which is for people who show symptoms and test positive for the virus.In a quarantine facility, mostly asymptomatic persons or others who had come in contact with a Covid-19 positive person are kept for a period of 14 days. They are allowed to leave the facility only after they test negative for Covid-19 twice, including one while exiting the centre, after which they are mandated to home-quarantine for 14 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/more-quarantine-centres-in-the-works-as-cases-spike/story-4noVZrxILpsOWShmSZCv3H.html
21-04-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram health dept starts antibody tests in Sohna||The health department on Monday started rapid antibody tests in Sohna and tested five persons with the help of Rapid Testing Kits (RTKs). The district health department has 750 RTKs which will be used in tracing people who have developed antibodies against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19)—i.e. they are asymptomatic or have mild influenza-like symptoms. In a statement released by the administration, Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner, said, “The district has more than 700 RTKs, which will help find suspected Covid-19 cases. While the RT-PCR method takes at least two days, antibody tests give results in 15-30 minutes. The kits will be used in containment zones of the city to check for Covid-19 clustering.”Officials said that the result of all five tests carried out at the sub-divisional hospital in Sohna on Monday was negative. The district has six containment zones — Devi Lal Colony, Sun City Sector 54, Sector 39, Fazilpur village in Jharsa, Village Raipur in Sohna and Ward no. 11 Pataudi. The district health department has started the tests in Sohna’s containment zones after it reported 14 cases.On Monday noon, the medical team at Sohna was trained in the usage of the kit. With the staff’s training complete, more people will be tested on Tuesday, officials said. Dr Jaswant Singh Punia, chief medical officer, said, “With the help of RTKs, we can find out whether a person has developed antibodies against Covid-19. We are taking the blood samples of those with influenza-like illness. Once identified we will also do their RT-PCR tests for final confirmation. But those tested for antibodies will be quarantined for 10 days.”On Friday, the Haryana government received its first shipment of 10,000 RTKs from the central government. As per the plan, blood tests to detect coronavirus antibodies through RTKs will be done at three Covid-19 hot spot districts — Gurugram, Nuh and Hathin in Palwal. Haryana also received its first shipment of 25,000 RTKs from SD Bio Sensor, a Korean company based in IMT Manesar. Rajiv Arora, additional chief secretary, health department, said, “ We are the first state to receive bulk supply from our own sources. This will help speed up testing in containment zones, hot spots and asymptomatic cases.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-health-dept-starts-antibody-tests-in-sohna/story-IVZUHADyIVHU7GC6AshYRP.html
21-04-2020||Pune||80 new Covid-19 cases, but no deaths for 2nd day in Pune||Pune did not report any Covid-19 deaths for the second day in a row, on Monday, keeping the death toll in the city at 50.However, 80 fresh cases were reported in the city taking the total count of progressive positive cases in Pune district to 666.The city also discharged 13 patients after two consecutive tests returned negative in a gap of 24 hours, and the stipulated incubation period was completed.As per information from the Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) health department, of the 80 fresh cases reported, 19 are in Sassoon hospital; 46 in Naidu hospital; five from Ruby Hall; four at Bharati Vidyapeth hospital; two each from the Deenanath Mangeshkar and KEM hospitals; and one each from Inlaks and Budhrani and Jehangir hospitals. Out of the total of 666 progressive positive cases, 152 are in Sassoon, with 514 either in Naidu hospital or in private hospitals.Also, 13 patients discharged on Monday takes the count of Covid-19 discharged in Pune to 68.There are 14 patients critical in the city, of which nine are in Sassoon; two each at Bharati Vidyapeth hospital and the Symbiosis hospital; and one at the Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital.Also, 140 patients were found with flu-like symptoms at the PMC’s flu clinics, or during house-to-house surveys on Monday. A total of 1,914 people have been quarantined after exhibiting flu like symptoms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/80-new-cases-but-no-deaths-for-2nd-day-in-pune/story-rWH3VaKBShvxo3TBJ8h1TM.html
21-04-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s Azadpur market to remain open round the clock to help farmers sell produce||In order to help farmers sell their produce without any hassle and to ensure uninterrupted supply of essentials in the national capital, the agriculture produce market in Azadpur will remain open round the clock from Tuesday (April 21) till the lockdown is lifted, Delhi minister Gopal Rai said on Monday.The decision was taken a day after chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said that Delhi will witness no relaxation in the lockdown norms from April 20 – the revised guidelines of the Union home ministry have made some relaxations for certain sectors till May 3, such as construction work, IT companies, online deliveries and farming sector, among others.Azadpur agriculture market is considered the lifeline of Delhi in terms of supply of fruits and vegetables. To get a sense of the scale of operations, the market witnessed transactions of nearly 350 tonnes of tomatoes, 302 tonnes of potatoes, 350 tonnes of onions, 82 tonnes of cauliflower and cabbage, 70 tonnes of orange and 313 tonnes of apple were supplied at the Azadpur Mandi on March 25, the day the nationwide lockdown started.“Under the new arrangement, from 6am to 10pm, vegetables and fruits will be sold as usual at the Azadpur mandi . From 10pm to 6am, truck movement will be allowed in and out of the market. Every four hours, the entry of 1,000 people will be allowed,” said Rai.He further said, to ensure social distancing, the government will deploy 900 civil defence volunteers and install two more CCTV cameras at crucial points in the market to help monitor the people density within its premises.Earlier this month, the government had introduced staggered timings for truckers and an odd-even system for traders in the market. All sheds in the market are numbered. Under the new system, traders in odd-numbered sheds and even-numbered sheds were allowed to operate on alternate days.“The policy was adopted to ensure social distancing but it proved costly in terms of business and supply chain. Farmers started complaining as the new arrangements reduced avenues for them to sell their produce and it hit the supply chain of fruits and vegetables in the city. This was conveyed to the government. The new arrangement is a relief,” Adil Khan, chairperson of the Azadpur agriculture produce market committee, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/azadpur-market-to-remain-open-round-the-clock-to-help-farmers-sell-produce/story-yokmTZzqJuHK3zd7whnBjP.html
21-04-2020||Chandigarh||In locked down Chandigarh drug users turn to therapy centres for ‘safe’ doses to fight withdrawal symptoms||With illegal drug supply restricted due to curfew in the wake of Covid-19, drug users in Chandigarh are willingly choosing safer opioid substitutes to cope with withdrawal symptoms, doctors say.More than a 100 injecting drug users (IDUs) have reached out for help to opioid substitution therapy (OST) centres run by the State AIDS Control Society (SACS), Chandigarh. Used medically to treat moderate to severe pain opioids are like opiates such as morphine and codeine, but are not made from opium.Doctors say IDUs are being administered Buprenorphine, an opioid used to treat opioid use disorder, acute pain, and chronic pain. “It’s a medically approved, safer and long acting drug and is given daily to those who are registered with the centres,” says Sandeep Mittal, deputy director, SACS.1,400 IDUs registeredAbout 1,400 IDUs are registered with NGOs for the programme, out of which about 600 are taking Buprenorphine based OST under SACS. Buprenorphine tablets are given daily to users to counter withdrawal symptoms and allow them to perform routine activities. “Slowly, the dosage is reduced,” adds Mittal. The project is being run with the help of NGOs Sehat and Society for Service to Voluntary Agencies (SOSVA) at four such centres in the city.Pirity, project manager, SOSVA, who only uses one name, looks after drug users at two OST centres in sectors 38 and 56. “We have 668 users who inject drugs of which 18 are women, but only 230 are taking medications regularly. After the lockdown, however, 21 new cases have come to us,” she says.Many patients who had quit the centres prematurely earlier are returning willingly, she adds. A 23-year-old who had sought therapy in October last year did not return after he was tested positive for AIDS. “Today, he came to the centre willingly and enrolled for therapy,” Pirity adds.Act sensitively, NGOs toldNGOs have been advised to act sensitively and not ask users too many questions, says Sanjeev Kumar, project manager with Sehat. “Yesterday, I got a call from an 18-year-old youth wanting to restart therapy. They are in need, and we are going to help them,” he says.Sehat manages two centres in Manimajra and Ram Darbar “We have 1,026 IDUs registered with us (485 in Manimajra and 541 in Ram Darbar). A majority of them are in the 18 to 19 age bracket and the average age is 32 years,” adds Kumar. “Currently 290 IDUs are taking regular medication from the two centres, but since the lockdown, the number has increased. At least 80 people who had earlier left us midway during therapy have enrolled with us again,” he says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/in-locked-down-chandigarh-drug-users-turn-to-therapy-centres-for-safe-doses-to-fight-withdrawal-symptoms/story-mOkTT12HVUphSzxgNcnueN.html
21-04-2020||Lucknow||Yogi dials Thackeray, seeks action against Palghar perpetrators||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has requested Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to ensure strict action against those responsible for killing of two saints of Juna Akhara and their driver at Palghar in Maharashtra.Yogi spoke to Thackeray over phone and requested him for action.“Spoke to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday evening about killing of Swami Kalpvraksha Giri JI and Swami Sushil Giri Ji of Juna Akhara and their driver at Palghar, Maharashtra and requested him for strict action against those responsible for the incident,” said Yogi in a tweet.Yogi said Maharashtra chief minister informed him that some arrests have been made while others would soon be identified and strict action would be taken against them.The Juna Akhara has reacted strongly to the incident calling the killing an inhuman act. “The brutal killing of Juna Akhara Sadhus in Palghar is shocking and highly condemnable. Strict action must be taken to address this inhuman act of violence,” said Swami Avdheshanand of Juna Akhara in a tweet. “I am deeply hurt and shocked by brutal killing of saints of Juna Akhara in Palghar Maharashtra. Action must be taken immediately and assailants must be punished,” said Avdheshanand in his tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/yogi-dials-thackerey-seeks-action-against-palghar-perpetrators/story-2UHMkzvsScVKxWhXhhWVPJ.html
21-04-2020||Pune||Yerawada prisoner out on ‘Covid-19 bail’ found beaten to death near Jehangir hospital bridge||A man was found bludgeoned to death on a footpath near the Pune railway station on Saturday morning.The man has been identified as Munna Ishwar Chavan, 23, a resident of Bendre Gali in Shastrinagar, Georai, in Beed. The police are looking for a suspect in the case. Chavan was found on the footpath of the new bridge near Jehangir hospital, with injury marks on his forehead, above his eyebrows, according to the police. He is suspected to have been beaten to death with a heavy object.He was found to have been recently released from the Yerawada Central Jail in the initiative undertaken by the jail authorities to decongest, in light of the Covid-19 pandemic. The police found a letter granting him bail of 45 days on personal bond. He was in jail for a theft case registered at Pune railway police station. His body has been sent for post-mortem to the Sassoon General Hospital.A case under Section 302 (murder) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Bund garden police station against an unidentified person. Police inspector (crime) Digambar Shinde of Bund garden police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/yerawada-prisoner-out-on-covid-19-bail-found-beaten-to-death-near-jehangir-hospital-bridge/story-E9OQrrBgitWK2cO0py0YeP.html
21-04-2020||Delhi||Yamuna’s water quality improves, but not fit for use||The overall quality of water in the Yamuna river has improved by up to 33% at the Okhla barrage (Agra canal) during the lockdown period but it is still to meet prescribed standards, a comparative study of water samples taken from nine different locations by the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) earlier this month shows. The improvement is mainly on account of an increased flow of fresh water in the river and reduced pollutant load from commercial and industrial sectors. According to officials, the prescribed BOD (bio-chemical oxygen demand) standard for Yamuna river water is 3mg/l, when the water can be considered fit for bathing. BOD levels mean the amount of oxygen required by the river to maintain its flow. The lower the BOD levels, the better the quality of water.Except for two locations — Palla (2.8 mg/l in April 2020 compared to 1.7 mg/l in 2019) and Surghat (3.8mg/l in April 2020 compared to 2.8mg/l in 2019) — the water quality did not meet the prescribed parameters (fit for bathing) at the rest of the locations, the DPCC report released on Monday said. Besides nine locations along the river, samples were also taken from 20 major drains falling into the river on April 6 and have been compared with the water quality recorded during the same period in 2019. “The quality of water in river Yamuna has improved during the lockdown period. At Okhla Barrage (Agra canal) the bio-chemical oxygen demand (BOD) value of 16 mg/l was observed, compared to 24 mg/l last year (April 2019), which is an improvement of 33%. However, the water quality is still not meeting the prescribed standards,” the report stated. “During the lockdown period, with abundant rainfall in and around Delhi, the flow of fresh water in the river was almost three times more than that of last year during the same time. Increased flow in the river helps wash away pollutants,” a senior DPCC official, who did not wish to be named, said. In April 2020, the average flow in the river was of 3,900 cusecs, as compared to 1,000 cusecs at the same time in 2019. “The increased flow has helped in dilution of the pollutants, which is contributing to the improvement of water quality,” the report said. Of the nine locations, the maximum reduction was observed at Okhla barrage (Agra canal) Nizamuddin, ITO Bridge, Agra Canal (Jaitpur) and Okhla barrage (after meeting Shahdara drain) ITO bridge saw a reduction of 21% in pollution levels. The BOD levels here were 22mg/l in comparison to 28mg/l last year. At Nizamuddin Bridge, the improvement was of 20%, which recorded BOD levels of 16 mg/l as compared to 20 mg/l in 2019. At Agra Canal (Jaitpur), the reduction was 26% with BOD levels of 17 mg/l, as compared to 23mg/l last year while at Okhla barrage (after meeting Shahdara drain) the quality improved by 18%, as it recorded 23 mg/l BOD levels in comparison to 28 mg/l in 2019. However, no significant change was observed at Qudesia Ghat, while an increase in pollution level of up to 42% was found at Khajuri Paltoon pool. Meanwhile, the waste water quality of the major drains too saw a reduction in pollution levels, including Najafgarh drain (22%), Barapulla drain (32%), ISBT drain (68%), Shahdara drain (33%) and Civil Mill drain (80%). The National Green Tribunal-appointed two-member Yamuna Monitoring Committee had asked the pollution monitoring bodies to test the water quality of the river during the lockdown. According to Manoj Misra, convener, Yamuna Jiye Abhiyan, even though the values are far from prescribed standard, it is a significant improvement. “The data has established an important baseline in terms of the factors that affect the river health as well as steps required to revive it. The improvement shows that controlling the discharge of industrial effluents is crucial. Besides it also shows the importance of maintaining dilution flow in the river,” said Misra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/yamuna-water-quality-improves-by-up-to-33-but-it-is-still-not-satisfactory/story-SEs1U0dE3Cbumd7rPHOxSP.html
21-04-2020||Pune||With entire Pune, PCMC containment zones, police pull out all stops to enforce lockdown strictly||A day after entire Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad were declared as containment zones by the respective city administrations, the police issued fresh orders bringing in more restrictions in the region as part of the government’s efforts to limit the spread of the Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 disease. The curfew, according to an order issued by Ravindra Shisve, joint commissioner of police, came into effect across the city at 2pm on Monday following which most areas where there was limited movement, were completely deserted. Similar orders were also issued by the Pimpri-Chinchwad police commissioner Sandeep Bishnoi on Sunday night. Both the orders will be valid until midnight of April 27.“These orders will be applicable in parts of the city which were not mentioned in the earlier list of containment zones,” read a part of joint CP Shisve’s order. On April 7, a few locations in four police station jurisdictions were declared as containment zones. One week later, on April 15, 28 new containment zones were declared. The order from the police issued under Section 144(1) (3) of Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) in Pune was preceded by Pune Municipal Commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad’s announcement late on Sunday declaring the entire Pune city as a containment zone. Even as civic chief’s order was in effect, people were found roaming in their areas in the name of purchasing essential commodities in many parts of the city during the first half. Long queues were seen especially at vegetable and grocery shops. As per the order, shops of essential commodities will be open for limited hours. “There were 383 cases of violations (under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code) in Pune city on Monday while there have been 9,432 cases reported since March 19,” said deputy commissioner of police, crime, Bachchan Singh.However, post 2pm when fresh orders of the police came into effect, roads looked completely deserted in Sadashiv peth, Satara road and NIBM road areas. Satish Desai, former corporator, said that despite the lockdown, he had seen many people roaming on the roads till Monday morning in the peth areas, which has already been sealed by the authorities. “I stay near SP College area and there were numerous vehicles on the roads, but since Monday afternoon, the police has taken complete control. Hardly anyone has been seen roaming on the roads with police officials taking care that people do not step out of their homes.”Hanumant Pawar, who stays neer Teen Hati chowk, said, “From our locality, where people mostly live in chawls, the urban poor used to spend the day on the footpaths. Monday afternoon, every one stayed indoors.”Municipal commissioner Gaikwad said that as the areas had been sealed on Sunday midnight, some people were not aware of it and as a result there was some crowding on the streets. “However, police and civic staff would ensure that in the coming days that there is no unnecessary movement of people on the roads. I am also appealing to the citizens to not panic for essential commodities as the supply is enough. Those who step out daily to buy essential good should cooperate and buy supply to last a week. Residents should join the fight against Covid-19 as administration is taking these steps in their interest.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/with-entire-pune-pcmc-containment-zones-police-pull-out-all-stops-to-enforce-lockdown-strictly/story-makuYq370NkNiAvIsZRMYJ.html
21-04-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Delhi schools shut, distribution of sanitary napkins stops||Sixteen-year-old Shagun — a resident of Delhi’s largest unauthorised colony, Sangam Vihar — has been using cloth pieces instead of sanitary napkins during her monthly cycle for the last couple of months. The Class 9 student at government girls senior secondary school in Sangam Vihar used to get a packet of sanitary napkins every month from her school. But with her school shut for more than a month due to the ongoing lockdown in place to stop the spread of Covid-19, the distribution of sanitary napkins too have come to a halt. Daughter of a mason and a domestic help, Shagun said that her family is not being able to makes ends meet due to the lockdown. “My father has not earned a penny in the last one month . We are collecting food twice a day from a food distribution centre at a nearby school. We can’t even think about buying sanitary pads at the moment. I had received my last packet of pads from the school in February. Now, me and my sister (14) are both using cloth pieces. It’s really uncomfortable, but we can’t help,” she said.Savita Devi, vice chairperson of the management committee at Shagun’s school, said that majority of the girls studying in their school in Sangam Vihar are dependent on the sanitary napkins they receive from them. “Even during normal days, they cannot afford to buy sanitary napkins. It’s impossible for them to go buy them now, as a pandemic rages on in the city,” she said.The female students of classes 6 to 12, studying in government schools across the country, are given sanitary napkin packets every month under the Central government’s Kishori Shakti Yojna. Every month more than 8 lakh girls benefit from the scheme in Delhi government schools.However, distribution has been disrupted these days as schools are closed due to the lockdown, adding to the woes of students, a majority of who come from lower income group families. Rashmi, 17, a student at a government school in east Delhi’s New Kondli area, said that her mother has stitched sanitary napkins using cloth and cotton at home for her and her two sisters. “People like us who can’t afford to buy sanitary napkins have to make alternate arrangements. I hope my school can provide some by next month. It will become really difficult for us to survive without pads, she said, adding that her school last distributed sanitary napkins in February. The Class 10 student said that her father, an e-rikshaw driver and sole bread earner of the family of five, has not been able to go to work due to the lockdown since last month. “We can sacrifice other things, but periods don’t stop because of a pandemic,” she said.Several government school teachers said they have been receiving distress calls from their students. Arti Qanungo, a teacher at a government school in Shakarpur, said that some of her students have switched to using cloth in the absence of sanitary pads. “Some others said that they have stock for this month. But the situation will become really difficult for them now that the schools are not going to re-open anytime soon,” she said.Binay Bhushan, Director of the Directorate of Education (DoE), said that the department will discuss the matter with schools. “The situation is very difficult these days. It will be difficult to distribute sanitary pads from schools and we do no have any mechanism for home delivery. We will have to come up with an alternative,” he said.Dr Surbhi Singh, a gynaecologist and founder of Sachhi Saheli — an NGO that works on menstrual health with Delhi government in its schools — said they are also going to discuss the matter with government officials. “The only solution is that schools should provide sanitary napkins at the food distribution centres and the government school students can pick them from there. Our NGO has also begun to distribute packets of sanitary pads at these centres now,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-schools-shut-distribution-of-sanitary-napkins-stops/story-V7BYhovHUetfhfC8gxJuAP.html
21-04-2020||City||Life in lockdown: Punjab ties up with radio channel for teaching rural area students||While private and government schools in urban areas have switched to online teaching amid the lockdown, students in rural areas are suffering due to poor internet connectivity, unavailability of smartphones, computers and laptops, besides exhaustion of data pack and wi-fi plans.​To address these problems and make recorded lectures of all classes available online, the state education department has decided to reach out to these students through a radio app.For this, the authorities have tied up with the radio channel, Chann Pardesi, and a two-hour programme will be aired from 1 pm to 3 pm for students of all classes from Tuesday.To listen to the programme, students can download the app from the Play Store of their android and iPhones. However, this initiative by the department will not prove helpful to the students, who do not have smartphones and wi-fi connection, so there was a need to come up with other options as well.Government school teachers are also sending small recorded videos to students on WhatsApp groups so that they can easily watch them and understand the concepts.The state education department has also come up with an Iscuela mobile app to cater to learning needs of government school students. All the content such as e-books, videos, and class-wise YouTube playlists are available for the students on this app.A government school student, Ramandeep Kaur, said, “To attend online classes through zoom app, I face many challenges as several times, the voice is not clear and the data pack also gets exhausted in limited time. To clear my doubts, I call my subject teachers. A lecture through television or a local radio channel can be helpful as a majority of students have these gadgets and can easily continue with their studies.”To resolve the data challenges faced by the students in a rural area, experts of the Kaligidhar Trust have also come up with three modules --- live video sessions through apps like Google Duo, Zoom and Seesaw, dividing and disseminating lectures into small video files and voice messages on WhatsApp not to exhaust much data and one-to-one interactive sessions over the telephone for clearing doubts.In Ludhiana, the Trust runs five schools with a strength of 2,754 students. President of the trust Baba Iqbal Singh said, “To resolve the problems of students, we have developed a methodology to deliver quality education during the lockdown through three modules.”He said, “Teachers clip their lectures into small video files so that less download time is consumed and files can easily be sent on email or Whatsapp/Seesaw.”The trust chief added, “To manage the problems of limited internet usage and server, the schools have advised all the teachers not to conduct virtual classes with a dozen or more students, because when the number of users in a single video-conferencing room increases, the quality of internet connection gets hampered.”“For students, whose parents do not have either a smartphone or a computer, classes are conducted over the phone,” said Harcharan Kaur, principal of the Akal Academy Jandiali.​||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/life-in-lockdown-punjab-ties-up-with-radio-channel-for-teaching-rural-area-students/story-ltIJfllLLYabZeJ6KUIH6K.html
21-04-2020||Chandigarh||Burger craving lands Chandigarh man, eatery manager in pickle||The Chandigarh police on Monday booked the manager of an outlet of Burger King and a resident of Manimajra, Chandigarh, for allegedly flouting prohibitory orders amid the pandemic.According to police, 29-year-old Rajat Mathur, a resident of Manimajra’s Modern Housing Complex, ordered a burger from Burger King restaurant in Panchkula’s Sector 9.“When a police patrolling party stopped a delivery boy for inquiry, he said he was on his way to deliver a food to a house in Manimajra. After verifying the facts, both the accused were booked,” said police in their statement. They said that as per administration orders, cooked food cannot be ordered in the city by any resident, and only essential ration could be delivered.Following a complaint, Manimajra police have booked Rahul, the outlet’s manager, and Manimajra resident Rajat under Section 188 (disobedience of order of public servant) of Indian Penal Code. Both were released on bail, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/burger-craving-lands-chandigarh-man-eatery-manager-in-pickle/story-QpzAEVgyJGmMNNsuwe5RDO.html
21-04-2020||Pune||After bubonic plague, entire Pune, PCMC sealed for first time under 123-year-old Epidemic Act||The coronavirus pandemic has forced the Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad civic administration to declare the entire region as a containment zone on Sunday midnight. After the bubonic plague of 1897, it is the first time after 123 years that the entire Pune metropolitan region (Pune city, rural and PCMC) has been sealed under the provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, according to historians and civic officials. A curfew, too, has been imposed in the city, starting 2pm on Monday.Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad on Sunday used the provisions of the 1897 Epidemic Diseases Act to declare the whole city as a containment zone. “I am not sure, but this is the first case wherein the whole city has been sealed using the provisions of the Epidemic Act. Earlier, during swine flu and wars, some provisions of the Act might have been used for only certain sections of the city,” said Gaikwad.“The administration has invoked provisions of the Act in the interest of the residents and to break the chain of the spread of the Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 disease,” added Gaikwad.Raja Dixit, emeritus professor of History department of the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU), said, “I have never heard or read about the sealing of the whole city in the past years. We read about the plague in history books and Rand’s assassination, but I am not aware if the entire city was sealed during that time. I was very young when the war against China and Pakistan occurred and during that time we used to hear the sirens blaring at times. But this is historic, the entire city has been sealed.”Former editor of the newspaper Kesari Arvind Gokhale said, “British plague commissioner WC Rand used the provisions of the Act in 1897. After that, this is the first case wherein the whole city has been sealed. Lokmanya Tilak, who started the Kesari newspaper, supported the British government when the Act was introduced to protect the citizen’s health issues. However, British soldiers misused the provisions of the Act against women, which resulted in the assassination of Rand by the Chapekar Brothers.” The Kesari newspaper was active during the bubonic plague.In June 1897, the brothers, Damodar Hari Chapekar and Balkrishna Hari Chapekar, assassinated WC Rand, the plague commissioner of Poona [now Pune], and Lieutenant Charles Egerton Ayerst, an officer of the administration. Both the British officers were considered guilty of misusing the Act.Dr Satish Desai, publisher of the Punyabhushan magazine and former elected member, said, “It is the first time that the Act has been invoked throughout the city as per my knowledge after the plague. In 1962, 1965 and 1972, the government announced black out, but the existing situation is different.”Former mayor Ankush Kakade said, “This is for the first time that the whole city has been sealed for a long time after the plague. It is in the interest of the citizens. Government has appealed to people to stay at home, but as some residents are not cooperating, the government machineries have no option but to use strict measures.”Documentation of Covid-19Municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad said that after the plague, Covid-19 is the first case where every one is affected. I have instructed the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) officials to document every thing as it will remain a historic event for the next generations. “The documentation will have all the details, including the first case to various measures taken by the government and PMC officials,” said Gaikwad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/after-bubonic-plague-entire-pune-pcmc-sealed-for-first-time-under-123-year-old-epidemic-act/story-mAVzLCby52rLoR6fMQ408J.html
21-04-2020||Pune||Maharashtra bans use of disinfectant tunnels||District and civic authorities will ban the installation of disinfectant tunnels set up by private bodies at various localities across the city after the state government on Sunday issued an order that these tunnels are ineffective to fight Covid-19 (coronavirus) spread.Dr Archana Patil, state health director, said, “Through its notification, the Centre has asked not to use disinfectant tunnels as there is no study to back its effectiveness. Also, it can be harmful to health as well.”Experts and NGOs had earlier warned about the health hazards of such tunnels as the disinfectant used contains sodium hypochlorite that should be applied only on inanimate objects.Sandeep Khardekar, president, Creative Foundation, a social organisation working on various issues including health, had written to PMC health department about the rampant use of such tunnels without considering the health risks.Khardekar in his application said that it has become a “fashion to install disinfectant tunnels” during Covid-19 crisis where there are no set guidelines by the state government. “Social groups and philanthropists are coming ahead to sponsor the installation of these tunnels,” he said.“There are two things which will happen because of the rise in the use of the tunnels. Firstly, people will ignore to wash hands and they will not wear masks. Secondly, the chemical released from the tunnel affects the body and is harmful to the eyes and can cause other health issues,” said Khardekar.Khardekar said that a reply from civic administration is still awaited.Sandeep Rairikar, deputy general manager and scientist, Automotive Research Association of India (ARAI), said, “There is a danger of inhalation of sodium hypochlorite released in the tunnel which can cause irritations and it might lead to health issues.”Dr Anant Phadke, co-convenor, Jan Swasthya Abhiyan, said, “Using chemical spray on human beings like in the use of tunnels can impact health.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/district-administration-bans-use-of-disinfectant-tunnels/story-yQ8T8oNijQc74frIjfn87I.html
21-04-2020||Chandigarh||More curbs in place for Haryana companies amid lockdown||The Haryana government on Monday put a further cap on the number of workers allowed for deployment by the industrial and commercial establishment to resume economic activity.Establishments outside the containment zones have been allowed to operate in a phased manner. District and block-level committees have been constituted to grant approvals.Issuing an additional set of guidelines on Monday, the industries and commerce department said that permission to a maximum of 1,000 people per block in rural areas would be granted to industries and commercial establishments seeking deployment of up to 25 people.“Permissions will be granted by the designated approval committees on first come first serve basis in the first phase,” said a top official.For urban areas, permission for a maximum of 1,000 people per town (for municipal corporation areas a maximum of 2,000) will be granted for establishments. In case of establishments seeking permission to deploy up to 200 workers, the municipal corporation commissioner or the additional deputy commissioner will grant permission to a maximum of 2,000 people each in their jurisdiction in the first phase.In case there is no municipal corporation in the district, the maximum number of permissions shall be restricted to 2,000 people in that district.For establishments seeking permission to deploy more than 200 workers, the deputy commissioner will grant permission to a maximum of 3,000 people in the district in first phase. Workers deployed for in-situ construction projects shall not be accounted for in these permission limits.Outlining the restrictions on workforce deployment the government had on Sunday said for the industrial, commercial and private establishments (excluding IT and IT-enabled services) having workforce requirement of more than 20 people, 50% of the workforce will be allowed to be deployed. Units having workforce requirement of not more than 20 people will be allowed 100% deployment.For IT and IT-enabled services units seeking deployment of more than 20 people, 33% or 10 people, whichever is higher, will be allowed and for units wanting to deploy up to 20 persons, 50% of the workforce will be allowed. For in-situ construction projects, operations will be allowed with 50% of the total workforce. However, no movement passes will be issued.For non in-situ construction projects such as roads, building, industrial projects, operations will be allowed with 50% of the total workforce with issuance of blue passes, the guidelines said.‘Be practical, have trust in us’Entrepreneurs from Haryana on Monday sought a more affirmative approach from the state government to resume industrial operations in the state. JN Mangla, president of Gurgaon Industrial Association said the government seems to be in some ambiguity over the resumption of industrial activity.“The impression which I am getting from the GIA members is that the government does not want economic activity to be resumed. They just want to bide time till May 3. The conditions imposed makes it practically impossible to run the enterprise smoothly,” he said.Mangla said the industry is apprehensive about the provisions of challan and prosecution. The government has not been able to give confidence to the industrialists,” Mahal remarked.A Panipat exporter, Amit Goel said the guidelines do not seem to be practical. “We should be allowed to start administrative operations by allowing 3-4 persons from the management staff. Subsequently, permission to scale up the manufacturing can be given. Also, we suggest that workers who want to come on bike or cycle should be allowed. That’s better than bringing them in buses,” said Goel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/more-restrictions-in-place-for-haryana-enterprise-planning-to-resume-operations-from-today/story-qilffbw7bFCPhmTH9iFUdK.html
21-04-2020||Pune||Online ‘knight’ checkmates Abhimanyu’s lockdown with ‘live’ tournaments||Abhimanyu Puranik, Chess Player One of city’s best chess players misses playing his favourite hobby- football- during the lockdown, but Abhimanyu Puranik continues to hone his skills in chess through online tournaments.Puranik became a Grandmaster (GM) in 2017 and has a rating of 2440 in rapid category, 2460 in blitz and 2584 in classical. The 20-year old, who trains with Jayant Gokhale since 2007, is a sharp thinker and believes in improving his game every day. He is also trains under Farrukh Amonatov of Tajikistan since 2014. The first memorable moment in his chess career arrived when he became Candidate Master (CM) in 2010, then, he proved his talent by becoming International Master (IM) in 2015.Puranik is currently locked down at his residence on DP road, Erandwane.Morning sessionI wake late these days at 9.30am because I play chess till 2am at night. I quickly do some cardio like skipping. Since my first session starts at 10:30 am, I don’t spend a lot of time doing exercises. Once the session starts at 10:30 am, it continues till 1:30pm. In this session, my focus is to improve my game skills. Afternoon sessionThe chess session ends at 1:30pm and after that I have lunch and then, relax. I watch movies on the television or listen to music till 4pm.Evening sessionMy second chess session starts at 4:30pm, where I solve different puzzles and chess problems and chess endgame to keep myself tactically sharp. At 6:30pm, I do some exercises likes dips, push-ups and burpees. Although chess is a mental game, all these exercises are very important for any chess player. I spend 30 minutes doing these exercises and after that I spend quality time with my family.Chess tournaments late night At 10:30pm, I am back playing chess via online tournaments which happen at night. The competition is always tough in these tournaments as top players from various countries take part in them. Many a times, I play these tournaments or sometimes, I do a practice session. I wind up for the day at 2am.HobbiesI miss playing football as we are not allowed move out and I also like to learn different languages and currently, I am learning Spanish on the internet. I miss going out with my friends in the evening and wish this pandemic ends soon and life becomes normal again.GymNo Gym for me||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/abhimanyu-s-online-chess-tournaments-at-knight-to-hone-skills-checkmates-his-pune-lockdown/story-Sa1cQ2gx9deSPPgLnSpRDL.html
21-04-2020||Chandigarh||32 contacts of Ferozepur constable test negative||Thirty-two of 34 primary contacts of the 27-year-old Punjab Police constable who had tested positive for the novel coronavirus disease (Covid-19) at Wara Bhai Ka village on April 17, including his family members, have tested negative for the infection.While the reports of 15 of the constable’s primary contacts came negative on Sunday night, 17 others tested negative on Monday , including his 58-year-old father, 52-year-old mother, 25-year-old wife and one-year-old son. The reports of two persons are yet awaited.Ferozepur deputy commissioner Kulwant Singh said none of the patient’s primary contacts, who are all quarantined in their respective homes, are exhibiting any symptom.The constable, who is at present, in an isolation ward at the local civil hospital is also stable.The constable was the driver of Ludhiana assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Anil Kohli. Kohli had tested positive for the deadly virus on April 13 and he passed away on Saturday.The constable had returned to his native village on April 14. This is the first case to be reported in the border district.After samples of the ACP’s three gunmen and driver were sent for testing, they were sent to their respective residences in Khanna, Moga, Ferozepur and Sangrur after neighbours in Ludhiana objected to their presence.CONSTABLE VIOLATED QUARANTINE Though the men were instructed to stay in home quarantine, an official, pleading anonymity, said the cop was spotted out and about in his village.“The constable was spotted riding his two-wheeler and also went to a gymnasium to workout besides visiting a village gurdwara on Thursday,”said the official.After the constable’s diagnosis, standard operating procedure was put into effect and the village was sealed. Villagers were directed to stay inside their homes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/15-contacts-of-ferozepur-constable-test-negative/story-Q7u35cYU50blatNImhYe8L.html
21-04-2020||Delhi||It’s magic! Delhi Police announces showtime for migrant labourers at shelter home||What’s better to drive the lockdown blues away than to indulge in a bit of magic! Well, the corona crisis might not disappear like the magician’s hat, but a little bit of entertainment might leave a long-lasting smile on your face amid the tense environment. And this was exactly what a shelter house, for migrant labourers, recently witnessed in a magic show by illusionist Rajkumar. READ | A shot of life: Delhi Police drive expecting mothers to hospitalsOrganised by the Delhi Police, this show was conducted at the shelter home in Lajpat Nagar, which has housed 250 migrant labourers including 30 women and 42 children. “This magic show was organised keeping in mind the migrant labourers who cannot go back to their villages, have nothing to do the whole day, and are missing their home. We wanted them to feel cared for and also get entertainment. And we also gave them the message of social distancing via the medium of this show,” says RP Meena, deputy commissioner of police (Southeast). The recent announcement of extension of the lockdown has increased anxiety among the migrant labourers and their families. Magician Rajkumar who called his show Magic With a Message, says, “Among those who were in the shelter home, there were rickshaw pullers, auto drivers and beggars. I wanted to entertain everyone and also motivate them, so that they feel better. They were delighted with my act. The response was such that the Delhi Police has requested me to perform more shows in various other shelter homes!” READ | A thought for Covid-19 warriors: Two Gurugrammers instal tents for police officersAnd Rajkumar ensured to take all necessary precautions while performing this show. He informs, “I wore double masks, and maintained a distance of five metres while performing. I even used the spray recommended by doctors to sanitised the mic and my magic props.” Author tweets @FizzyBuddha Follow @htTweets for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/it-s-magic-delhi-police-announces-showtime-for-migrant-labourers-at-shelter-home/story-Qm7hjvaemcRSz4BSINA3eK.html
21-04-2020||Delhi||In Delhi burial grounds, a tightrope between closure and caution||Until Covid-19 hit Delhi, he had never seen human bodies being treated like “untouchable objects”, says Mohammad Shamim, the 38- year-old supervisor at Jadid Qabristan Ahle Islam, a graveyard near Delhi GateIn many cases, even their own sons are reluctant to carry the dead on their shoulders for laying them to rest at the cemetery, Shamim adds.“I am the third generation of my family working here, but we have never seen people being so afraid of touching the bodies of their relatives. The other day, a few relatives of a man who died of Covid-19 came to attend the burial, but some of them got scared and left as soon as the hospital van carrying the body arrived at the cemetery gate. In another case, a few neighbours of a person who died of Covid-19 had to come for the burial, as relatives refused to join.” Shamim has overseen burial of 26 Covid-19 victims.The disease has now claimed 45 lives and infected 2,003 others in Delhi. The administration is enforcing a strict lockdown to prevent the spread of the virus, and all funerals have to be in line with procedures laid down by the government.Shamim manages a team of gravediggers, gardeners, and security guards at the cemetery. His job is to ensure that all the burials at the cemetery take place smoothly. These days, he says, his job has become “dangerous” and “challenging” because he is supervising the burial of Covid-19 victims almost every day. On Friday, four; and on Saturday two victims of Covid-19 were buried at the cemetery.The cemetery office, he says, gets calls from the Capital’s designated Covid-19 hospitals with details of patients who have died. The bodies then arrive at the cemetery in a hearse provided by the hospitals in line with the Delhi government’s Standard Operating Procedure. Similar rules and guidelines apply to crematoriums.“Bodies generally come after noon, but two hours before the bodies arrive, the relatives come for a briefing about how the burial will proceed,” said Shamim, who lives in a house within the cemetery. “ I advise them to bring personal protection suits, gloves, masks, sanitisers, and ropes to lower the body into the grave,” he added.The cemetery has earmarked a separate area for the burial of Covid 19 victims -- a large clearing about 150 metres away from the main burial site.“ In a normal burial, the grave is dug by our gravedigger; and it is generally three feet deep. But for the Covid-19 victims, the grave is 10 feet deep, and we have to use earth-moving machines to dig the graves,” said Shamim.“Traditionally, the relatives lower the body into the grave with their own hands after performing prayers, but in case of Covid 19 victims, the body is tied with ropes and lowered into the grave, ” he added on a WhatApp call with HT on Friday.In Islamic tradition, a burial is a simple yet personal ceremony. Before the body is laid to rest, those attending the funeral are allowed to have a look at the face of the dead, and to say a personal prayer for the soul of the departed. Relatives of the dead help place the body in the grave. Covid-19 has changed all that.The body of a Covid 19 victim, Shamim says, has now arrived, and switches to a video call to show us live what transpires.Shamim, who has long, floppy hair, is wearing a white cap, a mask and gloves — and standing about 50 metres from the grave. With him is the operator of the earthmoving machine, who has dug the grave in advance. About nine men are at the burial site, including the two health care workers in personal protective gear who have come with the hearse, parked a few metres away.Two of the mourners are in protective suits. They are the only ones near the body — others, all wearing masks, are standing a few metres away, but come closer to the body, maintaining distance, when the prayers are performed. The two men in protective suits try to tie the rope to the feet and chest to lower the body into the grave. They seem to fumble, and Shamim shouts to the men, keeping the video call on.“Not like this. Lift the body a bit,” he is heard saying.Finally, the men in protective suits manage to tie the ropes. The need help to lower the body into the deep grave. No one volunteers for a while, and then a relative comes forward. Finally, the three men manage to lower the body into its final resting place.He now tells the operator of the earthmover to cover the grave. The burial is over in less than 30 minutes. Shamim switches to a voice call as he walks back towards the cemetery’s office.“Usually, we help the dead person’s relatives with the burial, but I am scared to get close to the bodies of Covid-19 victims. When I return home late in the evening, I take a bath with water mixed with antiseptic liquid before entering my house. I am worried about the safety of my four daughters and wife,” sais Shamim. “The scenes from the burial haunt me day and night. It is the saddest way to leave the world.”Haji Faiyazuddin, the secretary of the managing committee at Jadid Qabristan Ahle Islam, says that the staff is following all the guidelines laid down by both the state and central governments, including the precautions that have to be taken by employees of the cemetery.“We decided to earmark a part of the cemetery to Covid-19 victims so that relatives of victims do not face problems. We do not charge fee from them. Eventually, we will cover the Covid-19 burial area with a wall; the structure will serve as a reminder of what the city went through,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/in-delhi-burial-grounds-a-tightrope-between-closure-and-caution/story-u1hUtK0Rx0vDQvsSSw1ykN.html
21-04-2020||Delhi||How Covid-19 is affecting dialysis patients||Kanchan Devi, 45, died last week after at least four hospitals were forced to refuse life-saving dialysis in the city. She had been on maintenance dialysis – a procedure to filter blood the way a healthy kidney does – twice a week for two-and-a-half years after she was diagnosed with chronic kidney disease.“My mother got her last dialysis on April 7 and was to get the next one on April 11. The private hospital where she was undergoing treatment asked us to get a Covid-19 test done before the next visit. We got the test report on April 9 and I called the hospital. They said that they could not do the dialysis because the centre had to be shut down (as a patient there had died of Covid-19),” said her son Rishabh Soni.The family then started calling all hospitals in east Delhi.“We called up three private hospitals and one government hospital, but they all refused to taker her in. Finally, we had to take her to the emergency department of a private hospitals because her condition started deteriorating. She was given dialysis but it was too late, she died,” said Soni.What is dialysis? Dialysis is a medical procedure that removes excess water and toxins from the blood of the people with impaired kidney function. Who needs dialysis?Patients with acute kidney injury -- where the kidney is unable to perform its function suddenly -- need dialysis. This may be reversible if the underlying condition is healed. Patients with end-stage kidney failure -- whose kidneys have lost 85 to 90% of their function -- need maintenance dialysis two to three times a week to take over the function of their kidney. This is not reversible and the patients need it till they get a kidney transplant. Why are dialysis patients at a higher risk from Covid-19?Patients undergoing dialysis usually have multiple co-morbid conditions like hypertension and diabetesThey are usually old*They are also immunocompromised*They visit hospitals often for dialysisHer treatment was interrupted after east Delhi’s Shanti Mukund hospital had to shut its dialysis unit. At least three persons undergoing dialysis at the centre had tested positive for the infection, with one person succumbing to it.Patients from at least two other private hospitals offering dialysis – south-east Delhi’s Moolchand hospital and east Delhi’s Ahimsa Dham – also had to scramble to get dialysis at other hospitals after their centres were shut down. In Ahimsa Dham, at least two people had tested positive of whom one had died of Covid-19, and at least six patients from Moolchand hospital’s dialysis unit had tested positive for the infection. “When the cases were first reported, we immediately asked the centres to shut their services. All the patients who had undergone dialysis after the first person tested positive were put on surveillance and we are still in the process of testing them,” said an official from Delhi’s health department, on condition of anonymity. To help the people in Delhi get the life-saving procedure, the Delhi government ordered that no hospital shall refuse emergency care to any patients. And, strict action, including cancellation of registration, maybe taken for denying care for not having a negative Covid-19 report.Over-stretched dialysis centresBesides hospitals unwilling to take in patients who might have the infection, over-stretched dialysis facilities are adding to the woes of those who have been displaced from these three hospitals. “The hospitals do not want to take the chance of accepting a patient who might have the infection as it puts their other patients in jeopardy,” said the official from Delhi government.“What will happen to the patients who have been undergoing regular treatment? Most dialysis centres in the city run at capacity and do not have space to accommodate the 50 to 100 patients,” said Akshat Garg, director, Deep Chand Dialysis Centre (DCDC), which runs around 60 dialysis machines in partnership with the Delhi government. “The government needs to earmark a separate facility for suspected or positive Covid-19 cases.”Lok Nayak hospital, which is a dedicated Covid-19 faciltiy – on Sunday earmarked eight of its in-house dialysis machines for Covid-19 patients. The other machines run under public-private partnership (PPP) have been moved to other DCDC centres for now. India currently has more than 1.5 million people suffering from end-stage renal disease, with about 200,000 being added to that total every year. Why are dialysis patients at riskRepeated exposure to the hospital environment coupled with lower immunity puts people requiring dialysis at a higher risk of getting the infection and developing severe symptoms. “They usually also have additional comorbidities like diabetes and hypertension. Multiple hospital visits in a week also puts them at a risk of getting the infection,” said Dr RP Mathur, senior consultant of nephrology at Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS).Mohin Khar, 78, has been going for dialysis sessions twice a week for two years now. She started wearing a mask two months ago when cases of Covid-19 first started being reported. She religiously washes her hand every 15 minutes. “We also ensure that she takes a proper diet and maintains weight as prescribed by the doctor. We also try to keep her engaged and happy,” her son said. And, hospitals are taking care to ensure that these vulnerable people do not get the infection.At the hospital Khar goes to, Max hospital, Vaishali, everybody is checked for fever and other symptoms. They have to sanitise their hands once when they enter and then again when they enter the dialysis ward. “To ensure ease of travel during the lockdown, the hospital had also issued us a letter that specifies the dialysis schedule and the name of the attendant. The police let us pass whenever we show the letter,” the son said. The doctors have also created a WhatsApp group of the patients coming to the dialysis centre where they can check in on the patients.“Inside the ward, we clean all the surfaces, change the sheets and seat the patients at a distance to minimise the risk of transmitting the infection. Anyone who had Covid-19 like symptoms is taken to a separate room for the dialysis and a test is done to check for the infection,” said Dr. Manoj K Singhal, director, nephrology and kidney transplant medicine, Max Hospital, Vaishali. At ILBS, in addition to checking people for symptoms before entering the dialysis ward, washing hands and other precautions, screens have been placed between two patients to further minimise the risk of the infection being transmitted within the ward.The asymptomatic Covid-19 patients have the dialysis centres worried as it is not possible to test everyone before each session. “It is very difficult to manage dialysis patients in this scenario. All the staff members have to wear complete PPE in case there is even a slight possibility that someone might have the infection. If anyone does test positive that would mean the facility shutting down, the staff being quarantined. And, it is not possible to test these patients every time they come for dialysis, some people come thrice a week,” said Dr Suman Nayak, senior consultant of renal transplant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/how-covid-19-is-affecting-dialysis-patients/story-zKXDsVd50rrKoY4HrXKLVN.html
21-04-2020||Delhi||Antibody tests begin in Delhi to identify plasma donors||The first batch of 42,000 rapid testing kits arrived in Delhi on Friday, which are to be deployed to evaluate 92 cured patients, being discharged from Lok Nayak hospital for plasma therapy trial, to treat the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), as well as containment zones and hotspot areas. Plasma therapy uses one of the blood components rich in the virus-fighting antibodies in people who have recovered from Covid-19 to help critical patients fight the virus better.“The blood samples of 92 patients, who were being discharged from the hospital after recovering, are being collected. Based on the test report, they will be selected as donors,” said Dr JC Passey, director, Lok Nayak hospital, which is conducting the trial in collaboration with the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS).The plasma derived from the two millilitre blood samples collected from the recovered patients will be diluted repeatedly and tested with the rapid antibody kits to measure the amount of antibodies present.“The plasma is diluted 1:1, then 1:2, then 1:3, just to check till what level of dilution the sample comes out positive. The solutions that test positive at the highest level of dilution are the ones with high antibody levels. Ideally, a neutralising antibody test must be done where the antibody is added to a viral culture to check its effect, but that can only be done in BSL III laboratories. This is recommended as the best practice the world over in the absence of the other test,” said Dr SK Sarin, director, ILBS.The Delhi government did not use rapid testing kits for community testing on Sunday, as the kits are yet to reach the Capital’s district offices. The state health minister Satyendar Jain had on Saturday said that the “technicians” were undergoing training for the roll-out the next day.“We do not yet know how the tests would be done and whether the kits are prick-based or blood has to be drawn. There was some state-level workshop yesterday, but none of the staff from the district offices have been trained yet,” said an official from one of the district offices, requesting anonymity.An official from another district confirmed this, saying, “Once the kits reach us, we will be able to figure out how to go about them. The drive will likely begin from Monday or Tuesday.”The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had revised its guidelines on Saturday to allow rapid testing in hotspots. Earlier, the tests were to be done only in areas with very few or no cases at all.A third state-level official confirmed that testing would be started from Monday, to be done by the Auxiliary Nurse Midwife (ANM) posted across government dispensaries in the city. “They will go into the community to perform tests,” said the third official. The testing will be started in all hotspots across the city at once.To scale up testing, the district administration has arranged mobile testing vans and makeshift camps outside containment zones, said an official from the chief minister’s office.Meanwhile, Jain did not rule out the possibility of community transmission in Delhi, citing around 200 cases for which the sources could not be traced so far while some were asymptomatic, had no travel history, or came in contact with anyone with a travel history connected to a Covid-affected country. “There is a chance (of community transmission). We will be in a better position to say anything after the 42,000 rapid antibody tests are conducted in a week,” he said.Delhi stumbled into another crisis on Sunday with food distribution centres in the city having come under the radar of health teams, after a volunteer tested positive for the Sars-Cov-2. Following this, 700 workers spread across several food distribution centres had to be quarantined and the staff replaced immediately. The food centres in Delhi collectively provide meals twice a day to around a million people currently, most of whom are migrant workers, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said all those who visit the centres regularly, assuming the same set of people more or less depend on the same centres for food, and officials and volunteers deployed across over 1,500 food distribution centres in the city – which includes shelter homes, school buildings and community halls – will be among the first batches to be tested with the rapid antibody kits.Unlike real time-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) kits which detect the virus’s genetic material (RNA) in swabs to diagnose a current Covid-19 infection, the rapid tests detect antibodies in the blood and indicate if a person has been infected in the past and has developed immunity to the virus. It can show results within 30 minutes. Once a person tests positive after the antibody test, an RT-PCR test is done to confirm the result.Collection of samples for the rapid antibody test is also much easier than for the RT-PCR test. “Taking a throat swab generates aerosols that may contain the virus and infect the healthcare worker taking the sample. The healthcare workers have to be in proper PPE kits for collecting RT PCR samples,” said another Delhi government health official.To encourage RT-PCR test in the community, the government set up 22 Covid-19 sample collection centres in hotels and dharmashalas and started giving ₹100 as incentive per sample to each team collecting the samples in the community.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/antibody-tests-begin-in-delhi-to-identify-plasma-donors-food-distribution-centre-workers-to-be-tested/story-NXNi0YXKTuaYtg6swk7hEO.html
