22-04-2020||City||Coronavirus lockdown: Journalist, doctor and lawyer step-up to help woman with rare blood group near Mumbai||Twenty-two-year-old Rashida Khatoon, a resident of Manor, Palghar, was in severe distress after delivering a baby girl, as she had lost a lot of blood during the delivery and neither of the two hospitals where she was admitted, could not arrange for the O ‘-ve’ blood for the woman. Her life was saved after a local journalist, a gynaecologist and a lawyer stepped up to help her. On Sunday, Rashida was admitted to the government hospital in Manor, where she delivered the baby. As she had lost a lot of blood and the hospital could not arrange for the rare O ‘-ve’ blood, she was shifted to Thane Civil Hospital.However, the Thane hospital could not arrange for the blood either and Rashida was discharged without any transfusion.Owing to the lockdown, Rashida and her husband Saddam Hussain, 25, could not find a vehicle to ferry them to their village, which is around 60km from Thane. So they carried their child and began walking, but were stopped by the police after they covered 4km. After the couple revealed that they were walking towards their village from the hospital as they could not find a vehicle, the police arranged for an autorickshaw and asked the driver to drop the three to Manor.The driver however, dropped them at Mastan Naka on the highway, which was 3km away from their village in Tamsai. So the couple began walking again in the scorching heat, until they were spotted by a local journalist Sumit Patil.“I was shocked to that the woman was unable to find blood. So I called Dr Rajendra Chauhan, a reputed gynaecologist from Palghar, who agreed to help and then arranged for a car to take Rashida to Kanta Hospital, which is owned by him,” said Patil.Dr Chauhan then took to social media and appealed citizens to donate blood. “The woman had lost a lot of blood but because her blood group was rare, it was not easily available in Palghar. So I made an appeal on social media, after which some donors came forward. We then administered three bottles of blood, and after the patient’s haemoglobin count increased, we discharged her on Tuesday afternoon,” said Dr Chauhan.Dr Chauhan then called his lawyer friend Sudhir Gupta, who took the family to their village in his car. Dr Chauhan learnt that the couple hailed from Uttar Pradesh and worked as daily wage labourers. They had lost their jobs owing to the lockdown. He then asked his friend to help the couple. “I found that the couple was living in extreme poverty and could not pay for medicines. So I bought medicines that would last for a month and Sudhir provided them with groceries and other essentials.”Rashida is recovering well at her home, said Dr Chauhan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-lockdown-journalist-doctor-and-lawyer-step-up-to-help-woman-with-rare-blood-group-near-mumbai/story-OMJTXzqirGkd8Hhi6lvg3J.html
22-04-2020||City||Anaesthesia machines will be turned into oxygen supply aids in Mumbai||MUMBAI: Following the lead of hospitals in the United States of America, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is in the process of converting anaesthesia machines into oxygen supply aids for Covid-19 patients. This is expected to help address the shortage of isolation beds with ventilators in the city. Anaesthesia machines will only be used for short durations on suspected or infected patients who have minor breathing problems.With 3,683 cases and a mortality rate of 4.37%reported in Mumbai so far, the most vulnerable to Covid-19 are in the age group of 61-90 years as well as people with pre-existing health issues, like respiratory illnesses and diabetes. These patients often require ventilators and oxygen therapy to aid breathing. However, there is a shortage of ventilators and isolation beds that can provide oxygen therapy. To address this issue, BMC has procured 50 ventilators and is in the process of converting anaesthesia machines into oxygen outlets since these devices have inbuilt ventilators.  “We have sought expertise from the heads of anaesthesia departments. They will submit the report today [Wednesday] along with their recommendations before we approach our technical team for the conversion,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner (health), BMC. “These converted machines will be used for minor, suspected or confirmed asymptomatic patients, not for serious patients with collapsed breathing systems,” he added.The Indian Society of Anaesthesiologist (IAS) approved of the BMC’s plan, but said the converted machines should be a last resort. “Many anaesthesia machines are lying useless which can be converted into oxygen supplying outlets. Bio-technicians can switch off the anaesthesia chamber and help with the minor changes required,” said Dr Naveen Malhotra, secretary, IAS. However, he emphasised that it was important to ensure only anaesthesiologists operated the machines. “Doctors from other specialities will not be able to monitor it, so it needs the expertise of anaesthesiologists,” said Dr Malhotra.In March, hospitals in New York City started repurposing anaesthesia machines when faced with a shortage of medical equipment to treat Covid-19 patients. Anaesthesia machines have an inbuilt oxygen providing system which can be modified to provide oxygen to patients. However, some doctors have advised caution, pointing out that the machines aren’t designed for this purpose.“Anaesthesia machines are used to give relaxants, which are in our hands to control. But in Covid patients, their respiration will be active and we will not have the feature to change the mode of ventilation. These machines aren’t meant to regulate the patient with respiratory problems,” said Dr Manjula Sarkar, anaesthesiologist at King Edward Memorial (KEM) Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/anaesthesia-machines-will-be-turned-into-oxygen-supply-aids-in-mumbai/story-lf9HX3WDxRrnZ35qasL9LK.html
22-04-2020||Lucknow||Vulgar videos shared in school WhatsApp group, FIR lodged||Police registered an FIR under the IT Act on Wednesday, after an intermediate college principal lodged a complaint regarding vulgar videos being shared on a WhatsApp group made for online teaching during the lockdown. Chaos prevailed on Tuesday after a WhatsApp group of a girls’ college had objectionable videos posted on it during virtual classes of home science of High School. The posts were made from the contact numbers of three different students, following which the teacher complained to the principal, who reported the matter to the police. “Based on the videos shared in the online teaching group, an FIR under the IT Act has been registered,” Kotwali CO BP Singh said. District inspector of schools (DIOS) Gyanendra Bhadauria said, “All Colleges have been instructed to add numbers in online teaching groups only after proper validation of users. No content other than teaching material should be posted.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/vulgar-videos-shared-in-school-whatsapp-group-fir-lodged/story-k9gN90HA5GQNPQZv5ww0XL.html
22-04-2020||City||People in TMC quarantine centres complain of poor facilities||Residents, who are kept in quarantine centres of Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC), have complained of poor sanitation and lack of food supply in the centres. Some videos from the Bhayandar Pada quarantine centre has gone viral, showing the residents complain that the food is not provided on time, garbage is not collected and the centre is not cleaned regularly. The residents alleged that they are not examined for symptoms regularly.The high-risk contacts of Covid positive people in Thane are sent to different quarantine centres set up by the TMC. The municipal corporation has 1,015 quarantine units at its four centres, including BSUP Kasarwadavli centres, Lodha in Bhayandar pada, Tata Amantra in Kalyan and Dosti in Shilphata.The video which went viral shows people roaming freely in the lobby and common spaces at the centre without following social distancing norm.A resident admitted at the centre said, “The centre is not cleaned regularly and garbage is not picked up. We are not given lunch till 3pm. Children are hungry by then.”Another family at Ghodbunder centre said they have written a letter to the state, demanding better facilities. A woman from the family said, “My brother and I have fever for the past few days, but no one has come to check us.”TMC claimed that there is no shortage of food and medical facilities at the quarantine centres.Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner of Thane, said, “We had a meeting to discuss the complaints. Civic commissioner Vijay Singhal has given directives to the officials to communicate with the people and solve their problems.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/people-in-tmc-quarantine-centres-complain-of-poor-facilities/story-OGkO5pgeD0pBqxSN0s630N.html
22-04-2020||Mumbai||Separate houses for cops for safety of family members||After a number of Mumbai Police personnel have requested for arrangement to send their families to their hometowns to ensure safety of their family in case the personnel contract Covid-19 while discharging their duties, Mumbai Police has denied them any permission. However, top Mumbai police officers have asked all five additional commissioners of police to arrange accommodation for police personnel who do not want to go home. More than 1,700 accommodations at hotels, guest houses and lodges have been arranged for police personnel to stay. The request by police personnel to send their families away comes after 64 police personnel, including 12 officers and 52 men, tested positive. Of them, 34 are Mumbai Police personnel.“With the lockdown being extended till May 3, a lot of people from the force are circulating messages on messaging groups where talks of sending their families to native villages are being suggested. It is also because there is no clarity yet if the lockdown will continue after May 3,” said a police officer, requesting anonymity. However, deputy commissioner of police (Operations) and Mumbai Police spokesperson Pranaya Ashok dismissed any such permission being granted. “We are not giving any such permission. The rules are the same for general public and for the police department. We are taking all possible measures to ensure safety and security of our personnel from the pandemic,” he said. Ashok added that most police personnel who have tested positive are asymptomatic.Vinoy Kumar Choubey, additional director general of police (law and order) confirmed the development about accommodation for personnel. “We have asked officers to arrange alternate accommodation for men who do not want to go home till the lockdown ends.” In Mumbai’s western region (Bandra to Andheri, and to Powai), seven vanity vans have been deployed at checkpoints for women officers and staff, said additional commissioner of police (West region) Dr Manoj Kumar Sharma.Man from sealed building tweets to police, gets helpA Goregaon (East) resident, who along with 200 other families were living in a building which was sealed following Covid-19 cases, tweeted to police on Wednesday asking help for food supply to all residents. Mumbai Police promptly responded to the tweet and provided contact numbers of online delivery suppliers for essential services and urged him to share it with other residents. The user thanked the police for their help. Two TikTok users arrested, minor caught for making videoA TikTok user and his aides, including a minor, were caught for making a 16-second video passing derogatory comments on Mumbai Police for cracking down on lockdown violators. After the video went viral, netizens brought it to the notice of Mumbai Police on their Twitter handle and got them arrested. The accused are Sahil Sardar,19, and Raj Nirman,18. The third is a 17-year-old minor whose parents have been warned. So far 10 TikTok users have been arrested for making such videos. Burglar digs tunnel, steals 1kg silver A burglar, taking advantage of the lockdown, entered a jewellery shop in Andheri (East) by digging a tunnel into the shop and stole more than 1kg silver early on Tuesday. Jagdish Shinde, senior inspector. MIDC police station, said, “The owner of Mahavir jewellers came to know about the incident on Wednesday and informed us, following which we registered an FIR against an unknown person and started investigation.” Mumbai Police now on Instagram After Twitter, the Mumbai Police have opened an official account on Instagram. However, they have urged people to reach out to them on Twitter on their helpline 100 for real time support and guidance. 324 violators booked in 165 FIRs on Tuesday On Tuesday, 324 people were booked in 165 FIRs for violation of lockdown orders, across the city. 186 violators have been arrested. A majority of FIRs were from central (61 FIRs) and western region (52 FIRs). Of the total cases, 88 cases were for gathering in one place while 59 were for not wearing masks. The rest were against shops for operating without being part of essential services. Maharashtra police updates A total of 62,987 FIRs have been registered against lockdown violators across the state. Of these, 595 cases are against home quarantine violators. 477 people have been arrested in 134 cases of police assault, including a lynching incident in Palghar. Around 13,869 people have been arrested, 44,135 vehicles have been seized and ₹2.41 crore have been collected as fines. (Inputs from Jayprakash Naidu, Suraj Ojha, Vijay Kumar Yadav, Faisal Tandel and Pratik Salunke)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/separate-houses-for-cops-for-safety-of-family-members/story-UvLNPqyepIHZpwNo6onJiN.html
22-04-2020||Mumbai||On Earth Day, Mumbai saw its cleanest air day of 2020: SAFAR||The air quality index (AQI) was ‘good’ for the first time this year on Wednesday, which also happened to be the 50th Earth Day. The last time the city recorded good air quality was in October 2019.According to the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), the pollutant-measuring indicator AQI for PM 2.5 was 46, making it the cleanest air day so far this year and lowest pollution levels during lockdown. Prior to Wednesday, Mumbai had recorded its lowest air pollution levels with an AQI of 61 on Monday, 63 on Tuesday, and 65 on March 22 (Janta Curfew day), all falling under the ‘satisfactory’ category.SAFAR categorises AQI for pollutants in the 0-50 range as good; 51-100 as satisfactory; 101-200 as moderate; 201-300 as poor; 301-400 as very poor and above 400 as severe. Pollutant concentration for PM2.5 pollutant – breathable particulate matter (solid and liquid particles) 2.5 microns in size or smaller – was 32 micrograms per cubic metre (μg/m³) on Wednesday against the safe limit of 60 μg/m³ for 24 hours. Similarly, PM10 (larger coarser particles) was 55 μg/m³, almost half its safe limit of 100 μg/m³ for 24 hours. Eight of 10 locations in Mumbai, where SAFAR monitors air quality, recorded ‘good’ AQI levels. While Mazagaon had the cleanest air with an AQI of 18 followed by Colaba 32, Navi Mumbai had comparatively poor air at 75 followed by Malad 58, both ‘satisfactory’ levels. SAFAR said they observed a 10% increase in residential emissions (biofuel burning from residential areas for cooking purposes) mainly emitting carbon dioxide while on the other hand a 90% reduction was witnessed for other pollutants such as PM2.5, PM10, and oxides of nitrogen due to lesser vehicular and industrial emission sources. “The lockdown should be called off in a phased manner or else it will lead to sharp spike in overall air pollution,” said Gufran Beig, director, SAFAR under the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM), Pune. Researchers said changing weather factors were responsible for improvement in air quality. “Wednesday’s AQI is the optimal air quality Mumbai should be recording during lockdown when external emissions are minimal. However, over the past three weeks, we observed that owing to rising temperatures or late setting in of sea breeze, the wind pattern allowed dust and other pollutant particles to settle close to the surface,” said Beig.The day temperature over Mumbai witnessed a sharp drop from Monday’s high of 37.8 degrees Celsius to 34.3 degrees Celsius on Tuesday, and even the minimum temperature on Wednesday was close to the normal mark. Humidity levels were high with 92% in south Mumbai and 74% in the suburbs. “The drop in temperature, high moisture content and early setting in of sea breeze allowed pollutant concentration to reduce significantly on Wednesday. The drop in pollution maybe temporary due to fluctuating weather and rising temperatures.” An AQI of 75 (satisfactory) has been predicted for Thursday while PM2.5 and PM10 concentration is likely to rise to 46μg/m³ and 61μg/m³ by Friday from current levels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/on-earth-day-mumbai-saw-its-cleanest-air-day-of-2020-safar/story-xzKyTNDdNszgJwi2uMfEfI.html
22-04-2020||Mumbai||Cong demands action against Arnab Goswami||Maharashtra Congress leaders have demanded action against Republic TV chief Arnab Goswami over his comments on the Palghar lynching incident. Congress leader Nitin Raut also lodged a complaint against him in Nagpur on Wednesday. “It is an attempt to give religious colour to the incident by the media. Goswami is one of them. We have decided to request the CM to take action against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cong-demands-action-against-arnab-goswami/story-KwqPn1ZHedAW3cO9l0BpJK.html
22-04-2020||Mumbai||Wadhawan brothers move PMLA court seeking bail in ED case||Kapil Wadhawan and Dheeraj Wadhawan, promoters of DHFL, moved the special PMLA court seeking anticipatory bail fearing arrest by the Enforcement Directorate (ED), which is probing money laundering allegations in connection with Yes Bank fraud case. The special court has asked ED to not arrest the brothers till Thursday and to submit a reply to their plea.Wadhawans are among the group of 23 people who flouted the lockdown and travelled to Mahabaleshwar from Khandala on April 8. They were subsequently placed under quarantine in a school in Panchgani, Satara which ends on Wednesday. However, they will be put on home quarantine till May 5.Fearing arrest after their release, the brothers moved the PMLA court for protection against the arrest on Wednesday afternoon.“We have moved the plea before the special court for anticipatory bail. The court has asked ED to file a reply and has directed it not to take any coercive action against the brothers till then,” said senior lawyer Amit Desai, who represented the two before the special court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/wadhawan-brothers-move-pmla-court-seeking-bail-in-ed-case/story-eGKCI8LUwpylD98eY5x8sL.html
22-04-2020||Lucknow||Two cops sent to lines for assaulting farmer after video goes viral in UP||Two policemen were removed from active duty and sent to police lines after a video of them assaulting a farmer in a village in Bahraich went viral on social media, police officials said. ​The villagers made the video viral, police said. ​Additional Superintendent of Police, Bahraich (rural), Ravindra Kumar Singh said the two cops—head constable Arun Kumar Singh and recruit constable Abhiveer Singh were sent to the reserve police lines and a departmental inquiry has been ordered. He said a officer of the rank of deputy SP would conduct the inquiry. ​“Initial investigation suggested that two cops on patrol duty had reached Kandausapurwa village under Baunda police station after receiving information of some people gambling in a farm. As the patrol team was chasing the gamblers, a farmer also happened to pass by at the same time,” the police official said adding it was a case of mistaken identity. ​However he agreed that the two accused constables sent to police lines were at fault as they caned farmer without confirming his identity.​He said the medical examination of the farmer has been conducted and no major injury has been caused to him. Further enquiry will be conducted and action will be taken accordingly, he added.​||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/two-cops-sent-to-lines-for-assaulting-farmer-after-video-goes-viral-in-up/story-AjErQXXMYAN3Nk8CJ34CWN.html
22-04-2020||City||19 IT employees test positive||Nineteen employees of an IT company in Navi Mumbai were tested Covid-19 positive on Wednesday. All of them have been admitted to NMMC hospital in Vashi. The company, which provides online banking services, is located at Mahape MIDC. It was functioning with 111 employees. “The company had sent samples of 111 of its employees to a private lab for testing” said Annasaheb Misal, NMMC commissioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/19-it-employees-test-positive/story-W24YykqCeDqxqUL1iPVReM.html
22-04-2020||Mumbai||CBI, ED can take Wadhawans’ custody: Home minister||Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh announced that the Maharashtra Police would hand over DHFL promoters Kapil Wadhawan and Dheeraj Wadhawan to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Wednesday afternoon for further investigation into the Yes Bank fraud case. The central agencies have sought custody of the brothers after they were detained by Satara police for violating lockdown restrictions two weeks ago.In his Facebook live address on Wednesday morning, Deshmukh said the 14-day quarantine of the businessmen brothers would end on April 22, after which their custody can be sought by the central agencies. “We have written to both the central agencies that they can take custody on Wednesday afternoon. They [Wadhawans] are at a school in Panchgani [in Satara district] completing their mandatory quarantine,” he said.The Wadhawan brothers and 21 other family members were detained by Satara police on March 7 after they illegally travelled to Mahabaleshwar from Khandala during the lockdown. To cross the district borders, they had provided a letter issued by Amitabh Gupta, principal secretary (special) in the home department, who is now facing an inquiry. The Wadhawans and family members have been booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Disaster Management Act 2005. The CBI had obtained non-bailable warrants against the two on March 17. In a letter, dated April 17, the deputy inspector general of CBI and the assistant director of ED were requested by the Satara superintendent of police Tejaswi Satpute to take necessary action by April 22. Meanwhile, the brothers have obtained interim protection from arrest till May 5 from the special CBI court. The court has granted them protection considering their arrest is not possible during the Covid-19 lockdown. “We have written to the central agencies to take over custody anytime from now. It is up to them to decide when to act on our request,” a home department official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cbi-ed-can-take-wadhawans-custody-home-minister/story-qo4p6qpSqctFXozswwDixN.html
22-04-2020||Pune||Woman, 92, grandchild, 3, recover of Covid-19 in Pune||April 22 was a special day for Pune doctors treating Covid-19 patients. The city, which is one of the designated red zones in Maharashtra, with at least 753 cases saw the recovery of a pair of related patients: a three-year-old toddler and her 92-year-old great grandmother. Muralidhar Mohol, the mayor of Pune tweeted in Marathi about them on Monday, “We thank hospital authorities for their efforts. Both the patients have recovered and gone back home safely.”Maisarah Shaikh (3) and her 92-year-old wheelchair-bound great grandmother, Fatima Shaikh, were discharged from Symbiosis Hospital and Research Centre after their second Covid-19 test came negative. Both have completed the mandatory 14-day quarantine period. The nonagenarian, who had suffered a stroke seven months ago, is paralysed and unable to recognise many of her family members. According to doctors at Symbiosis hospital, the recovery of a 92-year-old indicated that even senior citizens with pre-existing ailments — the population most at risk of dying due to Sars-Cov-2 — could recover from the Covid-19 threat.“The old woman did not have any symptoms although she recently had a stroke and her body was paralysed. However, during her stay at hospital, all her health parameters were all right which actually helped our staff to treat her,” said chief executive officer of Symbiosis Hospital Dr Vijay Natarajan.The two residents of Kondhwa were among 15 people, including six from the same family who had tested positive for the coronavirus earlier this month. Their swabs were taken after one of their relatives died at Sassoon General Hospital on April 8. The other nine were indirectly related to the family: acquaintances whom the members had come into contact with prior to the lockdown.“It was a twin tragedy. There was death among the family because of the viral infection, and six of us also tested Covid-19 positive. However, the hospital authorities took good care of us,” said 55-year-old Aslam Shaikh, grandfather to Maisarah, and owner of a tailoring shop in Kondhwa.There are eight members in Shaikh’s family; six tested positive for Covid-19, including the toddler, her father (Shaikh’s son), Shaikh’s mother and Shaikh himself. However, none but the last, exhibited any symptoms.“All of us including my old mother were all fine, only my son had a mild cough. Since my mother is paralytic, we were more worried about her. However, the doctors gave her extra attention and she recovered,” said Shaikh, who was discharged from quarantine on Monday.Also admitted with the toddler and the nonagenarian was Maisarah’s 66-year-old aunt, who is affected with polio. Maisarah’s mother, Noorjaha, despite being tested negative, was allowed to stay at hospital to take care of her daughter and mother-in-law. Now back, all members of the family are attempting to keep social distance from each other and their neighbours in their six-room home. Though business is down, Shaikh said that he is happy: his family is safe and together again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/woman-92-grandchild-3-recover-of-covid-19-in-pune/story-EBaxB1e81RuKBrGWFJXNfL.html
22-04-2020||Mumbai||5 intubation boxes to help docs avoid contact while handling patients||In a first, intubation boxes for patients infected by coronavirus have been manufactured by the Western Railway.Five intubation boxes have been manufactured at the zonal railways’s Lower Parel workshop. Intubation is the process of inserting an artificial ventilation tube into a patient’s body to ease breathing.The box can be placed on the patient while the doctors are in the process of intubating a coronavirus patient and it helps medical staff to avoid direct contact or proximity with the patient, thus reducing the exposure to the Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes Covid-19. There is a curved side that allows the box to be placed on the patient along with two holes. The holes placed above the head of the patient are to be used by the doctors for intubation. A Western Railway confirmed the developments and said, “The boxes are manufactured with transparent acrylic sheets and are light-weight. They will avoid direct contact with the patient and reduce the chances of the virus spreading. More boxes are being manufactured.”The five boxes have been presently allocated to the railway-operated Jagjivan Ram hospital in Mumbai Central that has been declared as a dedicated Covid-19 hospital by the Union railway ministry. Boxes are also being manufactured for other hospitals in the city.Further, the railway ministry has also manufactured contactless diagnostic cubicles for coronavirus testing in its workshops across the country.Earlier, both the Central and Western railway had converted coaches of their outstation trains into isolation wards. Of the 942 outstation coaches that were converted into isolation wards, 652 will be available for Maharashtra.The coaches were converted into isolation wards in Matunga and Lower Parel workshop, Wadi Bunder, Bandra Terminus and Lokmanya Tilak Terminus(LTT) railway depots one the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/5-intubation-boxes-to-help-docs-avoid-contact-while-handling-patients/story-0RKcNmbKYtzDOvVhZMpRCK.html
22-04-2020||City||230 labourers walking to UP, Bihar stopped in Kalyan||Around 230 labourers, who were walking to their village in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, were stopped by the Kalyan police on Wednesday.The labourers work in companies at Dombivli MIDC and Kalyan. They lived in rented houses provided by the companies. They told the police that they do not have money for food, so they started walking to their villages.Assistant police commissioner AT Powar said, “Our officials who were patrolling near Durgadi saw the huge group and immediately informed the control room.”Police officers reached the spot and spoke to them on a megaphone, asking them to stop and that they would be provided food. Later, the police took them to a ground and conducted their check-ups. Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation ward officer, K Khutade, said, “They have been shifted to Mahajanwadi hall and two other places in Kalyan (West). They have been provided food and other basic facilities.”Later, Wagale Estate police caught 11 labourers, who were travelling to Madhya Pradesh in two cars. They were quarantined in Thane Municipal Corporation’s quarantine centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/230-labourers-walking-to-up-bihar-stopped-in-kalyan/story-MZMnk2uSKgbToGmE3L7dPK.html
22-04-2020||City||50-yr-old woman, relative boked for travelling during lockdown||A 50-year-old woman and her relative were booked for travelling from Dharavi to Ambivli in Kalyan on a two-wheeler amidst the Covid-19 lockdown, on Monday. Satyabhama Kadam, 50, a resident of Atali village in Ambivli, Kalyan, had gone to visit her daughter in Dharavi and couldn’t return because of the lockdown. Her son-in-law’s brother, Shankar Awsare, a resident of Dombivli, got her back on Monday.“The woman said her daughter’s house is small and it was becoming difficult to stay there. Kadam has been quarantined at Tata Amantra Housing at Kalyan naka in Bhiwandi and Awsare has been quarantined at home,” said JD Sanap, assistant sub-inspector, Khadakpada police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/50-yr-old-woman-relative-boked-for-travelling-during-lockdown/story-msBDXeGLFMzbnDy6PDmHKP.html
22-04-2020||Mumbai||Lockdown will be effective only with more testing: IIT-Bombay study||Lockdown, as a measure to curb the Covid-19 spread, will be effective only if it is implemented along with an increased rate of testing, tracing and isolation, a multi-model analysis of infectious diseases by researchers from the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B) has revealed. The models also suggested that the number of coronavirus cases will soar after the lockdown is lifted.“Once the lockdown is lifted, the numbers are bound to increase, according to our models. However, the models also showed that lockdown alone will not help in curbing the infection. We need to test aggressively and isolate those infected, especially because there are many asymptomatic cases,” said one of the researchers, professor Subimal Ghosh, from the civil engineering department.The analysis released on Wednesday is an IIT-Bombay-Ministry of Human Resource Development (HRD), initiative in collaboration with IIT-Gandhinagar, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and Visva-Bharati University in West Bengal.As a part of the analysis, the teams used three models for making epidemiological predictions for the number of incidences of the virus for different time periods under different circumstances. While the system dynamics model is a mathematical modelling of complex scenarios, the X-SEAIPR model is a technique to simplify the mathematical modelling of infectious disease and the statistical model makes assumptions to predict scenarios. While the first two models suggest a spike in the number of cases once the lockdown is lifted, the third model suggests a steady increase in the number of infections after lockdown.Further, a risk analysis of the existing cases shows that some parts of the country are at more risk than others. This means that though the number of cases are low in a state, the population could be more vulnerable based on the social indicators of the place. For instance, Kerala had the highest number of cases at one point, but due to better social conditions, the state could achieve the highest control over the number of infections among the other states.IIT-B’s finding corroborates the need for increased testing as stated earlier by the World Health Organization. Similar findings were released on Tuesday by the Indian Scientists’ Response to Covid-19, a voluntary group of more than 400 scientists, who made the first India-specific epidemiological model. These scientists also recommended that extensive testing, quarantining and continued social distancing, and not a lockdown alone, are the most effective strategies to contain the outbreak in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/lockdown-will-be-effective-only-with-more-testing-iit-bombay-study/story-U16KvXea0btaQktkodlnnJ.html
22-04-2020||Delhi||Trader’s death sparks fear at Capital’s food supply lifeline||New Delhi: The Delhi government on Wednesday began tracing the contacts of a 57-year-old vegetable vendor at Azadpur Mandi who died of Covid-19 on Tuesday, sparking worries among the traders and authorities about a major spread in what is considered the food supply lifeline of the national capital.There are 2,800 registered traders at Azadpur Mandi who employ 12,000-odd people as labourers, loaders-unloaders (palledars), porters, accountants, etc, according to Adil Khan, chairman of the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee, which runs the mandi.A government official said the business partner of the dead trader and 15 of his employees are in home quarantine. All of them will be tested for the contagious disease, even as mandi traders demanded stricter surveillance and scaling up of testing in the market, which is one of north India’s biggest food trading hubs.Though some of them said they were open to the idea of temporarily shifting parts of the market, which is spread over an area of more than 100 acres, to some other location in the vicinity, government officials said no such proposal was under consideration as yet.The case emergedafter the Delhi government announced on Monday that the market would be open round the clock to augment supplies after the experiment to run parts of the market in an odd-even formula to ensure social distancing had hit supplies to the city, which is under a lockdown.Under the guidelines issued by the central government, fruits and vegetables are essential commodities that can be sold and purchased during the national lockdown, which runs until May 3. Though some economic activity has been allowed in the second phase of the lockdown from April 20, the Delhi government has chosen to stick with strict curbs as the number of cases in the city continue to rise.By Wednesday evening, Delhi had 2,248 positive cases and 48 deaths.Delhi cabinet minister Gopal Rai’s office on Wednesday said that there was going to be no immediate change in the schedule to run the market, adding that 900 civil defence volunteers and 600 sanitation workers would be deployed at the mandi to ensure social distancing and safety.The dead trader’s shop is located in the D-Block of the market premises. On Tuesday night, the district administration sealed the lane in which the shop is located, which led to the closure of six more fruit and vegetable wholesale shops, said a government official. The person complained of flu-like symptoms, following which he was admitted to hospital on April 15. His samples were collected for testing on April 17. He tested positive on April 19, and, he died in the hospital on April 21, the official added.Concerns among traders amplified as Tuesday’s incident uncovered two more Covid-19 cases in the market.A tomato dealer who lives in Shalimar Bagh, and who tested positive under the jurisdiction of the north-west Delhi revenue district, turned out to be someone who frequented the Azadpur mandi. Similarly, a cauliflower seller from Uttar Pradesh’s Gonda district, a regular at the market, also tested positive. Both are admitted in isolation wards, said an official in the state health department.Senior officials said that, so far, they have come across no mutual contacts to suggest that the cases were interlinked. But they refrained from dismissing the possibility.Deepak Shinde, district magistrate (north), said the people employed by the Covid-19 victim have been put under strict watch. “If they test positive, they will be sent to an isolation ward as per protocol. We are now tracing contacts of the person. He used to reside at Majlis Park,” Shinde said. Shinde did not comment on the other two cases of traders associated with the market who have tested positive.Another senior government official said that the dead trader’s wife and children had gone to West Bengal for a wedding and could not return to Delhi because of the lockdown. His nephew is believed to be a close contact, with whose help the officials are trying to trace others. Fear and uncertaintyThe market continues to operate round the clock but there is fear among the traders. “He moved around and had transactions with hundreds of other traders and customers over the last many days. They all are at risk now and at least all shop owners in the block should be tested first, quarantined and more area should be sealed, if needed,” said Anil Malhotra, a trader and elected member of the market committee.Several other traders demanded strict measures and an assessment to check if parts of the market could be temporarily moved to other locations in vicinity.The Delhi administration did such relocation experiments earlier this month at vegetable and grain wholesale markets in Najafgarh and Mehrauli – but those markets are much smaller in size, a government official said.Azadpur, on the other hand, was subjected to an odd-even rule, allowing traders settled in odd- and even-numbered sheds to open their shops on alternate days. The arrangement led to a supply crisis in Delhi and within days, retail prices of several fruits and vegetables witnessed jump between 30% and 100%, several traders said.Supply has improved by 30% compared to the average of the previous week, said Adil Khan. “The concerns have been conveyed to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. Today, traders in the market were asked not to panic. They were explained how rapid tests are not operational now and RT-PCR tests in such large scale is impractical. So, they should protect themselves through hygiene measures, masks, social distancing and isolating themselves if they feel and flu-like symptoms. These are tough times,” said Khan.He added that any disruption at Azadpur could throw supplies and trade in food commodities off balance across north India. “Not just Delhi, but for the whole of north India, this is the biggest wholesale agriculture market. A large number of traders from almost all states come here to trade their goods. It is also a major transit point for imported fruits and vegetables,” said Khan.Why Azadpur is importantTo put in perspective the scale of operation in the market, on March 25, the first day of the ongoing nationwide lockdown, amid restrictions on movement of trucks, the market recorded arrival of around 350 tonne of tomatoes, 302 tonne of potatoes, 350 tonne of onions, 82 tonne of cauliflower and cabbage, 70 tonne of orange and 313 tonne of apple.At least 3,000 trucks of fruits and vegetables arrive at Azadpur every day, said Khan. The second largest wholesale mandi in terms of arrivals is in Ghazipur, which witnesses around one-tenth the quantity in terms of arrivals (300 trucks) as compared to Azadpur. Ghazipur is more popular as the chicken and meat lifeline of Delhi. Third biggest fruits and vegetables market in Delhi is in Oklha, which receives around half the quantum of arrivals (150 trucks) compared to Ghazipur, and 5% compared to Azadpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/trader-s-death-sparks-fear-at-capital-s-food-supply-lifeline/story-AvePPuqyVbtRJosX2PdRVJ.html
22-04-2020||City||Doctors, staff in Mumbai’s Covid wards will now get certified PPE kits||With more than 250 doctors and nurses testing positive, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has come up with a new rule stating only certified personal protective equipment (PPE) will be used by medical staff in isolation wards for treatment of Covid-19 patients.HT had reported earlier that lack of certified PPE is one of the major reasons for spread of Sars-Cov-2 among staffers. Most of the PPE are procured through donation without quality checks and hence are unable to stop the transmission.The BMC will now accept PPE which has been certified by authorised agencies such as The South India Textile Research Association (SITRA). “According to the new rules, PPE needs to have Unique Certificate Code along with tamper-proof stickers in indelible inks with details of manufacturers. Only such PPE can be used in isolation wards for doctors,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC. PPE without security features will be used in other departments where the chance of getting infected is lower. Dr Prince Surana, CEO of Surana group of hospitals, said owing to the rise in demand, several local traders have started to produce low-quality kits, in violation of safety rules. “Hope this new rule will help to save the frontliners,” he said. So far, at Wockhardt Hospital, 82 medical staff have contracted the infection, followed by Jaslok Hospital with 57 cases and Bhatia Hospital with 45. Three staff members, including one doctor, have contracted the infection at Sewri TB hospital. On Monday, civic-run ENT hospital reported 10 positive cases among employees.More than Covid wards, doctors and nurses are scared of working in non-Covid wards, where PPE is still not compulsory. Talking to HT, a doctor from Bombay Hospital Resident Doctor Association said the infection started to spread in the hospital from non-Covid doctors. “In the first week of April, a resident doctor (radiology) contracted the virus. He wasn’t responsible for taking care of Covid patients. As we used to eat in the same canteens and stayed in the same hostels, the infection started to spread,” said Dr Mehul Desai, President of Bombay Hospital Resident Doctors Association, where 22 staffers have tested positive.Asymptomatic patients are now the main concern. For this, doctors have raised the need for more number of fever clinics and separate entry-exits in hospitals. “Asymptomatic patients are like ticking time machines, who carry the virus inside without anyone’s knowledge. It is extremely important to segregate the functioning of Covid and non-Covid wards,” said Dr Surana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/doctors-staff-in-mumbai-s-covid-wards-will-now-get-certified-ppe-kits/story-XM9iv1HkKYIV5DVbG22XoK.html
22-04-2020||Mumbai||This mango season, traders in state are staring at 60% losses||The Covid-19 pandemic has broken the supply chain of the Alphonso mango trade of the coastal Konkan region, which is now facing losses worth crores of rupees. The trade has been severely hit due to unavailability of labour and export via aircraft called off due to the global lockdown. An estimate, drawn by mango farmers, wholesale and retail traders, pegs the losses of the industry at 50 to 60% of the normal annual income. Income from exports has also been reduced to 10 to 15% of the income every year, said traders.The Alphonso mango is cultivated along coastal Maharashtra and is most popular in Ratnagiri district, from where it is supplied to the rest of the country and also exported abroad. It grows only during the summer months between mid-April and June. It is sold, not only as a fruit, but also in a variety of packaged forms such as pickles, juices, ice-cream flavours, syrup, and forms an ingredient in many Maharashtrian sweets. All of this is manufactured during these few months, as mango is an easily perishable fruit.Moreover, as the mango industry is seasonal, the income received during these two and a half summer months is used by traders in this business all year round, for their sustenance, to grow the fruit for its next cycle, hire farm-hands to facilitate the cycle, and packaging and transport, until orders for the next year are made.Rajesh Pednekar who is a wholesaler and retailer at Suyog Mangoes in Ratnagiri city, said, “There are a lot of losses as rates have halved. We used to earn Rs 2,500 to Rs 4,000 per box, containing five to nine dozen mangoes, now we get barely Rs 1,700. There is a shortage due to unpredictable rains last year. Moreover, due to the lockdown, we are not supplying to the APMC market at Navi Mumbai. Mangoes are still being supplied to Mumbai and Pune with help of our supply chains and contacts with individual traders, but we do not have as many customers. My family has been in this business for over 60 to 70 years, but we have not seen this kind of uncertainty or losses before.”Another trader, Madhav Lele, of Lele Agro Exports said, “We are not sending mangoes to APMC markets’ agents and are selling directly to customers if there is a bulk order of 100 boxes. However, this is no match to the routine business every year. Exports are happening to Dubai and London by sea. Air exports have completely been suspended. Only 10 to 15% of exports are presently happening, and income from exports has also been reduced to 10 to 15% of the income every year.”To tackle the current trade slump, farmers and traders have come up with innovative ways to ensure continued supply and demand. Aditi Desai, of Desai Bandhu Ambewale traders in Pawas,said, “We have adapted to the situation and are directly delivering to the housing societies we receive bulk orders from. When people find out the supply is there, they order more. In cities like Mumbai and Pune, the demand never stops.”Desai, who also has a business of packaging durable mango products said, “Mangoes need to be immediately sent to the market every day as they are easily perishable. For packaging, the main problem is the availability of labour and their payment. Our income has reduced this year, but we are paying our staff the same amount of money.”Ganesh Khandilkar, who is a Sindhudurg-based mango cultivator, and a retailer for Mumbai, Pune, Sangli, Kolhapur and other cities in Maharashtra said, “Mumbai always has a demand. When you send mangoes to Mumbai APMC, it gets sold right away but that has now stopped. We have to rely now on other supply chains and our contacts with customers. This is resulting in unpredictable losses. Farmers are getting less than 40% of the money they get every year.” On the other hand, customers are unable to get their annual supply of mangoes. Suyash Dighe, a resident of Dadar said, “Every year I travel to Navi Mumbai and buy mangoes. However, this year I do not know where to source the mangoes from. I do not live in a housing society, where I can convince 100 other families to order boxes so we can get a direct bulk order from a supplier in Ratnagiri.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/this-mango-season-traders-in-state-are-staring-at-60-losses/story-qkYbYiFT9vOBvxbe3thuWL.html
22-04-2020||Mumbai||Woman quarantined again after discharge||A senior citizen in her sixties, discharged from Jogeshwari’s Trauma Care Centre on Tuesday, was again put under institutional quarantine by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), as a precautionary measure. According to the BMC officials, she tested negative in her fourth report and was discharged on Tuesday evening. But, the report for the third test conducted earlier, came in after her discharge from the hospital. She had tested positive for Covid-19 in her third report. Hence, as a precautionary measure, the senior citizen was quarantined again in an isolation facility at Borivali, on Wednesday. BMC officials further claimed that there was no medical negligence on part of the hospital. Vidya Mane, medical superintendent of Jogeshwari Trauma Care Centre said, “There was no negligence. We discharged her because she tested negative in the fourth report. However, the report of the third test came in late. The patient has no symptoms.”However, local BJP corporator Pratibha Girkar said, “Why did BMC discharge the patient when the third report was awaited? Also, why did they test the patient for the fourth time, if the results of the third test were not out yet?”Further, after the senior citizen had tested positive for the virus two weeks ago, the society at Kandivli, in which she resided, was sealed for 14 days and declared as a containment zone. However, the BMC, on Wednesday, opened the seal of only two of the total three wings of the residential society. Several residents claimed their building was sealed for 14 days and now they are running out of essentials.“We were hoping that our seal will be opened on Wednesday. But now we are told that the same has been extended by another 14 days. This is sheer negligence on part of the BMC. Why did they discharge the patient when the third report was not out? This is irresponsible behaviour.”Meanwhile, deputy municipal commissioner of BMC, Vishwas Shankarwar said, “There is nothing to worry for the society. The society has so far cooperated with us, and we expect them to continue to do so. We are always there if they need to essentials like groceries or medicines.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/woman-quarantined-again-after-discharge/story-cv7zYyyhyertcbek9YnUkL.html
22-04-2020||Mumbai||Palghar lynching: PIL seeks action against cops, compensation for victim||A public interest litigation (PIL) has been filed in the Bombay high court (HC) by a Delhi-based lawyer with regards to April 16 lynching incident at Palghar, wherein two seers and their driver were killed after being brutally beaten up by a mob of over 100 persons, including minors. The PIL seeks directions for an investigation by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) or a special investigation team (SIT); trial by a fast-track court; disciplinary action, and a first information report (FIR) against the policemen who failed to protect the three victims. The PIL also seeks compensation of ₹1 crore to the driver’s family. According to the PIL filed by advocate Alakh Alok Srivastav, the brutal lynching of the two seers Sushil Giri Maharaj, 35, and Maharaj Kalpavrikshgiri, 70, along with their driver Nilesh Telgane, 35, has shocked the conscience of a large number of people across India.The petition further states that though police personnel was present during the lynching, they did little to save the victims and there have been allegations that an officer pushed one of the victims towards the mob when he approached the former for help.The petition had prayed that in the interest of justice, a free and fair investigation should be conducted in the case under the monitoring of the court. The petition has further prayed that as there are serious allegations of commission and omission on the part of the local police personnel, it would be in the interest of justice that the investigation is done by any independent agency, one that is not subservient to the state of Maharashtra.The PIL is expected to be mentioned before the bench of justice SJ Kathawalla on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/palghar-lynching-pil-seeks-action-against-cops-compensation-for-victim/story-GU9ePAjPQNy9J5u0f6bf5N.html
22-04-2020||Chandigarh||Amid Covid-19 outbreak, Chandigarh authorities warn residents of impending dengue season||Already grappling with the coronavirus pandemic, UT health department has another reason to worry this season -- vector-borne diseases. Urging residents to take precautions, adviser Manoj Parida took to Twitter and wrote, “Dengue season is knocking on doors. Please clean up water tanks, dry up waterlogged corners, sanitise houses and relax...We don’t want 2 in 1. Dengue and corona both guests in city.”A health department official, who is not allowed to talk to media, said, “Its April, culex mosquito is there. We call it a ‘nuisance mosquito’ as it bites and leaves rashes. In least scenario, it will cause filariasis and Japanese encephalitis, but these diseases are not reported in this region.” “To deal with the adult mosquito, fogging has already been started and on request, spraying is also being done,” he said.The official also said that the next three months, May, June and July, are the season of malaria, then post monsoon (August to November) is the peak breeding season of aedes aegypti – the mosquito causing dengue and that is the time when dengue and chikungunya cases spike.PREVIOUS CASESIn 2018, 301 dengue cases were reported in the UT, while the count was 286 in 2019. The health official also said that he was not aware if any case has been reported this year so far.On being asked how challenging it would be to check the vector-borne diseases when the health staff is already dealing with the corona pandemic, the official said, “We are all geared up. The department’s energy is definitely diverted towards the deadly pandemic and we are not able to give all our attention towards the vector-borne diseases, but at the same time, we are keeping a watch on it and are vigilant.”A total of 140 mosquito breeding checkers, 56 multipurpose health workers and six inspectors are already on the job, he said, adding that the breeding checkers are accompanying the teams of health workers who are conducting door-to-door screening for the coronavirus. “They are there for the security purpose of the staff and also check the mosquito breeding outside houses in nearby parks,” the official said. Amid the coronavirus pandemic, checking of mosquito breeding sites inside houses has also been impacted. “Nobody is going to let us inside because of the fear of the pandemic, so, the health workers are at least checking the outer areas,” he said.30 CHALLANS ISSUED IN JANUARYLast year, over 21,000 people were issued notices besides 240 challans. This year before the outbreak of coronavirus, 30 challans were issued in January.Overburdened with dealing the global pandemic, the UT health department is taking the municipal corporation’s help. They have given the civic body a list of uncovered overhead tanks to be repaired before the season begins and a data of stagnant water spots has also been shared for spraying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/amid-covid-19-outbreak-chandigarh-authorities-warn-residents-of-impending-dengue-season/story-TS35hjjgwIRwI6zWQkS1IK.html
22-04-2020||City||In pvt hospitals, patient has to bear cost, says Punjab govt||Patiala: The Punjab government has said that covid-19 patients can go to private hospitals, but they will have to bear the treatment cost. The government, however, has clarified that private hospitals are not allowed to charge more than the CGHS (Central Government Health Scheme) rates as prevalent in Delhi-National Capital Region (NCR). The government said this was meant to ensure that the patient was not exploited. In government hospitals, the treatment is free. The state government added that this will help patients, who wish to be treated at private hospitals and have the capacity to pay. This will rope in the private sector in the fight against covid-19 and reduce the load on government sector, it adds.Anurag Agarwal, principal secretary health and family welfare, says in his order, “Covid-19 patients can go to private hospitals for their treatment, but they will bear the cost from their own pocket. However, no private hospital shall charge them exceeding CGHS rates valid in Delhi-NCR.” Indian Medical Association (IMA) Punjab president Dr Navjot Dahiya said, “At these CGHS rates, a day’s treatment for covid-19 at a private hospital will cost around Rs 6,000, including bed charges and ventilator. Additionally, the patient will have to bear the cost of PPE kits, medicines and other equipment.” He added, “If the patient has been given the choice to go to a private hospital, the doctor too has a choice on whether he wants to admit a patient or not.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/in-pvt-hospitals-patient-has-to-bear-cost-says-punjab-govt/story-YT6E5X75dT8722wvND0wCO.html
22-04-2020||Lucknow||Complaint against groom for refusing to exchange vows via video call||When couples are exchanging marriage vows online through social media and networking apps due to the lockdown in wake of Covid-19 outbreak, the family of a young woman in Bareilly lodged a complaint on Tuesday against her prospective groom for refusing to solemnize the marriage through video call.The incident took place in Karua Sahabganj village in Kuladia area of Bareilly. Shamsul Hasan had fixed his daughter Farzana’s marriage with Irshad Hussain. Irshad is stuck in Punjab and could not return to Bareilly for the wedding on April 19.The girl’s family requested him to exchange the vows through video call, but the man refused. The family approached the police but the latter refused to register an FIR saying that they were not aware of relevant provisions in law in such cases.However, they investigated the matter on the complaint of bride’s father.“Initially, the bride’s father alleged that the groom did not turn up because he failed to meet their dowry demands, but during the probe it was found that he was stuck in Punjab due to the lockdown,” said Bareilly additional SP (crime), SP Singh.Both families later agreed to compromise after the groom’s parents paid compensation to the bride’s family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/complaint-against-groom-for-refusing-to-exchange-vows-via-video-call/story-B7kFA4rpHXNo516BdN2ZKJ.html
22-04-2020||City||Two constables of UP Police injured in accident on KMP Expressway||Gurugram: Two constables of Uttar Pradesh police were injured after their motorcycle fell down from the KMP Expressway near Farrukhnagar on Wednesday. The police said that one of the constables allegedly fell asleep while riding the motorcycle and lost the control of the vehicle. Both of them are currently undergoing treatment at a hospital and their condition is reported to be stable, the police said. The constables were identified as Ravikaan from Narnaul and Sunil Kumar from Mahendergarh. Both of them had joined the UP police department in 2018, and are posted at Aligarh. The police said that the incident took place around 12pm when they were going to Aligarh from their homes.Savit Kumar, station house officer, Farrukhnagar police station, said, “They left for Aligarh from their homes early in the morning. Sunil who was riding the motorcycle fell asleep and lost the control of the vehicle. They both fell from the expressway and sustained injuries. We reached the spot immediately after receiving the information and took them to a hospital in Sector 10.” The SHO said that the constables had sustained mostly internal injuries and their condition is reported to be stable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-constables-of-up-police-injured-in-accident-on-kmp-expressway/story-q2JrYlE31ZIuKbhncDWqcK.html
22-04-2020||Chandigarh||Record 50 trains enter Punjab in a day to transport grain||A record 50 freight trains chugged into Punjab on Wednesday to transport wheat and rice stored in the godowns to other states for supply under the Public Distribution System (PDS). With each train’s capacity up to 3,000 tonnes, at least 1.4 lakh tonne grain was moved out of the state. The fast movement of grain from Punjab is being attributed to the countrywide lockdown imposed to stop the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. The central government has decided to give free ration under the PDS for three months under the PM Garib Kalyan Yojana. The decision to double the grains to beneficiaries was taken on March 27.“More than 19 lakh tonne wheat and rice has been moved from Punjab in 759 specials since April 1,” said a senior officer in food and civil supplies department.“Never in the past has such movement taken place on a given day. The daily average of three years was 16 trains (48,000 tonnes) and in the past six months it came down to 12 (36,000 tonnes),” said Food Corporation of India (FCI)’s regional head Arshdeep Thind. Besides, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir, other states which received grains from Punjab through special trains are Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, West Bengal, Bihar, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Odisha and Tamil Nadu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/record-50-trains-enter-punjab-in-a-day-to-transport-grain/story-EtGeChkg9NwLmf52aXmRcJ.html
22-04-2020||City||Gurugram: Four more test positive for Covid-19||Gurugram: Four people, including a bank employee, tested positive for the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease in Gurugram city on Wednesday, taking the total number of cases in the district to 45. The 38-year-old bank employee, a resident of Sector 10, has been admitted to the Civil Hospital in the same sector and samples of her family members have been taken for testing, said health officials. They added that she worked at a branch of a PSU bank in Bhiwadi and one employee there had earlier tested positive for Covid-19, after which the other employees were asked to remain in quarantine at home. The sample of the patient was collected on Tuesday and it turned out positive on Wednesday, after which he was admitted to the hospital, they added.The other three patients are from Om Nagar in Sector 11, a colony near Rajiv Chowk, and from Sector 39 in Jharsa, respectively. JS Punia, chief medical officer, Gurugram, said the screening tests are being conducted in areas where these patients live and they are tracing the patients’ contacts to prevent the spread of the disease. In Haryana, Gurugram, Palwal, Faridabad and Nuh have been designated as red zones due to the high number of Sars-Cov-2 cases in these districts. Due to this reason, the government prescribed stringent norms for industries which want to resume production in lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-four-more-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-UVKgixt3WH2bjU2bqWmgMO.html
22-04-2020||City||NHAI wants DC to intervene for work to start in the city||Gurugram: With a host of construction projects in limbo owing to the nationwide lockdown, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) on Tuesday asked that the district administration expedite permissions to allow contractors to resume pending work.In a letter to Gurugram deputy commissioner (DC) Amit Khatri, NHAI Gurugram project director Ashok Sharma asked that applications by contractors made on the state’s Saral portal be accepted at the earliest. A senior highways authority official said contractors have made applications for work passes on the Saral portal over the last two days, but are still awaiting their arrival.“Government of Haryana, revenue and disaster management department has also directed construction projects be allowed with ministry of home affairs guidelines, operations shall be allowed with 50% of the total work force,” the letter read.Among the projects pending are the Ambience Mall underpass, Shankar Chowk elevated U-turn, Khandsa foot-overbridge, Badshahpur-Sohna road.On April 20, Haryana’s chief secretary Keshni Anand Arora had said that some industries not in containment zones can resume operations while following the guidelines issued by the Centre. She said owners of industries and factories will have to get permission to operate from the government through the Saral portal, only after which would passes be issued to labourers and other employees working there.So far, the district administration has identified six containment zones in Gurugram. The city has seen 41 cases of Covid-19, and no deaths till now.HT had earlier reported that at least 25 industrial units and companies in the district would be allowed to resume operations this week, and were likely to get approvals for the same by Wednesday morning.The development after the Haryana government on Sunday released a standard operating procedure (SOP) for reopening industrial units amid the nationwide lockdown, in a bid to allow economic activities to return to normal. No NHAI contractor has been allowed to start work till yet.A few NHAI contractors had been stopped by Gurugram police when they resumed work at Sohna road on Monday, as officers said the contractors didn’t have permission to work during the lockdown. In the letter, Sharma wrote that contractors and concessionaires complained that local law enforcement did not allow them construction work in the city. “They have reported that the requisite permission has been applied, which needs to be expedited. Some of the staff of our independent engineer have also reported that permission for their movement pass has been rejected by the Gurgaon administration. For want of permission from the Gurgaon administration none of the projects of NHAI could resume till date ,” read the letter, a copy of which is with HT.When asked about the matter, Khatri said all applications sent by NHAI contractors are being scrutinised. “I cannot comment on when they will be issued, but we are processing them as per their necessity,” he said. Administration officials said because most NHAI contractors have made provisions for labourers to live near construction sites, the issuance of work passes should not be an issue.In a letter written to the DC earlier this month, an NHAI contractor — Oriental Structural Engineers Pvt Ltd, which is constructing a five-kilometre elevated stretch on the Badshahpur-Sohna Road said the pause in construction could put commuters in danger. The contractor in its letter to the DC said that a span (girder on the pillar) is hanging and needs to be lowered immediately. The contractor is still waiting for the construction pass to be given for this pillar to be fixed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nhai-wants-dc-to-intervene-for-work-to-start-in-the-city/story-En5jZme99ZqKT1he02pcBK.html
22-04-2020||Mumbai||No Muslim involved in Palghar lynching: State home minister||Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh said that there was no communal angle to the Palghar lynching incident on April 16 and that none of the 101 accused arrested by the police were Muslim. Deshmukh said that the attack was a fall-out of rumours triggered by social media posts about child abductors in the area.“Not even a single member of the Muslim community was among the attackers. Altogether, 101 have been arrested on charges of lynching. Police acted swiftly and arrested all accused in eight hours by finding some of them from the jungle and mountains. The state-run Criminal Investigation Department (CID) has started the probe headed by a special inspector general-rank officer,” Deshmukh said. He later released a list of the names of the 101 arrested in the case.Stopping short of naming the main Opposition, the home minister alleged that a few politicians were trying to give a communal angle to the “unfortunate incident” in the hopes of coming back to power. The BJP has attacked the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government for its failure to maintain law and order and has demanded Deshmukh’s resignation. The government has already suspended two policemen for alleged dereliction of duty.On April 16, two seers Kalpavriksha Giri, 70, and Sushil Giri, 35, and their driver Nilesh Telgade, 30, were dragged out of their vehicle near Gadhchinchale village and beaten to death by a mob, on suspicion that they were child abductors. The victims were travelling from Mumbai to Surat to attend a funeral.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/no-muslim-involved-in-palghar-lynching-state-home-minister/story-4xfyt8tz9ZePn0rx5d4mAL.html
22-04-2020||Gurugram||Five arrested for attacking ASHA workers, policemen during survey in Faridabad||The Faridabad police arrested five people for allegedly assaulting a 39-year-old ASHA (Accredited Social Health Activist) worker on Tuesday, while she was conducting the door to door surveillance on Covid-19 on behalf of the district administration.Five policemen, who tried to intervene, were also assaulted.According to the police, the incident took place at Ashiyana Apartment, an affordable housing colony in Sector 62 of Ballabhgarh. The suspects have been identified as Ird Khan alias Pappu, Shekhawat, Hafiz, Jalalu and Nafis. All the suspects are neighbours, police said.A case was registered under sections 148 (rioting), 149 (unlawful assembly), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter a public servant from his duty), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), at Adarsh Nagar police station. The suspects were produced before a district magistrate on Tuesday evening and sent to jail in judicial custody for 14 days.The victim was identified as Rekha Sharma, a resident of Sector 65 in Faridabad, who has been working as an ASHA worker in Ballabhgarh for the past six years. On Tuesday, she said, she reached Ashiyana society around 1pm for conducting a surveillance. “I had to take details from each house during the door-to-door survey. When I asked one of the families to share the details of the number of members and if anyone had shown any kind of symptoms related to Covid, they refused to cooperate. I am also supposed to ask if anyone, who might have attended Jamaat in Delhi’s Nizamuddin, had visited their house or met them. But they got furious after ia sked them that and started abusing me,” she said.Sharma immediately informed her senior medical officers, who were near the spot. They in turn informed the police control room and the nearest police station. “The group started using vulgar language and abused the administration. They fished out wooden sticks and iron rods from inside their home and threatened to take us hostage. Within 10 minutes, a police team from Adarsh Nagar arrived and tried to intervene but they attacked all of us with sticks and rods ,” she said. Kailash Chander, station house officer of Adarsh Police station, said that a team of 10 policemen had reached the spot and they had tried to pacify the residents. But some of them turned violent. “We called for backup to control the situation, as the suspects had called their neighbours and more than 20 people had gathered at the spot,” he said.Sharma and two police personnel sustained injuries on their head, arms, shoulders, and legs in the incident, and were taken to a private hospital.ASHA workers have been deployed by the district administration to conduct door-to-door survey in all the residential areas and collect data on people having cough, cold and fever symptoms. They act as a bridge between the community and the public healthcare system in India and since mid-March, they have been conducting surveys to gather information about those who are likely to be affected by Covid-19 in the state.KK Rao, Faridabad’s commissioner of police, said that they often receive complaints from these ASHA workers. “We have informed all station house officers to take strict action against those who misbehave with ASHA workers or medical teams,” he said.Faridabad deputy commissioner Yashpal Yadav also said that the health department and ASHA workers are facing regular harassment during these surveys. “We have requested police commissioner to act against anyone found abusing these workers or refusing to cooperate with them,” he said.[TRYING TO GET A QUOTE FROM THE RESIDENTS]||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/five-arrested-for-attacking-asha-workers-policemen-during-survey-in-faridabad/story-C2h5OZIXm90RyPoE2R5RxM.html
22-04-2020||Gurugram||Maruti among 10 industries allowed to reopen in Gurugram||The Haryana government on Wednesday granted permission to auto major Maruti Suzuki India to resume operations at its Manesar plant. It also allowed nine other industries to reopen after their applications were approved by a district-level committee amid the nationwide lockdown imposed to contain the Covid-19 outbreak. Though the production at the Maruti plant is still on hold, the district administration has allowed the company to resume maintenance at the Manesar plant on a single-shift basis. It has granted permission for only 600 employees and 50 vehicles to operate. The company, however, was not granted permission to resume operation at its other plants located in Gurugram and Manesar, the labour department said. Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner, Gurugram, said, “The company will not start production, as permission has been granted for limited persons and the maintenance of the Manesar plant.”The auto giant, which manufactures about 15.5 lakh cars of 16 different models every year, had shut its plants at Udyog Vihar and Manesar on March 22. In Gurugram district, the company has at least nine dealers but they will continue to remain shut due to ongoing lockdown.RC Bhargava, the chairman of the company, said, “The government has issued permission as per the guidelines of the ministry of home affairs. But to start the production of cars, we need a continuous supply of parts and then a channel to sell cars. The production can’t start till these things are sorted out. We can’t say when will that be because the situation changes every day.”A senior executive of the company, who did not wish to be named, said that in March 2019, the company had sold 1.58 lakh cars. Last month till March 22, 84,000 cars had been sold and there were no sales in April. At the Gurugram and Manesar plants, there are over 20,000 workers and they work in two shifts of 10,000 to 11,000 each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/maruti-among-10-industries-allowed-to-reopen-in-gurugram/story-OgzP9r8Xsh4mZMWUFAu2yK.html
22-04-2020||City||Palghar lynching case: Cops use 4 drones to track down accused in Kasa jungle||Following the lynching of three men in Palghar on April 16, local police used drones to scour the nearby Kasa jungle to identify members of the mob who were hiding there. “Around 150 armed cops from the State Reserve Police and Riot Control Police are scouring the jungles to nab the tribal mob accused. The inspector general, Konkan range, Niket Kaushik is monitoring the entire operation as the case has now been handed over to the state Criminal Investigation Department (CID) by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray,” said Siddhawa Jaybhaye, assistant inspector in charge at Kasa police station.The drones have captured images of empty water bottles, food packets, clothes, etc, in the jungles which could help police track down the accused tribals from Gaddchinchale village in Dahanu. “We believe the tribals are also hiding in the homes of relatives in the union territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli whose border is just 600m from Gaddchinchale village,” said another police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/palghar-lynching-case-cops-use-4-drones-to-track-down-accused-in-kasa-jungle/story-qgsH5DoTPzosMYuKsj2laN.html
22-04-2020||City||Gurugram: District admin prescribes strict regime for units resuming operations||Gurugram: To prevent the spread of the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease among industrial workers and office staff when commercial activities resume in Gurugram, the district administration and the labour department on Wednesday issued a detailed advisory for business units reopening while the lockdown is still in place. The labour department said that since the city has a unique mix of industrial and office workforce, owing to closeness with Delhi and other national Capital region cities, it has been decided to apply more stringent measures in a few domains to prevent the spread of this disease.Till Wednesday evening, a total of 10 business units had been permitted to operate by the district administration, including auto major Maruti, said Munish Sharma, additional labour commissioner of NCR, Haryana. “All organisations are expected to align their operations to these guidelines to ensure safe working conditions. In case the companies don’t comply with the standard operating procedures (SOP), their permissions will be withdrawn and criminal proceedings would be initiated against them,” he said.Sharma said before commencing operations, the firms have to submit detailed plans for housing and safe transport for workers, staggering of shift timings, screening at gates, social distancing on the work floor, provision of food and water, provision of safety equipment and loading and unloading of goods.Industrialists based in the city, however, were not very enthused by the stringent guidelines prescribed, saying the advisory was one of the reasons many units were not interested in resuming operations. “The government must understand that such strict conditions cannot be implemented in factories. There is a need for flexibility in shaping these rules and no one wants penal action to be initiated against them. We also have opposed the condition of mandatory health insurance as it would be difficult to follow, particularly for smaller units,” said Ashok Kohli, president, Chamber of Industries of Udyog Vihar. Units based in the industrial township of Manesar were also wary of the advisory, stating that it would be impossible to implement the guidelines under present conditions. “The government needs to be flexible and work with business owners instead of deciding these terms. These aren’t normal times and we must work jointly to ensure safe working conditions. It would be very difficult to resume production with the measures decided by the government,” said Manmohan Gaind, vice president, Manesar Industries’ Welfare Association. The guidelines to be followed by these companies are:CCTVs and surprise auditsThe district administration should have access to CCTV footage of the work-floor. If there is no sufficient coverage, the firms have to ensure there is before reinitiating operations. Ideally a web-enabled CCTV system will be preferred, but even legacy CCTV systems will be allowed.Police, administration and labour teams will make surprise checks and audits to check compliance. Any deviation will result in summary stoppage of work and initiation of criminal proceedings.TransportIdeally, the employees must be housed within the unit premises. In cases where it is not possible, employees should be made to stay in a nearby accommodation. Between the workplace and the place of lodging, there can be a company-owned transport mode with mandatory nod to social distancing (hence, one employee per row).Employees can even travel on foot or by their own vehicles (one person per vehicle). In rare circumstances, a driver may be permitted for a car, provided there is an impermeable barrier between the driver and the passenger and the AC is not switched on. Inter-state or inter-district travel of employees is not allowed (except for essential services, where also it is rationed).Reconfiguration of human resource policies There must be health cover for all employees before commencing operations.The district administration has stipulated that employees’ non-adherence with social distancing and hygiene practices should reflect on their annual appraisals; repeated indiscipline, substantiated by the evidence of other employees, must result in their summary removal from the job, in spite of their capability and performance.Employee mixThe document also recommends that employees with comorbidities such as pulmonary, cardiac or renal issues, diabetes, hypertension or obesity don’t attend work. Also, units should consider allowing parents with children below five years of age to work from home, the advisory adds.SanitationThe firms are also expected to ensure all common areas and work areas are sanitised and disinfected in every shift using government-approved chemicals. Roster for maintenance and record of purchase order of chemicals/materials must be maintained.Posters, helpline and trainingPosters with approved guidelines and messages must be displayed. Regular drill and training of employees must be conducted maintaining six feet of distance. Frequent announcements must be made on the floor to remind workers to be mindful of their actions. Contact numbers of government helplines must be displayed.No overlap of shiftsThere should be no overlap of shifts. A minimum time of an hour should be there between two shifts for cleaning to take place.Doing away with social distancing disruptorsBiometric attendance systems should not be used. The floor of the office should be clearly marked with coloured tape (squares or circles) at every six feet. Employees should be allowed to walk strictly in those squares or circles. There must be a fixed seating plan and workers should not be allowed to roam around. Common resources such as gates, lifts, sanitizers, etc., could be handled by dedicated people.Stairs should be preferred and with only a minimum number of people at a time. Door knobs and handles should either be removed or handled by dedicated staff. Self-serving should be done away with in cafeterias. Ideally, cafeterias should be discontinued and packed lunches should be made available or employees should be encouraged to carry their own food.Life at and beyond the workplace, Aarogya Setu appDaily temperature scans at the workplace must be made. Employees must check their temperature at home, too, and should not turn up for work in case of fever or any other symptoms of flu. Don’t dismiss mild rise in temperature of any employee. Seek professional advice. Ask your employees not to self-medicate, even with over-the-counter drugs such as paracetamol.It is also mandatory for everyone to use Aarogya Setu appUse of face mask/hand washingThe use of masks is compulsory and the employees won’t be allowed to remove it in any case. It would augur well if an organisation provides face masks to its employees. Use of recyclable cloth masks should be encouraged.The firms must make facilities available for washing hands with soaps and sanitisers with adequate ethyl alcohol content.Gutkha, tobacco, smoke breaksThe use of gutkha and tobacco products has been banned. It is also encouraged that employees get prescription nicotine patches or gums to avoid smoking. Smoking at public places is anyway a punishable offence and if companies have closed smoking rooms then these should be closed.Remain informedThe companies must remain in touch with the district administration and labour department through offline, online and social media modes to remain updated on the situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-district-admin-prescribes-strict-regime-for-units-resuming-operations/story-IrsmUJ6XLMeaB67NjcB2XN.html
22-04-2020||City||Coronavirus lockdown: Punjabi singer, friends booked for going out on ‘geri’ in Zirakpur||Going out for a ‘geri’ in a Range Rover landed a Punjabi singer and his three friends in trouble as the group was booked for defying curfew in Zirakpur on Wednesday. Police said singer Gagandeep Sandhu, along with his three friends -- Amritpal Singh of Rampura Phull, Sunpreet Singh of Maluka and Gurvinder Singh of SBS Nagar, was caught driving around aimlessly and playing loud music.On spotting a patrol team on VIP Road, he tried to speed away, but was intercepted after a chase. The singer and his friends were not even wearing face masks when intercepted by the police.Zirakpur station house officer Gurwant Singh said, “A singer is a role model for many, so, they should act responsibly. Sandhu was not only irresponsible, but also violated the curfew.”Earlier on two occasions, the singer was let off with a warning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-lockdown-punjabi-singer-friends-booked-for-going-out-on-geri-in-zirakpur/story-Pm2TVJPxoDipAGDrCtnSMK.html
22-04-2020||Mumbai||Kasturba Hospital discharges its 100th Covid-19 patient||Kasturba Hospital discharged its 100th Covid-19 patient on Wednesday, according to the information shared by the civic health department.A total of 102 Covid-19 patients from Kasturba Hospital and from peripheral civic hospitals such as Trauma hospital, Jogeshwari have recovered and been discharged. Of these, 45 were women and 57 were men; 14 senior citizens and eight were children below 10 years.The BMC tweeted, “Kasturba’s century against Corona! Kasturba discharged its 100th Covid-19 positive patient today - a milestone we’re all so proud of! But we’re not done yet. We are committed to keep going on and on.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/kasturba-hospital-discharges-its-100th-covid-19-patient/story-DKLL3gtw5Lgox3vFaeYDuO.html
22-04-2020||Mumbai||Worker on Worli duty tests positive for Covid-19||A total of 40 contractual labourers of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) have been home quarantined after one of their colleagues who had gone to disinfect Worli-Koliwada area tested positive on Tuesday.According to BMC officials, the one tested positive developed symptoms after the fumigation work at Worli-Koliwada. Sandhya Nandekar, assistant municipal commissioner of BMC’s G-South ward, said, “The labourer probably went to eat at his relative’s place in Worli-Koliwada which has a positive patient. We have home quarantined his 40 colleagues.”A BMC official said, “ All those who are home quarantined do not have any symptoms, but we have asked them to report, if any.”Worli-Koliwada area comes under G-South ward which has the highest number of cases in the city. BMC officials said the labourer who tested positive was on duty at R-North ward which covers Dahisar and Borivli, but was sent to Worli-Koliwada as additional manpower was needed there.The labourer lives in K-East ward which covers Andheri-East, Saki Naka and Vile Parle East.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/worker-on-worli-duty-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-1duQWdv0toV9WOBJwehaDI.html
22-04-2020||City||Grain glut in Bathinda mandis due to tardy lifting||Slow lifting of wheat due to shortage of labour in the wake of the ongoing lockdown has resulted in a glut of produce at several grain markets in Bathinda district.The problem is arising as the available manpower is engaged in loading of rice from godowns in special trains to transport grain from Punjab to other states. Officials said the situation is grave in 21 grains markets of the Goniana block and one in Bathinda city.District mandi officer Preet Kanwar Brar said, “We are planning to build rakes of wheat sacks at the grains markets to create more space. Of the 10 lakh metric tonnes of wheat expected in the district this season, 1.72 lakh metric tonne arrived till Tuesday.” Navdeep Singh Jeeda, district president of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), said the slow lifting of grain has exposed the state government’s claims of ensuring smooth procurement of the crop. “The farmers are suffering,” he added.Deputy commissioner B Srinivasan said, “It (glut-like situation) happens every year when crop arrival gains pace. These mandis will be cleared of wheat stock in the next couple of days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/grain-glut-in-bathinda-mandis-due-to-tardy-lifting/story-CSfBOBymDarQRrtgj428bP.html
22-04-2020||City||Ghaziabad: Number of Covid-19 cases reaches 50||In another case that emerged from Ghaziabad, a 64-year-old man was found positive for Covid-19 infection after his test was conducted by a private laboratory. The health department officials said that the man tested positive on Tuesday and has been added to the list of Covid-19 positive patients in Ghaziabad, though he is now admitted to a hospital in Delhi. On Wednesday, four new patients were added to the list of positive cases.“The case has emerged from Exotica Elegance high-rise in Indirapuram. The man was not in touch with anyone except the family, and they were procuring groceries online. We will now be adding the patient to the tally of Covid-19 positive patients in Ghaziabad. The sanitisation of the high-rise has been taken up by our team,” Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer (CMO), said.“There are two more cases that have come to light, one each from Khoda and Vaishali Sector 5. These patients have tested positive via private labs,” the CMO added.The latest addition of the 64-year-old is one of three recent cases that have emerged from Indirapuram. A 71-year-old man from Niho Scottish Garden tested positive on April 19 while a 41-year-old woman from ATS Advantage tested positive on April 20.“We will also be adding one more patient to the list. He is a 43-year-old man from Shipra Sun City who earlier tested positive by a private laboratory and was being treated at a hospital in Delhi. We have received his discharge summary and will be adding him to the list on Wednesday. The man has been discharged and is presently quarantined at home for 14 days,” the CMO added.The patient from Shipra Sun City is a software professional with an IT company in Delhi and said that he had visited a hospital in Delhi on April 22 to pay his respects to a dead relative. He also visited the cremation ground in Delhi a day later.“Since then I’ve had intermittent bouts of fever. I got myself tested at a private hospital in Delhi. The report came positive on April 3. During the treatment, I tested negative twice on April 18 and April 20; I was discharged and arrived home on April 21. The Delhi Police have told me that my phone is under surveillance and my movements are being tracked. I am now under home quarantine for 14 days,” the patient told HT over the phone.The CMO said that reports of another patient from Loni who died at a hospital in Delhi on April 8 are yet to be received, though the officials have written to the hospital for detailed reports.Till April 22, the total tally of Covid-19 positive patients in Ghaziabad stood at 50; 14 of them had been discharged from different hospitals, district health officials said.Meanwhile, the total count in Uttar Pradesh has reached 1,412 with 165 discharged from different hospitals and 21 dead. Amit Mohan Prasad, UP’s principal secretary (health), said that number of active cases stood at 1,226 in 53 districts.“Since Sunday, 10 districts—Pilibhit, Lakhimpur Khiri, Hathras, Bareilly, Prayagrag, Shahjahanpur, Barabanki, Haldoi, Kaushambi and Maharajganj—have not reported any active case. We have advised the government as well as private healthcare persons to treat patients only after following infection prevention protocols. We have so far given online training to private establishments through more than 2,500 nodes. Everyone is expected to follow proper safety measures,” he said.“The concept of pool testing was initiated at King George Medical College (200 samples) and we also initiated the process at Meerut (200 samples) and Etawah (180 samples). The initiative will now be started at medical colleges in Prayagraj and Jhansi,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-number-of-covid-19-cases-reaches-50/story-UvjhHOJdSdeK7DdGd0UqOL.html
22-04-2020||City||GB Nagar admin working to issue ration cards on priority, daily wagers fail to get cards due to lack of info||Noida: Even as the Gautam Budh Nagar administration is working to issue ration cards on priority to workers who are entitled to receive the essential food items, many daily wagers have failed to get their cards due to lack of information about the same.Officials said that those who are entitled to get ration cards will be identified and get help from the administration. “We have formed 169 teams for this purpose, and 14 supervisors from the authorities are also a part of the process. Those daily wage earners who don’t have ration cards but are entitled to will be provided with the cards. Other needy people who are not entitled to get the cards will also be provided essential items under disaster relief,” said a statement from the district administration. However, people from the economically weaker section are having trouble in getting the most of these benefits. Yogender Yadav, a resident of Chajarsi village who used to work as a helper in the assembly line of an export house, is now trying to make ends meet for his family.“We are a family of five people and we had been starving for a few days due to the lockdown. I went to a ration shop last week. But I was asked to leave as I did not have a ration card. Today, with the help of a media person, I got 24 kg dry ration from a social organization. These people told me that I can get a ration card as the government is taking measures to help people like us. I will now apply for the same,” said Yadav.The family is one of the many who have been often turned away from ration shops due to lack of valid cards.“My eldest daughter and I had gone to a government ration shop on April 15, but were turned away because we didn’t have a card. We went back again the next day and filled up a form to apply for a ration card. But so far nothing has happened. For some essential items, we even tried some helpline numbers but no help came. Finally, we received 10 kg ration from a police post today,” said Sarita, a native of Bihar who used to run a tea stall in Sector 18 market and lives in the Atta market area.In the absence of help from the administration, most of the daily wage earners turn to nearby residential areas for help.“Several workers come to us for help every day. For a few days, we distributed ration among them. We even engaged the MLA office and helped out people. But to do it on a daily basis is beyond our resources. We often ask such people to contact the helplines or the local government shops. But most of these workers don’t have valid identity cards and are often denied help,” said Kanhaiya Lal Awana, president, residents’ welfare association, Sector 27.According to the officials of the district supplies department, the district currently has 1,84,925 active ration card holders under the public distribution system. According to the guidelines, the officials will issue ration cards of people eligible for them and identify those who are in need of services. Such people will then be provided a food packet of nine essential items from the relief fund, the officials said.“Since April 1, 3,500 new ration cards have been issued, while 10,279 requests have come in. All the applications for ration cards are under process. More than 15,000 people have also been identified who will be provided food from the ‘rahat kosh’,” said an officer of the district supplies department, on the condition of anonymity.For issuing new cards, a survey is being conducted by officers, the officer said.Despite repeated attempts, district magistrate Suhas LY could not be contacted for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gb-nagar-admin-working-to-issue-ration-cards-on-priority-daily-wagers-fail-to-get-cards-due-to-lack-of-info/story-YJbPtPRSBEujnRRUm6jG6K.html
22-04-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: 100 patients in 3 days, Prabhadevi ward all set to cross 500-case mark||With at least 100 new cases in the past three days bringing its tally to 487, G-South ward in Mumbai is set to cross the 500-case mark. According to the data released by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), G-South ward (Prabhadevi, Worli) tops in the number of cases in the city, followed by E (Byculla and Mumbai Central) ward with 349 cases and G-North (Mahim, Dadar, Dharavi) ward with 251 cases, as on April 21. Two wards, R (Dahisar-Borivli) and C wards (Chira Bazar-Kalbadevi) have the lowest number of cases at 20 and 23, respectively.Nine more people tested positive for Covid-19 from Dharavi, taking the total to 189 on Wednesday. The new cases were reported from Kumbharwada, Shasrtrinagar, PMGP Colony, Kuttiwadi, 90-feet road and Tekdi Masjid localities of Dharavi, said a BMC officer. The officer said 12 people from Dharavi have succumbed to the coronavirus so far.Considering the death rate due to coronavirus is the highest among senior citizens, the civic body has now decided to screen the elderly, especially in slum areas, and identify those with co-morbidities like hypertension and diabetes, as they fall in the high-risk category. Of the 152 coronavirus-related deaths recorded in Mumbai, at least 71 were above 61 years.In a circular issued by the BMC, a special team of doctors, community health workers and Asha workers will be appointed in all wards for door-to-door screening of senior citizens. If necessary, the team will refer them to a nearby dispensary for treatment. Covid-19 negative senior citizens will be moved to non-Covid hospitals to monitor their health conditions.According to the BMC, so far, 67 patients from G-South ward have recovered and have been discharged, followed by 38 from K-East (Andheri East) and 31 each from E (Byculla) and K-West (Andheri W) ward, respectively. Of the positive cases, more than 80% have been reported from slums such as Worli-Koliwada and Jijamata Nagar. According to the BMC records, over 3,800 persons from this ward have been quarantined. The fishermen’s colony in Koliwada was the city’s first containment zone.After a BMC sweeper from Worli-Koliwada tested positive on April 2, civic health staffers have screened more than 80,000 people, said BMC officials. “The number of cases in this area is increasing. So our teams were tracking all high- as well as low-risk contacts to quarantine them separately,” said a senior officer from the civic health department.The civic body has identified 813 containment zones and sealed them. Of these, 124 were from G-South ward and 61 from E ward.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/100-patients-in-3-days-prabhadevi-ward-all-set-to-cross-500-case-mark/story-zenGZitr2JfghwXbWaTk2H.html
22-04-2020||City||Stipend of UG medical, dental students hiked 50%||Chandigarh: Punjab medical education and research Minister OP Soni on Wednesday said the government had decided to increase the stipend of undergraduate medical and dental students by almost one-and-a-half-times or 50%. A tweet from the Punjab government gave out this information. Presently, the stipend is Rs 9,000 a month. After this hike, it will be Rs 13,500 a month. These students have also been helping the health department in the fight against covid-19. The minister said this after reviewing the preparation of his department and the status of patients admitted in Government Medical Colleges and Hospitals at Amritsar, Patiala and Faridkot. He added arrangement of ventilators and testing were the key to tackling the pandemic. At the meeting with top officials, a key decision related to retention of final-year MD/MS students, including 400 doctors and other staff, was also taken. Congress Rajya Sabha MP Partap Bajwa welcomed the decision to increase the stipend of medical and dental students. “I am overwhelmed at the response of Punjab chief minister on the issue. I thank the CM for this quick decision-making,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/stipend-of-ug-medical-dental-students-hiked-50/story-KWZRlTNOKQ3vumux4sSFOI.html
22-04-2020||Chandigarh||Three members from Ambala family who tested Covid-19 positive discharged after testing negative thrice||Three members of a family from Shahzadpur town in Ambala, whose samples tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) at a private lab on Sunday, were discharged on Wednesday, after three test reports from government labs came back negative. Chief medical officer Dr Kuldeep said, “The three family members who were being treated by a Panchkula doctor have now tested negative in three subsequent tests in government labs. They have been discharged and put under quarantine.”Office of the CMO said surveillance has been increased in the Shahzadpur containment zone, after a meeting with local panchayats, police department and integrated child development services.As many as 24 additional teams have been constituted to screen almost 16,000 residents. “The state health bulletin showing a fresh case in Ambala is not a new case. Rather, the man who died at PGIMER, Chandigarh, on April 1 was added to the state’s tally today,” the CMO said.“The Maharashtra man who tested positive in Ambala and was undergoing treatment at PGIMER has now been cured. He hasn’t been discharged due to other ailments and will be left soon,” he added. Four people from the district had tested positive at a private lab in Gurugram, but tested negative within 24 hours after the samples were tested at a government lab.Following this, Haryana health minister Anil Vij ordered a probe on Monday, and banned sending samples from the state to private labs for testing. Till now, 985 samples have been taken in the district, of which 896 tested negative and 11 positive, while reports of 78 are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/three-members-from-ambala-family-who-tested-covid-19-positive-discharged-after-testing-negative-thrice/story-OI7T8eXgYGGmQV77jpsjMO.html
22-04-2020||Chandigarh||Labourers at grain markets give a miss to masks, social distancing||At a time when the government is working to reduce the rush of farmers at grain markets to maintain social distancing by issuing a fewer number of passes, there is no check on labourers giving a miss to social distancing, facemasks and gloves.Fear gripped arhtiyas and visitors after the district mandi officer (DMO) and senior police officials, including ACP Anil Kohli, who died a few days ago, deputed near the mandi tested positive. But still, labourers working to unload and pack the produce at the grain market, are giving an open invitation to the disease by not following the norms. A similar situation was also witnessed at the grain market near the Gill Road.While some labourers have no masks and gloves at all, many others are not wearing them properly. Labourers rued that it becomes difficult for them to work by wearing masks and gloves. Further, they had no option but to come close to one another during the process of putting wheat into bags, the added.A farmer from Jamalpur village, requesting anonymity, said, “Farmers are facing harassment at the hands of the market committee as very few passes are issued in a day to farmers to avoid rush. However, there is no check on the labourers, who working in groups and throwing all the norms to the wind.”The government should issue more passes to farmers as this way the labourers, who sit in groups when they are free, would get engaged in work and this would also expedite the process of wheat procurement, said the farmer.President of the Arhtiya Association at the grain market near the Jalandhar Bypass Manjit Singh Dhillon said, “Arhtiyas have already asked their staff to ensure that the labourers maintain social distancing and wear masks. Masks have also been provided to the labour working in the mandi and they work only after wearing those masks.”Chairman Darshan Lal (Laddoo) Baweja said arhtiyas had already been told to ensure that labourers wear masks, gloves and maintain social distancing. “I will direct the market committee staff to ensure that ahrtiyas and labourers comply with the norms.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/labourers-at-grain-markets-give-a-miss-to-masks-social-distancing/story-68CpvT2zfYTTlzL9FdaOAM.html
22-04-2020||City||Illegal liquor distillery busted in Khanna, 5 held||Police on Wednesday raided an illegal liquor distillation plant in Bahomajra village of Khanna and arrested five men. The police also seized as many as 1,857 cartons of illicit liquor along with machines, vehicles, and ₹5.8 lakh cash.The accused were identified as Harvinder Singh alias Manga Chaddha, Chander Prakash alias Vicky Middha, Jatinder Kumar, Jatinderpal Singh and Maninder Singh, while their one unidentified accomplice is yet to be arrested.Senior superintendent of police Harpreet Singh said the police have recovered 320 cartons of First Choice label liquor, 93 cartons of 999 whiskey, liquor prepared for 1,444 cartons, 3,800 litre of extra neutral alcohol (ENA) spirit sufficient to produce 950 more cartons of liquor, 8,000 empty bottles, 80 bags of bottle caps, 250 litres of aroma scent and orange colour, two large machines among other small machines, an Innova car, a tractor and a canter from the plant.“The accused have confessed that they were working for the past around six months, and producing and selling 1,000 bottles of liquor daily,” said the SSP, adding that a case under Sections 420 (cheating), 465 (forgery), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using as genuine a forged document), 267 (making or selling false weight or measure) of the Indian Penal Code, Section 61/1/14 of the Excise Act and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act was registered at the Khanna Sadar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/illegal-liquor-distillery-busted-in-khanna-5-held/story-yKr1v6Fdia2RO5xdEePQEJ.html
22-04-2020||City||Tablighi Jamaat follower from Ludhiana discharged after recovery||Ludhiana The 59- year-old from Chowki Mann, who was the first Tablighi Jamaat follower to have tested positive from Ludhiana, was discharged from the civil hospital on Wednesday after recovery.He had been brought to the hospital on April 4 and two days later, he was diagnosed with Covid-19. Later, his 15-year-old nephew had also tested positive. The teen is still undergoing treatment at the hospital.A dairy owner by profession, the 59-year-old, after his discharge stressed on the importance of testing and also said, “Doctors and paramedical staff are risking their lives to help us. We should treat them with respect and cooperate with them. Only test and treatment could help the patients and their near and dear one.”He also thanked the village sarpanch and Ludhiana MP Ravneet Singh Bittu for ensuring that his family receives timely ration in his absence.“While the area around my house was sealed but I have been told that some Good Samaritan from the village used to provide whatever was required to the family,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tablighi-jamaat-follower-from-ludhiana-discharged-after-recovery/story-v8rYLTKbT04V8CpauATsIJ.html
22-04-2020||Chandigarh||Medical screening for journos at Chandigarh Press Club on April 23||The Chandigarh Press Club in association with UT administration, is organising a medical screening camp for journalists, on its premises in Sector 27 on Thursday, from 10am to 3pm.A team of doctors from Government Multi-Speciality Hospital, Sector 16, will conduct the screening. On the basis of check-ups, journalists may be referred for Covid-19 testing.“To ensure that social distancing is maintained, the entry for tomorrow’s camp will be from the bank side (gate adjoining Jain Hostel), and the screening will be conducted at the new hall, ‘Headline’. At a given time, only four will be allowed into the hall for the check-up,” general secretary of the club, Saurabh Duggal said.People have also been advised to carry their own water bottles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/medical-screening-for-journos-at-chandigarh-press-club-on-april-23/story-C0WqniRix6K5c4pppm3bfP.html
22-04-2020||Chandigarh||PGIMER writes back to donors on low-quality PPE kits||The Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research has found that of the 5,000 personal protective equipment (PPE) kits received as donations from city-based NGOs and philanthropists, some are not of standard quality.As a result, the institute has sought a replacement from the donors.Since the outbreak of the coronavirus disease, the PGIMER has received extensive donations in the form of funds, PPE ktis, masks, sanitisers and ventilators from multinational companies, NGOs and philanthropists.Officials said that the PPEs were tested by the hospital experts on various benchmarks and some of them were not able to pass the internal quality test.Dr Ashok Kumar, institute’s official spokesperson, said a committee has been constituted by the director of the institute for proper distribution and quality check of the donated material. “The material testing is done on three parameters—water impermeability, breathability and comfort. Some PPEs came short on these factors,” said Dr Kumar, in reply to a query from the Hindustan Times.He added that the same has been communicated to the donors and the replacement kits are underway. “The donors are keen to change the material and we have started receiving better kits.” Officials said that for the future, the institute has decided to guide those keen to help. “We have asked the donors to show a sample to the committee for evaluation before donation so that quality kits can be purchased.”PGIMER has said that there is sufficient number of PPEs available with the institute to tackle the ongoing pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pgimer-writes-back-to-donors-on-low-quality-ppe-kits/story-P0F3d5zLDVbfHLB7aOoqFL.html
22-04-2020||Lucknow||UP working on joint plan to control coronavirus under PM Modi’s guidance: Yogi Adityanath||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday said the state government was working on a coordinated joint strategy to control coronavirus under guidance of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Speaking at a meeting of ministers and BJP’s office-bearers convened at his residence to work out a joint strategy to fight the virus, Yogi said the state government was working effectively to control it.Glowing tributes were also paid to Yogi’s father Anand Singh Bisht, who passed away on Monday.Besides deputy chief ministers Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Sharma, speaker Hridaya Narain Dikshit, ministers of the state government and state BJP president Swatantradev Singh paid tributes to Yogi’s father.The chief minister laid emphasis on social distancing and said besides strengthening medical and health system, the state government was strictly enforcing the lockdown and relief work was being carried out to help the poor. He said industrial activities have been started in districts not affected by coronavirus.Yogi said did not attend the last rites of his father as he preferred to stay back for the service of 23 crore people of the state. He said he also urged his family members to follow the lockdown and ensure that only few persons attended the last rites. He said his father instilled in him values of high morals, hard work, public welfare and respect for women from his childhood. He said his father remained closely associated with social work and spirituality and added that he worked for education of the people.Yogi said his father got a primary school constructed on his own land and later got a junior high school constructed there. He said in 1998, he also got a college established and dedicated the same to the Uttarakhand government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-working-on-joint-plan-to-control-coronavirus-under-pm-modi-s-guidance-yogi-adityanath/story-01eOkaCzpnAcDbbej2jFeM.html
22-04-2020||Chandigarh||Stranded Sikh pilgrims to be evacuated from Nanded: Capt||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Wednesday said that Union home minister Amit Shah had acceded to their request for evacuation of Sikh pilgrims stranded at the Gurdwara Hazur Sahib in Nanded.Referring to his conversation with Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, Amarinder said he had directed the state’s chief secretary to tie up the logistics for their evacuation. “Just received a call from MH CM @officeofUT who confirmed that HM @AmitShah has conceded to our request for travel of our pilgrims stuck in Hazur Sahib, Nanded to Punjab. Have asked Chief Secretary to tie up logistics & we will bear the cost of transportation (sic),” he tweeted.Over 2,000 pilgrims from Punjab had reportedly gone to pay obeisance at Gurdwara Hazur Sahib before the Covid-19 national lockdown was announced on March 24. On Tuesday, Amarinder had urged the Union home minister to allow the stranded pilgrims to return home by bus.Harsimrat thanks Shah Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal on Wednesday thanked home minister Amit Shah for speaking to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray for the evacuation of the Sikh devotees stranded in Nanded.The Bathinda MP also asked the Punjab government to give permission to buses in which devotees were being brought to the state from Maharashtra. “Came to Delhi to meet HM @AmitShah ji & thank him for speaking to Maharashtra CM today to fast track repatriation of Sikh devotees stranded at Hazur Sahib. Now request Pb govt to give permission to buses arranged by SAD since 3 days to bring them back home at earliest (sic),” tweeted Harsimrat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/stranded-sikh-pilgrims-to-be-evacuated-from-nanded-capt/story-OKYQlm4Vu2u30VN9PfevtJ.html
22-04-2020||Lucknow||Lockdown brings ‘cleanest air of century’ to Uttar Pradesh||With negligible vehicular movement, most industries closed and construction work largely halted due to the lockdown, the state is experiencing the cleanest air of this century, according to an environmentalist.The average Air Quality Index (AQI) of Lucknow and other major cities of the state in April hovered around 100, according to data available with Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). This level is considered satisfactory with minimal adverse impact on human health, according to CPCB norms.On Tuesday, AQI of Lucknow was recorded at 78, which falls in the moderate category, CPCB data indicated.“The current AQI is many times better compared to the AQI of 300 and 400 which the city records in usual months. Even in March, the average AQI of Lucknow was around 320, which is categorised as very poor air,” said senior environmentalist Pramod Kamble. “We are experiencing the phase with the best air quality of the century,” he added.The impact of improved AQI is reflected in the improved visibility of the city’s skyline. One can now see high-rise complexes in Gomti Nagar Extension and Aliganj from Hazratganj. The iconic Hussainabad Clock Tower in Old Lucknow is also visible from almost five kilometres away.“The air outside feels light and clean. Breathing the clean air makes one more lively,” said Dharampal Singh, a retired armyman who goes for a morning walk while following proper precautions of social distancing.Alfred Lawrence, a city-based environmentalist and faculty at Isabella Thoburn College, Lucknow, said the lockdown was a ‘blessing for Mother Earth and also for us.’“The spread of the virus is also affected by air quality according to studies which show that the spread of virus is less in areas with clean air,” Lawrence said.The improvement in air quality is directly linked to reduction in human activities. The lockdown was put into effect from March 25 in order to contain the spread of Covid-19 infection. It was extended till May 3 by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The lockdown has stopped vehicular movement and most construction work, two major contributors of air pollution in Lucknow.According to the annual report by the Indian Institute of Toxicology Research (IITR), there are 21,94,261 vehicles in Lucknow, a fraction of which plies on the roads during the lockdown.The demand for fuel has also dipped. Lucknow Petrol Dealers’ Association president Ranjit Singh Gaur said, “The sale of petrol is less than 25% of the average these days..Before March 21, the consumption of petrol in Lucknow was around 3.5 lakh litres daily , while 2 lakh litres of diesel used to be sold. Nowadays, the sale of petrol is around 80,000 to 90,000 litres per day while ,sale of diesel is reduced to between 20,000 and 25000 litres per day. There are around 140 petrol pumps in Lucknow district.”Experts say AQI will improve further in the coming days, providing relief to people with respiratory problems, the elderly and children.Besides air, the pollution level in rivers like the Ganga, the Yamuna and the Gomti has also dropped, because the rivers are getting very little industrial waste discharge as compared to the usual days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/lockdown-brings-cleanest-air-of-century-to-uttar-pradesh/story-qipLMT2VgkXeeWVTN6PkiN.html
22-04-2020||City||Punjab’s helpline to beat lockdown stress getting 15 calls per hour||Chandigarh: The lockdown and the curfew seems to have taken its toll on residents with the state government’s helpline on counselling for stress and anxiety that started functioning on Tuesday, receiving over 300 calls till Wednesday. It was launched on Monday evening. With a ten-hour timeline of 10am to 8pm, this turns out to be roughly 15 calls an hour.Forty psychiatrists and counsellors from the state health department take calls from 10am to 8pm at the helpline number 1800 180 4104. Governance reforms department additional chief secretary Vinni Mahajan had launched this helpline. Doctors and psychiatrists associated with the helpline do not get to know the name of the caller. “Most calls we have received in two days are about people who are in extreme stress, just because they or somebody in their family has a mild cold or cough. A caller from Ludhiana called up, saying he was convinced he had contracted covid-19 based on such symptoms. Our psychiatrist took an hour to convince him that the fear was only because of the stress,” said Kamal Gupta, manager technical, department of governance reforms. Senior citizens are also calling in with complaints of anxiety. “A family member of one such person called us that his father was so stressed that he was reporting loss of memory and had also developed suicidal tendencies. Our team guided him,” a psychiatrist deployed with the helpline said. Another psychiatrist added that the unprecedented scenario over the past month had led to manifold rise in stress levels. He added that calls had been received from youngsters as well, who wanted to share their stress and relax before making critical choices for career and examinations to take. “We plan to expand this helpline to provide career counselling for young people. The department is working on it with speed,” governance reforms department CEO Ravi Bhagat said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-s-helpline-to-beat-lockdown-stress-getting-15-calls-per-hour/story-oddDoLNfLP1noZVkjPgbJI.html
22-04-2020||Chandigarh||Curfew relaxation timings in Chandigarh changed to 10am to 2pm from April 24||In view of the approaching summer season, the UT administration has changed the curfew relaxation timings to 10am to 2pm, effective from Friday.The decision was taken during the daily review meeting chaired by Punjab governor and UT administrator VP Singh Badnore.UT adviser Manoj Parida said in addition to door-to-door screening for coronavirus, he has directed the MC authorities to start anti-dengue operations and surveillance along with checking for symptoms of flu/influenza-like illness/severe acute respiratory illness.Badnore appealed to the residents to clean their water tanks and sanitise their houses to prevent an outbreak of dengue. He further appealed to the citizens to strictly follow the government’s guidelines regarding hygiene and to wear masks in public places.Deputy commissioner Mandip Singh Brar said 1,43,694 cooked food packets have been distributed among the needy in various parts of the city. He also said that a total contribution of ₹1.6 crore has been received in the local Red Cross Fund for corona relief work. Brar said 2,300 metric tonnes of wheat has been procured from the farmers to date. Around 60 stranded labourers are being cared for at a shelter in Maloya.Dr G Dewan, director health services, said a door-to-door survey is going on in various parts of the city including Sectors 43, 24, 46, 8, 25 and 28. To date 9.5 lakh people have been screened, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/curfew-relaxation-timings-in-chandigarh-changed-to-10-am-to-2pm-from-april-24/story-MNEgj5PAdQJbjXcTo4ldEI.html
22-04-2020||Chandigarh||Police crack whip on mustard smugglers in Haryana||The market committee officials on Wednesday caught six traders and seized their trucks for transporting Rajasthan mustard to oil mills in Dadri by evading market committee fee.Dadri market committee secretary Suresh Khokar said, “We are keeping a close eye on traders bringing mustard from Rajasthan and selling it the oil mills here. The police have also set up check points at many places in the district raids are being conducted to nab such smugglers.”Nangal Chaudhary SHO Raj Karan said they seized five vehicles for sneaking into the border and bringing mustard crop to Haryana without any documents.“We have set up nakas at all entry and exit points near Rajasthan border to stop the illegal transportation of mustard to Haryana mandis,” he added.Bhiwani marketing enforcement officer Shyam Sunder said that they have sealed the Rajasthan border to stop supply illegal mustard to Haryana mills and mandis.“We have impounded a Rajasthan-registered pick-up truck loaded with mustard. Our motive is to ensure mustard procurement of Haryana farmers,” the officer added.Meanwhile, Dayanand Punia, a farm leader, alleged that some traders in Bhiwani, Dadri and Mahendergarh districts, who bring mustard from Rajasthan, were selling it in Haryana with the help of local farmers at minimum support price (MSP) of ₹4,425 per quintal.“These traders purchase mustard from Rajasthan farmers at ₹3,800 per quintal and sell the same at ₹4,425 in Haryana mandis. Some sell the illegal mustard at ₹4,000 per quintal in mills by evading market committee fee,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/police-crack-whip-on-mustard-smugglers-in-haryana/story-ExadLU2G3592Z3A5kvxaKN.html
22-04-2020||Chandigarh||Uklana arhtiyas protest against govt for allowing sarpanches to procure crop||Arhtiyas (commission agents) of Uklana on Wednesday registered their protest at the local grain market against the government for authorising sarpanches to buy wheat and mustard from farmers.The protesters demanded to adopt the old method of purchasing, where farmers would bring their produce to commission agents and the latter used to sell the crop to purchasing agencies.Dhoop Singh, head of the arthiyas, said, “We are holding a shirtless protest because the same would happen to us quite soon if farmers do not approach us to sell their crop.”He claimed that farmers were willing to bring their crop to commission agents, but the government was introducing new rules daily. “A commission agent always helps a farmer by buying his produce. He earns a little by selling the crop further. But now, the government has decided that sarpanches would start purchasing foodgrain. Does a sarpanch really know what kind of crop he should buy and would he be able to pay the farmers on time? Dhoop Singh asked.A farmer from Bithmara village, Bhale Singh, said their condition was also not good. “Where would a farmer go? After harvesting, what a farmer needs is money, so that he can prepare his land for the next cycle of crop. We do not have enough space to store our produce. On top of that, we are only allowed to visit purchasing centres if we get the SMS,” he added.The Uklana grain market wore a deserted look with many arhtiyas closing their shops in protest.Agitation lifted in KarnalKarnal: Protesting arhtiyas in Karnal district on Wednesday ended their strike and joined the procurement operations. On Tuesday evening, the commission agents had declared an indefinite strike alleging that farmers were not being allowed to bring their produce to the mandis. The protest was lifted following an assurance by Karnal SDM Narender Pal Malik. There also were some reports of technical issues being faced while accessing ‘Meri Fasal Mera Byora’ portal. The agents claimed that the portal was not showing names of all registered farmers, especially those having joint land holdings.“We have ended our strike and decided to support the procurement operations as the government has rectified the portal and now, farmers associated with all commission agents would be able to sell their produce,” said Rajnish Chaudhary, president of Karnal Commission Agents’ Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/uklana-arhtiyas-protest-against-govt-for-allowing-sarpanches-to-procure-crop/story-IXQ1CqMk301Fr8zaYxoM4K.html
22-04-2020||City||Five Fazilka villages sealed||Ferozepur: Five villages at Abohar in Fazilka district have been sealed as a preventive measure after the district administration learnt that a Rajasthani couple, who have tested positive for covid-19, halted at these villages during their journey back to their state last week. The villages sealed are Bhavwali, Dharangwala, Shergarh, Bhangalaa and Kalerkhera and the couple was on their way to Hanumangarh in Rajasthan. Samples of 23 of their contacts were sent for testing on Wednesday. Fazilka has not reported a positive case yet. Natives of Kikkaranwali village of Ganganagar district of Rajasthan, the couple were quarantined on reaching there, but tested positive on Wednesday. The 24-year-old man has a home at Shergarh and stayed a night there, it has also been revealed after a tracing of his contacts, a district health department official said. Abohar officiating sub-divisional magistrate Jaspal Singh held a meeting with health officials and deputed medical teams to these villages. Ferozepur DIG Hardiyal Singh Mann confirmed the villages had been sealed and the primary contacts had been asked to home quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/five-fazilka-villages-sealed/story-A7e3aAbuyJ8bibg0XsqojI.html
22-04-2020||Chandigarh||7 Karnal panchayats donate ₹3.9 crore to Haryana Covid-19 relief fund||Extending support to the government in its fight against coronavirus, seven panchayats of the district donated ₹3.5 crore to the Haryana Covid-19 Relief Fund.The representatives of these panchayats handed over the cheques to Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav on Wednesday.As per information, sarpanches of Thal and Mundh villages contributed ₹1 crore each, Bastara village donated ₹51 lakh, Gangatheri village ₹21 lakh, Bahari village ₹21 lakh, Bilona ₹5.21 lakh and Pingli village ₹5 lakh.They said that they had donated the amount to support the state government in its fight against coronavirus.“We belong to the land of Maharaja Karna and it’s our duty to support the government at the time of crisis”, said Gurjent Singh, sarpanch of Thal village.He added that other panchayats should also come forward and contribute as per their capacity. Yadav thanked the panchayats for their contribution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/7-karnal-panchayats-donate-3-9-crore-to-haryana-covid-19-relief-fund/story-BprrXKQtlQt6sOqt0uJANP.html
22-04-2020||Lucknow||Sugarcane department sanitizes cane growing region in UP||Uttar Pradesh sugarcane department in a press statement on Wednesday said that as part of its Covid-19 spread prevention initiatives, it has sanitized 2099 villages, 146 towns, and 1676 public offices in the sugarcane growing region of the state. The department executed it in collaboration with over 119 sugar mills across the state.Sanjay R Bhoosreddy, commissioner Cane and Sugar said that continuous spraying of sanitizer is being done in the cane regions and farmers are also being told about the prevention from coronavirus with the help of loudspeakers. This work is being done continuously in all the sugar mill areas of the state so that people remain safe.Sugarcane minister Suresh Rana asked the department to deploy its resources to sanitise areas in the sugar region and with the help of mills located in all the nine sugarcane regions, all the nearby public offices, collectorates, police offices, district hospitals, CHCs, PHCs, tehsil offices, district cane officer’s offices, cane societies, villages, towns, blocks and sugar mill gates and all purchasing centres have been sanitised.Under the drive, so far, in Saharanpur, Meerut, Moradabad, Bareilly, Devipatan, Ayodhya, Gorakhpur, Deoria zone, the department sanitized all public places.Bhoosreddy said while carrying out the sanitization drive, the department people also publicized Covid-19 prevention guidelines among the people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/sugarcane-department-sanitizes-cane-growing-region-in-up/story-e4PP6abP9Xy7fjTTY7nhyH.html
22-04-2020||City||56 PGIMER staffers quarantined after Phagwara infant tests +ve||Jalandhar/Chandigarh: A six-month-old girl with a congenital defect, who was referred from Phagwara town of Kapurthala district to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. With this, a total of three cases of novel coronavirus have been reported from Kapurthala district, including a youngster from Kot Karaar Khan village, who has been cured of the infection. The district official said that she is a daughter of a labourer from Phagwara who worked in local industry while patient’s grandparents and uncle have been home-quarantined and their samples were collected. PGIMER spokesperson Dr Ashok Kumar said that the infant was admitted on April 9 for corrective surgery. “The test for the coronavirus disease was conducted as per the institute’s protocol before conducting any surgery. Surprisingly, she tested positive. The source of the infection is not yet known,” Dr Kumar said. Fifty-six healthcare workers of the PGIMER, who attended to the six-month-old patient, have been quarantined institute officials said. The child has been shifted to the dedicated Covid-19 facility in the hospital. A total of 18 doctors from the paediatric, cardiology and radiology department, 15 nursing officers, who have attended to the patient or have worked in that ward, have been quarantined. Similarly, 13 sanitary and hospital attendants, two physiotherapist and six X-ray technicians have also been quarantined.Officials said that four patients along with their families who were in the same cubicle have also been quarantined and are under observation.“All close contacts of the child are presently being screened. We are investigating how she acquired the infection. Given that the incubation period of Covid-19 is generally up to two weeks (but can be variable), it is possible that she may have been incubating the infection at the time of admission to the PGIMER. However, as she did not have any suggestive travel history or family contact, she did not fulfil the requirements for pre-emptive screening,” Dr Surjit Singh, head department of paediatrics, PGIMER, said.Kapurthala civil surgeon Dr Jasmit Kaur Bawa said the child was admitted to the Phagwara civil hospital with a heart problem and was referred to a private hospital in Ludhiana on March 3. From there, doctors referred her PGIMER, Chandigarh, where she tested positive. Doaba region of Punjab has reported 82 cases of Covid-19 so far, including two deaths. Jalandhar reported 53 coronavirus cases, Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar 19 cases, seven in Hoshiarpur and three in Kapurthala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/56-pgimer-staffers-quarantined-after-phgawara-infant-tests-ve/story-zav98tGiGOh1DxJDeGkoTN.html
22-04-2020||Chandigarh||With 9 more cases, Haryana tally swells to 264||With nine new cases, the number of Covid-19 positive patients in Haryana climbed to 264 on Wednesday.Health officials said of these cases, four persons, including a mother-son duo from Sonepat, had Tablighi link. While one case was reported from Ambala, four cases each were detected in Gurugram and Sonepat. The Gurugram patients included one person with Tablighi link, a bank employee based in Rajasthan and two staffers of a local private hospital. The Ambala case pertained to the 67-year-old man who died at PGI due to coronavirus earlier this month. His case has now been officially included in the Haryana tally, it was learnt.Nurse among four Sonepat patientsSonepat civil surgeon Dr BK Rajoura said the positive persons included a nurse posted at a Delhi hospital, a mother-son duo and a tailor. “The woman, her son and the tailor were regular to a mosque here before being quarantined at the civil hospital. All these patients have been shifted to BPS Medical College at Khanpur Kalan now,” he added. State’s recovery rate 60%: Health deptHealth department bulletin has stated that the recovery rate of Covid-19 patients in Haryana is about 60%, better than the all-India recovery rate of 16.38%. On Wednesday, 11 more people were discharged, taking the total number of cured patients to 158. Now, there are 103 active cases of Covid-19 in Haryana. Among those discharged are three members of a family from Shahzadpur town in Ambala, who had tested positive on Sunday, but tested negative in three subsequent reports. Hisar man who tested negative for corona diesMeanwhile, a 63-year-old man from Hisar, who had tested positive for Covid-19 earlier, but later tested negative, died on Wednesday at a Gurugram hospital where he was undergoing treatment. Hisar CMO Dr Yogesh Sharma said the cause of his death was yet to be ascertained.“The man died during treatment at a private hospital in Gurugram. He was initially admitted to a Hisar hospital on March 31. His subsequent tests turned out to be negative. His family later took him to Gurugram after he complained of uneasiness,” he added. The doctor said that the patient had a medical history before he was tested positive. “We are in contact with the hospital staff in Gurugram to know the actual cause of his death,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/with-9-more-cases-haryana-tally-swells-to-264/story-Vt4D1nN5EAHcuLrgGALcvN.html
22-04-2020||City||Fire at tyre repair shop in Ludhiana, no casualty||Fire broke out at a tyre puncture repair shop near Marry Land Resort on Dugri road on Wednesday night. No casualty was reported.As per information, the shop is situated next to a petrol pump, whose staff used fire extinguishers to control the blaze. Firefighters said the cause of fire is uncertain and the shutter of the shop was also open when they had reached the spot.Sub-fire officer Maninder Singh said they had received an alert around 8:30 pm from a police patrolling party and a fire tender was rushed to the spot. It took the team around an hour to douse the blaze.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fire-at-tyre-repair-shop-in-ludhiana-no-casualty/story-7G9CWcAJJYkPbTiM5JTS0N.html
22-04-2020||Ranchi||Covid-19: Jharkhand bans use of tobacco products in public places||The Jharkhand government on Wednesday imposed a complete ban on all types of tobacco products to prevent spitting in public places that could increase the spread of coronavirus infection.A notification issued during the day prohibited cigarette, e-cigarette, bidi, paan-masala, hookah, gutka besides jarda and khaini consumption in public places.The offence will be punishable under section 188 IPC (disobedience to an order lawfully promulgated by a public servent) that would attract imprisonment of six months or fine of Rs 1,000, an official release said quoting Principal Secretary (Health) Nitin Madan Kulkarni.Consumption of tobacco is one of the health hazards and reasons for the spread of infectious diseases like coronavirus, TB, encephalitis and swine flu, Kulkarni said.All the deputy commissioners and superintendents of police of the 24 districts have been instructed to implement the ban strictly and take action against those flouting the orders.The notification also asks officials to put up display boards about the imposition of bans in government and non-government offices.A total of 45 coronavirus positive cases have been reported in Jharkhand so far with two deaths due to the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/covid-19-jharkhand-bans-use-of-tobacco-products-in-public-places/story-rGXNi8Le0bwRZSYPbBmiEK.html
22-04-2020||City||Suicide pact goes awry in Ludhiana, woman dies, lover backs out at 11th hour||In a suicide pact that went awry, a 20-year-old woman died after consuming celphos tablets, allegedly given by her lover, in Sainsowal Khurd village of Machhiwara in Ludhiana.The police have booked the 20-year-old man and his mother, residents of the same village, for abetment to suicide based on the statement of the victim’s mother.The complainant told the police that the accused wanted to marry her daughter, but, after opposition from both the families, had got engaged with someone else. She said the accused along with his mother came to her house on Tuesday, created a ruckus, blaming the victim for trapping him, and left. “Later in the afternoon, my daughter started vomiting and told me that he had given her celphos tablets to commit suicide together,” said the complainant.The girl was rushed to a hospital in Machhiwara where she succumbed while undergoing treatment on Wednesday.Machhiwara station house officer (SHO) inspector Sukhvir Singh said, “The accused have been booked under Section 306 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). No arrest has been made so far, but investigation is underway.”The body has been handed over to the family after postmortem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/suicide-pact-goes-awry-in-ludhiana-woman-dies-lover-backs-out-at-11th-hour/story-qogzrZhdX6OyggAmBOCUuI.html
22-04-2020||Chandigarh||PGI to test leprosy vaccine on Covid-19 patients||The Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, has been selected among three premier health institutes of the country to conduct trials of Mw vaccine, used to treat leprosy, on coronavirus disease patients. The institute in a release stated that patients with Covid-19 have higher cytokine levels, and an immunomodulator may thus be of potential benefit in managing them. A heat killed Mycobacterium w (Mw), originally developed as an immunomodulator for leprosy, potentially decrease the cytokine storm seen in patients with Covid-19. In a prospective randomised trial, the PGIMER, Chandigarh, along with All India Institutes Of Medical Sciences, Delhi and Bhopal, will be conducting this study in hospitalised Covid-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pgi-to-test-leprosy-vaccine-on-covid-19-patients/story-0DHH4GS8mANbUZNRZj2kYK.html
22-04-2020||Ranchi||One more Covid-19 case reported in Jharkhand||With one more COVID-19 positive case reported on Wednesday, the total count of virus-infected people in the State has reached 46.“One more positive case of COVID19 was reported in Hindpiri, Ranchi, today. The total number of positive cases in Jharkhand rises to 46,” said State Health Secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni in a statement.The total number of positive coronavirus cases across the country are 20,471, including 15,859 active cases of the virus.So far, 3,959 patients have either been cured or discharged while 652 deaths have been recorded in the country, as per data provided by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/one-more-covid-19-case-reported-in-jharkhand/story-pdb5sZu05xVy4vkKn9QVML.html
22-04-2020||Pune||Grocery, veggie shops shut till midnight on Thursday in areas under 10 police stations in Pune||Additional curbs have been ordered late on Tuesday in areas which come under the jurisdiction of 10 specific police stations in the city.The new two-day order is applicable in the jurisdictions of Samarth police station, Khadak, Faraskhana, Swargate, Bund garden, Dattawadi, Yerawada, Khadki, Kondhwa, and Wanowrie police stations.The Pune police have ordered a complete shutdown of grocery and vegetable retail shops from Wednesday midnight till Thursday midnight, which led to panic buying of essential commodities on Wednesday. Many milk parlours also witnessed big queues after the decision was announced.In these ten areas, the police will only allow milk distributors to function for two hours, between 10 am and 12 noon - no essential commodities shop, no grocery or meat shops will be allowed to be open.Ravindra Shisve, joint commissioner of Pune police, said,“Such an order is issued because Covid-19 cases were prevalent in microcluster in these areas. These areas need to get more priority and people need to follow social distancing norms. There is much to come in the near future.”“We want to maintain the supply chain of essential commodities and that is why we are going in a step-wise manner,” said ShisveVivek Shirsagar, managing director of Katraj Dairy, said, “If you cut short operations of an organisation like ours to two hours, it is bound to attract a crowd. One of our parlours operates for around 22 hours and the second one for 16 hours. If you tell the customers that it will only be open for two hours, how do you think they will react?”Another major milk distributor in the old city area of Sadashiv peth are of Bharat Dugdhalay, witnessed a long queue of customers on Wednesday morning.Senior police inspector Dadasaheb Chudappa of Vishrambaug police station had to disperse the crowd caused during the two-hour relaxation granted to milk distributors.Shirish Chandorkar, partner at Bharat Dugdhalay, said, “If you reduce our working hours from eight to two without notice, people are bound to clamour. Not only the usual customers, but people from neighbouring areas also queued up to buy milk.”“I suggest that time can be managed properly by the authorities. If the operating hours are extended and moved to the earlier part of the morning, that may help with crowd management,” said Chandorkar.As the complete curfew will be observed until Thursday midnight, the grocery and vegetable shops are expected to open on Friday. However, the operational hours for all will only be between 10 am and 12 noon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/grocery-veggie-shops-shut-till-midnight-on-thursday-in-areas-under-10-police-stations-in-pune/story-8vJxr6rgtTF5JMR9xOObnN.html
22-04-2020||Lucknow||UP secretariat makes mask mandatory at work||The Uttar Pradesh secretariat has made wearing of a mask mandatory at work for all officers and employees for protection against the coronavirus. It also ordered sanitisation of office space, furniture and lift buttons twice or thrice every day.“All officers and staff in secretariat will mandatorily wear mask while working in office. All officers/employees will make their own arrangements for mask… all the furniture, railings, telephones, lift buttons and water taps should be sanitised twice or thrice,” said additional chief secretary, secretariat administration department (SAD), Mahesh Gupta in an order dated April 21.The SAD’s order titled “measures to be adopted to check the spread of the coronavirus (Covid-19) in the secretariat premises” comes after the secretariat employees’ union expressed serious concern over the “prevailing atmosphere of corona fear” among the employees following the state government’s decision to open all the departments in the state secretariat from April 20.The state government asked all officers from the additional chief secretary to section officer’s rank and one third of the remaining staff (as per roster) to regularly attend their offices situated in the secretariat.“Yes, the employees in the secretariat are under fear of coronavirus. We have demanded that only the departments involved in the fight against coronavirus should be opened during the lockdown period. The central air conditioning system in the Lok Bhawan should be shut down immediately, as a precautionary measure to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. Lok Bhawan houses offices of the chief minister, the chief secretary and other senior officers,” said UP secretariat employees union president Yadvendra Mishra.“Barring Lok Bhawan, the central air conditioning system is not working in any other building of the secretariat,” said a senior officer.Mishra said the state government should review the decision to open all the departments in the state secretariat.“This decision has led to overcrowding in the secretariat. No space is left for scooter/car parking. Women and senior employees and officers are finding it difficult to reach office in the absence of public transport,” said Mishra.The order has also asked the staff not to crowd any place and respect social distancing in offices. The order said arrangements for wash basins and liquid soap were made at every gate and thermal scanners given to security staff there. It asked the staff to extend necessary cooperation in carrying out thermal scanning and get a medical examination done if the temperature was reported high. The secretariat administration department’s order said while the departments already working to fight against coronavirus will continue to function in the same manner, other departments were put in three categories.The order staggers the working hours of these departments into three shifts -9am-5pm, 10am-6pm and 11am-7pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-secretariat-makes-mask-mandatory-at-work/story-uotYWBqP7He8BxZIJTbt2M.html
22-04-2020||Delhi||Govt readies rehab plan for shelter inhabitants with substance-use disorder||The Delhi government’s social welfare department is preparing a rehabilitation plan for the migrants and the homeless with a history of substance use disorders, who are now living across its temporary shelter homes, set up in schools, to during the Covid-19 lockdown. A week ago, over 4,000 migrants and homeless from Yamuna Pushta, Chandni Chowk and adjoining areas in Old Delhi were shifted to government schools-turned-shelter homes; some of them need long-term care, a senior government official said. Indu Prakash, a member of the Supreme Court-appointed monitoring committee for homeless shelters in Delhi, said, “There are a lot of vagabonds and homeless people who have chemical dependence or are affected by substance-use disorder. These temporary shelter homes will be closed once the lockdown is lifted but these people need long-term care. We had raised our concern with the Delhi government which then issued necessary orders.”In an order dated April 18, Delhi government’s chief secretary Vijay Dev had said that some of the “homeless people may need long-term counselling/rehabilitation”. “The social welfare department shall assess the need and arrange for the same at their Lampur Centre and ensure that the same is done on priority without any delay,” read the order by chief secretary. A senior Delhi government official with the social welfare department said the screening for substance abuse of those who were shifted from Yamuna Pushta will start soon. “A meeting was held on Monday to discuss the modalities. We will soon start screening to identify those who would need long-term care and rehabilitation. We are exploring all options where these people can be shifted for better care,” said the official requesting anonymity. Meanwhile, a team of doctors have been posted in each revenue district to assess the health, including mental health, of people living in shelter homes due to the lockdown. Dr Nimesh Desai, director of Institute of Human Behaviour and Allied Sciences (IBHAS), said, “Our doctors are posted in each district and are screening all the homeless and migrants living there. If anybody needs institutional medical attention, then they are provided that. At IBHAS, we have facility for people in case they need hospitalisation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/govt-readies-rehab-plan-for-shelter-inhabitants-with-substance-use-disorder/story-MTnI9eazPkQ7q8hvHxj2fK.html
22-04-2020||Delhi||Schools, centres free to choose their own mode of exams: JNU||The Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) on Wednesday allowed its schools and special centres to conduct examinations via their preferred mode—online, offline or a combination of both—given the ongoing lockdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic.The winter semester was suspended midway in the University when the lockdown was announced on March 22. Ever since, there has been confusion over the completion of the semester and the mode of conducting examinations. JNU registrar Pramod Kumar on Wednesday said that the deans of all the 13 schools and chairpersons of the five special centres were asked to send their recommendations on how to complete the academic year and conduct exams. “Each school and centre have given their own recommendation based on the needs of their students. The University has got these recommendations approved from its Academic Council (AC) online. It’s been decided to allow the schools and special centres to hold semester examinations via their preferred mode keeping in mind the difficulties following the normal academic calendar and the mode of conducting exams amid the lockdown,” he said.“The schools and centres can consult their students and conduct online exams during the lockdown as well. Offline exams can only be held post lockdown,” he added. As per the submitted recommendations, only five of 13 schools and one of the five special centres have decided to conduct examinations online. Among the schools that approved the online mode of examinations are School of Environmental Sciences, School of Computational and Integrative Sciences, School of Physical Sciences, School of Engineering and School of Management and Entrepreneurship. Besides, the Special Center for the Study of North-East India has also decided to hold online exams.Meanwhile, the largest schools in the University, including the School of Social Sciences, School of International Studies, School of Language Literature and Cultural Studies and School of Arts and Aesthetics, have recommended the extension of the semester and holding classes after the lockdown is lifted. “Four to six weeks of teaching and personal engagement is essential to conclude the semester, whenever the lockdown ends. Examinations will be held at the end of that period,” School of Arts and Aesthetics said in its recommendations.The School of International Studies said that it would decide the mode only after May. “This matter may be deferred until May and depending on the situation, the school may either opt for the regular mode of examinations or online examinations. In the case of online examinations, course teachers may opt for open-book examinations or additional home assignments or provide a set of questions with the choice of attempting two or three. And in case of the regular mode of examinations, the evaluation process may be completed by the first week of August,” it said in the submitted recommendations.The JNU Teacher’s Association (JNUTA), meanwhile, rejected the move, saying that the administration had not followed the due process to get it approved from the Academic Council. “Not all members of the AC received this mail and neither did the JNUTA President or Secretary (it may be recalled that the University had not invited the JNUTA even for the previous meeting of the AC held on 6 February 2020). Further, instead of any opportunity for deliberation, AC members were only given the option of approving the agenda and that too in just a day,” the teachers’ body said.JNU Students’ Union (JNUSU) vice president Saket Moon said that they reject the decision and said that the union members had not been asked for approval either.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/schools-centres-free-to-choose-their-own-mode-of-exams-jnu/story-W6SxpnSwIB2zIrUes4utIN.html
22-04-2020||City||Ludhiana stops rapid tests after govt orders||After conducting 350 tests, the Ludhiana administration has suspended the much-hyped Rapid Testing Kits (RTKs) project following the government directions.The government had recently ordered to stop the tests after efficacy of RTKs’ brought from China came under scanner for showing variation in results.The health department in Ludhiana went in a tizzy on Tuesday night after three persons tested positive during the rapid test.Chief principal secretary KBS Sidhu stated in one of his tweets that confirmation could only be made after receiving the reports of reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR).Sharing details, civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said that the swabs of three persons found positive during the rapid test, were collected and sent testing. “They will be kept in isolation till the arrival of results,” said Dr Bagga.As many as 1,000 RTKs had arrived in Ludhiana recently and the administration was using these to conduct tests at the sazbi mandi, which is currently the epicentre of most of the city’s positive cases.According to deputy commissioner Pradeep Agrawal, the kits were procured by the headquarters in Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-stops-rapid-tests-after-govt-orders/story-fUPMWozkHTzfzUdB0jOMcL.html
22-04-2020||City||Amid lockdown, Ludhiana police deliver cake at residence of 9-year-old birthday girl||Amid lockdown in the wake of coronavirus outbreak, the joy of a 9-year-old birthday girl, Sukhmanpreet Kaur, knew no bounds when the Ludhiana Police on Wednesday arrived with a cake at her residence in Punjab Mata Nagar.A team of SBS Nagar police post came on two bikes and a car to deliver the cake and sing birthday wishes for her. Besides, Sukhmanpreet’s family members raised the slogan of ‘Punjab Police Zindabad’. A video of the birthday celebrations surfaced on social media.Gurwinderpal Singh, the girl’s paternal uncle, said his niece wanted to cut the cake to celebrate her birthday. “But amid lockdown, it was not possible for us to buy a cake from the market. So, we told the Punjab Police about our situation and asked for help. Later, the cops delivered the cake at our house,” he said.ASI Sunil Kumar said he got a call from Gurwinderpal who said his niece wanted to cut the cake on her birthday. “So we arranged a cake for them,” he said, adding that Gurwinderpal had helped the police in distributing langar (community kitchen) during the initial days of curfew.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amid-lockdown-ludhiana-police-deliver-cake-at-residence-of-9-year-old-birthday-girl/story-qc2nwYqoYvL8GLMABYILHP.html
22-04-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan CM Gehlot writes to PM Modi for additional wheat allotment||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for additional allotment of 30,000 MT wheat for 5.4 million people who are eligible under National Food Security Act but aren’t getting the grain.He said the allotment should be done on the basis of the current population. Currently, the basis for allotment is 2011 census.Gehlot said Centre allots 232,631 MT wheat for 44.6 million people limiting the allotment to 53% people in urban areas and 69% in rural areas. This ceiling is based on the 2011 census of 68.6 million, he said.The chief minister said state’s population in 2019 was about 77.4 million, out of which the rural population is 58.2 million.“According to the current population, 50.4 million people should be covered under this important scheme of social security,” Gehlot said.He said due to the natiowide economic crisis born out of Covid-19 pandemic, the unemployed poor, artisans and daily wage labourers are facing a challenge to their livelihood.“Taking a sympathetic view of this, the Centre should make additional allotment of wheat to the state on the basis of the current population so that the needy could benefit from this scheme according to the Act’s spirit,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-cm-gehlot-writes-to-pm-modi-for-additional-wheat-allotment/story-c9m50PybhTc3S1pECIRn6H.html
22-04-2020||Delhi||DU teachers against online tests, propose rescheduling of exams after lockdown is lifted||Several Delhi University teachers’ outfits on Wednesday proposed the rescheduling of papers till after the Covid-19 lockdown restrictions are lifted from the city.The teachers cited concerns of accessibility over the possibility of the examinations being held online, one of the several methods that Delhi University was considering to tide over the ongoing academic crisis created by the Covid-19 pandemic in the city. Delhi University has been shut since March 19, when Covid-19 cases started to surge in the city. Delhi so far has seen 2,248 cases of the virus and 48 deaths.In a letter to the vice-chancellor on Wednesday, Sachin Maheshwari, Dean of Faculty of Technology, said that the need of the hour was to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic. “Almost all the IITs have advanced their summer vacations rather than hastily pushing for online semester evaluation/examination for their students, especially, when, the student is sitting at home,” he pointed out.Citing a 2017 Supreme Court order, Maheshwari also said, “Earning credits through distance mode, especially for engineering-related courses, may have its own legal implications, besides many quality-related considerations.”One of teachers’ group — Academics for Action and Development (AAD) — in its letter to the vice chancellor, also pointed out that the varsity’s statutory bodies — like executive council and academic council — should be approached before taking decisions on how to conduct the examination.“The university should wait for students to come back to Delhi after the lockdown has been lifted, give them a few days of actual teaching, before commencing the examination process,” they said in a statement on Wednesday. “In the prevailing worldwide pandemic circumstances, mental and physical health is paramount and academic calendar must be contingent on the evolving scenario of humanity’s fight against Covid-19.”The group also raised concerns over cybersecurity issues after several instances of inappropriate behaviour and hacking cropped up during the online classes conducted via videoconferencing.Another teachers’ group — National Democratic Teachers’ Front — has also objected to online exams citing the digital divide and poor connectivity in different parts of the country. “In such conditions, even dreaming about online examinations will be disastrous,” the group said in a statement asking the administration to provide “honest feedback” to University Grants (UGC) Commission. The UGC has constituted a panel to look into ways to mitigate academic loss during the Covid-19 lockdown. The committee is expected to submit its report soon.Last week, the Delhi University Teachers Association (DUTA) had also written to the V-C on the matter. They too recommended conducting exams only after the university reopens, with a priority given to final year students.DU vice chancellor Yogesh Tyagi did not respond to requests for a comment on the matter.“For a large university, such as DU, an online examination system is not viable. The university neither has the infrastructure nor the capability of providing/ensuring a level playing field in terms of accessibility and ease to the diverse student population it caters to,” DUTA president Rajib Ray had said then.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/du-teachers-against-online-tests-propose-rescheduling-of-exams-after-lockdown-is-lifted/story-WslUYHv4ooRTm4iCOT0YvI.html
22-04-2020||Chandigarh||Capt writes to PM, seeks fiscal package for power sector||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Wednesday asked PM Narendra Modi for a financial package for the power sector, while suggesting measures to rescue the PSPCL and other firms from the current crisis and ensure that consumers are not harassed or hassled in difficult times.In a letter written to the PM, Captain said the Power Finance Corporation (PFC), Rural Electrification Corporation (REC) Limited and other financial institutions should provide loans to power sector at 6% per annum for bridging the revenue gap.He even sought an extension of the RBI moratorium on repayment of outstanding loans and interest from the current three to at least six months. In addition, the applicable interest rate on deferred payment should be considered at a concessional rate, he said.The CM demanded that the advice issued by the Union ministry of power to CPSUs/Gencos/Transcos not to use coercive measures to recover dues and continue supply/transmission of electricity being an essential service should be extended to at least six months.He demanded reduction in coal prices, waiver of GST on coal and railway freight for FY 2020-21, waiver of capacity/fixed charges payable on account of capacity not scheduled due to load crash as well as 50% reduction in inter-state transmission charges for FY 2020-21 or at least six months.He further called for maximum limit of 6% per annum on late payment surcharge on delayed payments to generators and transmission licensees for the year 2020-21.In a letter to the PM, the CM also sought reduction in renewable purchase obligation (RPO) for the previous and current fiscal, and withdrawal of must run status for renewable energy power projects for FY 2020-21, or at least the next six months so that low cost power from alternate sources can be supplied.“Alternatively all renewable energy power generators may be given option to supply power at weighted average variable cost of power purchased from conventional sources of power during the month,” he added.Asserting that his government is committed to providing uninterrupted power supply to people of Punjab, Captain said the entire workforce of power sector is currently mobilised round-the-clock. However, due to lockdown, communities, business and consumers are facing economic hardship and are unable to pay their dues to the PSPCL.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/capt-writes-to-pm-seeks-fiscal-package-for-power-sector/story-tlCN1Z0OcPkPxaVjxAukTN.html
22-04-2020||Chandigarh||Two caretakers of elderly Covid-19 positive Chandigarh woman test negative, kin’s reports awaited||Two days after an 82-year-old woman from Sector 18, Chandigarh, tested positive for Covid-19, test reports of two of her caretakers came back negative, on Wednesday. She was currently living in Sector 12, Panchkula, at a house owned by her son.Meanwhile, reports of eight family members and two other caretakers are awaited.Panchkula civil surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur said, “Two of the caretakers, who were prime contacts of the elderly woman, tested negative. Samples of four caretakers and eight family members were taken for testing. Reports of others are awaited.”The woman was admitted to a private hospital in Panchkula after being sampled at the civil hospital.Panchkula deputy commissioner (DC) Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said samples of 20 staffers of the private hospital where she was admitted were also taken, and they have been quarantinedSchool declared containment zoneThe DC declared a private school in Sector 12, where the woman’ s son lives a containment area, on Wednesday.He added that she had come to meet her son on April 14 and wasn’t in Panchkula prior to that.The DC said duties have been assigned to officials to ensure supply of essential services to the residents of the sector. The MC has also been directed to sanitise the locality and ensure disposal of solid waste. “Orders have been issued to restrict movement in the containment and nearby areas with checkposts,” he added.No fresh cases reportedMeanwhile, no fresh case was reported in Panchkula on Wednesday and the district count stood at 18. The district health department teams have initiated a door-to-door survey of families in sectors and are preparing records of the people living in each house, including the medical history of elderly people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-caretakers-of-elderly-covid-19-positive-chandigarh-woman-test-negative-kin-s-reports-awaited/story-krLFWhLxgOhO8r5vAeXMdO.html
22-04-2020||City||Delhi: 84 fines issued for public urinating, spitting in a single day||New Delhi: A total of 84 penalties for urinating and/or spitting in the open were issued on Wednesday in Delhi, under the new directions of the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) for management of the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease outbreak.An enhanced fine of ₹1,000, as opposed to the earlier maximum fine of ₹500, has also been ordained under the new directions, which have made these acts punishable under Section 51 (b) of the Disaster Management Act.Seventy-five of the total cases were in north Delhi alone; of these, ₹1,000 was realised on-the-spot in 23 cases, under the new directives. “The rest were sent to the area magistrates,” said north body commissioner Varsha Joshi. These were across Civil Lines, Narela, Keshavpuram, Rohini and Sadar-Paharganj areas.In south Delhi, six such penalties were issued in Greater Kailash, Hauz Khas, Lado Sarai, Vasant Kunj, Chhatarpur, Madangir, Pushp Vihar and Mehrauli. The East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) said they fined three persons in Shahdara North area on Wednesday, and had also registered an FIR against a man in New Ashok Nagar for public spitting on April 15. Though municipal agencies in Delhi announced the fine of ₹1,000 for open spitting/urinating on Saturday, the acts were an offence under the Delhi Municipal Corporation (DMC) Act since before.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-84-fines-issued-for-public-urinating-spitting-in-a-single-day/story-oJLGUiveJVe6fuAOrNtl0N.html
22-04-2020||Lucknow||Cop hurt as vendors pelt police team with stones in Agra||A police constable was injured when vegetable vendors allegedly pelted stones at a police party trying to get the market shut after the relaxation in lockdown in the old city area of Agra on Wednesday, officials said.The incident took place in Bhojpura locality when policemen were imposing lockdown measures after the four-hour-long break period from 6 am to 10 am had ended, said Abhishek, SP City, Aligarh. Additional force had to be called in after locals resorted to stone pelting. “We will register a case against hooligans and the search is on to identify them,” said the SP City, adding the situation was under control. LOCALS BLAME COPS FOR VENDOR’S DEATHAgra: In a separate incident, locals blamed the police for the death of a 20-year-old Luv Kush, whose dead body was brought to police chowki on Wednesday.Alleging that man was beaten by a cop few days back, locals gathered at Jalalpur police outpost in Aligarh on Wednesday.“The dead body is being sent for post mortem and action would follow based on the postmortem report,” said the SP City, Abhishek.The deceased was a vegetable vendor and locals alleged that he was beaten on Sunday and died due to it on Wednesday. Police assured that the postmortem will be conducted under videography and action will follow if cop was found guilty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/cop-hurt-as-vendors-pelt-police-team-with-stones-in-agra/story-slgvm5cC3oX4cYzHpClr8N.html
22-04-2020||City||All Punjab residents travelling from other states to Mohali to be screened: DM||District magistrate (DM)-cum- deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan on Wednesday issued orders that all residents of Punjab, travelling from other states to the district, will be screened.Even if found asymptomatic of Covid-19, they will be kept in home quarantine for fourteen days; and if found symptomatic, their tests will be conducted in government facilities and the health department protocol management of such persons will be followed.Dayalan directed all supervising officers, surveillance officers and rapid response teams to ensure strict compliance of this protocol and keep a strict vigil on all such persons, they would ensure that a symptomatic person was home quarantined with a ‘home quarantine board’ outside his home as per guidelines. The DM ordered that the police and the health department would ensure strict compliance of these orders and a report would be complied by the civil surgeon concerned on daily basis.NO FRESH COVID-19 CASE IN TWO DAYSNo fresh Covid-19 case has been reported from Mohali for the past two days. The total count of cases in Mohali is 62, out of which 14 have recovered and two died.Dayalan said, “No fresh case was reported on Wednesday and reports of 34 samples are awaited. The district administration is ensuring that there is no let-up in the drive to conduct sampling after the tracing of contacts.”Dayalan said, “As of now, a total of 1,042 samples have been taken. Out of these, 949 have been found negative while the number of positive cases is 62.”About the status of quarantined persons, the DC added that, as of today, the quarantine period of 2,208 people is over while 449 are currently undergoing the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/all-punjab-residents-travelling-from-other-states-to-mohali-to-be-screened-dm/story-MN8uI7lcPhVSUKwfkOv3EK.html
22-04-2020||Chandigarh||Two affected pockets declared in Chandigarh||Having sealed Kachi Colony in Dhanas and a part of Sector 30B couple of days ago after Covid-19 cases were reported from these two areas, the Chandigarh administration on Wednesday declared them as “affected pockets”.Around 1,700 families are living in these two pockets – around 1,100 in Dhanas and 590 in Sector 30B — where a total of five positive cases have been reported in the past one week.The development comes when no fresh case was reported in Chandigarh for the second consecutive day, keeping the count at 27, out of which 14 people have recovered. After the Union health ministry declared Chandigarh a hotspot (red zone) on April 15, the administration had notified the entire city as a containment zone on April 18.SEALED: SINGLE ENTRY, EXITThe affected pockets have been sealed with single entry and exit points. All movement of persons living inside the pockets has been strictly prohibited.Only authorised persons and vehicles dealing in emergency and essential services are being allowed. Such persons have to wear masks, hairnet, gloves and personal protective equipment (PPE) and carry their passes and valid ID cards. Necessary barricading of the affected pocket has been done by the police.SANITISATION, HOME DELIVERYThe delivery of essential commodities is being ensured at the doorsteps in the affected pockets. Essential goods, such as milk, grocery, medicines, vegetables, gas cylinders and animal fodder, are being distributed by the municipal corporation and director of food and civil supplies, said the order.The whole area is being sanitised. All the essential items are being provided by vehicles that are fully sanitised before entering and after exiting the affected pocket. DOOR-TO-DOOR SCREENINGMultiple teams have been formed to conduct door-to-door screening of every person residing in the affected pocket and the work has begun.All those on duty are being provided with PPE and other required devices for screening or thermal scanning.The director of health services, UT, has been directed to deploy several ambulances for ferrying the health teams for screening from hospital to the affected pocket and dropping them back, according to the order.Solid waste is to be collected from all houses and public places in the areas and disposed of according to norms laid down by the health department.The last case in the city was reported on April 20, when an 82-year-old woman from Sector 18 tested positive. Her 14 family members, including two sons, were sampled at Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, and have tested negative, the UT’s Covid-19 bulletin stated on Wednesday.Dr G Dewan, director of health services, said door-to-door survey is going on in various parts of the city and 9.5 lakh people have been screened so far.WHAT IT MEANSAffected pockets sealed with single entry/exit pointAll movement of persons living inside strictly restrictedHealth teams carrying out door-to-door screeningHome delivery of essential commoditiesOnly authorised persons and vehicles allowed with full protective gearSanitisation of the areas and vehicles entering and exiting them||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-affected-pockets-declared-in-chandigarh/story-SKpegjVMOochjbnTfJ7znN.html
22-04-2020||Lucknow||Meerut: 9 suspects go missing; 8 found, 1 still untraceable||Nine COVID-19 suspects went missing from a quarantine centre of Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial Medical College and Hospital while they were shifted to another quarantine centre on Tuesday night. While eight of them were found and brought back to the quarantine centre, one person is yet to be traced, said the police.The hospital authorities, meanwhile, maintain that all of them had tested negative and hence were being shifted to Subharti quarantine centre.“On Tuesday around 9 pm, nine people went missing while being shifted to another quarantine centre in Subharti hospital. We were informed about the incident at midnight and soon the search was launched,” said Akhilesh Narayan Singh, SP City.“While one suspect was found in the quarantine centre of LLRM hospital, another one was found in the quarantine centre of Subharti hospital. When the police called remaining seven suspects on their mobile numbers, six of them said they are at their residences. They said that after testing negative they assumed that now they can go to their homes and hence didn’t care to take permission from authorities,” said the SP City. He said the six suspects who went to their homes were asked to return to government’s quarantine centre and were back.Address and mobile number found in hospital records of one of the suspects, who is still missing, were found invalid and the search operation is not over yet, said police. RC Gupta, principal, LLRM hospital said, “In the quarantine centre at our hospital we keep patients only who are corona positive. Those who test negative are sent to 14-day isolation at Subharti hospital.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/meerut-9-suspects-go-missing-8-found-1-still-untraceable/story-a8QlDIqkBSHbDmR3AiU2sO.html
22-04-2020||Chandigarh||Rupnagar woman whose husband died of Covid -19 discharged||The 54-year-old woman from Chatamali village in Rupnagar district, who tested positive for Covid-19, was discharged from Gian Sagar hospital in Banur on Wednesday, after testing negative twice.Her son, who had also tested positive, was discharged from Gian Sagar Hospital on Tuesday.The woman’s husband was the first positive case reported from the district and died at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, on April 8.The three members of the family are the only positive cases reported from the district so far, and there are no active cases currently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/rupnagar-woman-whose-husband-died-of-covid-19-discharged/story-493jjXGnqFsqaqKlvFI4tL.html
22-04-2020||Lucknow||UPRTOU to offer 3-month course on COVID-19||Uttar Pradesh Rajarshi Tandon Open University (UPRTOU) has decided to introduce a dedicated awareness course on COVID-19 in the new academic session beginning May 15.Vice chancellor Prof Kameshwar Nath Singh said it would be a three month awareness course that will be offered by the university’s school of health sciences.“The comprehensive course will cover not just the history of the virus and the pandemic caused by it but also explore and explain its geographical, economical and political impact besides other related aspects,” said Singh.“Even as the leading nations like US, Great Britain, Germany, Italy, France and Spain reel under the affect of the virus along with India, and global efforts are on to find a cure or a vaccine against it, the course would strive to make one aware of the different aspects of the virus and the disease that is known and being felt by the world,” said Singh.Insisting that COVID-19 had also put disaster management policies and preparations of the world to a test, Singh said, “This makes it all the more vital from academic point of view.” In light of the fact that COVID-19 has also forced a lockdown in the country and the university was not in a position to convene a meeting its academic and executive council, the VC using his special powers as head of both the bodies sought a proposal for starting the course through an e-conference.“The task of finalising the course curriculum has been entrusted upon the director of UPRTOU’s school of health sciences Prof GS Shukla,” he added.“The university offers many courses according to the need of the time and society as well as on contemporary issues. Among these courses are some for which students do not have to appear in exams. They are graded and certificates are awarded on the basis of evaluation of assignments. It’s under this mode that we are introducing the courses on COVID-19,” he said.The basic eligibility for admissions to this course that would be offered through the university 1000 study centres spread across the state would be Intermediate pass, the VC said. Recently UPORTOU had also introduced two three-month awareness courses on citizenship amendment act and Article 370.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/uprtou-to-offer-3-month-course-on-covid-19/story-GINAq9bHe6Rr7Mpne3Gj3J.html
22-04-2020||City||Counsellors to help Ambala students cope with uncertainty amid lockdown||In a bid to help school students and their parents cope with uncertainty and stress amid lockdown, the Ambala education department has appointed six psychology teachers as counsellors.They can be reached at 9518446915 for Ambala city, 7015375144 for Ambala cantonment, 7206242424 for Naraingarh, for 8529035351 Barara, 8708258650 for Saha and at 8053701180 for Shahzadpur. At district-level, counselling can be availed at 9416336957.The counsellors, who are teachers at various government schools in the district, will help children and their parents address their mental health issues and queries regarding online education. They will provide consultation to nearly 2.2 lakh school children of 1,091 schools in the district between 9am to 12pm and 4pm to 6pm.Deputy district education officer Sudhir Kalra said, “Children are full of energy and are usually busy with activities at school, but due to the Covid-19 lockdown, they are confined at their homes and are not able to meet their teachers and classmates.”“We have appointed one counsellor for every six blocks in the district. They will be available twice a day and children from private schools will also be able avail the facility. I believe, parents must be friendly with their children, involve them in household activities and play indoor games with them. One can order books and stationary online from the list of shops uploaded on the district administration’s website,” Karla added. In a three-minute introductory audio message, one of the counsellors advised students to learn new words, read new books and avoid extensive use of social media. Kalra said such audio messages will be sent by designated counsellors to the WhatsApp groups made by schools in various blocks to facilitate e-learning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/counsellors-to-help-ambala-students-cope-with-uncertainty-amid-lockdown/story-hhdcUoSvsPs6HQxFkHXEwM.html
22-04-2020||City||Left in the lurch, migrant labourers in Ludhiana head back home on foot||Upset over repeated demands of rent from landlords and with no food to eat, hundreds of migrant labourers have again started moving back to their native places on foot. The police have rounded up some of the migrant labourers and sent them to shelter homes.Over a dozen labourers including their children and wives were walking on the National Highway 44 in Dhandari Kalan on Tuesday night, headed towards their native places in Lucknow. Among them, Gulshan, who was residing here near Samrala Chowk, said he was obeying the lockdown norms for the past one month but now he was left with no food to eat and the landlord was also asking for rent. “We are left with no other option than to return home,” he said, adding that his contractor was yet to pay them ₹10,000 in wages.Sharing his grouse, Biru, who was residing in Haibowal, said, “The government is making tall claims of providing food to every labourer but I have not got any for the past one week. If the police will stop us, we will request them to let us pass or find a way out for them to go home. Around 150 labourers are walking ahead of us already.”Headed to Girakhpur with his four friends, Diwakar, who was residing near the Dhuri line, said, “I have not eaten for the four days. The government should make arrangements to send us back home if they cannot take care of us here.”SOME SENT TO SHELTER Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP-2) Jaskiranjit Singh Teja said, “We have rounded up around 10 labourers who were headed back home from Bahadur Ke Road. These labourers were sent to a shelter home started by the district administration in Umedpur (Dehlon).” More migrant labourers were rounded up in the jurisdiction of ADCP-4 Ajinder Singh, who was not available for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/left-in-the-lurch-migrant-labourers-in-ludhiana-head-back-home-on-foot/story-eCE305mrSieBnzhmMMsHCN.html
22-04-2020||Lucknow||In a first, Kanpur police fly drones in night to ensure social distancing||The Kanpur police have added a new weapon to their armory —unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) with high end night vision capabilities — to carry out surveillance in corona hotspots during the night.The two new drones have been borrowed from a company which works in collaboration with the Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur, (IIT-K).While police are using drones in some other cities as well, they can be sent up in air only during the day.“The one we have got are equally good in night and can also be used for thermal screening,” said Mohit Agarwal, inspector general (IG), Kanpur range.He said the drones were being operated by the specialists of TOL Aviations, the company which has lent the high quality drones.“They are training our men in handling the drone’s night operations,” he said, adding they give the high resolution bird’s eye view of build-ups in congested places and roof tops in the night.Police are particularly are hard pressed in keeping the people indoors in the most of 17 Covid-19 hotspots.“People defying lockdown in the narrow alleys would be identified through the pictures and cases would be registered against them,” he said.Ansar H Lone, head, research and development, TOL Aviations, said the Kanpur police had been given small drones Arav NX, which weighs five kilos and could cover a distance of five km and has night surveillance system on board.“They are fully autonomous and have fixed wings. It has the facility of vertical take-off and landing and has the facility of day and night watch,” he added.“The UAV has been given to the district administration on the request of IIT-K director Abhay Karandikar and former deputy director Manindra Agarwal on humanitarian grounds in emergent situation. Team members of the company were deputed to operate the drone,” he said.The company was founded in 2017 in collaboration with the IIT-K.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/in-a-first-kanpur-police-fly-drones-in-night-to-ensure-social-distancing/story-QhDi0zeOuyY6jiFdKtllmI.html
22-04-2020||Chandigarh||Labourers using Mughal Road to sneak out of Kashmir quarantined||Tip-toeing out of Kashmir, labourers hailing from Poonch and Rajouri districts have started using the Mughal Road route to reach their homes amid the lockdown.Earlier on April 12, a prominent hotelier from Kashmir along with an influential person escaped a red zone in Jammu to reach Srinagar in their official car, covering a distance of around 270km.“These labourers belong to the remote villages of Rajouri and Poonch districts. They come to the valley in search of temporary jobs and most of them end up working in the north Kashmir area. Ever since the lockdown was imposed, they have been desperate to go home as there is no work left to do. So, they are now sneaking out of Kashmir through the old highway – Mughal Road – to get home,” said a deputy commissioner from Kashmir requesting anonymity.He informed that these labourers skip at least six check posts by using the Mughal Road.“But the seventh check post near Pir Ki Gali is indispensable and they are caught there. The other day, 26 such labourers had escaped from Kashmir, used the Chor Ki Gali route, but were quarantined in Poonch. On Wednesday, nine traversing the Mughal Road were quarantined in Rajouri,” he said.Defence spokesperson Lt Col Devender Anand said nine casual labourers travelling from Srinagar through Mughal Road were stranded near Thanamandi and later rescued by the army.“After carrying out identification, their preliminary medical screening was done in association with the civil administration. These individuals were also provided with basic amenities and later shifted to a quarantine facility,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/labourers-using-mughal-road-to-sneak-out-of-kashmir-quarantined/story-GYhfZbmspZ3hWaCdZyMyxN.html
22-04-2020||City||Newspaper vendors to be checked for Covid-19 in Mohali||In a bid to ensure safety of newspaper agents and vendors, the district administration will screen them for Covid-19 from Thursday.Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said the process will be conducted phase-wise and the first phase will begin from Mohali’s Phase 2 and Phase 7 simultaneously. He said about 150 hawkers in Phase 2 and nearly the same number in Phase 7 will be screened from 8am.He said the same drive will be carried out in Zirakpur on April 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/newspaper-vendors-to-be-checked-for-covid-19-in-mohali/story-hvcuPWFgQdAxoeGpX7o3WM.html
22-04-2020||Chandigarh||Gidderbaha SHO accused of stealing liquor, probe ordered||The in-charge of the Gidderbaha police station in Muktsar district has been accused of stealing 221 cases of liquor from a godown. In a complaint, Gurdarshan Singh, a liquor contractor and resident of Faridkot, alleged that Gidderbaha station house officer (SHO) Krishan Kumar detained some of his workers on April 8 for allegedly keeping liquor illegally. During the police action, the SHO also seized keys of the liquor godown from where he allegedly stole the liquor bottles, the complaint read. Muktsar senior superintendent of police (SSP) Rajbachan Singh Sandhu said an inquiry was marked into the matter on Wednesday. Sandhu said the complainant has not attached any evidence to buttress his allegations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/gidderbaha-sho-accused-of-stealing-liquor-probe-ordered/story-gJDv13l1cOek4EOYaQVMaN.html
22-04-2020||Mumbai||Central team visits Dharavi, advises to improve testing, add quarantine facilities||The five-member inter-ministerial central team (IMCT) on Wednesday visited densely populated Dharavi, one of the Covid-19 hotspots in the city, to assess the situation.The team advised the Maharashtra government to increase the number of people in institutional quarantine by ramping up the bed strength from existing 1,200 to 3,000 and to conduct more aggressive testing. State public health minister Rajesh Tope, accompanied the team headed by Manoj Joshi, additional secretary, Union ministry of food processing industries, to Dharavi.Tope said that the central team had advised increasing both testing and quarantine facilities in the congested slums. “I have personally told [BMC] commissioner Praveen Pardeshi that quarantine facilities in the area should be increased. We will increase the facility to 2,000 beds. We’ll put up tents, if required, to quarantine people,” Tope said.Dharavi on Wednesday recorded nine more Covid-19 cases taking the tally in the area to 189 positive cases. The area has recorded 12 deaths so far. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) authorities said that around 40,000 people from the congested slums have been screened in the last seven days. The area has been divided into five containment zones. Tope added that the containment strategy has been “mostly successful” and the cases are not increasing in the area.Rahul Shewale, Shiv Sena MP from the area, said, the team also advised setting up an independent testing facility for Dharavi. However, the BMC has not decided on having a separate testing facility.Tope, however, said that the BMC would start the stricter implementation of protocols. “Testing will also be increased in the area,” he said.The central team lauded the measures adopted by the state government in Dharavi, but expressed concern over an imminent spike in the number of cases, said a senior BMC official. “The team expects that the spike in the number of new cases could occur anytime soon,” the senior official added. The officer said that the team suggested that there should be 10 quarantine beds for every 1,000 people in Dharavi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/central-team-visits-dharavi-advises-to-improve-testing-add-quarantine-facilities/story-I1lIIlIiBuzwlOUtta2XVJ.html
22-04-2020||City||Patiala SHO’s cook dies in ‘accidental gunshot’||A 17-year-old cook of Tripari SHO Harjinder Singh Dhillon died in an ‘accidental gunshot’ at his official residence on Wednesday.Deceased Ram Bahadur used to work as a cook at Dhillon’s residence in Model Town. DSP Yogesh Sharma said the incident was reported at 9:54am.“The deceased had entered Dhillon’s room and taken out his service revolver from his almirah. The almirah was locked but the deceased knew where the keys were,” the DSP said.He added that the SHO was taking bath when he heard a gunshot. “He rushed out and saw his cook lying in a pool of blood. The deceased was rushed to a private hospital where he succumbed to the injury. The bullet had pierced through his head,” the DSP said.“It appears that in an attempt to take a selfie or make a video, the deceased pressed the trigger and accidentally shot himself,” he said.“The deceased’s mobile phone and the SHO’s revolver were found at the spot,” he said. Family of the deceased was called from Barnala.“On the basis of statements of the deceased’s family, police have started inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patiala-sho-s-cook-dies-in-accidental-gunshot/story-vIxgLBwrmu2ebd8btXzcBN.html
22-04-2020||City||Private hospitals in Thane will have to separate Covid, non-Covid OPD||Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has chalked out a policy for private hospitals in the city to curb the spread of coronavirus through hospitals. The hospitals will have a separate out-patient department (OPD) for non-Covid and Covid patients. Only those who do not show any symptoms should be treated in non-Covid OPD.This should be implemented in all the hospitals from Wednesday, said TMC.A TMC official said, “We have dedicated Covid and fever OPDs in some private hospitals and healthcare centres. Most non-Covid patients visit private hospitals. They could get infected if any of the hospital staff is infected. Hospitals will have to set up a non-Covid OPD. Those working in Covid OPD will have to wear personal protective equipment suits.”Patients will be screened and sent to non-Covid OPD only if they do not have any symptoms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/private-hospitals-in-thane-will-have-to-separate-covid-non-covid-opd/story-qIGM8al5b3epNqisp9BIlL.html
22-04-2020||City||72-yr-old cured woman waits to go home as son has no money to foot hospital bill||A 72-year-old Jalandhar-based woman who was cured of Covid-19 is waiting to go home as her son has no money to foot the hospital bill which runs into lakhs.Expressing inability to pay the bill, Naresh Chhabra, who runs a stationery shop in Jalandhar, says he has already paid Rs 1.10 lakh to Christian Medical College and Hospital, where his mother was admitted, and spent Rs 40,000 on medicines and tests but there is still an outstanding bill of Rs 4.77 lakh. “I am not in a position to pay such a huge amount as my business has already been hit due to the lockdown,” he said.“My mother is a victim of a global pandemic and so the government must bear the cost of treatment,” Naresh said, adding that during a video call recently, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh had assured all possible help to the family.“We are pinning our hope on the CM to bail us out. At this time, all money lenders and financers are also facing a crisis. I, along with my family members, have been in quarantine and don’t know what condition my mother is in. I wish the hospital releases her soon,” he said.He said his mother had developed symptoms of Covid-19 on March 18 and he had taken her to a local government facility. “She was unable to breath and had cough and fever but as she did not have a travel history, the doctors said she could not be suffering from Covid-19,” he said, adding that the hospital then referred her to a private hospital. Naresh said that he then took her to Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMC&H), where she tested positive for the virus.CMCH, meanwhile, maintained that the hospital has discharged the woman as she has fully recovered. DC FIXES RATESLater in the evening, Ludhiana deputy commissioner Pradeep Agrawal issued a statement that as per Union government directions, no private health facility can charge more than the rates of specified under Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS). He warned of strict action against those hospitals violating these directions.Dr Vineeth Jaison, in-charge of the Covid-19 facility at CMCH, stated that they had received the direction from the government following which they revised the bill. “The revised bill now stands at Rs 3.62 lakh. The patient’s family was duly informed about the revised rates but they refused to pay,” said Dr Vineeth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/can-t-pay-hospital-bills-need-govt-help-son-of-72-yr-old-cured-woman/story-HGq41OONViclntOOJw8ldL.html
22-04-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal DGP seeks clarification from Kinnaur SP over family’s travel amid lockdown||The police headquarters on Wednesday sought explanation from the Kinnaur police chief for his family’s return to the district from Delhi amid the national lockdown.Superintendent of police (SP) Sajju Ram Rana’s family members had travelled to Kinnaur on April 14 from Delhi. Kinnaur deputy commissioner Gopal Chand had issued emergency services interstate curfew pass to Sakshi Rana and Sahil Rana on April 13 which was valid up to April 14.“As per the SP, his cousin was murdered in Parwanoo, so his children were brought from Delhi on emergency pass (on condition of death of close relative) on April 13 and they were residing in Karol Bagh in Delhi, which is not a red zone,” said Shimla SP Kushal Chand Sharma, who is the spokesperson for the police headquarters.Apparently, the permission was granted to the Kinnaur SP a month after the said relative was murdered on March 18 in Parwanoo. Sharma added that the director general of police (DGP) has sought a detailed report from SP Rana. “His two children and both the driver and gunman who were travelling along with them, have been quarantined,” he said.The Kinnaur SP’s action has drawn flak from opposition parties and leaders.“It has been learnt that the SP’s cousin had died on March 18 and his last rites were performed at Sarkaghat, Mandi, so the reasons ascribed by him are not valid,” alleged Umesh Negi, block president of Kinnaur Congress committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-dgp-seeks-clarification-from-kinnaur-sp-over-family-s-travel-amid-lockdown/story-47mXvKClJAx5q3GU06B5KO.html
22-04-2020||Chandigarh||Discolouration of wheat: Central team visits Patiala grain markets on Day 1||A four-member team of the Union department of food and public distribution on Wednesday visited several grain markets in Patiala district as part of their two-day visit to Punjab over problem of discolouration and shrivelling of wheat grain due to inclement weather. The team led by Dori Lal, assistant regional director of the department’s quality control cell, is on a visit to Punjab after chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh took up the issue of the Food Corporation of India (FCI)’s refusal to purchase shrivelled wheat, which got damaged due to rain and hailstorm.The state has 35 lakh hectare of area under wheat cultivation. The total wheat arrival is expected to surpass the targeted 135 lakh tones this season.Dori Lal said they will submit the report to the Union ministry so that the required relaxations could be given to farmers and procurement agencies at the time of purchase of wheat yield.“For this, we have collected samples of grain from different mandis,” he said. On Thursday, the team will visit grain markets Mohali district besides holding a meeting with state government officials in Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/discolouration-of-wheat-central-team-visits-patiala-grain-markets-on-day-1/story-chkrizGJFQ1AXXJ49eb6eK.html
22-04-2020||Chandigarh||Prepare effective plan for use of isolation centres: Jai Ram to officials||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Wednesday directed officials to prepare an effective plan for use of isolation centres to meet any emergency situation in the state.In a meeting with deputy commissioners, superintendents of police and chief medical officers in Himachal Pradesh via video conferencing, the CM said movement from hotspot areas must be restricted to avoid any chance of spread of coronavirus to other parts of the state. He said all buffer quarantine centres must be properly sanitised before handing over the same to the concerned authorities. Thakur also stressed on the need to start economic activities keeping in view the situation of the area. “Mechanism of home isolation must be made more effective so that people do not jump quarantine. Intra-district movement of vehicles carrying patients and farmers must be allowed and record of the same must be kept for monitoring,” he said.He asked the officials to motivate farmers to adopt social distancing during the crop harvest.WOMAN FARMERS TO BE TRAINED IN BACKYARD KITCHEN GARDENINGThe rural development department has to play a vital role in revival of the state’s rural economy after the lockdown is over, the CM said.While presiding over a presentation made by director rural development Lalit Jain on ‘Economic Stimulus Package to Help Rural Poor’, Thakur said the State Rural Livelihood Mission has taken initiative to help corona warriors by manufacturing 5 lakh masks and 1,000 Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits.Besides, about 1,250 litres of hand sanitiser was also produced under the Mission, he added.“Several initiatives have been proposed under the Mission which will revive the rural economy post corona pandemic,” Thakur said.He said under one such scheme ‘Woman Farmers’ will be trained to develop backyard kitchen gardens for which they will be provided seasonal vegetable seed kits and fruits tree sapling.Similarly 10 boxes of beehives will be provided to trained women self help groups (SHGs) and honey produce will be sold through Him Ira shops, he added.Thakur said under the proposed ‘One Cow Scheme’, Indian breed cows will be provided to poor womenfolk at subsidies rates. He said the state government is also contemplating a tie up between the State Rural Livelihood Mission and the education department to supply school uniforms through SHGs.The CM said new initiatives will also be taken under MNREGA and one member from the families of such persons who have completed 100 days employment will be provided necessary training to upscale their skill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/prepare-effective-plan-for-use-of-isolation-centres-jai-ram-to-officials/story-YDCzFAGYKa4TWuJyyGXTIP.html
22-04-2020||City||From pizzas to ration, Northeast students stuck in Mohali relish admn’s care||Students from the Northeast who are stranded in Punjab’s Mohali district due the Covid-19 lockdown are relishing the care being provided by the administration so much so that the Arunachal Pradesh chief minister has doffed his hat to the local officials.Apart from providing dry ration and essential items at their doorsteps, officials on Tuesday evening even arranged a pizza treat for 52 students from Arunachal Pradesh stranded in the district’s Dera Bassi subdivision.The special attention prompted Arunachal Pradesh CM Pema Khandu to tweet a thank you message to Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan and senior superintendent of police Kuldeep Chahal on Wednesday morning.Around 500 students from the Northeast , who are studying in various private engineering colleges in the district, are stranded in their paying guest accommodations. Of these, nearly 400 students are from Arunachal Pradesh.Subdivisional magistrate of Dera Bassi Kuldeep Bawa said there are around 52 students from Arunachal Pradesh stranded in our subdivision. “On Tuesday evening, we roped in Domino’s and distributed pizzas among all 52 students from the state. We are regularly providing them with essential items at their doorsteps.”Ringu Mama, a student from Arunachal Pradesh studying in a Kharar college, said, “We are a group of 21 from the same state. The district administration is helping us regularly with dry ration and whenever we are in need of something, we call them and within no time, we get all the essential things.”Another student from Arunachal Pradesh, Jangala Yangga, studying in a college near Banur, said, “The administration and college authorities are providing us all help and we are really feeling at home.”Meanwhile, Kharar SDM Himanshu Jain said, “Whenever we get requests from Northeast students, we provide them with essential goods. We are trying our best to provide them things on time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/from-pizzas-to-ration-northeast-students-stuck-in-mohali-relish-admn-s-care/story-tpu2fn3mnZUHqVn6XQyGTK.html
22-04-2020||Chandigarh||Amid curfew, testing times for Chandigarh’s coaching centres||Often compared to Rajasthan’s Kota, Chandigarh with its 70-odd coaching institutes is catering to the dreams and aspirations of over 20,000 students flocking here from all across the region to train for competitive exams. But, within one month of the nationwide lockdown amid the coronavirus outbreak, the coaching institutes are finding it hard to sustain themselves.“If the lockdown is prolonged, there will be no classroom admissions this year. This will impact our revenue greatly and it will be difficult to maintain infrastructure and salary of the employees,” said Arvind Goyal, a NEET trainer based in the city, adding that at this time of the year, new batches are finalised and classes are running in full swing.Apart from Joint Entrance Exam (JEE) for engineering and architecture colleges, National Eligibility Cum Entrance Test (NEET) for medical colleges, Chandigarh also offers training in exams for banking, civil services, Combined Defence Services (CDS), National Defence Academy (NDA) and Services Selection Board (all three for the armed forces), Combined Admission Test (CAT) for graduate management programmes, Graduate Aptitude Test in Engineering (GATE) for science and engineering courses, International English Language Testing System (IELTS) for international studies, work or migration, and Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) for admission in English-speaking institutes abroad.Vinay Makin of Allen Career Institute, Sector 34, said, “Although the landlords have given us relaxation in rent payment, which is ₹45 lakh per month for our Sector 34 centre, most coaching institutes still have to pay the full rent, which is ostensibly a Herculean task.”While there are fewer enrolments due to the lockdown, Makin said they had offered students the option to pay fees in more instalments. “Normally, students pay their fees on a quarterly basis, but now we have broken it down further,” he added.STAFF SALARIES SLASHED, DELAYEDThe economic impact of the coaching institutes’ closure has also trickled down to the tutors.“For March, I was paid ₹34,000 against my salary of ₹50,000. I am told, the arrears will be cleared when the lockdown is over,” said a tutor, requesting anonymity.She said as a permanent employee, she was fortunate to be still receiving her salary, while the contractual and third-party staff were not being paid at all.“Our hands are tied in the absence of students’ fee,” said Kuldeep Singh of Zetta Career Institute, Sector 34, while accepting they had problems paying salaries even in March. LIVELIHOOD OF MANY AT STAKE Not just teachers, several others dependent on coaching institutes to make a living have also been left in the lurch. In Sector 34, numerous booksellers, stationery shops, fast food joints and paying guest accommodations thrive on coaching institutes year long. Sumant Kumar, who has been running a food stall in Sector 34 for a decade, said, “These are unprecedented times. Our shops have been closed for over a month. How will my family survive if the lockdown continues?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/amid-curfew-testing-times-for-chandigarh-s-coaching-centres/story-2W6i360NsbsPkucymFZKsJ.html
22-04-2020||City||Mohali traders seek waivers to tide over Covid-19 lockdown||As uncertainty looms large, businessmen in Punjab’s Mohali district are facing the double whammy of rising expenses and loss of business owing to the curfew imposed to check the spread of coronavirus disease.With shops closed and business coming to a halt for the past one month, 3,000-odd big and small traders are a worried lot and have now turned to the government for help.“We will have to start from scratch once the curfew is lifted,” says Jagjit Singh who runs an apparels shop in Mohali. “The business will take at least three months to return on track. It is not like as soon as shops open, we will start earning.”“We have to cater to the need of our employees and their families too and ensure that they do not go without food. It is our moral responsibility in this hour of need,” says Kuldeep Singh, who runs a stationery shop in the city, adding that traders are helping their staff by paying them money as well as providing ration.“We are not getting any help and our earnings are zero, but still we are paying our employees. The monthly instalments are being deducted and we have to pay the bills as well. The survival will become difficult for traders as well as their employees if the government does not give us some concessions,” says Rajpal Chaudhary, who is into the sport goods business.To safeguard interests of the business community, the Mohali Beopar Mandal, which has 500 members, has submitted a representation seeking tax waivers.“We request the government to waive property tax (on rent and individual) for all commercial properties this fiscal besides waiving electricity and water bills for the next three months to help the business community survive this tough period,” says Vineet Verma, president of the body, adding that in Mohali alone Rs 17 crore is collected as property tax from traders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-traders-seek-waivers-to-tide-over-covid-19-lockdown/story-WesJJ09o6SWApnUTBWSYBM.html
22-04-2020||City||Thieves decamp with liquor worth ₹4 lakh in Zirakpur||Despite police patrolling and curfew in place, unidentified people targeted a liquor vend on Zirakpur-Patiala Road and decamped with liquor worth ₹4 lakh on the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday.The thieves broke open the locks of the liquor vend’s shutter and took away scotch whiskey, including Blenders Pride, Vat 69, Teacher’s, Black Dog and Black Label. Liquor contractor Gaurav stated in the complaint that on Wednesday morning, he got a call from the police saying that his outlet was open. Following this, he visited the spot and found that a theft had taken place at his property. He said his other liquor vends in Kakrala and Nadiali villages have also been targeted earlier and cases registered at Banur and Sohana police stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thieves-decamp-with-liquor-worth-4-lakh-in-zirakpur/story-v4JCstmrCAP9jBihvPmCsK.html
22-04-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai records cleanest air day for first time this year||The air quality index (AQI) was ‘good’ for the first time this year in Mumbai on Wednesday, which also happened to be the 50th anniversary of Earth Day.According to the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), the pollutant-measuring indicator AQI for PM 2.5 was 46, making it the cleanest air day so far this year and lowest pollution levels during lockdown. Prior to this, Mumbai had recorded its lowest air pollution levels with an AQI of 61 on Monday, 63 on Tuesday, and 65 on March 22 (Janta Curfew day), all falling under the ‘satisfactory’ category.SAFAR categorises AQI for pollutants in the 0-50 range as good; 51-100 as satisfactory; 101-200 as moderate; 201-300 as poor; 301-400 as very poor and above 400 as severe.Eight of 10 locations in Mumbai, where SAFAR monitors air quality, recorded ‘good’ AQI levels. While Mazgaon had the cleanest air in the city with an AQI of 18 followed by Colaba 32, Navi Mumbai had comparatively worse air quality at 75 followed by Malad 58, both ‘satisfactory’ levels.Researchers said that the changing weather factors were responsible for the improvement in air quality. “Wednesday’s AQI is the optimal air quality Mumbai should be recording during lockdown when external emissions are minimal. However, over the past three weeks, we observed that owing to rising temperatures or late setting in of sea breeze, the wind pattern allowed dust and other pollutant particles to settle close to the surface,” said Gufran Beig, director, SAFAR under the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM), Pune.The day temperature over Mumbai witnessed a sharp drop from Monday’s high of 37.8 degrees Celsius to 34.3 degrees Celsius on Tuesday, and even the minimum temperature on Wednesday was close to the normal mark. Humidity levels were high with 92% in south Mumbai and 74% in the suburbs. “The drop in temperature, high moisture content and early setting in of sea breeze allowed pollutant concentration to reduce significantly on Wednesday,” said Beig. “The drop in pollution however maybe temporary due to fluctuating weather and rising temperatures.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-records-cleanest-air-day-for-first-time-this-year/story-0RC4jZlrO46QIwHUsvjWOI.html
22-04-2020||Chandigarh||Villager booked for assaulting Covid-19 front-line doctor in Pinjore||A man was booked for thrashing a doctor working on the front-line in the battle against Covid-19, at a ‘theekri pehra’ in Surajpur, Pinjore, on Tuesday night.The accused has been identified as Jarnail Singh. The complainant, Dr Ashok Kumar, a resident of Sector 20, Chandigarh, told police he is currently deputed at the Covid-19 district control room at mini secretariat in Sector 1.Dr Kumar told police he had recently shifted near health sub-centre in Burj Kotian village, Pinjore, where he had bought a house. “I had a night shift at the DC’s office on Tuesday. My children told me they were feeling unsafe and insisted I drop them to my in-laws’ house in Surajpur,” he said. He added that while dropping his children, he was stopped at a ‘theekri pehra’ on the village’s entrance. “Around 15 locals, including Jarnail Singh, were present at the checkpost. Singh started hurling abuses at me. Then, he dragged me out of my car and thrashed me. He also threatened me with dire consequences,” Kumar stated in his complaint.Amravati police post in-charge, assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Shyam Lal, said, “The complainant and accused know each other. The scuffle broke out after locals stopped Kumar and misbehaved with him. Despite showing his identity card, the accused hurled abuses and allegedly thrashed him. Based on Dr Kumar’s complaint, we have initiated further investigation, and booked Jarnail Singh, under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code at Pinjore police station.”Recent casesThis is the third incident in which a frontline Covid-19 worker has been assaulted or misbehaved with in Panchkula. On April 11, a 33-year-old woman working as a nurse at the Panchkula Civil Hospital was assaulted by five men in Chandimandir’s Billa village, when she was returning home. She alleged the men also hurled communal remarks at her. The accused were later arrested.On April 9, police arrested four men for allegedly misbehaving with women health workers, conducting a Covid-19 related survey, at Indira Colony in Sector 16. A woman constable arrived at the scene with a police party was also assaulted and injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/villager-booked-for-assaulting-covid-19-front-line-doctor-in-pinjore/story-6aVN6EG2kuSoiFSowGxM1J.html
22-04-2020||City||Three workers stuck in Rupnagar sent back to their homes||The District Legal Services Authority (DLSA), Rupnagar, on Wednesday sent back three workers of a private firm to their home districts Faridkot and Bathinda. Chief judicial magistrate-cum-secretary of DLSA, Harsimranjit Singh, said that sarpanch of Shampura village informed the authority that two women and a man who were working with M/s Escort Company were not able to go to their homes due to the nationwide lockdown and were living in his area as paying guests. “On the request of the sarpanch, we asked para legal volunteer Jatinder Kaur, who along with some other people of the village, dropped these people to their respective home districts,” the DLSA official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-workers-stuck-in-rupnagar-sent-back-to-their-homes/story-DOnaOVG8M7anBbHYOF1ZZP.html
22-04-2020||Mumbai||Stranded cruise ship crew to land at Mumbai Port||A total of 146 seafarers and crew onboard US cruise liner Marella Discovery will anchor off the Mumbai Port on Thursday after spending 37 days on-board. According to a press note issued by Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s office, the seafarers and crew members will be subject to a test for Covid-19 and will remain quarantined in a building within the port trust premises till their reports are received. On Tuesday night, the ministry of home affairs issued an order allowing the sign-in and sign-off of Indian ship crew at different ports. “The order is set to benefit close to 35,000-40,000 seafarers,” the press note stated. Earlier on Tuesday, the crew on Marella Discovery had appealed to the Centre to announce a policy for the seafarers on an urgent basis. The cruise was to travel to Cochin, New Mengaluru, Goa and Mumbai between April 2 and 6. However, owing to the coronavirus outbreak and ensuing lockdown, the passengers were disembarked at Laem Chabang in Thailand on March 14. After it arrived at Cochin on April 12, it was denied permission to disembark and reached Mumbai on April 14. Since then, the crew is waiting for permission though they stated that none of the crew members onboard has been infected. After dropping the Indian crew members, the ship will set sail to Norway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/stranded-cruise-ship-crew-to-land-at-mumbai-port/story-2sFuHvuBSqFBdew61XaWiO.html
22-04-2020||Chandigarh||Spit in public in Dharamshala, cough up ₹5,000 fine||Anyone living in the territorial limits of Dharmashala municipal corporation will have to cough up ₹5,000 for spitting in public places. An order to this effect was issued by MC commissioner Pradeep Thakur on Wednesday and will remain effective till May 03.Selling and chewing of paan (betal leaf), gutkha and gums have also been prohibited within the limits of the civic body along with sale of liquor.Thakur said every possible step is being taken to contain the spread of coronavirus in Himachal Pradesh as spitting in open areas may lead to spread of the disease. He said violators will have to pay a fine of ₹5,000 for spitting in public places, including streets and roads.A fine will also be imposed on shopkeepers selling banned products, he added. HELPLINE NUMBERS TO FACILITATE FARMING ACTIVITIESKangra district horticulture department has issued helpline numbers to assist the farming community in Kangra in their ongoing seasonal activities.The department will also issue passes to farmers to help them in carrying out their activities amid lockdown in the wake of COVID-19.Deputy director, horticulture, DR Verma said departmental officers have been authorised to issue curfew passes to keep farming sector floating. “Farmers can contact the department in case they need any assistance in their horticulture activities. If need be, the department will also issue inter-district passes.He said farmers can contact him on 94184 66420.Farmers can also contact the following officers on their mobile numbers:Narottam Kumar, Subject Matter Specialist (SMS) of Baijnath, Bhawarana and Panchrukhi: 94187 95195.Subodh Kumar, SMS Floriculture: 94181 04723 Dr Rajesh Kumar, SMS (Sulah and Lambagaon): 94181 03617 Sanjay Gupta, SMS (Rait and Dharamshala) 94180 84586Ajay Sangray Beekeeping Expert: 97362 00880Vijendra Kumar, SMS Mushroom Production: 94184 76145Dharampal, SMS (Kangra and Nagrota Bagwan); 94183 17360Raj Kumar, SMS (Nurpur, Indora, Fatehpur and Nagrota Surian): 94188 28472Sarita Sharma. SMS District Headquarters: 82787 50265||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/spit-in-public-in-dharamshala-cough-up-5-000-fine/story-HC8KVsSZR3TJXm7ZlR879N.html
22-04-2020||Chandigarh||PSPCL’s decision to extend power bill payment date evokes mixed response||The decision of the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) to extend the date for paying power bills by domestic and commercial consumers without penalty up to May 10 has evoked a mixed response among Ludhiana residents.While some people have welcomed the decision, others said the department should have extended the date further.Navneet Singh, a fitness trainer, who runs a gym near Lodhi Club, said, “The announcement is only a partial relief for me in view of other bills, EMIs, monthly rent of the gym. The monthly electricity bill of my gym alone is Rs 1 lakh. But, I can afford to pay all the bills only after the lockdown ends and the gym becomes operational.”Chanchal Matta, a social worker, said, “The relaxation will help only those who can afford to pay the bills in spite of lockdown. Some people, especially those in the unorganised sector, are struggling to manage the three meals. How can the government expect the people to clear the bills right now? People can live without electricity, but not without food. The relaxation could have helped, had it been till June or July.”Lakhvir Kaur, a housewife in Model Town Extension, welcoming the relaxation, said, “My husband owns a small footwear shop, that has been shut for over a month. We are living on our savings these days. Even a smallest relaxation announced by the government at this time is a great relief.”However, industrialists in the city have different views on the relaxation.Gurmeet Singh Kular, president of the Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisation (FICO), said, “Even after the lockdown, industry will take another month to be back on track and will not be able to pay the bills even without the surcharge by May 10.”“The PSPCL is sending average bills. But, we are yet to receive interest on advance consumption deposit (ACD) charges, that is due this month from the department. The government cannot expect the industries to get back on the track in just seven days after the lockdown is over. We need at least a month to restart all the operations and pay the due bills,” added Kular.THE RELAXATION CIRCULARIn the circular, issued on April 21, the PSPCL has extended the due date of electricity bills of domestic and commercial consumers with monthly or bimonthly bills up to Rs 1 lakh payable from March 20 to May 10 without surcharge.Further, 1% rebate has also been offered to all categories of consumers on the amount deposited by them through online digital modes between April 21 to 30. The rebate is also being offered to consumers who have made advance payment of their bills. The circular adds the decision has been taken in view of the hardships faced by the people on account of extension of curfew up to May 3 due to Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pspcl-s-decision-to-extend-power-bill-payment-date-evokes-mixed-response/story-43agy4koMP2XgiJzplQCGP.html
22-04-2020||Lucknow||People should not be allowed to assemble during Ramzan: Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday said the coronavirus lockdown should be strictly enforced and strict action should be taken against those violating restriction norms.Reviewing the lockdown situation with officers, Yogi said people should not be allowed to assemble in any circumstances at the time of ‘iftar’ and ‘sahari’ during Ramzan.He said twenty-two districts had no cases of coronavirus and with 10 affected districts now reporting no cases, the number of coronavirus-free districts has gone up to 32. However, the chief minister said adequate precaution should be taken in districts that have become coronavirus-free.He said Aligarh, Moradabad and Saharanpur were on the list of sensitive districts.Yogi said industrial units should be made operational in districts that have not reported any case of coronavirus and permission for transportation of construction and material should be granted. He said permission to transport products by containers should also be given for export-oriented units.Yogi said supply of essential commodities should not be obstructed during the lockdown period and no one should face any scarcity of food grains. He said social distancing must be ensured while carrying out any activity, anywhere and added that food being cooked in community kitchens must be checked.The chief minister said private hospitals not following instructions for safety and spreading infection must be sealed. He said a state government medical officer should survey all private medical colleges and private hospitals and adequate precaution should be taken to check spread of infection there. Yogi said testing capacity of laboratories should be increased and a testing lab should be set up at all divisional headquarters. He said work for medical tests should be carried out at a faster pace and training should be imparted to technicians for the purpose.The chief minister said equipment for medical tests should be kept in good condition and arrangements for oxygen should be made at every bed. A ventilator should be made available for every 10 beds in a hospital, he said.He said 77 per cent of crop has been harvested and this was for the first time that no problem was there about availability of workers for harvesting. He said in all 30 lakh quintal wheat has been procured and 62 per cent of this has been bought at the doorstep of farmers.Officers informed the chief minister that 12.75 lakh workers were working in 12,000 brick kilns. Moreover 1.25 lakh workers were working in 7,000 industrial units while 60,000 had jobs in 119 sugar mills. He was also informed that distribution of food grains had been made to 3.06 crore people out of 3.5 crore ration card holders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/people-should-not-be-allowed-to-assemble-during-ramzan-yogi-adityanath/story-uwBA6DMYzNwFrrLanvgknN.html
22-04-2020||Mumbai||Policemen fighting COVID-19 need rewards, not salary cuts, says PIL challenging Maharashtra govt||Maharashtra government’s decision to defer the payment of salaries of state police personnel falling under class I, II and III of state employees, has been challenged in the Bombay High Court by a group of lawyers.The lawyers have filed a public interest litigation stating that the salaries of police officers, in the front line of battle against Covid-19 pandemic, should not be deferred and they should instead be rewarded with additional risk and hardship allowance for their services. The petition also says that the cops should be provided with Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) like doctors and medical staff involved in Covid-19 duty.The PIL filed by advocates Tosif Shaikh, Kranti Sahane, Swapnil Girme, Satish Gaikwad, Kedar Milwala, Ganesh Gupta, Brajesh Kumar and Suraj Jadhav, challenges state government’s April 1 resolution, which proposes the deferment of 50 per cent salary for class I and II state government officers and 25 per cent salary for class III officers.The PIL questions the logic of withholding the pay of police officials engaged in fighting the pandemic when they should be rewarded as encouragement. The PIL states that the state police officers and constables should be provided risk and hardship allowances similar to what has been done abroad.The PIL states that many countries have implemented the payment of risk and hardship allowance to COVID warriors but the same is yet to be adopted in India.Shaikh said the policemen are risking their lives and working round the clock, just like the doctors and medical staff, and since they are the sole breadwinners in their families, deferred payment of salary will adversely impact them. Hence, the PIL argues, the ‘GR is arbitrary’ and should be set aside.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe PIL also seeks directions to the government to provide PPE kits, masks, gloves and sanitisers to police personnel as it will ensure their safety and also boost their morale.The PIL is expected to be mentioned on Thursday before the bench of justice S J Kathawalla. Maharashtra, along with several other states, had announced the deferment of salary for government staff citing a strain on government resources due to coronavirus containment efforts and drying up of revenue streams. The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pil-challenges-salary-cut-of-police-officer-fighting-covid-19/story-IdzhUuFJJjwVxdlNMeKbKP.html
22-04-2020||Education||Students of Bengal universities provide financial aid to casual workers amid lockdown||Students of two prominent universities in West Bengal have raised money and provided financial assistance to casual workers of the institutes, shut since March 16 in the wake of the novel coronavirus outbreak.Students of the Presidency University have recently given Rs 1,000 each to eight casual workers of the Hindu Hostel and a hawker while those of the Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology (IIEST), Shibpur have given Rs 2,000 each to 35 canteen staff.“This is a small contribution from us to help these people who are in dire straits with virtually no earning due to closure of the university.“We know this amount is very little to provide them relief but we want to tell them that we are always by their side,” Presidency University Students’ Council President Mimosa Ghorai told PTI on Wednesday.The IIEST pupils have formed ‘Quarantined Shibpur Students’ Collective’ and raised the money this month for the initiative, BTech student Saptadeepa Chowdhury said.The balance amount of the total money raised for the initiative has been used for buying rice, pulses, edible oil, soya beans and soap for them, she said.“We are also providing financial aid to those running coffee shops, laundry and other similar establishments on the campus,” another student said.The initiatives have been lauded by the faculty members and netizens on social media.“The students have shown how they can rise to the occasion. We are proud of them,” an IIEST faculty member said.“Laal Selaam to Presidency University Students’ Council for standing by Badam Kaku, Ananda Da and the mess staff of Hindu Hostel,” a netizen commented on a Facebook post by a student on the initiative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/students-of-bengal-universities-provide-financial-aid-to-casual-workers-amid-lockdown/story-IfEHZf8UXyGp8PUzncEkjO.html
22-04-2020||City||Mohali man held for posting communal post on Facebook||Punjab Police have arrested a 25-year-old man for sharing a communal post on Facebook in Mohali district. The accused has been identified as Vijay Parmar, who works with a private firm.He was arrested from his house in the Saini Vihar locality of Baltana, Zirakpur, after a communal post surfaced on his Facebook account on Tuesday. He was produced in court on Wednesday and sent to judicial custody. A case has been registered under Sections 153 (wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause riot), 153A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc, and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony), 295 (injuring or defiling place of worship with intent to insult the religion of any class), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) and 505 (statements conducing to public mischief) of the Indian Penal Code besides the Information Technology Act at the Zirakpur police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-man-held-for-posting-communal-post-on-facebook/story-cHJYI3LbT6SG63v1i8XR0L.html
22-04-2020||Dehradun||Covid-19 update: 43 stranded Americans leave for Delhi from Uttarakhand’s Rishikesh||Amid coronavirus lockdown, 43 citizens of the USA who were stranded in different areas of Uttarakhand, left for Delhi from Rishikesh on Wednesday, said officials. The development has come days after 96 Americans were earlier evacuated from Dehradun to Delhi in a special flight operated by Air India. “The 43 Americans were staying in different areas of the state including maximum 21 in Rishikesh. The other areas include Ramnagar, Dehradun and others. As per the arrangements made by their embassy, they were gathered in Rishikesh from where they left for Delhi by road,” said a Dehradun district administration official on condition of anonymity. The official said, “The foreigners after reaching Delhi will board a special flight for the USA from there on Thursday.”Confirming the development, Ashok Kumar, director general (law and order) said, “We have got directions from the authorities concerned about their evacuation on Tuesday.”Kumar said, “As per the norms we ensured that they are evacuated safely according to the arrangements made by their embassy.”According to the state government, there are about total 1,200 foreigners in the state amid lockdown due to Covid-19 pandemic. Out of the total, at least 750 are in Pauri Garhwal district. All the foreigners have been asked by the government to stay in their respective accommodations and are thermally screened regularly by the health department. They are being gradually evacuated in accordance with the arrangements made by their respective embassies in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/covid-19-update-43-stranded-americans-leave-for-delhi-from-uttarakhand-s-rishikesh/story-kZowQA7Ix63uRLiMRM6OPM.html
22-04-2020||Mumbai||Pocso court refuses bail to father who sexually abused daughter||A special Pocso court has refused to grant bail to a 28-year-old father booked for sexually abusing 13-year-old daughter fearing that he may try to influence the daughter. The father, a resident of Bandra, was arrested on February 3, on the complaint of his 13-year-old daughter for alleged sexual abuse by the Bandra police. The accused has been lodged in jail so far and recently sought bail pleading that he has been falsely implicated by his wife. The court refused to accept the defence that the case was lodged under the influence of the accused’s wife who left him.The father has pleaded that his wife was residing with another person. He claimed that the case was filed at the behest of her as he alleged that his wife wanted custody of their kids.Meanwhile, the prosecution claimed that the victim has been residing with the accused even after his wife left him. On February 3, the victim approached the police with the complaint of sexual abuse by the accused and was taken for medical examination.The public prosecutor Geeta Nayyer argued that the victim gave specific details of sexual abuse by the accused which also was supported by the medical report.Considering the circumstances, the court observed that, there are serious allegations of penetrative sexual assault on his daughter. “It would not be just and proper to release the accused on bail. Considering the relations between the accused, victim and the witnesses, the possibility of influencing them cannot be ruled out,” the court held while rejecting the bail plea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pocso-court-refuses-bail-to-father-who-sexually-abused-daughter/story-K21SdvXuXZCpMyhru8RnEP.html
22-04-2020||Bangalore||7 more Covid-19 cases in Karnataka, count rises to 425||With seven more people tested positive for COVID-19, the total number of cases now stands at 425 as of date in Karnataka, informed state health department on Wednesday.Out of the total COVID-19 cases, 17 people have died and 129 have been discharged.These seven new cases came to light in the last 24 hours.With 1383 more cases and 50 deaths reported in the last 24 hours, India’s total number of positive COVID-19 cases stands at 19,984, said the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/7-more-covid-19-cases-in-karnataka-count-rises-to-425/story-pdPBJmdNC0TZzaKnt8SHpM.html
22-04-2020||Chandigarh||J&K oil tank drivers’ union seeks financial package, tax exemption from Centre||The oil and LPG tank truck drivers and cleaners union here on Wednesday urged Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman and Lt Governor G C Murmu to roll out financial package to provide partial loan waiver to them, to mitigate their financial losses caused due to Covid-19 lockdown.Union president S Ranjit Singh Raina asked the central government to consider a financial package for the transport sector as it was already facing huge financial burden.“The transport sector has come to a halt due to the ongoing nationwide lockdown, which has dealt a severe setback to this sector. If the government does not come to our aid, hundreds of people associated with this sector may lose their jobs,” he said in a statement issued here.The truckers’ body spokesperson, S Harasis Singh, said that over 85 to 90 percent commercial transport vehicles in J&K were purchased on loans from the government, private banks and private finance companies.“During this lockdown period, tanks, trucks, road rollers, cranes, minibuses, buses, taxis, three-wheelers (passengers/load carriers) and even e-rickshaws are not plying on the roads. Therefore, we request the government to give us a financial package, including exemption from income tax, road tax, toll tax and partial loan waiver for the purchased vehicles,” he said.Singh added that even amid the lockdown, the National Highway Authority of India has started two new toll posts – one at Lakhanpur in Kathua and another in Kachkoot in Srinagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/j-k-oil-tank-drivers-union-seeks-financial-package-tax-exemption-from-centre/story-FrhiBartMJLotZYpXmLRqJ.html
22-04-2020||City||Husband held after 24-year-old hangs herself in Ludhiana||Two days after a 24-year-old woman hanged herself from a ceiling fan at her house in Gobindsar Mohalla in Daba, police arrested her husband on Wednesday. Police have also booked the woman’s mother-in-law, father-in-law and sister-in-law for dowry death, on the statement of her parents.As per information, the accused works with a private surveyor for the power supply department, and had got married to the victim around a year and a half ago and they have a three-month-old daughter. The victim’s mother, a resident of Yamunanagar, told the police that her daughter rang her up on Monday afternoon, stating that her in-laws were harassing her for dowry. A few hours later, when she rang up her daughter again, her mother-in-law said she was asleep. Later, the victim’s sister-in-law informed the complainant that she had died.Daba station house officer (SHO) inspector Pawittar Singh said the body was handed over to the family after post-mortem and a case under Section 304B (dowry death) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered against the accused.“The husband was arrested today. The three other accused will be arrested soon,” the SHO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/husband-held-after-24-year-old-hangs-herself-in-ludhiana/story-ATSSUwMF8pt6IJv6Z4WqoN.html
22-04-2020||Patna||Ten people test positive for Covid-19 in Bihar, total reaches 136||Ten people tested positive for COVID-19 in Bihar on Wednesday, eight of them in the state capital, raising the total number of cases to 136, a top official said here.Principal Secretary, Health, Sanjay Kumar said six cases are from Khajpura locality in the city where a 32-year-old woman had tested positive last week. She was diagnosed with the disease after she was admitted to AIIMS, Patna, for breathing difficulty.The latest Khajpura patients include two women aged 30 and 57 years and four men in the age group of 28 to 62 years, the Principal Secretary added.Besides, one case each has been reported from Jagdeo Path, a kilometre away from Khajpura, and Salimpur which is in another part of the city, Kumar added.Contact tracing is on for the Jagdeo Path and Salimpur patients, he said. In addition, a 26-year-old woman from Bihar Sharif, the headquarters of Nalanda district, which had reported 17 cases earlier this week, has tested positive.Also, East Champaran district reported its first case a 25-year-old man who belongs to a village in Phenhara block and whose contact tracing is on.Out of the 136 cases, 42 have recovered while two one each from Munger and Vaishali districts have died.Nalanda has reported a total of 29 cases and it shares the top spot with Siwan. While 17 Siwan patients have recovered, Nalanda, the home district of Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, is still left with 27 active cases.Munger has reported 27 cases, including a death and six recovered patients.Patna, with 16 cases, is the third worst affected district in Bihar. Five patients have, however, recovered.Out of 38 districts, only 16 have reported COVID 19 cases so far.Altogether 12,978 samples have so far been tested in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/ten-people-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-bihar-total-reaches-136/story-j8SOzak7QsRDVrR6o2k0QP.html
22-04-2020||Chandigarh||HP to receive more rain and hailstorm, yellow warning issued for five districts||Heavy rainfall along with hailstorm and thunderstorms are likely to occur in isolated places of the state on April 23. A yellow warning has been issued by state’s meteorological department for April 23 and 26 for Shimla, Mandi, Kangra, Kullu and Chamba districts.State meteorological department director Dr Manmohan Singh said due to a fresh western disturbance, snowfall at higher reaches and rainfall along with hailstorm and thunderstorms lower and middle hills is likely to continue throughout the state till April 23. The weather will remain dry throughout the state on April 24 and 25, after which rainfall will continue in the middle and higher reaches of the state till April 28.Rainfall took place at isolated places of the state during the last 24 hours. The minimum temperature was three to four degrees below normal and maximum temperatures was four to five degrees below normal.Shimla, the state’s capital recorded a temperature of 8.7°C. The minimum temperature in Kufri was 13.8°C, Manali recorded 2.8°C, Dalhousie 7.9°C and Dharamshala 10.8°C.Solan, Bilaspur, Hamirpur and Nahan recorded 9.8°C, 14.5°C, 14.1°C and 15.4°C minimum temperatures, respectively.Kalpa in Kinnaur district recorded a minimum temperature of 1.4°C. Keylong in Lahaul-Spiti district was the coldest in the state at 1.1°C while Una was the hottest at 31°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hp-to-receive-more-rain-and-hailstorm-yellow-warning-issued-for-five-districts/story-eeu5iNzdA8HfQoGFejaMtL.html
22-04-2020||Mumbai||Marriage certificate issued without rituals null and void: HC||The Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday declared a certificate of registration of marriage obtained by a Thane resident and his partner as null and void, as it was obtained without performing any marriage rites. The Thane resident had moved HC after the family court in the district had rejected his petition on November 16, 2017, to declare the marriage as invalid. The man fell in love with one of his colleagues at a gymnasium where he worked. They wanted to get married but were apprehensive of their families not approving. To convince their families, they obtained a marriage certificate from a local mandal of the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) on September 29, 2016, declaring that they married on July 18, 2016. But when the woman disclosed this to her parents, they forced her to lodge a police complaint, alleging that she was abducted by the Thane resident and her signatures were forcibly obtained on certain papers. She then lodged a complaint and on its basis, Rajaram police station in Ratnagiri registered an offence against the man and some others.The parties later settled the matter amicably.The Thane resident moved the family court and eventually approached HC after the family court refused to entertain his plea saying it lacked jurisdiction to entertain the petition. The family court stated that its jurisdiction can be invoked only if someone was married as per law.The HC, however, held that the family court was not justified in rejecting the petition.It said under section 7(1) of the Family Court’s Act a suit or proceeding for declaration as to validity of a marriage or as to matrimonial status of any person is within the exclusive jurisdiction of the family court. “The respondent woman (his purported wife) has not disputed these facts,” said the HC bench, adding, “She is not opposing the prayers made before the family court at all. The family court was not justified in dismissing the petition filed by the appellant on the ground of lack of jurisdiction.”The HC then declared the marriage as null and void.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/marriage-certificate-issued-without-rituals-null-and-void-hc/story-A5rv9IZa9v8yGSlCXej8OM.html
22-04-2020||City||2 junior doctors get show-cause notice for skipping Covid-19 duties in Amritsar||AMRITSAR: The state medical education and research department on Wednesday issued show-cause notice to two junior doctors of Government Medical College (GMC), Amritsar, for not reporting on duty at the college’s Viral Research and Diagnostic Laboratory (VRDL), where samples of Covid-19 suspected patients are being tested daily. The notice has been served to Dr Vasudha and Dr Prabhsimran Kaur, who were assigned the duty by college principal Dr Sujata Sharma on March 31. They were asked to monitor the data of the samples being tested at VRDL.The notice reads, “Since the Covid-19 is a pandemic disease and a large number of samples of suspected patients are being sent to VRDL, Amritsar, being run under the microbiology department of the college, for testing and there is a staff shortage at the lab, two junior doctors, Dr Vasudha and Dr Prabhsimran Kaur, were directed to join the lab for helping the senior doctors in monitoring the data. The senior doctors had also sent a notice to them to join duty but they remained absent even in a Covid-19 related emergency medical situation.”ACTION FOR VIOLATING ICMR GUIDELINES“The doctors have violated Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines. We may cancel the post-graduation degrees of both the doctors under the Epidemic Disease Act and Disaster Management Act or we may put restrictions on the doctors for doing any medical course for next three years,” the notice said.Dr Avneesh Kumar, director, medical education and research department of the state, said: “We have got information from the hospital that the doctors were assigned Covid-19 related duties but they haven’t performed them. Dr Vasudha and Dr Prabhsimran Kaur are directed to submit their replies to the Punjab government within 48 hours.”When contacted, principal Dr Sujata Sharma said, “The notice has been served but this is an institutional matter and I won’t comment on it.”The two doctors were also not available for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-junior-doctors-get-show-cause-notice-for-skipping-covid-19-duties-in-amritsar/story-FDxGGAfF2WLXIXWiaQDs4M.html
22-04-2020||Mumbai||Covid-positive woman delivers healthy baby in Mumbai||A 27-year-old coronavirus patient from Grant Road delivered a healthy baby boy on Monday evening at BYL Nair hospital. The baby will be provided with milk from the milk bank, as his mother has been quarantined. Meanwhile on Sunday, a 35-year-old Covid-19 patient had delivered a baby girl at Nanavati Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-positive-woman-delivers-healthy-baby-in-mumbai/story-c9gek7HsTwbriurZiPSTkO.html
22-04-2020||Mumbai||9 infected CISF personnel discharged after passing subsequent tests||Nine of 12 Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel who had tested positive for the Sars-Cov-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, have been discharged after their subsequent tests came back negative.The personnel were posted at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) and were among the first frontline staff in the country to get infected with the coronavirus.MA Ganapathy, special director general, CISF, said, “In all, 12 personnel had tested positive in the first test but nine have been discharged having tested negative in subsequent tests. The three others have also tested negative but they will have to undergo further testing.”The CISF personnel who had tested positive are from the ranks of constable to assistant sub-inspector (ASI), between the ages of 27 and 52 years. The nine discharged personnel have been advised to observe mandatory home quarantine for 14 days from the date of discharge.On March 27, a CISF head constable tested positive for Covid-19 after reporting a mild fever. Following this, 152 personnel were quarantined at the CISF residential camp at Kalamboli in Navi Mumbai.CISF decided to test 11 of the infected head constable’s close contacts, of which four were found positive on March 29. As the infected persons lived in the same camp, it was decided to test all 152 personnel.CISF officers stated that active contact tracing was done to avoid any further spread of the disease. “The contacts were traced and all were quarantined promptly,” said KN Tripathy, deputy inspector general, CISF, Mumbai airport. “After the first personnel tested positive at the airport with minimum symptoms, we began contact-tracing. Others found positive were asymptomatic.” Sources said that the CISF personnel may have contracted the virus from passengers while discharging duties at the airport. “There is a regimented lifestyle followed by CISF personnel and hence, their immunity is also stronger,” said Tripathy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/9-infected-cisf-personnel-discharged-after-passing-subsequent-tests/story-YZhJZxzzZhESCTE56ST4VM.html
22-04-2020||City||With 54% wheat lifting, Sangrur ranks first on Punjab mandi board’s chart||Sangrur district has secured the top rank on the Punjab mandi board’s chart by lifting 54% of the wheat grains that arrived in the market, deputy commissioner (DC) Ghanshyam Thori said on Thursday.He said that as per the report released by the board on April 21, Sangrur has emerged the leader by lifting 1,31,640 metric tonne (MT) wheat from the grain markets of the district. He added that 2,43,778 MT grains has already been procured in the district by various agencies till April 21 and to ensure adequate space for new arrival, the lifting process has been expedited.The DC said Sangrur has contributes more than 10% to the total wheat production of Punjab and adequate arrangements have been made to ensure hassle-free procurement in the district amid the Covid-19 lockdown.He added that proper social distancing is being ensured and arrangements have been made for farmers and officials of procurement agencies to wash and sanitise their hands from time to time.The DC said that passes have been issued to commission agents for ensuring smooth arrival of wheat crop but there are reports from several grain markets that the farmers are flouting the quantity norms laid by the administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-54-wheat-lifting-sangrur-top-on-punjab-mandi-board-s-chart/story-tpGoUGOgtVp7pfJQrp4a2N.html
22-04-2020||Lifestyle||Coronavirus pandemic forces students to put their study abroad dreams on hold||For many students, the plans of studying abroad have been put on hold due to the coronavirus pandemic. From identifying the best university and best-suited courses, taking tests online, filling up several college applications and applying for the visas, students feel disheartened as the effort and time devoted by them to the lengthy process has gone for a toss all of a sudden. A Delhi-resident and fashion enthusiast, Priya Goel, who had applied to several fashion and designs universities in Italy for her bachelor’s degree was looking forward to the new session from October, shares her plight and says, “I was always keen on studying at one of the premier fashion and design colleges and had applied to a couple of them in Italy. But now, I’m unsure of going overseas for my degree and don’t even think my family will agree now. I also have no clue yet about whether the money spent on the applications will be reversed or not, or whether we’ll be given a choice of opting for online classes but spending so much amount for a distance learning course will not make sense.”Italy being synonymous with rich art, design and culture and the hub of world’s greatest fashion labels is one of the preferred destinations by Indian students to pursue a career in fashion. Another student, Tripti Rughwani pursuing masters in fashion styling, photography and film in Italy decided to return to India before the situation got worse. She states, “In the last week of February, our school sent a mail stating classes have suspended and the school will not host any activities for a week. So we measured the situation and our parents decided us to call us back home.”For Rughwani, her third semester classes have begun online and will go on till June. She says, “A lot of students were agitated and requested university to not begin the third semester because our course is a very practical one and requires hands-on experience. But we have got a mail from college saying that they will compensate for the practical classes but nothing is confirmed. It’s just a ray of hope so that way we don’t lose out on the opportunities we paid for.” She also says, “Our student visas are valid till October because from June onwards, we were supposed to have an internship/job period but we [international students] haven’t been informed about visas yet.So, will the pandemic witness a dip in students applying at international universities due to no clear information by universities? Aradhana Khaitan Mahna, founder and managing director, Manya Education Pvt. Ltd., that offers study abroad services, says, “Right now, nobody is saying anything. There is certainly 20% of the students who are either dropping or deferring their plans to next year, another 10-15% are stating that they’re still confused but remaining say that they’re still on track. We have been talking to them regularly. On the other hand, universities are also saying that there’s nothing that has changed and they look forward to welcoming students for Fall in August/September. Of course, the summer sessions and intakes have moved online. But worst case we expect that depending on how things span out, may be the fall semester will move online but after that it should be back to normal. But right now, there’s no confirmed news.” However, some education consultants also state that the demand for international courses is still on the rise particularly due to lack courses choices and specialisation. A Delhi-based education consultant informs that although they’re still getting requests from students to study in Europe, “but some universities have postponed the admissions to next year 2021 because of the pandemic and also extended deadlines for application submissions to ease out the process for students”, he says.Interact with author/sanchita_kalra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/more-lifestyle/coronavirus-pandemic-forces-students-to-put-their-study-abroad-dreams-on-hold/story-C2ZgnSjUdxYCpbeVkl8cUM.html
22-04-2020||City||19 employees of IT firm in Navi Mumbai test positive||Nineteen employees of an IT company at Mahape in Navi Mumbai tested Covid positive on Wednesday. All of them have been admitted to NMMC hospital in Vashi, which is a dedicated Covid-19 hospital.The company handling database of banks is located at Mahape MIDC. It was functioning with 40 employees as the banking sector was allowed to work.The company themselves got their employees tested through a private lab. After 19 of them tested positive, the company informed NMMC about it.Navi Mumbai municipal commissioner Annasaheb Misal said, “Seven of those who have tested positive are Navi Mumbai residents. Two are from Thane, seven from Mumbai, one from Sangli, one from Telangana and one from Andhra Pradesh.”He added, “We have sealed the company and the premises has been sanitised. We are also tracing the travel history of the patients and checking the other employees.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/19-employees-of-it-firm-in-navi-mumbai-test-positive/story-EtKs4hkc4wIdab20D0Qf4K.html
22-04-2020||Chandigarh||Lockdown makes life difficult for 122 destitute children at Balgran in Jammu||Balgran, a home for destitute children, is finding it difficult to make both ends meet amid the lockdown imposed to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus. With donations in cash and kind drying up and stocks rapidly depleting, the home, which is located in Jammu’s Channi Rama area, eyes the future uncertainly. Set up in 1975, Balgran had received a national award for child welfare in 1999. Today, it houses 122 children.Balgran president AK Khajuria says, “We have 122 children, of which 37 are girls. Most of them have been orphaned due to terrorism, natural calamities and other factors, while some have a single parent. They belong to the most disadvantaged sections of society.”“Being a charitable home, we largely run on local donations in cash and kind but due to lockdown people are not able to reach us. Therefore, our donations have reduced drastically and our stocks are depleting rapidly,” said Khajuria.The home provides free boarding, lodging, food and education to children aged 5 to 22 years till they become independent.“We have written to the social welfare department requesting them to help us in these trying times. The director of the social welfare department had visited us on Tuesday and brought two quintals of flour but we need cereals, pulses, edible oils, vegetables and other items to sustain ourselves during this lockdown. We use 25kg of flour everyday,” he said.While Balgran’s annual expenditure is ₹65 lakh, the government only provides it with ₹4 lakh per annum, an amount which was recently revised from ₹1.50- ₹2 lakh per year.“We provide these children with food, clothes, uniforms, books, medicines and conduct routine health check-ups. We also have to pay around ₹1.6 lakh per month to around 15 employees,” he said.The school has around 12 teachers while a few others work voluntarily.Balgran’s school ‘Bal Bharti’ teaches students till Class 10. They are then sent to government institutions for further education.“Balgran, also has ward mothers, who remain with the young students all the time to provide them with emotional support. The younger students need help to eat, change, bathe and get ready for school. The ward mothers ensure that the children get motherly care,” said Khajuria.Our first priority is to adopt orphaned children, who have nobody to look after them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/lockdown-makes-life-difficult-for-122-destitute-children-at-balgran-in-jammu/story-sDbuZHSAKCn1iTJPngvJAL.html
22-04-2020||Chandigarh||Six-month-old girl from Punjab’s Phagwara with congenital heart defect tests positive for Covid-19||Jalandhar/Chandigarh: A six-month-old girl with a congenital heart defect, who was referred from Phagwara town of Kapurthala district to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday.PGIMER spokesperson Dr Ashok Kumar said that the infant was admitted on April 9 for corrective surgery. “The test for the coronavirus disease was conducted as per the institute’s protocol before conducting any surgery. Surprisingly, she tested positive. The source of the infection is not yet known,” Dr Kumar said. He said that the contact tracing of medics who attended to the patient in the past 13 days is being done. They will all be tested and have been quarantined.With this, a total of three cases of novel coronavirus have been reported from Kapurthala district, including a youngster from Kot Karaar Khan village who has been cured of the infection. Kapurthala civil surgeon Dr Jasmit Kaur Bawa said that the baby was admitted at civil hospital, Phagwara, with a heart problem and was referred to a private hospital in Ludhiana that further sent her to PGIMER, Chandigarh, where she tested positive.Doaba region of Punjab has reported 82 cases of Covid-19 so far, including two deaths. Jalandhar reported 53 coronavirus cases, Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar 19 cases, seven in Hoshiarpur and three in Kapurthala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/six-month-old-girl-from-punjab-s-phagwara-with-congenital-heart-defect-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-beFA0IVaLTvPMbe7VyUmXL.html
22-04-2020||Pune||69% Covid-19 positive cases in Pune, asymptomatic: health authorities||Even as, around 69 per cent of the 669 Covid-19 positive cases till April 19 in Pune district are asymptomatic which is in keeping with the national trend, detecting asymptomatic patients continues to be a challenge for the authorities. As reported by HT, roughly two-thirds of all Covid-19 cases in 10 major states comprise people who did not show any symptoms at the time of testing, according to state government data.This has reinforced growing evidence that “silent spreaders” were possibly unknowingly infecting others, and underlined the need for extensive testing to isolate such patients.In Maharashtra, 62 per cent or 1,890 cases of the 3,054 Covid-19 positives as of April 20 10 pm were asymptomatic, according to state health department.Dr Ajit Kulkarni, pulmonologist with Sahyadri hospital said it is herculean task now for the authorities to detect the asymptomatic carriers since they may spread the infection to the less immune and susceptible patient.“Testing of not only close contacts but rampant and random testing of large samples in not only red zones but orange and green zones too should be done because once the lockdown is lifted or even during the lockdown one may infect others who are susceptible. Random testing will help in understanding the spread of the virus in that community,” he said.Dr Ashok Nandapurkar, nodal officer for Covid-19 in the district said, “There are flu clinics set up at PMC, PCMC and rural areas where anyone showing any flu like symptoms can come. “With regards to asymptomatic patients, only close contacts of a positive patient are tested. Maybe with the new Rapid testing kits we can go for sample testing and random testing of people in high risk areas will help determine the spread of the virus in the area,” said Nandapurkar. According to the district administration, health staff has been instructed to carry out random testing especially from high risk areas.“We are testing around 350-700 samples daily which involved random testing too. In our testing, most positive patients were found either through flu clinics or home surveillance. Only people with symptoms are reporting to the clinics or are tested currently but we are also doing screening of asymptomatic contacts in high risk areas. We are yet to get the guidelines for the rapid testing kits from the government and based on that we can take a call on mass random testing in large outbreak areas,” said district collector Naval Kishore Ram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/69-covid-19-positive-cases-in-pune-asymptomatic-health-authorities/story-FVqWSw9ldmMsceK2RBQesK.html
22-04-2020||Business||Gurugram administration permits Maruti Suzuki to operate Manesar plant on a single shift basis||The Haryana government on Wednesday granted permission to Maruti Suzuki India (MSI) to restart its Manesar-based manufacturing facility, but the company said it will resume operations only when it can maintain continuous production and sell vehicles, “which is not possible at this point of time”. The Gurugram district administration allowed the auto major to run the facility on a single shift basis, while fixing the total number of employees at plant at 4,696. Permission is hereby granted to Maruti Suzuki India, Manesar to operate the establishment during the lockdown period, Gurugram Deputy Commissioner said in an order dated Tuesday. The district administration also gave permission to operate 50 vehicles. “No other manufacturing/service activity is permitted in the unit other than those approved under the guidelines of the Ministry of Home Affairs, Govt of India during the said lockdown period, else strict action will be taken and you will be responsible for the same,” the order said. When contacted over the matter, MSI Chairman RC Bhargava told PTI, “We will start operations whenever we can maintain continuous production and sell it (vehicles), which is not possible at this point of time.” MSI’s Manesar (Haryana) plant is outside the limits of Gurugram Municipal Corporation, while its Gurugram plant falls within the city limits. The two plants in Haryana have an installed capacity to roll out 15.5 lakh units per annum. Operations at the facilities are suspended since March 22. Under the new guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) for the extended lockdown period up to May 3, the government, private industries and industrial establishments operating in rural areas, outside the limits of municipal corporations and municipalities, have been allowed to operate from April 20. Besides, manufacturing, industrial units with access control in special economic zones (SEZs), export oriented units, industrial estates, industrial townships have also been allowed to function.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/business-news/gurugram-administration-permits-maruti-suzuki-to-operate-manesar-plant-on-a-single-shift-basis/story-tV0saNxiOkRfSTZOupA4FM.html
22-04-2020||City||Sikkim resident found dead in jungle near Manali||A 22-year-old Sikkim native’s body was hanging from a tree in Rambag jungle near Manali on Wednesday morning.As per information, the man used to work at his uncle’s cloth shop in Manali.Some locals had discovered the body and informed the police. The body was taken to the Manali civil hospital for post-mortem examination. Kullu superintendent of police (SP) Gaurav Singh conformed the report and said police are investigating the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sikkim-resident-found-dead-in-jungle-near-manali/story-9VYCvlAOPeFJt9mjVhsyON.html
22-04-2020||City||Wife, man booked for Sangrur man’s murder||Days after a 53-year-old man’s body was found in a drain in Shadi Hari village in Sunam tehsil, Sangrur, police have booked his wife and her friend for murder.The body of the deceased, identified as Harbans Singh, had been found on April 16. His son had initially stated that Harbans may have died a natural death or been a victim of a road mishap that caused his bike to plunge into the drain, but his sister alleged that it was a murder.Angrej Kaur, the deceased’s sister, told the police that her sister-in-law had an illicit relationship with one Avtar Singh alias Lambu of Shadi Hari and both had plotted the murder.Based on her complaint, police have booked Avtar Singh and the victim’s wife, Kamaljit Singh, under Section 302 (murder), 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence) of the Indian Penal Code.Dirba station house officer Sukhdeep Singh said no arrests have been made so far but the case would be cracked soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/wife-paramour-booked-for-sangrur-man-s-murder/story-Vbb7wIhvyTpvljCEbuNkUN.html
22-04-2020||City||92 people found suffering from mild cough in Malerkotla, finds survey||The health department has found that 92 people in Malerkotla were suffering from a mild cough, the deputy commissioner said on Tuesday. The health department has so far covered 90% of the region while conducting a door-to-door survey to tabulate the number of people suffering from fever, cough and cold, deputy commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said.Two Covid-19 patients had reportedly stayed in the city in March. As many as 100 of their contacts have tested negative for the coronavirus.“We have surveyed around 23,698 houses in Malerkotla so far. Around 90% area of the city has already been covered by 51 teams,” said Thori.The deputy commissioner said that the administration had started this survey on April 15. “All patients have a prescription and medicines as well,” said the DC.Thori said the patients had been directed to isolate themselves from others in their houses till they recover. He said around 90 rapid tests and 180 confirmatory tests had been conducted in Malerkotla sibdivision.Dr Jaswinder Singh, senior medical officer, Malerkotla, said all 92 cases are under regular observation of the health department and immediate medical help will be provided in case of an emergency.District epidemiologist Dr Upasana Bindra said besides the survey, people had also been sensitised about the symptoms of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/92-people-found-suffering-from-mild-cough-in-malerkotla-finds-survey/story-qCT82B99IxJYZOJPkmfuxO.html
22-04-2020||Chandigarh||Kangra administration takes on Covid-19 with a dash of humour||The Kangra administration has gone about sensitising the masses about the spread of the novel coronavirus in a creative manner.The administration is using humorous posters using relatable tropes to underline the importance of social distancing amid the novel coronavirus pandemic.The hilarious posters posted on the official Facebook page of the Kangra deputy commissioner have drawn a lot of attention and have been widely circulated.The poster put up on Wednesday depicts a woman singing the Bollywood number “Mera piya ghar aaya o Ramji’ from the film Yaarana, upon seeing her husband return home.The message on it reads: “Agar aapke piya ke saath corona aa gaya to Ramji bhi aapko nahi bacha paynege. Janha hain vanhi rahein, sabhi ke jivan ka bachao karein.” (If Corona comes with your husband, even Lord Rama won’t be able to save you. Stay where you are and save everyone’s lives).Similarly, the poster shared on Tuesday depicts a marriage ceremony with a message reading: “Kundliyan milate-milate kanhi korana na mil jaye. Durghatna se dair bhali” (While matching your horoscopes you may get infected with Covid-19. It’s better late than never).Another poster, inspired by the iconic film Sholay movie asks “Kitne aadmi they?” to convey that a single infected person could easily spread the virus among the masses.Additional deputy commissioner Raghav Sharma, the brainchild behind the witty posters, said the posters were acting as a stress buster while underlining the gravity of the situation.“No one had ever seen a global lockdown and confinement to homes has increased anxiety and the feeling of alienation,” said Sharma.“Such messages may also have a greater recall value,”the ADC said, adding that the posters are based on things that are happening around us like some people solemnising marriages despite the pandemic and others sneaking into the state in an attempt to reach their homes despite curfew.“The ideas for the daily posters are the collective efforts of our team and a friend, who wishes to remain anonymous, has volunteered to design the artwork,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/kangra-administration-takes-on-covid-19-with-a-dash-of-humour/story-QRL3vcyHbXS4dZ9o8W9azO.html
22-04-2020||Education||Jadavpur University students developing app to disseminate genuine info on Covid-19||To combat misinformation on novel coronavirus, students of the Jadavpur University here are in the process of developing a mobile application to disseminate genuine data related to COVID-19, an educator of the institute said on Wednesday.The ‘infobank’ will contain all verifiable and accurate information on the disease, the teacher associated with the university’s Innovation Council said.“A lot of misinformation on novel coronavirus is being spread, ranging from its origin to symptoms and means of transmission. This unnecessarily creates panic and confusion among the people. The infobank will dispel all wrong information,” the educator told PTI.The process of creating the infobank began at an all- India hackathon organised by the computer science department of the university wherein students had presented the concept at a time when the disease had just marked its footprint in India, he said.“As the concept generated enthusiasm among the organisers and participants of the event, we asked the students to work on it and later make a prototype,” the teacher said.However, work on the prototype got delayed as classes were suspended and hostels vacated in the wake of the lockdown, he said.Eight final year post-graduate students of the computer science department are currently working on the project from their homes under the supervision of teachers, the teacher said.“Once the classes resume and the laboratory reopens, we will be able to get more real-time data for the application from hospitals treating COVID-19 patients and laboratories testing samples of people suspected to be infected with the disease,” he said.Though the application will not detect fake news on COVID-19, it will help the user distinguish authentic information from misinformation as it will contain only genuine data, the educator said.“We will keep updating the application as there will be more research on the disease in future,” he said.The teacher said the application, in future, will also contain information on ways to cope with outbreaks of infectious diseases as well as natural calamities or man-made disasters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/jadavpur-university-students-developing-app-to-disseminate-genuine-info-on-covid-19/story-m89QFLcmH9Vxp4XR3KpbEI.html
22-04-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal govt employees who left their stations during lockdown to be pulled up||The working of the Himachal Pradesh government has been hampered due to the non-availability of government employees, many of whom chose to travel to their native villages in violation of the government’s orders amid the coronavirus crisis.Observing that a majority of government employees had gone to their villages during the curfew imposed on March 24, the department of personnel has sought the list of state secretariat employees who had left their stations in violation of lockdown orders.A memorandum to this effect has been issued by the department of personnel. HP secretariat branch officers have been asked to provide a list of employees under them who have left Shimla within three days.In an order issued on March 23, the department had directed the offices to take preventive, precautionary and pre-emptive measures to contain the spread of the virus.Under the order, most of the state government offices were closed and employees were told to stay home but be available on phone or by other means of communication and to attend the office in case of an exigency.“It has come to the notice of the government that the officers have left the station, which is a clear violation of government orders, this is being viewed as a serious breach by the higher authorities,” says the office memorandum.In addition, branch officers have also been told to provide details of employees who came to Shimla during the lockdown period from areas identified as hotspots, clusters or containment zones. Such employees have been asked to inform the health department and go into quarantine.OPPOSITION FLAYS GOVT FOR ALLOWING INTERSTATE MOVEMENT OF VIPSOpposition leader Mukesh Agnihotri has flayed the government for allowing interstate and interdistrict movement of VIPs.The government was criticised for allowing Mandi Lok Sabha member Ram Swaroop Sharma to travel from Delhi to HP during the lockdown.Defending Sharma, Jai Ram Thakur said the politician had permission from the Mandi deputy commissioner. The opposition also demanded that the government arrange transportation for students stranded in different parts of the country. Agnihotri demanded the transfer of ₹1,000 crore earmarked for construction and expansion of airports. The ppposition also demanded that the government ban purchase of vehicles for at least two years.CONCESSIONS TO POWER CONSUMERSThe state government has decided to provide concessions to industrial and commercial consumers, including the tourism sector, agriculture and other consumers in the state due to the lockdown.CM Jai Ram Thakur said the payment of electricity bills for month of February and March has been extended up to April 30, without levying of late payment surcharge.He said the bills of April will be due for payment in May and will be payable up to May 31, without any late payment surcharge. He said that payment of demand charges in respect of industrial, commercial and agriculture consumers for April and May has been deferred till June 30.The charges will be recovered in three equal instalments during the months of July, August and September. Thakur said a rebate of 1% up to ₹10,000 will be available to industrial, commercial and agriculture consumers. He said the state electricity board will ensure continuity of power supply to all consumers and no disconnection will be made till May 31 due to non-recovery of electricity bills and late payment surcharge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-govt-employees-who-left-their-stations-during-lockdown-to-be-pulled-up/story-c56gcq78pupLJIpOTLVQdO.html
22-04-2020||Viral||Amid Corona scare, Ranchi’s Birsa zoo welcomes birth of three tiger cubs||Amid the Corona scare, there is an heartening news for tiger conservationists and animal lovers in the country.With birth of three more tiger cubs, Ranchi’s Bhagwan Birsa Biological Park, also known as Birsa zoo, is now emerging as a tiger breeding centre.The zoo’s illustrated couple, tiger Mallik and tigress Anushka, has given a major thrust to the ‘Save Tiger’ campaign by adding three more cubs to the nation’s existing tiger population, said PK Verma, state chief wildlife warden.A video of the cubs was also shared on Twitter by Indian Forest Service Association.In this #Corona-filled gloomy environment heartening news coming from #BhagwanBirsaZoo,Jharkhand where a Tigress has given birth to three cubs .Congratulations to all the Zoo Officials and staffs of Bhagwan Birsa Zoo,Ranchi. @HemantSorenJMM @Forest_Dept_GOJ pic.twitter.com/TYeg3qFeYvThis was second breeding from the couple in past two year. On April 6, 2018, Anushkha had given birth to three cubs but one of them had died after six months due to multiple organ failure. The cub had been named as Parwat and it was a melanistic tigress, which is also known as black tiger.Mallik and Anushka had been brought from Nehru Zoological Park, Hyderabad in March 2016.Anushka gave birth to three cubs on April 18. The all three cubs are in good health. “The tigress is showing normal maternal care patterns and the cubs are in good health,” said zoo veterinarian Dr Ajay Kumar.The zoo officials have been asked to avoid unnecessary chaos and provide good ambience to the newly born cubs. With births three new cubs, tiger population at the zoo has gone up to 10. With first successful breeding in 2018, the Birsa zoo authority set up a breeding cell attached with nursery, which was completed in 2019.Kumar said tiger breeding in captivity is critical, as the species do not want any interference in their ambience.The zoo is currently closed for the visitors due to lockdown. Even if zoo is reopened after lockdown, the cubs will not be available for public viewing for at least three months. A video display will be installed at the zoo for the visitors to view the cubs.Birsa zoo witnessed breeding of tigers for third time since its inception in 1994. In 2011, tigress Durga had given birth to three cubs. However, all three died within a week of their births.The zoo authority has taken extra precautionary measures to ensure healthy atmosphere for the cubs. “No one is allowed to enter the tigress’ cage. The cubs were kept in nursery and their health and activities are being monitored through CCTV cameras installed there,” Kumar said.Kumar said vaccination to the cubs would be started after three months. “The mother tigress is feeding well to all three cubs. Mother and her cubs are healthy,” he added.Also Read | Newborn giraffe runs around enclosure, video amuses people||https://www.hindustantimes.com/it-s-viral/amid-corona-scare-ranchi-s-birsa-zoo-welcomes-birth-of-three-tiger-cubs/story-K61jMm73L9IFGFTDKrMrPO.html
22-04-2020||Education||UP govt directs schools not to charge transportation fee for lockdown period||The Uttar Pradesh government has directed schools in the state not to charge transportation fee from students for the lockdown period. The government said Secondary Education Principal Secretary Aradhana Shukla directed all district magistrates and the Director, Secondary Education, to ensure no school charge transportation fee from their students for the lockdown period. The order was issued on the direction of the Deputy Chief Minister Dinesh Sharma, who also holds the portfolio of Secondary Education and Higher Education.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/up-govt-directs-schools-not-to-charge-transportation-fee-for-lockdown-period/story-IrgUIsp11QnOQEXC3Q02WM.html
22-04-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Haryana ramps up pool testing||Haryana has gone big on sample pooling, testing 2,348 samples in the last seven days, thus increasing the lab capacity to screen samples using molecular testing for Covid-19. The pool-tested samples account for more than 27% of the total samples tested in the last seven days.The virology lab of Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) in Rohtak started pool sampling on April 14 with 229 samples. Since then, it has consistently tested pooled samples in the range of 220 to 494.According to Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR), a pooled testing algorithm involves real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction test (rRT-PCR) screening of a specimen pool comprising multiple individual patient specimens.If a pool sample tested negative, it means no individual testing and substantial cost savings. If only a pool sample is tested positive, then all the individual samples are to be tested separately.Nodal officer for Covid-19 at PGIMS, Dr Dhruva Chaudhary, said with pool sampling and arrival of new testing machines, they would be able to scale up the testing up to 5,000 samples per day. The chief secretary has given us a target of testing 10,000 samples per day by enhancing our testing capability, he added. Professor Paramjeet Singh Gill, in-charge of virology lab at PGIMS, said the pool testing can be done only where incidence of infection is less than 2% in populations. “We are pooling three samples for testing, though the ICMR has recommended pooling five samples. But since we got good results by pooling three samples, we are continuing with it,” Prof Gill said.He said out of 2,348 pooled samples tested by the virology laboratory at PGIMS, only 17 have turned out to be positive for coronavirus.Senior health officials said the pool sampling will significantly enhance the capability to test more as is evident by the big surge in total sampling (individual as well as pool) from 6,163 on April 14 to 14,562 on April 21.As per health officials, pool sampling is recommended in the areas with low prevalence of infection. “In areas where 2 to 5% population is infected, sample pooling can be considered only in community survey or surveillance among asymptomatic individuals, strictly excluding pooling samples of individuals having known contact with confirmed cases and health workers in direct contact with care of coronavirus positive patients. Samples from such individuals should be directly tested without pooling,” said an official.He said that pooling of sample was not recommended in areas or population with positivity rates of over 5% for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-haryana-ramps-up-pool-testing/story-6kGQwr1ksjaJAs5BxgB0mK.html
22-04-2020||Chandigarh||DRDO lab develops 10,000 face shields for PGI, Chandigarh||CHANDIGARH: The Terminal Ballistics Research Laboratory (TBRL) here is developing 10,000 full face protective shields for examining infected Covid-19 patients for the Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), an official said on Wednesday.“TBRL is producing 10,000 full face protective shields for the PGI. A total of 2,000 face protective shields have been handed over to the PGI and 5,000 will be provided in five days,” says TBRL director Manjit Singh said in a statement.TBRL is a lab of the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO).He said more than 700 protective shields were given to the Chandigarh Police on Tuesday.Director General of Police Sanjay Beniwal lauded the TBRL for providing PPE, sanitisers and face shield to the police.The director said that the face shields are single-use and multiple-use, while its shielding sheet could be replaced easily if required.In addition, the TBRL is also acting as a facilitator for the procurement of bio-suits developed by another DRDO lab for use by healthcare service providers.An important DRDO establishment based in Chandigarh, the TBRL, is involved in development, production, processing and characterisation of different explosive compositions, fragmentation studies of warheads, captive flight testing of bombs, missiles and airborne systems and ballistics evaluation of protective system such as body armour, vehicle armour and helmets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/drdo-lab-develops-10-000-face-shields-for-pgi-chandigarh/story-A7OgBarWm0Y1e7IRBv1S9O.html
22-04-2020||Bangalore||60 more arrested for Sunday’s attack on health workers in Bengaluru’s Padarayanapura||Karnataka police have arrested 60 more people in connection with the attack on health workers and destruction of government property in Padarayanpura area of the state capital of Bengaluru late on Sunday night. The ASHA workers and other government officials had gone to Padarayanapura, a very congested and densely populated area, to quarantine the primary and secondary contacts of some people who had tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) after attending the Tablighi Jamaat’s March event in Delhi Nizamuddin.On Monday, police had arrested 59 people and filed five first information reports (FIRs). Also read: Karnataka rules out relaxation of lockdown after attack on health workersState home minister Basvaraj Bommai said on Tuesday that 60 more people, who were involved in the violence, have been detained. All of them are being charged under the national disaster management act as well as the epidemic diseases act apart from various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). With this, the total number of people detained has risen to 119.Meanwhile, Karnataka High Court expressed serious concern on the assault of health workers. A divisional bench of Chief Justice AS Oak and justice BV Nagaratna asked the government to submit a report on what action has been taken against the culprits and what measures are being taken to protect the health workers by April 24. The bench was hearing an interim petition filed in this regard by a lawyer Geeta Mishra.Also read: Padarayanapura incident an act of ‘goondaism’, says Karnataka CMIn a separate incident, Mysore Police arrested three men for verbally assaulting, using abusive language and trying to intimidate an ASHA worker who as a part of a state government campaign had gone door to door in Alim Nagar requesting people to maintain social distance, hygiene and wear a mask.An NR Mohalla police station officer said an FIR has been registered and the three men have been detained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/60-more-arrested-for-sunday-s-attack-on-health-workers-in-bengaluru-s-padarayanapura/story-qyHAzU82e5leFpFjCkRehL.html
22-04-2020||Delhi||2 Jamia students booked under UAPA in riots case||The Delhi Police have invoked the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) against two students of Jamia Millia Islamia who are in custody for allegedly hatching a conspiracy to incite communal riots in Delhi in February.The suspects Meeran Haider and Safoora Zargar are in judicial custody in connection with the case registered against them in February. A senior police officer, requesting anonymity, said when Zargar moved a bail application the police informed the court about the inclusion of the UAPA as a ground to deny bail. “The two students have already been booked for sedition, murder, attempt to murder and promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion and rioting,” the officer said.Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act is aimed at effective prevention of unlawful activities associations in India. A person charged under the law can be jailed for up to seven years. Haider, 35, is a PhD student and the president of RJD youth wing’s Delhi unit; Zargar is an MPhil student of Jamia Millia Islamia.Akram Khan, Haider’s lawyer, said UAPA has not been invoked against any particular individual. He said it has been added to the FIR against all accused. “We got to know about this yesterday and will soon take appropriate legal action on the matter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/2-jamia-students-booked-under-uapa-in-riots-case/story-w5TkGNyeXavRUAzSsy5OOO.html
22-04-2020||Noida||Bedlam at Gzb border after closure, Noida also sealed to curb Covid-19 infections||Hundreds of people, including those involved in essential services, were stuck on the border with Delhi on Tuesday morning after the Ghaziabad district magistrate (DM) issued an order to seal all borders to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Gautam Budh Nagar too followed suit on Tuesday evening, and sealed its borders with the national capital, claiming that those who travel to and from Delhi were more susceptible to the virus. The order was issued under the National Disaster Act 2005 and came in force with immediate effects. “The order has been passed to contain the spread of Covid-19. People involved in essential services will be provided passes by the concerned officials,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate, Gautam Budh Nagar.According to data released by the district’s health department on Tuesday, three Noida patients contracted the disease in Delhi, and are under treated there. The escalating situation on Tuesday forced Ghaziabad DM Ajay Shankar Pandey to go to the border, accompanied by police officers, on Tuesday afternoon.Pandey had issued the closure direction late on Monday, under provisions of the Disaster Management Act, prohibiting any travel between Ghaziabad and the national capital.The order came after at least six people in Ghaziabad, who health and district officials said had travelled to Delhi, tested positive for Covid-19.However, as a result of the directions on Monday night, hundreds of commuters were left stranded at the borders for hours on Tuesday.Doctors, transport workers and bankers were among those stuck on either sides of the border after the police refused to allow their entry or exit.“I was headed home to Raj Nagar Extension [in Ghaziabad] after night duty from my hospital. I was stuck up at UP Gate border as the police did not allow entries. From 8.30am to 11am, I was stuck, like hundreds of other people in their vehicles,” a doctor from a Delhi government hospital designated as Covid-19 facility, said.“The police did not allow me to enter, despite my producing my duty pass and ID card,” the doctor added.“I had to call up my contacts, who contacted the Ghaziabad police, after which I was allowed to leave. But all this took me about three hours to enter into Ghaziabad. The police even told me that I should stay in Delhi. I have more duties lined up on Wednesday and don’t know whether I will be able to attend to these or not,” the doctor said.Bishambhar Dayal, an employee of the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) from Sanjay Nagar in Ghaziabad, had to report for duty at 12.30pm on Tuesday and was headed to a depot at Sukhdev Vihar.“I came to the Kaushambi border, but the police did not allow me to go to Delhi. I showed them my ID card and my duty pass, but they still refused,” Dayal said.“I moved to UP Gate but the cops there too denied me passage to Delhi. So, I have informed my officers and went back home,” Dayal said.A number of ambulances carrying patients also got delayed at the border.Pradeep Jain, a senior officer working with a central public sector enterprise and resident of Ramprastha Greens in Ghaziabad’s Vaishali, said he would prefer to work from home rather than attending office in Delhi’s Vasant Vihar, if conditions at the border remained as they were on Tuesday.“I had to wait for two hours and many vehicles carrying essential items were stuck at UP Gate border. Tuesday was the second day when a few employees were directed to attend office. With these conditions prevailing, however, I would prefer to work from home,” he added.This happened despite the order stating that “people involved in essential supplies or valid pass holders will be allowed to move.”Senior government officials of the national capital told HT that the UP government did not communicate the decision to the Delhi government on time. Later in the day, to resolve the gridlock, the Delhi government sent a team of officers — led by east Delhi district magistrate Arun Kumar Mishra, to meet his Ghaziabad counterpart.The Delhi Police also apprised Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal and chief secretary Vijay Dev about the condition at the border. Joint commissioner of police (eastern range) Alok Kumar on Tuesday said the “sudden” restriction by the Ghaziabad administration had led to the severe snarls at the borders.“Senior police officers from both Ghaziabad and Delhi came to the border. We are also in touch with the Uttar Pradesh administration to ease the situation as soon as possible,” Kumar said.A Delhi Police officer deployed at the border said they deployed eight companies (around 70 personnel) at the border.The Ghaziabad police, however, claimed no one working or involved in providing essential services was stopped.“People who are not attached to any essential services are not allowed to travel to Delhi. However, while there may have been some hiccups, those attached to essential services are not being stopped,” Anshu Jain, circle officer, Indirapuram, said.The Gautam Budh Nagar district administration also meanwhile said all workers involved in essential services would have to get passes issued from the authorities concerned, in Uttar Pradesh and Delhi, to travel between the states. However, officials said the district chief medical officer will issue a list of medical professionals to the police, to ensure they are not stopped.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/bedlam-at-gzb-border-after-closure-noida-also-sealed-to-curb-infections/story-fOA4FdWutWP3lql5R2ZFzN.html
22-04-2020||City||Woman patient from Jalandhar recovers, kin fail to turn up at CMC||Even as a 70-year-old woman patient from Jalandhar, admitted to the Christian Medical College and Hospital since March 21, was declared “fully recovered” on Monday, no one from her family arrived to take her home till Tuesday evening. Hospital authorities say the outstanding medical bills of the patient amount to Rs 4.77 lakh.Dr Vineeth Jaison said the family was informed on Monday that the patient has fully recovered. “They have also been informed about the treatment expenditure as well. But no one has arrived to fulfil the discharge formalities.”He said that the patient was admitted to the intensive care unit of the hospital on March 21 and kept on ventilator. Since April 2, the family has not made any payment to the hospital, he added.TABLIGHI JAMAAT MEMBER RECOVERS IN MANSAMeanwhile, a 35-year-old woman member of Tablighi Jamaat, who was among 11 coronavirus patients in Mansa district, was discharged from the civil hospital on Tuesday after she tested negative for the second consecutive time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-patient-from-jalandhar-recovers-kin-fail-to-turn-up-at-cmc/story-ywUCK9K78vPLg8MqOcGd9O.html
22-04-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai bus conductor runs 21 km to report to work||Devidas Jaisingh Rathod, 55, is an employee of the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC). He lives in Manor, 100 km north of Mumbai. He is a conductor on a bus that runs every day from Palghar, 21 km from his home, to the central Mumbai bus depot, Dadar. These days, he is in charge of a bus that has an important job -- ferrying 25 doctors and nurses to KEM Hospital. He usually hitches a ride on trucks ferrying essentials that pass by Manor. They drop him off at Palghar. On Sunday, though, there were no trucks. So, he ran. “I could not let them down as the doctors and nurses are treating Covid-19 patients and they are my daily passengers,” said Rathod.It helped that he loves running. He runs every morning before going to work and has taken part in several marathons — both full and half. “I did not wear my uniform and kept it in a bag. I told my wife, Usha, to give me extra water bottles mixed with glucose, just to keep me hydrated. Then, wearing shorts and vests, I began to run,” he said. Upon reaching Palghar depot, he quickly freshened up and the bus, with the medical personnel, set off for Dadar. Deputy manager of Palghar depot, Nitin Chavan, later honoured Rathod in a small ceremony. Rathod reports for duty at the Palghar bus depot at 6am, his new duty time following the lockdown. The bus he is a conductor on goes from Palghar to Dadar, where KEM Hospital is situated. At 3pm, Rathod’s bus leaves Dadar and reaches Palghar at 5pm, after which he again hitches a ride to Manor.The pandemic has disrupted his daily running schedule. “Due to my emergency duty, my running practice is not possible but I will continue once the lockdown is lifted.” A commerce graduate with a conductor’s licence, Rathod joined MSRTC in 2003 after spotting an advertisement for conductors. “Even the recruitment officer was shocked. My qualification is too high for a conductor’s job, he said,” recalled Rathod. In the past, Rathod has worked as a daily wager. He and his wife, Usha, who works as a tailor, have four children: Sachin, 29, Priyanka, 27, Archana, 25, and Deepak, 21. Sachin works as a security guard and Deepak is studying printing. But the health care workers Rathod’s bus ferries everyday are likely to remind him more of his daughters. Priyanka has a post graduate degree in medicine from Nagpur University and Archana is a nurse at a civic hospital in Vakola.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-bus-conductor-runs-21-km-to-report-to-work/story-Yd1bhOAAAFp0oxn60EfBlJ.html
22-04-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Constable posted at Maha CM’s official residence tests positive||A police constable posted at Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s official residence has tested positive for coronavirus, reports PTI quoting a state official.The constable who has been found to be Covid-19 positive was posted at ‘Varsha’, the official residence allotted to Maharashtra Chief Minister, however, Uddhav stays at ‘Matoshree’, which is his family house in Bandra.“A woman constable has tested positive for Covid-19. We have hospitalised her while contact-tracing is going on,” said a senior IAS official quoted by PTI.The agency on Tuesday also reported that a male constable posted at the official residence of the leader of the opposition and former state chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, too, has tested positive.The male police constable was deployed at `Sagar’, which is the designated official residence for the leader of the opposition in the state assembly, said a senior official from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation or the BMC.“He showed some symptoms on April 12 and was admitted to a hospital since April 14. His test report has come out positive. We have removed all other police officials posted there and quarantined them,” the BMC official quoted by the agency said.Maharashtra currently has 5218 coronavirus positive patients after 552 new cases emerged on Tuesday. 251 people in the state have died so far to the disease including 19 on Wednesday. 12 of those who succumbed on Wednesday are from Mumbai, three from Pune, two from Thane, and one each in Sangli and Pimpri Chinchwad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-constable-posted-at-maha-cm-s-official-residence-tests-positive/story-tB4r0wJr5ZdX5JtXXWx8dN.html
22-04-2020||City||Rajpura declared as containment zone in Punjab||A day after the number of coronavirus patients in Rajpura town of the district rose to 12 with five fresh cases, the administration on Tuesday declared the town as a containment zone. Patiala deputy commissioner (DC) Kumar Amit also ordered screening of the entire population (around 2.5 lakh) of Rajpura, which is 25km from the district headquarters.The tally of positive cases in the district is now 31, with 19 cases reported from Patiala city so far. The health department has collected as many as 70 samples of primary contacts of the fresh five cases in Rajpura.On Tuesday, the DC chaired a high-level meeting of senior police and civil officials to draw a strategy to stop spread of infection in Rajpura. “The screening of the entire population of the town will be completed in next three days. All the entry and exits points of the city have been sealed to restrict movement of people,” the DC said.Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Mandeep Singh Sidhu said security has been beefed up across the town and stringent action will be taken against curfew violators.Meanwhile, Patiala civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said the reports of 19 samples taken from Rajpura came around 11pm on Monday.“The five people who tested positive are all contacts of earlier positive cases in the town,” he said. Dr Malhotra said among the latest cases, one is daughter-in-law of a 60-year-old woman, who was the first Covid-19 patient of the town. “Another one is a private doctor who attended the woman before she tested positive. We are identifying the contacts of the fresh patients,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rajpura-declared-as-containment-zone-in-punjab/story-03rhOvdmvDLz1qp5JkE4XK.html
22-04-2020||Mumbai||Virus cases cross 5K, Maharashtra brings back curbs||In a repeat of Sunday’s grim record high, Maharashtra on Tuesday reported 552 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, taking the state’s tally past 5,000 to 5,218. With the number of cases soaring in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) and the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR), the Maharashtra government on Tuesday issued an order reversing the relaxation provided in both areas. Of the new cases, 419 were recorded in Mumbai, taking the city’s tally to 3,451. The state also recorded 19 deaths on Tuesday, of which, 12 were in Mumbai, three in Pune, two in Thane and one each in Sangli and Pimpri-Chinchawad. The state’s death toll is 251. Meanwhile, even after receiving 75,000 rapid diagnostic kits to detect Covid-19 antibodies, Maharashtra may have to wait longer. The India Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has instructed states that are conducting the tests to wait for two days until the council issues its revised policy for running the tests. According to senior Mantralaya bureaucrats, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray was upset over the reports of crowding and traffic jams after the lockdown was relaxed on Monday, which prompted the state to reverse its orders. Thackeray, during his address via Facebook Live on Sunday, had indicated that the relaxation could be rolled back if people do not adhere to social distancing norms.The order issued by the state disallows private building construction activities, the opening of farsan, sweet and confectionery shops, and opening up of IT companies with 50% staff. The relaxation provided by the government will be implemented elsewhere in the state. With the new order, private building construction in MMR and PMR will be halted again. Courier services, cold storage and warehousing services at ports and airports have been disallowed, take-away and home delivery of food from restaurants will not be allowed.Besides that, ongoing pre-monsoon work carried out by the civic bodies along with the construction work on infrastructure projects in the regions will also stop till further notice, state officials said. “The chief minister was upset after traffic jams were seen on Monday. Therefore, for now, all activities, including pre-monsoon work, construction of infrastructure projects have been stopped. We will take a review on it and decide in a day or two as we cannot delay pre-monsoon work,” a senior official said.The two regions — MMR and PMR — have the maximum number of Covid-19 cases in the state. MMR recording 4,077 cases and 169 deaths, and PMR recording 754 cases and 59 deaths.The order issued by chief secretary Ajoy Mehta stated, “In view of large number of people commuting because of relaxation issued vide order dated 17 April, 2020 and also imminent threat of further pandemic it is hereby directed that in MMR and PMR area the previous orders will not apply.” It also clarified that e-commerce companies, the vehicles used by e-commerce operators, will be allowed to ply with the necessary permission. E-commerce delivery of essential commodities, food, pharmaceuticals and medical equipment would be permitted.The state government, which had earlier curbed door-to-door delivery of newspapers, allowed it in the same order on Tuesday. However, the door-to-door delivery will not be allowed in MMR and PMR, the order state. Elsewhere, the delivery person will have to adhere to social distancing measures, wear a mask, use sanitiser.In a meeting held via video conferencing, Thackeray told the two inter-ministerial central teams that have been dispatched to Mumbai and Pune that Centre should take a call regarding sending the migrant labourers back to their home states. “The chief minister took up the issue of migrant labourers as the situation was getting difficult. There are around 6 lakh migrant labourers in Maharashtra, and on occasions, some have taken an aggressive stance at the relief camps. The CM has said that they should be taken to their home states in an organised manner and a decision should be taken at the earliest,” an official who was present in the meeting said.A statement from the CMO said, “If the Centre has a projection that there could be a spike in the spread of the coronavirus between April 30 and May 15, then the Centre should take a decision to arrange special trains to take the migrant labourers to their home state in the time available.” It added that guidelines should be formulated before the end of April. An official also said that the CM raised the issue regarding the rapid testing kits. Thackeray asked the team that the Centre should take quick decisions on providing testing kits to the state. The two teams met the officials of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) over their action and preparedness to tackle the rising number of cases in the two cities. The team led by Manoj Joshi, additional secretary ministry of food processing, visited Worli-Koliwada area on Tuesday for an on-spot inspection of the containment area. The BMC ward has the highest number of cases in the city with over 425 Covid-19 cases. Another team led by Sanjay Malhotra, additional secretary, ministry of power, visited PMC and held a meeting with the divisional commissioner and other senior district officials.A senior Mantralaya bureaucrat said that the team that visited Mumbai raised concern over the high mortality rate in the city. Mumbai has recorded 151 deaths. Besides, in the discussion, they raised a point about the high death rate in the city. They have also raised an issue that containment in certain areas such as Dharavi in the city has not been followed strictly,” the official said requesting anonymity. The team is expected to remain in the two cities for another day for a round of discussion and on-spot visits.Meanwhile, Maharashtra has conducted 83,111 coronavirus tests so far, of which 77,638 has tested negative, while 5,218 have tested positive. To date 722 people have recovered in the state. In Maharashtra, 99,569 are under home quarantine, while 7,808 are at institutional quarantine facilities.According to experts, cases will further rise in the state as we are in the middle of the epidemic curve and because of better surveillance, more asymptomatic patients are getting diagnosed.“The first case in the state was reported in the second week of March. The incubation period of the virus is 14 days. Thus, we are exactly at the blooming time of the virus when gradually the epidemic graph will rise to its highest,” said Anup Kumar Yadav, commissioner (family welfare) and director, National Health Mission, Maharashtra. “Then will fall flat like a plateau and gradually deprecate. This is the nature of any outbreak,” he added.Officials also opined that owing to rising number of tests in the state, more patients are getting diagnosed. “We have narrowed down the testing procedures. Now, more number of high-risk people like cancer, tuberculosis or kidney patients, among others, are getting tested from containment zones. People might panick because of the rising number, but it is because of better surveillance,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC.A similar trend was noticed in China, Italy and Iran, where in the second month of infection, highest number of Covid-19 cases were recorded.On Tuesday, BMC issued a circular where they have decided to do household surveillance to identify people above the age of 60 years with comorbid health issues. “We are being criticised for narrowing down the testing procedures, but with the same kits, we are able to run diagnoses on vulnerable group of people, which will add to the data of cases, but it will help curb spread,” added Kakani.With the inclusion of rapid and pool testing, the number of cases will rise further, warns an expert. “A surge in number of cases means detection rate is high. Almost 70% of these patients are asymptomatic, which means most of these are contact tracing. There is no need for panic,” said Dr Om Srivastava, a city epidemiologist and part of the task force of the state government.The state government was supposed to start rapid testing from Wednesday, but as per the new directives, will have to wait for two more days. “We will abide by the rules of ICMR,” said Yadav.The Indian government recently procured 5.5 lakh rapid diagnostic kits from China. Out of this, Maharashtra, India’s worst-hit state, has got 75,000 kits. Rajasthan, Jharkhand and Chattisgarh are among states that have started using the tests.“We had got the green light from experts and we have already procured the kits. We will first test in Covid-19 hotspots to find out asymptomatic patients,” said Anup Kumar Yadav, The rapid testing kits, through which blood samples are tested, were aimed at speeding up screening and detection of suspected coronavirus patients as they take less time to show results in comparison to the swab-based tests carried out in pathology labs. When a person contracts Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, the body starts developing antibodies. In the first week, IgM antibodies [first antibodies produced in response to an antigenic challenge] are produced and gradually, IgG antibodies [the most abundant type of antibody] start growing, which remain in the body for almost a month. “So, depending on the types of antibodies and their concentration, we can estimate if the person is in the early stage of infection or in the stage of recovery,” said Dr Lancelot Pinto, an epidemiologist from Hinduja Hospital.But these rapid tests are not for diagnosis at an individual level and often provide false positive reports. According to the World Health Organization (WHO), in some cases, antibodies are not produced in the bodies of patients carrying the Covid-19 pathogens when they get tested within the window period. Thus the world health body issued an advisory stating, “WHO doesn’t currently recommend the use of antigen-rapid diagnostic tests for patient care.”As HT reported on Monday, due to the same discrepancy in experts’ opinions about the efficiency of the diagnosis, the state health department was confused about its implementation in Maharashtra. As per experts, it helps in the initial level of the outbreak in segregating the infected patients from the non-Covid population. This is mostly useful in containment zones that are more heavily infected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/virus-cases-cross-5k-maharashtra-brings-back-curbs/story-87HZlclFKqg71DbdMGgaHM.html
22-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Captain Amarinder suggests PM Modi 3-pronged strategy to bail out states||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday suggested to the Centre a three-pronged strategy to bail out the states from the Covid-19 crisis, including a 3-month special financial package and extension to the 15th Finance Commission till October 2021 for submission of its final report.In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Amarinder urged him to ask the 15h Finance Commission to review its interim report for 2020-21 in the context of the much lower revenue share for the states compared with what was expected from the earlier projections which assumed 7% growth of GDP. Noting that a zero growth scenario in GDP for India was not unlikely, he said that some analysts were projecting even negative growth. Given the likelihood of very low growth, which was expected to cause the revenue shortfall to last for the whole year, he requested the PM to direct the Finance Commission to defer the submission of its full report to October, 2021 for a realistic assessment of the likely growth of the economy over the next five years. “Nothing would be worse than getting committed to a five year revenue sharing projection based on unrealistically high growth projections,” he warned.The CM further said with the states continuing to shoulder their committed liabilities and facing new demands on relief, health infrastructure expenditure etc., it was only fair and just that the Finance Commission should be requested to recommend a Special Covid-19 Revenue Grant for the year 2020-21. He also sought an immediate 3-month special financial assistance package to enable states to handle the additional health-related expenditure and basic relief expenditure, adding that the immediate 3-month package may be adjusted against the Special Covid-19 Revenue Grant.Further noting that this grant would increase the fiscal deficit of the central government, Amarinder suggested that the same should be financed through a special borrowing programme outside the ambit of the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (FRBM) Act provisions. He also proposed increasing the deficit to make up the revenue shortfall, as was being done by other nations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-cm-captain-amarinder-suggests-pm-modi-3-pronged-strategy-to-bail-out-states/story-QlnN51ZcVFM3WllHuVCxlK.html
22-04-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s most polluted spots saw cleaner air, SAFAR’s analysis of lockdown period||Areas in Mumbai, some of which were identified as pollution hotspots, have the cleanest air quality during the lockdown period, according to an analysis published by System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) on Monday.Bandra Kurla Complex (BKC), Worli, Borivli, Bhandup, and Thane have recorded cleaner air as compared to the rest of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), according to a comparative map of air quality before and during the lockdown period published by SAFAR. The air quality index (AQI) in these areas have ranged between 28-55, falling under the ‘good’ to ‘satisfactory’ range during the lockdown.BKC and Worli, which were two of the most polluted sites before the lockdown, and generally witness heavy road traffic, witnessed the highest decline in transport pollution, SAFAR said, adding that presence of green cover across Borivli, Bhandup, and Thane further improved air quality along with a decrease in other human-induced sources.“The most striking factor from our analysis shows that areas that used to be air pollution hotspots in the MMR have become green zones (air pollution free) after the lockdown began,” said Gufran Beig, director, SAFAR under the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM), Pune. SAFAR analysed pollutant concentration for PM2.5 pollutant – breathable particulate matter 2.5 microns in size or smaller; PM10 (larger coarser particles), and nitrogen dioxide (NO2) emissions from burning coal and oil.“When major anthropogenic emission sources reduced in Mumbai, our analysis showed a 60% decline in NO2 levels; 49% for PM10, and a 45% drop in PM2.5. With rising temperatures and dust settling closer to the surface, air pollution levels are mostly in the ‘moderate’ to ‘poor’ category during this time of the year, which is not the case during the lockdown,” said Beig.Prior to the lockdown, pollutant concentration was significantly above the safe limit across northwestern and central suburbs such as Malad, Madh and Andheri; isolated areas across central and south Mumbai such as BKC, Worli and Mazgaon, as well as Nerul, Navi Mumbai, and peripheral areas. AQI levels ranged between 181 and 243, falling under the ‘moderate’ to ‘poor’ categories. Before the lockdown, the AQI was above 300 (very poor) at Nerul, which witnesses high vehicular pollution and industrial production.On Monday, Mumbai recorded its cleanest air day so far this year, with an overall AQI of 61 (satisfactory). The AQI has been ranging between 62 and 65 between Friday and Sunday. Earlier, the AQI was lowest on March 22 (Janta Curfew) at 65, after which levels ranged between 70 and 85 from March 23 onwards till the first week of April. The AQI on Tuesday was 63, continuing under the ‘satisfactory’ category.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-most-polluted-spots-saw-cleaner-air-safar-s-analysis-of-lockdown-period/story-HcTtogVhnlj4457NK77rLN.html
22-04-2020||Chandigarh||Wheat lifting picks up pace in Haryana||Haryana government on Tuesday said that 1.82 lakh MT of wheat was procured from 16,546 farmers at different purchase centres across the state.As per the claims of the government, the procurement on the second day picked up pace even as the commission agents in certain districts, including Jind, Bhiwani, Rewari and Rohtak, refused to participate in the procurement process. In Karnal district and adjoining areas, commission agents held a protest in support of their demands. They have been mounting pressure on the government to revert to old procurement method, a demand that the state government has dubbed as ‘unreasonable’.According to Sanjeev Kaushal, additional chief secretary, agriculture and farmers’ welfare, 2.84 lakh MT of wheat has been procured from 25,559 farmers in the state since Monday, when the wheat procurement began.On Tuesday, the government procured 23,934 MT of mustard from 8,318 farmers at 163 purchase centres. So far, the government has procured a total of 1.5 lakh MT of mustard from 55,391 farmers.Arhtiyas stage protest in KarnalMeanwhile, arhtiyas in Karnal held a protest and accused the officials of not allowing farmers to bring their produce to the mandis. They also threatened to declare an indefinite strike. In Indri grain market too, commission agents launched an agitation, accusing the officials of adopting ‘pick and choose’ formula in calling farmers for bringing wheat to the mandis.However, there was no major impact on the procurement operations in the district.Officials involved in the procurement process said the commission agents were protesting against the transparency in procurement and steps such as e-kharid system.Karnal DC Nishant Yadav said, “Most of the issues raised by the commission agents have been sorted out, but we cannot allow the farmers of Uttar Pradesh to sell their produce in our mandis as procuring the produce of local farmers is our priority.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/wheat-lifting-picks-up-pace-in-haryana/story-O6w0rm317smv35MEm7WM5M.html
22-04-2020||Lucknow||Leopard rescued from Goverdhan area in Mathura||In a 10-hour long joint operation carried out by the Wildlife SOS and the UP forest department, an adult male leopard was rescued from Govardhan area in Mathura district. The leopard was later released in the Shivalik forest range in Saharanpur.On Monday morning, residents of Govardhan, Mathura, spotted a leopard roaming right in the middle of the town. They immediately reported the matter to the forest department and Agra based NGO Wildlife SOS. Equipped with safety nets, a trap cage and personal protective equipment ((PPE), to carry out the rescue mission, an eight-member team from Wildlife SOS reached the location accompanied by a team of forest officers and they approached the leopard by using food bait to lure it into a trap cage.Assistant director - Veterinary and Research, Wildlife SOS, Dr Yaduraj Khadpekar said, “We set up safety nets around the area and placed two trap cages on both ends of the culvert. Rescue operations involving leopards can be dangerous and need careful planning in order to ensure the safety of the animal as well as of the people. After a nearly ten hour long wait, the leopard finally walked into one of the cages.”The leopard was carefully transferred to Saharanpur by the forest department and Wildlife SOS team, where it was released in the Shivalik forest range on Tuesday.Co-founder and CEO Wildlife SOS, Kartick Satyanarayan said, “The depletion of the leopards natural prey base and habitat due to encroachment and deforestation is forcing them to seek out easily available prey such as poultry and livestock in human settlements. This often leads to human-wild animal conflicts which have violent and brutal consequences for both humans and wildlife. Wildlife SOS works closely with the dorest department to carry out various rescue operations across the state.”Raghunath Mishra, DFO, Mathura, said, “As soon as we received information about the leopard we deployed our team of forest officers for the location. We also requested Etawah Lion safari and Wildlife SOS teams to reach the spot along with their respective trap cages for the rescue operation. We are grateful to the Wildlife SOS team for their expert assistance.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/leopard-rescued-from-goverdhan-area-in-mathura/story-aAigbGstBxOn08zLpq9joN.html
22-04-2020||City||9-kg heroin seizure: SAD ex-sarpanch among 4 booked; two arrested in Amritsar||Police on Tuesday booked four persons, including a former sarpanch, in connection with the recovery of 9kg heroin that was seized by the Border Security Force (BSF) from across the fence at the India-Pakistan border in Amritsar district on Thursday. The former sarpanch of Noorowal village in Ajnala subdivision, who owes allegiance to the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), has been identified as Mandeep Singh. The other three accused are Surjit Singh, Tarsem Singh and Manga Singh of Dhupsari village. Police have arrested two of the four accused—Tarsem and Manga—while raids were being conducted to nab the two others. The personnel of 22 Battalion of the BSF had seized the contraband on Thursday during a search operation near Buraj village falling under Ajnala subdivision. Investigation officer said sub-inspector (SI) Sukhjinder Singh said Mandeep is the kingpin of the peddlers gang.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/9-kg-heroin-seizure-sad-ex-sarpanch-among-4-booked-two-arrested-in-amritsar/story-wZxvE1L3Vx7pDQzsUDFyVI.html
22-04-2020||Lucknow||Rain adds to woes of Rabi harvesters||Even as welcome showers in the last 24 hours brought down temperatures in more than half the districts of the state, UP farmers were faced by another challenge: how to protect their Rabi crop.Farmers, now harvesting wheat, mustard and pulses, are facing labour shortage and absence of transport facilities due to the nation-wide lockdown imposed to contain the Covid-19 outbreak.“My wheat harvest on two-acre land was drenched in the rain last night. This has delayed wheat husking (removing the wheat grain from the husk). The process requires wheat to be dry. If it rains in the next two days, I will be in big trouble,” said Surat Ram Verma, a farmer in Malihabad, Lucknow.Manoj Yadav, a farmer in Rae Bareli district fears the loss of his mustard harvest due to the rain. “The mustard seeds fell from the pod and got mixed with soil. This has made it impossible to recover them. I have lost around half my produce,” Yadav said.According to experts, rain at this time of the year is not a new phenomenon and occurs almost every year but the delay in harvest caused by the lockdown has made the rain this year doubly painful for farmers. “Farmers had to delay harvesting by an average of eight days due to the lockdown. This left them very little time to finish harvesting before the rain hit them,” said Surendra Khetrapal, a Lucknow-based agriculture expert.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/rain-adds-to-woes-of-rabi-harvesters/story-uoJOkOMgcqbfyM1uojim6L.html
22-04-2020||Lucknow||UP Board evaluation process could take more than 10 days||With stress on maintaining social distancing in all walks of life to keep COVID-19 spread in check, the UP Board’s evaluation process is expected to extend well beyond the earlier fixed 10 days.Board officials believe that undertaking the evaluation process— that could well start from April 25 if the government gives its go ahead —by ensuring 2 metre distance between evaluators at all evaluation centers, the process could take anywhere between 15 to 20 days.Though tightlipped on any matter related to evaluation process as they await instructions from the state government, the officials said preparations were in place to start off the evaluation process from April 25 if the green signal comes from the state government.From April 20, the UP Board headquarters and regional offices witnessed one third of the staff and officials reporting for work after a long gap.“At the moment all I can say is that we have made our offices functional with limited staff as per norm,” said UP Board secretary Neena Srivastava.The answer-sheets of class 10 and class 12 board exams held earlier this year and been sent to different districts are stored in strong rooms. In all 275 evaluation centres spread across the state have been made.“To ensure social distancing, we may be able to call lesser number of evaluators in a shift,” said a senior UP Board official. But we still hope to declare the results by June second week, he added.Another challenge in the evaluation process staring the board officials in the face is the fact that in many of the districts where the evaluation is to be held has been hit hard by COVID-19. As a result before ordering the start of the evaluation process, state of affairs in districts like Agra, Lucknow, Noida, Saharanpur and Moradabad etc would need to be done, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-board-evaluation-process-could-take-more-than-10-days/story-CepNNMlwIwPe5O9CcC8H2H.html
22-04-2020||Lucknow||UP, others urged to allow work for smooth electricity flow||The union power ministry has urged states, including UP, to give permission for carrying out activities to lay/erect transmission lines during the lockdown so that inter-state and intra-state flow of electricity continued uninterrupted.A letter written by joint secretary Tanmay Kumar to all state power secretaries, district magistrates, district police chiefs and municipal commissioners in this regard on Monday, mentions that electricity is an essential service.“Construction activities being carried out by the Power Grid Corporation of India Ltd (PGCIL) and other inter-state transmission utilities during the nation-wide lockdown must continue to ensure operation and maintenance of inter-state transmission network on 24x7 basis,” the letter says. Kumar has also referred to the union minister’s notification under which carrying out power maintenance work had been exempted from the knockdown rules.UP Power Corporation Ltd (UPPCL) sources said work on the under-construction power projects like setting up new sub-stations and laying lines was stopped in the state following the national lockdown on March 24.“But delay in the work could affect power supply in the time to come that is why the power ministry has urged all states to allow carrying out of activities related to construction and laying of lines etc,” they said, adding, “At a meeting last week, UP energy minister Shrikant Sharma also felt that there was a need to restart constriction activities in the department.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-others-urged-to-allow-work-for-smooth-electricity-flow/story-kbtaS7LetS8PidajLsOMeJ.html
22-04-2020||Delhi||Customers call delivery agent who tested positive: ‘Be strong, reach out for any help’||A food delivery rider from south Delhi who tested positive for Covid-19 said on Tuesday that he has got calls from at least 15 of his customers in the eight days he has spent in quarantine so far. “Almost every one of them spoke with warmth -- some told me to be brave, others told him not to hesitate to call them, if needed,” he said.They had got his number from their bills. Only one of them, he added, rudely accused him of “lying about test results”, said the 19-year-old who is in quarantine in a police colony in Mandawali. A food delivery rider with Box 8 and MOJO pizza -- both of which operate out of the same kitchen in south Delhi’s Malviya Nagar -- said he was initially feeling extremely guilty that he was have infected others.”But when I saw the news on my phone on Monday afternoon, I smiled,” he said. That news he was talking about was that all 16 “high-risk” people who had come in contact with him tested negative, and people from 72 households where he had delivered food over the past month were not showing any flu-like symptoms. He said that on April 13, when his coronavirus test result was positive, he was petrified.“The ground under my feet sank. I hadn’t expected it. I thought I would die. I am the youngest of three siblings, and I hadn’t even seen the world yet,” he said. He first called his manager, and then his elder brother in UP’s Ballia. His father is a farmer and his mother a homemaker. “I had moved to Delhi for some work this year. A cousin helped me get this job, and my employer provided me with a room in Savitri Nagar,” said the man, who earned a monthly salary of about ₹8,500.Sometime between March 20 and 25, he got drenched in the rain while out on delivery. He caught a cold, visited a hospital for a check-up, and was given some pills. When his condition didn’t improve, he decided to go to Safdarjung Hospital but did not get diagnosed with Covid-19.By the end of the month, he had developed a high fever. When his condition still didn’t improve, he went back to Safdarjung Hospital on April 2, but it was only during another visit on April 10, when he told the doctors he had a bad cough, was he told to go to Ram Manohar Lohia hospital for a Covid-19 test. He was first admitted to Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital in Dilshad Garden, and on Monday, moved to a three-room set in a police colony in Mandawali, where three patients are allotted one room each. He still coughs occasionally but says he is fine. I’ll try to go back to my village to my family once I am discharged.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/customers-call-delivery-agent-who-tested-positive-be-strong-reach-out-for-any-help/story-iMIXcBa1xSF8XSxk4yyYrJ.html
22-04-2020||Delhi||5-star hotels for docs only: Govt revises rules for Covid warriors||New Delhi: The Delhi government on Tuesday issued an order saying accommodation will be provided for all doctors, nurses and paramedics treating Covid-19 patients in the national capital, but in what appeared to be a clarification of a similar order last month, gave a classification of what facilities would be provided to whom.In Tuesday’s order, the government said that doctors will be put up in premium hotels, nurses and paramedics in other hotels, and support staff in dharamshalas.“Doctors will be provided four and five-star accommodations, nurses and paramedics are entitled to hotel accommodations, while supporting staff will be put up in dharamshalas,” read the order, signed by Delhi’s health secretary Padmini Singla. They are meant to be put up during a 14-day duty period, followed by a 14-day quarantine period so that they don’t pose a risk to their family members and other they might interact with.The entitlement classification comes days after at least 15 nurses and lab technicians who were in quarantine after treating Covid-19 patients for two weeks, were asked by the staff of a five-star hotel at 11.30pm to vacate their rooms on the grounds that the facility was “only for doctors”.They were staying at the Leela Ambience Convention Hotel in East Delhi during their 14-day duty period starting on April 1. This was to be followed by a 14-day quarantine at the hotel starting on April 15, but on April 18, were asked to move out and go to a guest house in Mayur Vihar. The original government order, dated March 29, said that accommodation will be provided to all doctors, nurses and paramedics treating Covid-19 patients. For this purpose, two five star hotels in Delhi were roped in. The initial order did not make any distinction on who would qualify for five-star facilities. “The hotel has formed a team of essential staff members who will follow strict protocol and take all safety precautions while fulfilling guest services. The hotel will continue to work in close coordination with the ministry of health and local government authorities, to support the extraordinary humanitarian effort of India’s health care professionals in these challenging times,” Leela Ambience Convention Hotel said in a statement on Tuesday, when asked about the incident.Friday’s incident led to at least two health care unions — representing the nurses of Guru Tegh Bahadur hospital and the Indian Medical Laboratory Technologist Federation (IMLTF) — writing to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and Delhi’s health minister Satyendar Jain to complain about how front-line health care workers were treated at a time when they were meant to be in isolation.This was followed by a second order, on Saturday, that said accommodation would be given only to those people who were treating “severely infected” patients.The order was criticised by health care teams working in coronavirus hospitals, who said that close proximity with patients puts them at higher risk and alternative lodging facility was necessary so that they do not carry the infection back to their families. It was withdrawn, and replaced with Tuesday’s order.“It is a relief that the hospitals will provide accommodation. Since we are exposed to patients who have the disease, there is a risk of carrying the virus home to families. My batch will start our 14-day duty from Wednesday,” said a nursing officer at a Delhi government hospital who did not wish to be identified.But some health care workers’ unions objected to new lodging facilities as “discriminatory”.“It is the nurses and supporting staff who are with the patient for 14-17 hours every day. But when it comes to providing decent accommodation to them, you will discriminate and provide five-star rooms only to doctors. We are not undermining anyone’s contribution in a patient’s treatment, but this bias is unacceptable,” said Jai Veer Singh, president of the Joint Federation of Nurses, a nursing staff union in Delhi-NCR.He also said the government has been issuing a different order every day, the brunt of which has to borne by health care workers.“When it started, the government announced that all doctors, nurses and paramedics will be given five-star accommodation. But when we need alternative accommodation more than anything, the government has been releasing caveats,” Singh said.Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain did not respond to several calls and text messages requesting comment.Dr Chhavi Gupta, who is in charge of accommodation of medical teams at the Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital for Covid-19 treatment, said they have roped in guest houses and a dharamshala in the area, where middle- and lower-level medical staff will now be housed.“Doctors, nurses and paramedical staff will get accommodation facilities according to their entitlement. Initially, when the order was announced to provide alternative lodging for hospital staff, we had checked them into five-star hotels, but that was a stopgap arrangement. Now we have managed to get guest houses to come on board,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/5-star-hotels-for-docs-only-govt-revises-rules-for-covid-warriors/story-UxUWUeoKOKfl2ekVb8TYiN.html
22-04-2020||City||Farmer, IT professional commit suicide in Punjab||A debt-ridden farmer and an IT professional committed suicide in two different villages of Nabha subdivision in Patiala district, police said on Tuesday. A 40-year-old farmer Gurjeet Singh allegedly killed himself by consuming a poisonous substance at Nanowal village on Tuesday. The deceased is survived by his wife, a son and a daughter.His uncle Kartar Singh said Gurjeet was under stress due to the Rs 10-lakh debt he had taken from a bank and a cooperative society. Investigation officer Mewa Singh said the matter was under investigationIn the other case, Parminder Singh, 24, a resident of Thuhi village who worked in a software company, consumed a poisonous substance on Monday morning. Parminder, who had done M Tech, died in a private hospital in Patiala on Tuesday morning. SHO Jai Inder Singh Randhawa said the reason behind the suicide could not be ascertained yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmer-it-professionalcommit-suicide-in-nabha/story-Qp7MuQQO2N6bwEnHj7eutK.html
22-04-2020||Delhi||HC writes to district courts to have plan on place for when lockdown is lifted||The Delhi high court has written to the district courts listing steps that should be taken under its “phased/graded restoration to normalcy plan”, once the lockdown is lifted, including the categorisation of urgent cases for hearing.The registrar general of the high court, Manoj Jain, on the instructions of chief justice DN Patel, has also written to the Delhi high court bar association and the bar council of Delhi chairman KC Mittal. ustice DN Patel has also constituted a committee to look into the matter.He said post the lockdown, there would be a deluge of cases, the handling of which would pose a big challenge to the justice system. Jain said it may not be practical to open the courts to everyone immediately once the lockdown is lifted.“There are more than 8 lakh cases pending in district courts and another 80,000 in the high court. Since the said number is huge, the footfall in courts would be evidently enormous, once the lockdown is lifted, partially or otherwise. Moreover, because of the suspended functioning of courts, most matters could not be filed by many advocates and litigants. Therefore the moment the courts are thrown open, it would be difficult to control the rush for the purposes of ensuring social distancing. Obviously, courts cannot be converted into hot spots,” the letter said said.Highlighting that normalcy cannot be achieved overnight, Jain said gradual expansion would be key, by listing out well-defined categories of priority cases. It should be ensured that proportionate court infrastructure is available during all these phases till restoration of complete normalcy. Jain said guidelines should be made for restricting the entry into courts and social distancing norms should be followed by all, including judges, lawyers, court staff and litigants.Guidelines should be prepared by all district courts for restricting entry into lawyers’ chambers while also ensuring that infrared thermometers, masks, gloves, sanitisers etc are available for everyone.Jain said permanent video conferencing court rooms should be prepared for holding hearings with an emphasis on e-filing, e-issuance and e-service of court notices||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/hc-writes-to-district-courts-to-have-plan-on-place-for-when-lockdown-is-lifted/story-wXs3Rtrr7WZixCDsHmCQTJ.html
22-04-2020||City||Man held for threatening to spread corona when stopped by police||Gurugram A man was arrested for allegedly threatening to spread coronavirus infection when he was flagged down by police officers for violating the lockdown orders at a traffic signal in Sector 43 on Monday. The police said the man later declared in writing that he had not contracted coronavirus, and had made the threat “in a fit of rage” after an argument with the policemen. According to the police, the incident took place Monday evening when head constable (HC), Narender, who was stationed near a mall at Kanhai traffic signal in Sector 43, noticed a car driving by and asked the driver to stop.“I asked the car driver if he had a curfew pass and where was he going. He said he did not have the requisite documents and was on his way to meet an acquaintance. When he was informed that he was violating the lockdown orders, he started arguing and threatened that he would spread coronavirus,” said HC Narender, adding the suspect later clarified that he had not contracted coronavirus, and had made the bogus threat during the heated exchange with the police.Jagbir Singh, station house officer (SHO), Sushant Lok police station, said the suspect was a resident of Sector 17 A. The suspect was booked under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of Indian Penal Code and section 51 (b) of the Disaster Management Act at Sushant Lok police station on Monday, said police. The suspect was later released on bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-held-for-threatening-to-spread-corona-when-stopped-by-police/story-wPOfgIoGwAgnDe62GbqurL.html
22-04-2020||City||45-year-old woman, suffering from mental illness, tries to jump from her 7th floor balcony||Gurugram: A 45-year-old woman, suffering from mental illness, allegedly tried to jump from the balcony of her seventh floor apartment in Sector 56 on Tuesday afternoon. The police said that the woman’s family members and her neighbours managed to convince her to not jump off. However, the fire department said that a fire official and security guard of the building entered her house and pulled her back from the balcony. According to the police, the woman has been suffering from mental illness for the past 20 years and stays with her family at the apartment. The incident took place on Tuesday around 1.30pm when the police received a phone call from a neighbour of the woman. Naresh Kumar, assistant sub-inspector, Sector 56 police station, said, “The family informed us that the woman is suffering from mental illness and was involved in a dispute with her husband who lives separately. Recently, she had stopped taking her medication too. Her son who stays with her is also suffering from a mental illness. When she tried to jump from the balcony, her family members, including father and brother, and some neighbours convinced her to not do so.” The whole incident lasted for around 20 minutes, Kumar said. The fire department said that firemen immediately reached the spot with a hydraulic fire tender.Ramesh Kumar, a fire official at Sector 29 fire station, said, “One of our officers and a security guard of the building entered the house of the woman. She was sitting on the railing of the balcony. They immediately pulled her back and rescued her. The woman was under stress due to a dispute with her husband.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/45-year-old-woman-suffering-from-mental-illness-tries-to-jump-from-her-7th-floor-balcony/story-gZlqiEe5lhXrd3vvT0wbRK.html
22-04-2020||Gurugram||Man arrested from Kanpur for killing wife||Three days after a 25-year-old man allegedly killed his wife after a heated argument, the police on Monday arrested him from Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh. According to the police, he was allegedly trying to return to his village in West Bengal amid the lockdown in the wake of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. The man allegedly went to Delhi, Noida, and Bulandshahr, before reaching Kanpur where he was nabbed by officials.The arrested man was identified as Shantanu Mohammed alias Raju from Uttar Dinajpur, West Bengal. The police said that he and his wife, Shahnaz, were living and working as cooks at a paying guesthouse in Rajiv Nagar. Subhash Boken, spokesperson, city police, said, “Shahnaz, the victim, was the man’s second wife. He had earlier gotten married in 2013 and had three children who stayed in West Bengal. He was working at a paying guest house as a cook in Rajiv Nagar. The man met Shahnaz in November 2019 through a friend and they soon started to work as cooks at the paying guest house together. In January 2020, they got married.”During the interrogation, the man informed them that soon after the wedding, they shifted to another paying guest house in Rajiv Nagar and began working there. Subsequently, he got to know that Shahnaz was already married to another man.“The couple began fighting. He repeatedly asked her to not talk to her first husband but she refused. On Friday, after another argument, he hit her on the head with a cricket bat. When the woman refused to stop talking to the first husband, the man picked up another bat and hit her several times. He then tied her body and hid her in a bed box and fled the spot after locking the room,” Boken added. According to the police, the man allegedly took a lift from a motorcycle rider and reached DLF Colony near Sector 14. Then he allegedly took a taxi and told the driver to drop him at Safdarjang Hospital, Delhi. The man allegedly roamed around for some time and then decided to go to Noida to meet some acquaintances. “He took some money from his acquaintances and a bicycle and then began travelling towards his village in West Bengal. Near Bulandshahr, Uttar Pradesh, he got a lift from a truck driver who dropped him near Kanpur where the police arrested him,” Boken said. The police said that the man had allegedly stolen his wife’s mobile phone after the incident. He broke it and threw it away near the Yamuna Expressway in Uttar Pradesh. A case was registered against him under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Sector 14 police station on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/man-arrested-from-kanpur-for-killing-wife/story-0X76xJ77TIURTwwYW3hHrO.html
22-04-2020||Gurugram||Parents write to CM over school fee||Over 1000 parents of students in the city’s schools wrote to the chief minister with a charger of 10 demands regarding fee, which, they say, were unreasonable during the lockdown imposed to contain Covid-19.The letter, also addressed to Gurugram deputy commissioner Amit Khatri sought a waiver of “unreasonable fee” being charged by schools under various budget heads. Parents want the government to ensure that only essential component of the tuition fee is charged and parents are not pressured to pay a fee hike and additional charges.“Even in the current situation, private schools have not hesitated to increase the fee. Fee revision is between 7-10%. Many parents have written to the schools but schools have been reluctant to respond,” stated the mail.The demands include no hike in fee in the current financial year, waiver of bus fee, extra activity fees, AC fees, light fees, and fee for services that are not being used with schools remaining closed during the lockdown. Further, parents have requested that schools may be allowed to charge only essential components of the monthly tuition fee. If schools have already collected an additional fee from parents, they must adjust the same in the tuition fee in the coming session, they demanded.Himanshu Sharma, a parent, said that parents were not insisting that schools do not charge at all, but that they should justify the fee being charged and offer concession in light of the lockdown. “Schools can collect tuition fee to pay for the salaries of teachers, but other fee components towards electricity or building funds shouldn’t be charged right now since students are not utilising these services and studying from home. Many parents are going through financial distress and are not in a situation to pay the increased fee or additional charges,” said Sharma.Last week, the district administration had said that private schools in the district could neither force parents to pay school fee nor hike fees during the lockdown. Prior to that, the state education department had said that private schools in the state could collect a monthly fee from parents, only if their financial condition allowed them. The department had also said that parents facing financial distress due to the lockdown could not be forced to pay the monthly fee and could seek relaxation from schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/parents-write-to-cm-over-school-fee/story-sHBWyUHrRZrJGHps4xqIXJ.html
22-04-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram hotel raid: Police appoint cyber expert to retrieve data||Three days after the police raided a luxury hotel in Udyog Vihar for allegedly allowing a call-centre company to run its operations from its premises, a cyber expert was appointed to retrieve data from the devices seized from the rooms, said police officials privy to the investigation on Tuesday. Karan Goel, assistant commissioner of police(ACP), DLF, said, “A Delhi-based cyber expert has been appointed and is scanning the data in the nine devices that were seized from the rooms of Radisson hotel. He is also scanning all the five mobile phones seized to check if the company was involved in any possible scams. We are yet to confirm whether the company was involved in any kind of illegal activity,” he said.Goel said a letter was sent to the department of telecommunications (DoT) on Tuesday, asking for the cancellation of the licence of the company, Saburi TLC World Wide Service Pvt Ltd, which originally operated from Sohna Road. “They had not taken permission to operate from a different location or, for that matter, a hotel. This is illegal,” he said.Four employees of the business process outsourcing (BPO) firm and its director, along with the hotel’s director of rooms and the general manager, were arrested late on Friday night. Several others were booked after the police raided the hotel. The firm has an office in Spaze IT building on Sohna Road, but shut it down after the lockdown was announced. It had booked 35 rooms in the Radisson hotel and had shifted their operations to the hotel, said the police.Goel said they have retrieved a few emails exchanged between the hotel and the company. “Despite knowing that the company was planning to run operations illegally, the hotel allowed them to operate from the rooms and did not inform the authorities,” he said.The hotel had provided LAN cables to the rooms for the workstations of the employees and their laptops, said the police. The police had arrested seven people on Saturday including two senior executives of the hotel for allowing the call-centre company to run its call centre from the hotel despite the ongoing nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The police team raided the hotel in the early hours of Saturday following a tip-off. At that time, over 20 employees were found working in the rooms. The company director could not provide any licence to run the call centre from the hotel, the police said.Also, two women executive of the call centre recorded their statements under Section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPc) before the magistrate in the district and sessions court on late Monday evening and alleged sexual and mental harassment by their seniors, the police said.The victims alleged that there was no internal complaints committee (ICC) for redressal of complaints of the employees despite being a multinational company. Rakesh Sharma, executive director of Radisson hotel said that they had shut down the Wi-Fi connection provided to the BPO employees in all 35 rooms. “They do not have access to the internet; all the LAN connections have been disabled. On Tuesday, they have checked out of 15 rooms and rest will check out on Wednesday. The people living in the hotel now are placed under quarantine,” he said. Despite repeated calls and messages to Anuj Jain, director of Saburi TLC World Wide Service Pvt Ltd , he did not respond.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-hotel-raid-police-appoint-cyber-expert-to-retrieve-data/story-4pBJLUCrtQgmu7mJlrqnbK.html
22-04-2020||Gurugram||Covid-19: Migrants in Gurugram make do with one meal a day during lockdown||As the clock strikes 2pm, a crowd starts gathering near a tent in a slum cluster in Saraswati Kunj, Sector 53. People, mostly migrant workers, rendered unemployed due to the nationwide lockdown, call out to their children and rush from their shanties, lining up to collect a meal of pooris and sabzi. Adults take their plates—four pooris with sabzi—while children are given two pooris each. A woman pleads for a second helping but is rebuked by the relief volunteer handing out food at the bhandara. For a majority of slum residents, this is perhaps the only meal they will eat this day.Almost a week ago, about a kilometre from here, a migrant from Bihar who worked as a painter had killed himself as he was unable to feed his family of seven. A few hours before his death, he had sold his mobile phone for ₹2,500 to purchase some ration and a portable fan. Struggling to find work, he had hanged himself in his shanty.To many others living in slum clusters across the city, the ongoing national lockdown has dealt a severe blow. Most people are going through food distress that has been exacerbated by the drying up of wages. Hindustan Times visited three areas across the city—Saraswati Kunj in Sector 53, Nathupur near DLF phase 3 and Chakkarpur near MG Road— where the migrant population from Bihar, Madhya Pradesh and West Bengal is staying and found that most people were surviving on the bare minimum. While some residents say that they have not received any food or ration from the administration since the lockdown started, others are surviving on one meal a day served by volunteers from the village or NGOs.Saraswati Kunj clustersTabrej Alam, a labourer from Bihar’s Supaul district, has been surviving on one meal a day distributed by volunteers in Saraswati Kunj, where he lives. Alam says that he, like many others in the cluster, have not received any help from the government. “When the lockdown started, we could no longer work and earn. We spent whatever little ₹100-200 that we had on food in the initial days. Once our savings dried up, we could no longer sustain ourselves. Since then, we have been surviving on the food (pooris) that we are served once a day,” Alam says.He says that most workers living in the slums are migrants from various districts of Bihar, such as Supaul, Siwan, Araria and Purnia. They are stuck due to the lockdown restrictions and lack of transport. According to him, people cannot even go to vegetable shops within a kilometre.The closest food disbursal point for the residents of Saraswati Kunj is the Community Centre in Sector 56. Jarul Shaikh from West Bengal’s Nadia district, who lives in one of the clusters in Saraswati Kunj, says that on multiple occasions, he and others have been turned away from the district administration’s food disbursal facility in Sector 56 after waiting in the queue for hours. “One time, we waited for two hours in the queue. Before our turn could come, the distributors announced that there was no more rice and asked us to come back after two days. When we returned after two days, we waited for two hours and again had to return empty-handed,” Shaikh, who stopped going to the facility after being turned away repeatedly, and has been surviving on meals that good Samaritans provide occasionally, says.Some metres away from Shaikh’s cluster, a group of five people sit on the ground and talk among themselves. The shortage of food figures prominently in the conversation with most of the group expressing its disdain over the dysfunctional system. “We don’t get any food here. It has been over a month now but no tangible help has been provided to us. People come to enquire about the food but it never reaches us,” Vinod Kumar says.Shamshida Khatoon, from Bihar’s Supaul district, adds that the quantity of food that is distributed is insufficient and hardly enough to satiate a day’s hunger. “Children are given two pooris while adults receive four. If one tries and takes more, food is snatched from them and given to others. People fight to get some food before it is taken,” Khatoon says, adding that she has not received any dry ration till date.NathupurAt Nathupur village, around 4pm, scores of people throng a table where packets of daal and rice are being distributed by a volunteer. A woman requests for a second helping for her child, but is harshly asked to return as she has already collected her meal. Binoy Sarkar from West Bengal’s North 24 Parganas, says that chances of survival look bleak if the lockdown is extended again. “We will not survive if the lockdown is extended. There is no assistance from the government. We are living at the mercy of citizens who distribute packets of khichdi once a day,” Sarkar says. He adds that a school headmaster had distributed ration (5 kg flour, 1-litre oil, and 1 kg potato) to each of them in the first week of the lockdown, but with the supplies running low, survival has become a challenge.Hassan Vishwas, another resident at the same shelter, says that he had no food or money and was worried about the days ahead. “My wife used to work as a domestic help but was asked not to come. Both of us don’t have any work now. A school headmaster has been helping us with a one-time meal of khichdi,” says Vishwas. He says that he was hoping that someone from his home state might have written to the administration here for help. “We had heard this on TV, but so far, no help has reached us,” he added.ChakkarpurResidents of Chakkarpur say that ration delivery has been minimal and inconsistent. Rubina (who goes by her first name) from West Bengal’s Malda district, says that she has received ration twice in 25 days—it has not been enough. “They keep noting down our names on various lists but ration doesn’t reach us. Last week, when they came to distribute ration, the crowd became difficult to control and food was over in a matter of minutes,” Rubina says. She adds that on two occasions, cooked food packets distributed by individuals had turned stale because of the weather. “Food turns bad in this weather. Dry ration could help us but it is hardly distributed,” she says, adding that she has borrowed money from relatives to purchase ration for a few days.Hamida, another woman, says that for migrants like her, there seems to be no light at the end of the tunnel. “We are poor labourers. Neither can we go back to our villages nor can we work here. Along with our children, we are surviving on one meal a day, for which we have to beg. The government has not helped us in any way. We roam within a periphery of half a kilometre, surviving on water,” she says.Government response Varinder Singh Kundu, the additional chief secretary of Haryana and CEO, Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority, says that the administration is coordinating the efforts of large groups working towards alleviating hunger among the needy. “In all distribution centres, meals are provided twice a day and there is a constant effort to match the requirements with the supply. We try to send an adequate supply to all centres,” Kundu says.As per a list shared by the district administration on April 10 there are 69 relief centres in the district where food is being provided. These include the MCG’s community centres and government schools. The nodal officer for food distribution in the city, Vivek Kalia, says that 35 teams have been formed to handle food distribution across the city, adding that the government is working in tandem with private organisations/initiatives such as Gurgaon Nagrik Ekta Manch and Janta Rasoi, who are handling certain areas, and the administration is avoiding duplication in the same areas. “Besides government officials, each ward has volunteers involved in food distribution. We are sourcing around 1.2 lakh meals a day from 15 private firms and individuals,” Kalia says.He adds that while it is easier to identify slum clusters, it is crucial to identify lower-income families living in various colonies, who are hesitant to seek help. “These are unprecedented times and we have to fight as one collective unit. Residents should also help us in reaching those in distress,” Kalia says.Kundu says that some NGOs have exhausted their resources and the government is supplying ration to these NGOs to cook and distribute among the poor. He says that the administration is cognizant of the fact that people need to be taken care of till the lockdown is lifted, and it is working on implementing a system that works in the long run. “We are making the effort of covering the maximum number of people possible through distribution centres. Besides that, we are also responding to requests that we receive on the helpline or via social media channels. In a city with such a large workforce scattered in different areas, 100% coverage is not easy,” Kundu says.He adds that the government is working towards distributing dry ration to families through PDS shops and other points against their Aadhar cards. “There will be a record of the families that receive monthly ration through this system and we will be able to avoid duplication. The survey began on Sunday, and once we have the details, we will be able to issue dry ration tokens. People will be able to collect ration against the tokens,” Kundu says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-migrants-make-do-with-one-meal-a-day/story-SwUYXJYL0xHlbof0liNDDO.html
22-04-2020||Noida||Covid-19: Delhi-Gautam Budh Nagar borders sealed to curb coronavirus spread||The district magistrate of Gautam Budh Nagar has passed an order to seal the Delhi-GB Nagar borders as a precautionary measure to control the spread of Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the district. The order, which states said that the source of infection for many Covid-19 patients in the district was their link with Delhi, comes a day after Ghaziabad sealed all its borders with the national Capital for the same reason. The order was issued under the National Disaster Act 2005 and came in force with immediate effect. The decision was taken based on a report submitted by the health department which suggested that people going and coming back from Delhi increases the chances of spreading the infection in the district.According to the data released by the health department on Tuesday, three Noida patients had contracted the disease in Delhi and were being treated there. Light and heavy vehicles carrying essential goods will be allowed to enter, but anybody trying to smuggle people inside UP from Delhi will face strict legal action. Ambulance services will not be stopped at any point, the order stated. GB Nagar chief medical officer will provide to the police a list of medical experts so they can be allowed to cross the borders without any hassle.The district magistrate said officers who are directly involved in Covid containment measures will have to get passes made by authorities concerned in Delhi and UP governments. Officials attached with the Central government will have to show permission passes granted by the Home ministry; media persons will get passes from the district administration or Noida police for movement between Delhi and Noida.“The order was passed to contain the spread of Covid-19. People involved in essential services will be provided passes by the officials concerned,” district magistrate Suhas LY said. On Tuesday, GB Nagar chief medical officer had also passed an order for all private hospitals, nursing homes and clinics stating that if any of their patients tests Covid positive during the treatment then they have to treat them. The order, however, was withheld after Indian Medical Association, Noida president, Dr NK Sharma raised concern. A new order would soon be passed with amendments. “All the hospital can’t cater to COVID-19 patients because it will worsen the situation in GB Nagar like it happened in Italy and other places where the outbreak has been massive. All the hospitals can’t be infected because it will hamper the whole health facility system. It will also harm adversely other regular patients undergoing treatment. The DM and CMO have assured that the order will be amended keeping our suggestion in mind and it has been put on hold,” Dr Sharma said. A recent assessment by the state government had said the lockdown results were “unsatisfactory” in 40 of the 75 districts and called for stricter enforcement of restrictions.The “unsatisfactory” category included capital Lucknow, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Ghaziabad, Bulandshahr, Allahabad, Varanasi and Kanpur. The 35 districts falling under satisfactory category included Aligarh, Etah, Hathras, Kasganj, Pilibhit, Shahjahanpur and Hardoi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/delhi-gb-nagar-borders-sealed/story-GCKONrLS8u7zLLu0ciBdXO.html
22-04-2020||Chandigarh||Utility, repair services allowed in Chandigarh||No fresh case of Covid-19 was reported in Chandigarh on Tuesday even as the administration, facing flak for declaring the entire city a containment zone, loosened some restrictions to allow electricians, plumbers and air-conditioner (AC) mechanics to visit clients’ homes. The Covid-19 count in the city stands at 27 with 13 active cases as 14 patients have recovered and no fatalities have been reported.Allowing utility services will come as a big relief to residents under curfew for about a month. To this end, a list of electricians and plumbers, AC mechanics authorised to work across the city is available at the administration websites, www.chandigarh.gov.in and www.chdcovid19.in.The entire city has been divided into six zones with service providers selected for each.A spokesperson of the administration clarified that this was paid, private service with charges to be mutually settled.SERVICE PROVIDERS NOT TO BE TESTEDThis is for the first time in more than a month since the curfew was imposed that outsiders were being allowed to enter residents’ homes.Stating that the service providers would not be tested, UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida, said, “Sanitisation and screening of these people will be done.”As per testing protocol, however, people with symptoms or those who have come in contact with patients can be tested, he added.The administration has directed all the technicians to use facemasks, hand sanitisers and gloves, and strictly adhere to social distancing norms while attending the complaints.BADNORE: INVOLVE VOLUNTEERSMeanwhile in his daily review meeting, Punjab governor and UT Administrator VPS Badnore directed the UT adviser to involve representatives and volunteers to effectively oversee sealing of colonies and other areas and enforce social distancing.Badnore stated that the guidelines regarding volunteer training and utilisation, as given by the Central Government in igot.gov.in, should be circulated.The administrator said areas being specifically sealed due to the Covid-19 outbreak should be provided with doorstep delivery of vegetables and ration.About 1,700 families are living in two sealed pockets, Dhanas Kachi Colony and Sector 30B, which were sealed after four positive cases were reported last week. Only single entry-exit points are allowed in these areas, and all movement is prohibited except for essential commodities.The administration is providing door-to-door essential services here. On Tuesday, ration was distributed in Kachi colony.The health department is also undertaking intensive door-to-door screening in these areas.BOX50% BANK BRANCHES TO OPEN ON ALTERNATIVE DAYSThe administration on Tuesday also allowed banks to open branches for public dealing on alternative days with 50% staff present. ATM operations will be operational and bank correspondents (authorised representatives) available daily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/utility-repair-services-allowed-in-chandigarh/story-FVc7Q0P6y9Tvqb9bmQ2TTK.html
22-04-2020||Chandigarh||How timely action, strict vigil helped these 3 Haryana districts in keeping virus at bay||Strict vigil and extra caution seem to have so far helped three districts of Haryana — Jhajjar, Rewari and Mahendergarh — in steering clear of Covid-19, despite their proximity to coronavirus hotspots in Delhi and Rajasthan. It was in the second week of March, even before the virus began to spread its tentacles in Haryana, when the local administrations and residents started gearing up and joined hands to seal borders, implement ‘thikri pehra’ (patrolling by people) in rural and urban areas, restrict movement of people and focus on social distancing. The result: These three districts managed to remain Covid-free so far. Situated right on the border of Delhi, Haryana’s Jhajjar faced the immediate threat from the national capital as well as Gurugram. “We not only sealed all borders with Delhi, but also secured interstate perimeters. There, our police and health teams — equipped with thermal scanners — kept tabs on each and every person’s entry and exit, noting down their details. We took prompt actions and kept track of Jhajjar residents’ visits to any place (such as Delhi) from where positive cases were being reported,” Jhajjar deputy commissioner (DC) Jitender Singh said.The district also had 52 people with Tablighi links, who were immediately quarantined and tested. “Nobody was found infected,” he added. The administration, with the help of industrial houses, wholesalers and milk suppliers, formed groups and ensured minimum movement of people as well as provision of food, shelter and other essentials to about 65,000 industrial and 56,000 brick-kiln workers in the district. Rewari, too, faced a direct threat of virus spread as its borders touch Gurugram as well as Rajasthan, both Covid-19 hotspots. “Rewari of Haryana and Bhiwadi of Rajasthan have several villages which share their boundaries with each other,” Rewari DC Yashendra Singh said, adding that it was also interesting to note that some of the positive cases from neighbouring district Bhiwadi came to Rewari’s village health centres for treatment. We declared those areas containment zones and also tested all health staffers, he added. Quick quiz on corona came in handyApart from round-the-clock screening on 21 entry and exit points, the Rewari administration focused on awareness and ‘thikri pehras’ in urban and rural areas. The DC said though uncertainty loomed large over exams, all private and government schools were asked to advise their students to come prepared for questions on ‘Covid-19 – Causes, Symptoms and Prevention’. “This exercise acted as an awareness drive, which worked well for students as well as their parents,” he added. Several officials and residents of Mahendergarh with whom HT spoke to also cited constant fear they faced due to their proximity with Rajasthan. It was, thus, imperative to effectively seal all three borders the district shared with the neighbouring state before it was too late, they said. Mahendergarh DC Jagdish Sharma explained how they decongested the crowded areas, shifted main grain markets of Nangal Chaudhary, Mahendergarh and Narnaul out of the city limits and even scattered a few others. “There also were 82 people who had returned from abroad. All of them as well as their contacts were quarantined well in time,” he said, while appreciating the ‘exemplary’ cooperation of locals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/how-timely-action-strict-vigil-helped-these-3-haryana-districts-in-keeping-virus-at-bay/story-QRPIo6OR4V5CFCqZuXkO1M.html
22-04-2020||City||Netizens protest FIRs against journalists in Kashmir||A day after three journalists working in Kashmir were booked for reportedly posting ‘anti-national’ content on their social media and publishing a fake news story, support poured in from netizens.A Srinagar-based freelance photojournalist was booked by the cyber cell of the J&K Police under Section 13 of the UA (P) Act and 505 of the IPC at Cyber police station in Srinagar for allegedly uploading “anti-national posts with criminal intention to induce the youth and promote offences against tranquillity.”In another case, senior journalist was booked for allegedly publishing fake news. In the third case, a freelance journalist-cum-author was booked for alleged misuse of his social media and indulging in ‘unlawful activities’ through his posts and writings. “The details quoted in the news item were factually incorrect and could cause fear or alarm in the minds of public. The news was published without seeking confirmation from the district authorities,” a J&K police release read.After the news was out, the social media was abuzz with pictures and statements demanding withdrawal of FIRs against the journalists and stopping their harassment. Netizens have also started hashtags for the cause.A veteran journalist tweeted, “Appalled to know that the photojournalist has been booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act.”“Muzzling the press is the norm now. Even politicians and leaders, who were among the first to retweet her pictures are silent today,” wrote another journalist working for a Hindi TV channel.“The photojournalist has honestly told stories of Kashmir. Invoking UAPA is outrageous. In solidarity with our colleague, we demand the FIR to be withdrawn. Journalism isn’t crime. Intimidation/censorship won’t silence Kashmir’s journalists,” posted a Kashmir-based journalist on his Facebook page.CPI (M) leader Mohammad Yousuf Tarigami has opposed registering of the FIRs, saying that it is an unwarranted act intended to suppress freedom of press.The Kashmir Press Club said that the J&K government and the police need to understand the difference between journalism and cyber crime.“While government has every right to rebut a story of a journalist and allow them to respond, cases against journalists are unwarranted and outright illegal,” they stated.IGP Kashmir has appealed to the media to not publish fake or fabricated news as it can have a bearing on national security.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/netizens-protest-firs-against-journalists-in-kashmir/story-WY9L5GTEUtEP3UxyuMbcQP.html
22-04-2020||Delhi||Some cheer: Delhi’s coronavirus recovery count 500+||The number of people who beat the Covid-19 infection in the city crossed the 500-mark on Tuesday, with 180 people in Delhi recovering on Tuesday, as per the daily health bulletin. As many as 611 of the total 2,156 infected in the city have recovered so far, according to the Delhi government data.The number of people who recovered on Tuesday was more than double — 75 — the number of people who were diagnosed with Covid-19.For the first time in around two weeks, zero deaths were recorded in Delhi. So far, 47 people have died of the infection in the city. Most of them — 53.2% — are 60 years of age or older. Almost 83% of those who died had comorbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, heart or kidney disease.For two days now, Delhi has recorded fewer than 80 cases. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had said that the city is ready to treat up to 30,000 active cases at a go. On Tuesday, many of the patients admitted to the two dedicated Covid-19 hospitals — Lok Nayak and Rajiv Gandhi Superspeciality hospitals — were moved to ‘Covid Care Centres’ as they either had very mild or no symptoms. Around 772 are admitted to these centres.Of the 513 still admitted to hospitals, 27 were in the intensive care unit, with five on ventilator support.Designated as Covid Health Centre, Delhi government has involved the Ayurvedic hospital Chaudhary Brahma Prakash to take care of 31 patients with mild symptoms.The dedicated hospitals, care centres and health centres form the three-tier system established by the government for treating the Covid-19 patients in the city.The sample collection saw a slowdown in the city, with only 727 samples being collected on Tuesday, against roughly 2,000 samples that are usually collected daily. The data shows that 2,354 samples are yet to be processed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/75-new-cases-180-recover-as-delhi-sees-zero-deaths/story-WYfN1bGAkVeBKQcIikCwdN.html
22-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab’s 13 Covid-hit districts see no fresh case in a week||Thirteen of Punjab’s 19 coronavirus-hit districts have not reported even a single fresh case of the disease in the past one week.Three districts of the state — Bathinda, Fazilka and Tarn Taran — have not reported any Covid-19 case till date. The development has come as a relief to the state government amid concerns over a relatively higher mortality rate of Covid-19 patients in Punjab. The state’s mortality rate was double the national average till a few days back.The 13 districts — Amritsar, Mansa, SBS Nagar, Hoshiarpur, Fatehgarh Sahib, Moga, Faridkot, Sangrur, Barnala, Rupnagar, Gurdaspur, Muktsar and Kapurthala — have added no case to their tally since April 14.Fifty eight of a total of 251 cases in Punjab have been reported in these districts.Also, the majority of them, barring Sangrur and Gurdaspur where cases appeared last on April 14, have had no case in the past 10 days. The biggest relief came to SBS Nagar district which has 19 people found positive for the coronavirus, with no case since March 26.Also, Mansa district, which reported 11 cases, has not added any since April 12. Amritsar, with 11 cases too, had the last patient found positive on April 9. The state health and family welfare department claims to have done extensive testing in these districts as part of the contact tracing of those infected.The department says 2,817 samples were collected in these districts till April 19. In Amritsar city, door-to-door surveys by medical teams were completed last week.In past over one week, the state reported 67 cases, taking the total to 251 till Tuesday from 184 on April 14. Patiala witnessed the sharpest spike in the past one week from 2 cases to 31.19% patients recover in stateThe health department’s figures reveal that 11 more Covid-19 patients were discharged on Monday, taking the total number of persons having recovered to 39 (19.5%).The state’s recovery rate is better than the national average (17.1%).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-s-13-covid-hit-districts-see-no-fresh-case-in-a-week/story-0H1GIbnaYUaiqgCQFvgF0O.html
22-04-2020||City||Ludhiana: Row erupts after hospital seizes late ACP wife’s phone||A row has erupted after hospital authorities seized the mobile phone of wife of assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Anil Kohli, who died of coronavirus on Thursday. Palak Kohli, wife of the late ACP, is admitted in the isolation ward of Fortis hospital here. Palak has not developed any symptom for Covid-19 but has been put under observation after the death of her husband.The matter came to the fore after a family friend of Kohli raised the issue on social media. The police and hospital authorities have started passing the buck and blaming each other since the matter was raised.Meanwhile, commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal made a call to Kohli’s son and assured him that his mother will get her mobile phone back.Shehbaz Singh Nagra, Kohli’s friend, said that mobile phone was the only medium through which she was in contact with her two sons, including the one who lives in Canada, and other family members.Nagra said that he learnt about it on Monday and when he talked to the hospital authorities, they started making excuses. The authorities claimed that they had taken the phone for sanitising it, however, later they said that they had taken the phone at the behest of the police.Nagra claimed that when he talked to the police officials, they claimed that they had not issued any such direction to hospital staff. He also alleged that the hospital staff has been pressuring the family for depositing money for treatment.CP Rakesh Agrawal could not be reached out for his comments.Meanwhile, the hospital staff has shifted district mandi officer Jasbir Kaur in the same isolation ward, where Palak Kohli has been isolated.Covid-19 positive ASI alleges ill-treatment at MCHAn assistant sub-inspector has been shifted from Mother Child Hospital to SPS hospital after he alleged that he was not getting proper treatment at the isolation ward of the former hospital.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Sukhdev Singh, driver of sub-Inspector Arshpreet Kaur, SHO at police station Basti Jodhewal, claimed that neither any medic was attending him nor he was given food, despite being diabetic.He said that he had to make a call to police station Division number 7 for arranging food for him.He said that he was admitted to the civil hospital on Monday even though the hospital lacks facilities to treat Covid-19 patients.The ASI has also filed a written complaint to senior officers in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-row-erupts-after-hospital-seizes-late-acp-wife-s-phone/story-htD2d24lnyFmblPMVEvsxK.html
22-04-2020||Delhi||Migrant labourer found dead in shelter, cops say natural death, body sent for autopsy||A 50-year-old migrant worker died at a Delhi government-run temporary shelter home in Chabi Ganj, Mori Gate on Tuesday. According to a senior police officer, it appears to be a natural death, but his body has been sent for a post-mortem examination to ascertain the cause of death. DCP north Monika Bhardwaj said, “It looks like a natural death but we are waiting for the post mortem reports to ascertain the cause of death.”The police said the man was unwell and had gone to Aruna Asaf Ali hospital on Saturday and was released after treatment. “He had no symptoms of the coronavirus infection. He died Monday night at the shelter,” the officer said. Indu Prakash, member of the Supreme Court-appointed panel for monitoring of homeless shelters in Delhi, said, “His was found death in the morning. He was a migrant labourer and was shifted to the centre recently.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/migrant-labourer-found-dead-in-shelter-cops-say-natural-death-body-sent-for-autopsy/story-SA484YoFxjBerKr1RhEbNO.html
22-04-2020||Delhi||Two walk 12km in scorching heat to collect salaries, robbers leave them poorer||Rajendra Singh and Chandan Paswan walked 12 kilometres from east Delhi’s Kailash Nagar to north Delhi’s Model Town on Sunday. It took them a little over three hours in the scorching heat to complete the torturous journey, but considering that they got their monthly salary at the end of it, it was well worth the effort.Their joy was, however, short-lived; with barely 2km left to reach back home, they fell prey to three robbers wielding knives, who assaulted them and made off with their phones and the money.“We had briefly halted at a traffic junction in Shastri Park, about 2km from our home, to rest our tired legs. That’s when three men pounced on us. They choked us and punched us before running away with our money and mobile phones,” Singh, 32, one of the two men, said.For Singh, it was sheer desperation that forced him to make the arduous walk. He works at a cosmetics shop in Sadar Bazaar and was left with just about ₹5,000 when the lockdown was announced on March 24. By the beginning of April, most of that money was exhausted. “My two sons are five years and 18 months old. Buying milk and daily grocery finished off whatever little I had,” Singh, who lives in a rented home in Kailash Nagar, said. By Saturday, he had just ₹150 in his pocket. “We didn’t have money for my children’s milk. It was then that I decided to call my employer for help,” he said. His employer, who lives in Model Town, agreed to help, but said he would not be able to transfer the money to his bank account or e-wallet. “I told him I would walk to his home on Sunday,” Singh said. On Sunday, Singh asked his colleague Chandan Paswan, who lives with his uncle in nearby Usmanpur, if he would like to accompany him and he agreed. “We just had tea and set out at 9am with the ₹150 in my pocket and our phones. We carried a bottle of water each, but finished that within minutes of our walk,” Singh said. The cash in their pocket didn’t come handy as they found no shop open on the way.They reached their employer’s home around 12.30pm. “We waited outside for 15-20 minutes while our employer had his lunch. He finally gave ₹6,000 to me and ₹5,000 to Paswan. But no one offered us water or food,” Singh said. As they walked back, they were fortunate to find a shop from where Singh spent his loose change to buy two water bottles and some snacks. “Our legs had blisters, but we continued to walk --- at least our money problems were sorted for next few weeks,” he said. And then they reached the traffic junction in Shastri Park around 3.30pm. “Suddenly, three men carrying knives jumped us and asked us to hand over our cash. We lied to them and said we were daily wage earners, but they choked both of us and searched our pockets,” Singh said.The robbers took it all --- the salaries totalling ₹11,000, the phones and ₹100 in loose change that Singh had on him. “They fled into a forested area nearby. They even punched me and injured me in my eye,” Singh said. With no phone to even call the police, the men walked to Paswan’s home which was closer. “We used his uncle’s phone to call the police. The police took us to Shastri Park police station and kept us there till 9pm without offering us even water. Instead, they scolded us for walking and not calling the police control room number if we were short of food,” Singh said. “Would the police have given me cash or brought me milk for the children if I had called them?” Singh said. The police have registered a case of robbery and efforts are on to arrest the suspects and recover the stolen cash and phones, DK Gupta, deputy commissioner of police (Shahdara), said. “We’ll ensure that both families are cared for,” the DCP said when asked about the treatment they received at the police station. Singh, meanwhile, has been forced to borrow ₹500 from his neighbour to sustain his family for a few days. “I don’t know what I’ll do after that,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/two-walk-12km-in-scorching-heat-to-collect-their-salaries-robbers-leave-them-poorer/story-kfd5sQw8Npr3aZvRdV7WxL.html
22-04-2020||Pune||Central team visits hotspot in Pune, takes review of city’s response to Covid-19||An inter-ministerial Central team (IMCT) undertook a detailed assessment of Pune’s response to the Covid-19 pandemic by visiting the Bhavani peth hotspot, quarantine and isolation centres and shelter homes for migrants besides interacting with top officials from various departments. Head by Sanjay Malhotra, additional secretary, ministry of power, the team included Dr PK Sen, additional director general, directorate general of health services (Dte GHS); Dr Pawan Kumar Singh, joint advisor, national disaster management authority (NDMA); Dr Ashish V Gawai, deputy secretary, ministry of health and family welfare and Karmvir Singh, director, department of food and public distribution. Tasked with undertaking an assessment of ‘compliance and implementation’ of lockdown measures as per guidelines issued under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, the team took a comprehensive review of the district administration’s response to the coronavirus pandemic in the city. The team which arrived on a two-day visit on Monday took a review meeting with the Pune district administration and other governing agencies and visited the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) besides some of the high stress containment areas such as Bhawani Peth. Pune, as of April 21, has had 53 Covid-19 related deaths and is the second biggest hotspot in Maharashtra next to Mumbai. Pune district Collector Naval Kishore Ram said the team has extended support, given numerous suggestions with regards to testing and outreach and checked the monitoring and surveillance system in Pune district. “They are doing a detailed study of Pune district in terms of all the arrangements, surveillance systems and other agencies working against the spread of the Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 disease. Today (Monday) they visited one of the hotspots-- the Bhavani peth area-- and on Wednesday they will be going to Baramati,” added Ram. Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad said the team checked various civic facilities such as flu centres, swab centres, shelter homes and the smart control room which is monitoring the overall work. “The team was with us from 10am to 3pm. Their main aim was to check the ground reality; especially home survey,” he said. At Bhavani peth, the team interacted with the residents there, asking them about how this survey was being conducted and what forms were being filled by them. Micro details like first visit results, second visit details and how the virus spread in the area was discussed, said Gaikwad. The team visited the hospitals where positive patients were quarantined and an isolation centre at Sinhgad College. Shelter homes at civic schools where migrant workers and homeless people have been lodged were examined and the people there spoken to. The team visited mobile clinics and asked about the medicines that were being given and the number of patients who were visiting. After their Pune visit, the team proceeded to Pimpri-Chinchwad. According to the order issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs, the IMCT’s scope of assessment includes supply of essential commodities, social distancing measures, preparedness of health infrastructure, hospital facilities and sample statistics in the districts, safety of health professionals and availability of test kits, personal protective equipment kits, and condition of relief camps for labour and poor people. Pune divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar briefed the central team during his review meeting on Monday and provided an overview of the steps taken by the administration to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic in Pune.Pune police commissioner K Venkatesham also briefed the team about initiatives and action by the police during the lockdown and measures taken to create awareness among the residents.Details about the police presence in the Pimpri Chinchwad industrial township and the situation of industries and IT companies during the lockdown were provided by Pimpri-Chinchwad police commissioner Sandeep Bishnoi.The Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad municipal commissioners, Shekhar Gaikwad and Shrawan Hardikar respectively, were also present at this meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/central-team-visits-hotspot-in-pune-takes-review-of-city-s-response-to-covid-19/story-gpFT897UBd1Aopat8T7EhI.html
22-04-2020||Pune||38 medical staffers from six hospitals in Pune test +ve for Covid-19||At least 38 medical staffers, including nurses and doctors, have tested positive for Covid-19 (coronavirus). They are undergoing treatment in isolation wards at their respective hospitals, civic health authorities said on Tuesday.Of these 38 patients, 27 are from Ruby Hall Clinic, which includes 24 nurses and three clinical staff. Also four from Sassoon General hospital (three nurses, one doctor); two nurses from Pune Adventist Hospital; two doctors from Sahyadri Super Speciality Hospital, Deccan Gymkhana; two doctors from the King Edward Memorial (KEM) Hospital; and one nurse from Naidu Hospital, have tested positive for Covid-19, according to the PMC health department.Dr Sanjay Pathare, director of medical services, Ruby Hall Clinic, said, “There are three clinical assistants and 24 nurses who have tested positive. The first nurse lives in Kasarwadi which is a red zone. She never worked in the isolation ward but she did come in touch with nurses who were working there. So we assume that nurse was probably infected from outside. When she returned to work after a week we noticed she has some symptoms and so we proactively tested her and found that she tested positive. We then tested all our staff and found that 27 of them are positive. We conducted mass testing of 1,000 people from our staff. All of them are asymptomatic and are in a stable condition.” All the staff members who have tested positive for Covid-19 have been quarantined at an isolation facility and all their primary contacts have been traced and tested, added Pathare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/38-medical-staffers-from-six-hospitals-test-ve-for-covid-19/story-l98xwvkjOHKRBBVG6a8F7L.html
22-04-2020||Pune||Two more police constables test +ve in Pune||After a constable attached to the Faraskhana police station tested covid positive on Friday, two more constables from the police station were positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday, confirmed Swapna Gore, deputy commissioner of police, Zone-1.“The two found positive on Tuesday were among the 14 people quarantined after found to be close contacts of the earlier case. The further process for the two new cases has already started, “said DCP Gore.The wife of the first official was also found to be positive and is believed to have passed it to her husband, according to a senior official.While the first police official is undergoing treatment at Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial in Pimpri along with his wife, the other two are being treated at different hospitals in the city.The Faraskhana police station operates from the same building as that of Vishrambaug police station. Multiple hotspots for Covid-19 active patients as well as deaths are in the jurisdiction of Faraskhana police station. The area of the police station itself is under containment seal for over 10 days now.The building holds a major lock-up facility for arrested people as well as the office of divisional assistant commissioner of police and zonal deputy commissioner of police above the police station.The police station has a disinfection tunnel installed outside the building entrance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/two-more-officials-of-faraskhana-police-station-test-ve/story-3amxsVlirGSMW4KeNVYbYL.html
22-04-2020||Pune||Pune doctors using three-drug combination to treat Covid-19 patients||In the absence of a cure for Covid-19, Pune doctors are treating the Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 infection, with a three-drug combination - anti-viral, anti-bacterial and anti-malarial - a change from the earlier treatment protocol.According to doctors, the usage of the treatment depends on the symptoms exhibited by the patients. The state government’s latest protocol also calls for a fourth drug- Lopinavir–Ritonavir - which is primarily used for HIV infections. This drug is only used if the patient has pneumonia (LRTI) without respiratory failure. Dr Sanjeev Wavare, assistant health chief, PMC said, “We are using anti-viral and anti-malarial drugs for the positive patients whereas for those who are showing symptoms like fever we are using anti-bacterial drugs like Azithromycin and Amoxicillin Clavulanate. We have not yet used any HIV drugs on any patient in the PMC hospital.”“The anti-malarial drug- Tab Hydroxychloroquine and anti-viral drug Cap Oseltamivir - was mainly used during the swine flu pandemic,” said Wavare.Dr Anand Nandapurkar, nodal officer for Covid-19 in the district said, “Currently the drug protocol by the state government is that a schedule combination of the Cap Oseltamivir, Tab Hydroxychloroquine and if required Azithromycin and Amoxicillin Clavulanate. Also HIV drugs are being used on patients in Sassoon hospital where most critical patients are admitted. Those on ventilators have been given HIV drugs. “ In a revised protocol released on April 15 for treatment on Covid-19 patients with co-morbid conditions, the state government stated that supplements of Zinc, Vitamin C, Vitamin A, Vitamin D and Magnesium Sulphate can be used to improve immunity and possibly reduce viral replication.PMC stock as of April 19Item QuantityCap Oseltamivir 75 mg- 8,800Tab Hydroxychloroquine 200 mg - 2,07,650 N 95 mask- 2,009PPE kits- 692Hand sanitisers (500 ml) - 818Hand sanitisers (90 ml) - 1,000Non-sterile gloves - 1,275Sodium hypochloride solution - 630 litresVTM kit - 1,200 testsTriple-layer surgical mask - 2,770||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/city-docs-using-three-drug-combination-to-treat-covid-19-patients/story-13BzyZqHzWSd7kdH3vc7vN.html
22-04-2020||Pune||Post screening, Maharashtra’s sugarcane cutters return home as sugar mills end crushing||At least 20,000 sugarcane cutters stranded in various sugar factories due to the lockdown in view of the Covid-19 (coronavirus) pandemic started to return home on Monday, after the state government issued directives to allow their movement. This move also marks the end of the crushing season for sugarcane in Maharashtra.According to Saurabh Rao, state sugar commissioner, labourers started returning to their hometowns, most to Ahmednagar, Beed and the adjoining areas of Marathwada. With these workers returning home, at least 130 sugar mills have stopped crushing.“We have given permissions to sugar factories who have proposed to send their cane-cutters home and have also made the necessary arrangements like food and transport for the labourers. As of Tuesday, around 12,000 labourers reached their native place. Before leaving, the cane cutters underwent thorough screening to assess any possibility of Covid-19 infection,” said Rao.Rao said that around 80,000 labourers were stranded in various sugar factories due to the lockdown.Mahrashtra sugar director Uttam Indalkar said, “Labourers from all the key sugarcane factories namely Bhimashanakar, Jawarhar, Kisan Veer, Rajaram Bapu, Indapur and Datta Shirol, departed for their homes. A total of 25,000 labourers left from factories between Monday morning and Tuesday evening. Rest of the labourers will reach their native places in two-three days after getting the requisite permission.”“After reaching the villages, the factory representative is taking the sarpanch’s signature,” Indalkar added.Balasaheb Bende, chairman, Bhimashankar sugar factory said, “We made arrangements for 5,000 labourers. Though the labourers will have no work at their native place, they are comfortable at their respective homes. Hence, as per the government orders we made travel arrangements for them.”As per sugar commissionerate, Maharashtra has produced 58.70 lakh tonnes of sugar till March 31, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/screened-and-cleared-maharashtra-s-sugarcane-cutters-return-home-as-sugar-mills-end-crushing/story-vcVpvgoQ7pgP9lfJWRHZJK.html
22-04-2020||City||237 Iran-returnees belonging to J&K, Ladakh brought home||Around 180 residents of Jammu and Kashmir and 57 of Ladakh, who had returned from Iran last month, were brought home in air force flights on Tuesday amid lockdown.These persons had been under quarantine in different parts of the country. There were demands across the two union territories that these people should be brought back.Ladakh divisional commissioner Saugat Biswas said the administration is happy to announce return of the first batch of 57 Iran returnees to Kargil post-quarantine. A special air force flight brought them from Hindon (UP) and landed at Kargil on Tuesday.“Tomorrow another 173 will land here,” Biswas said.Srinagar DC said the flights carrying the Iran returnees landed on Tuesday and will head home after screening. “Around 180 people landed in Srinagar from Jodhpur, Jaisalmer and Hindon,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/237-iran-returnees-belonging-to-j-k-ladakh-brought-home/story-Ar2oRa5o0ppXkgg8NCKN1I.html
22-04-2020||Pune||Life without maids, helpers is tough for senior citizens during the lockdown in Pune||Living without maids and helpers to do daily household chores and help them around with errands is among the biggest woes for senior citizens in Pune, once famed as a pensioner’s paradise. Most senior citizens, especially those who do not have younger members in the family, or live alone, have been facing numerous problems like cooking food, obtaining groceries and medicines, ordering gas cylinders, cleaning and mopping the house, washing clothes and getting their medicines. Samad Shaikh (69), who stays in Laxmi Housing Society, Katraj said that ever since the closure delivery of gas cylinders has become an issue in his township.He stays with his wife who handles cooking and cleaning. “I have to carry the cylinder for 500 metres and more till the gate. None of the neighbours cooperate as they are afraid of the contagion. Neither do the security guards turn to help for the same. The task has become difficult and services to the senior citizens must be delivered right to their flats ,” he said.Celine D Souza (70), a senior citizen who resides in Camp, said, “Fetching medicines has become an uphill task as none of my helpers or maids are turning up for duty during the lockdown. Since my children stay abroad, the maids and helpers are there to assist me and prepare food. Now they are not there which has made the task difficult. I am not used to going out in the market and cooking due to old age. I wish the lockdown ends early and virus threat gets diminished at the earliest so that our routine comes back to normal.” She stays alone and social workers deliver food for her who now cater to her needs.Amardeep Singh, another senior citizen who stays in Salunke Vihar said that life has become harsh since the lockdown. “ All my daily needs were taken care by the maids and assistants, but now the situation is difficult. I am waiting for normalcy to return ,” he said. He stays with his wife who handles the chores currently. He did not know about the helpline for seniors.International Longevity Centre chairman Jayant Umranikar said that the immediate family members, relatives and society members where the senior citizens reside must come forward to assist them during this crisis. “There is no question to give any concession during this crisis. The Union government has given clear guidelines regarding the senior citizens and they must be followed as all the steps have been given. Social distancing is very important. Probably going for automation is important like having washing machines and other electronic equipment which bring about comfort,” he said.Social activist Vaishali Patkar, who has been working for the welfare for senior citizens, said, “They need care and attention at this juncture. Society residents need to have empathy and be sympathetic towards the senior citizens. Though people are doing their contributions for their cause, but the strong human connect is missing which definitely is a cause of concern. Citizens must voluntarily inquire about their well being, step out for buying ration for them, including medicine and treat them like their own.”The senior citizen helpline can be dialled anytime for help and is aimed at safety and security of elderly persons. The helpline alerts the respective police station officials from where they receive call for help and get the work done. At the same time the Social Security Cell (SSC) persons also work hard towards resolution of the problems faced by senior citizens for needs like gas cylinders, medicines and other social needs. In the lockdown, the helpline assistants help the senior citizens in providing LPG cylinders, food grains, medicines and milk. The SSC has a ready list of phone numbers of the medical shop owners , dairy owners and social workers through which it assists the elderly.Police inspector Vaishali Chandgunde, incharge of Social Security Cell (SSC) , said, “We are working with the Senior Citizens Forum to solve their problems. We are constantly answering their calls on the senior citizens’ helpline. A majority of calls were related to ration, gas cylinders, medicine and their wish to meet their relatives. We have helped 145 senior citizens for their different tasks wherein they have expressed their satisfaction for the efforts taken by the police department.” There are currently 18,000 senior citizens on police records and the data is available with the SSC.HELPLINE NUMBERS FOR SENIOR CITIZENS Police helpline 1090SSC Incharge Vaishali Chandgude 9011778787||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/life-without-maids-helpers-is-tough-for-senior-citizens-during-the-lockdown-in-pune/story-wLIy2XYXv6P2MyUMTlO6FJ.html
22-04-2020||City||Haryana crop purchase: INLD leader Abhay Chautala says arhtiyas are like ATMs and banks for farmers||Arhtiyas (commission agents) are like ATMs and banks for the state’s farmers who are struggling to sell their crops (mustard and wheat) to the purchasing agencies, said Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) leader Abhay Singh Chautala.The Ellenabad MLA was speaking on the sidelines of his visits to the grain markets of Sirsa, Fatehabad and Hisar districts on Tuesday.Chautala said, “I will talk with the CM to start the procurement of wheat and mustard using the old formula, in which the farmer’s produce is purchased by the commission agent who further sells it to different agencies.”He questioned why the farmers were being asked to register themselves on the Meri Fasal portal and fill the details of their crop all over again when their area patwaris and revenue department officials already had these records. “If a farmer is okay with selling his crop to arhtiyas, what is the need for direct purchase by agencies set up by the Centre? As far as the standard protocol is concerned, the government should send SMSs to the farmers on maintaining social distance,” Abhay said.The INLD leader added that by setting so many rules and complicating the procurement chain and process, the government was distancing the farmers from arhtiyas. “There is a lockdown in the country and shut grain markets are not good for the farmers,” he said.Haryana deputy speaker Ranbir Singh Gangwa, meanwhile, visited Mangali village to take stock of situation at two different purchasing centres. He directed the officials concerned at the grain market that only those farmers who are receiving messages must come to the grain market to sell their produce and facilities like clean water, hand sanitisers and masks should be provided to them.Congress leader Bajrang Dass Garg met farmers at the grain market here and directed officials to cover the grain properly during showers. He said, “By setting up multiple purchasing agencies, the state government is trying to push the farmers away from the commission agents. The farmers are ready to sell their crop to arhtiyas. Even commission agents always also help farmers whenever they are in need,” Bajrang Dass Garg added.‘Obey the roster plan’Hisar deputy commissioner (DC) Priyanka Soni directed the officials involved in purchasing of wheat and mustard to obey the roster plan and only allow those farmers in the purchasing centres who have received the SMS. In Sirsa, purchasing of wheat started at more than 35 out of 66 centres. Sirsa DC Ramesh Chander Bidhan visited some purchasing centres and checked the condition. LIGHT SHOWERS, STRONG WINDS LIKELY AHEADWith 0.8mm rainfall last night, the weather conditions have changed completely in many places in the state. The agriculture and meteorology department of Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University has predicted cloudy weather till April 25. Department head M L Khichar said, “The weather in the state will be variable till April 25, with partly cloudy and moderate winds, but there is a possibility of light to moderate rain with strong winds from till April 24.”Khichar advised the farmers to keep an eye on the changing weather conditions during the reaping of their crop. “The farmers must bundle up their produce so that it is laid to waste by the expected high-speed winds. They must also cover the crop while bringing it to grain markets for sale,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-crop-purchase-inld-leader-abhay-chautala-says-arhtiyas-like-atms-and-banks-for-farmers/story-iwg8FJ0ZEeUGmRZjwsp9hK.html
