24-04-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body has spent ₹95 crore in a month on Covid-19 fight||In the past one month, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has spent more than ₹95 crore for tackling the coronavirus outbreak in the city and has anticipated an additional expenditure of ₹200 crore for the next two months to contain the spread of the virus. The BMC has been utilising money from its contingency fund for the expenditure since March 11, when the city’s first coronavirus case was reported. In the 2020-21 budget, the BMC had allocated ₹850 crore for its contingency fund – a reserve of money set aside to cover possible unforeseen future expenses.“The expenditure of ₹95 crore that has been incurred in the fight against coronavirus is an unprecedented expense. But as of now, we are able to meet the expenses, as we have an annual allocation of around ₹850-900 crore as contingency fund. So there are no plans to raise money from the market or break BMC’s fixed deposits invested in banks,” additional municipal commissioner P Velrasu said. In the past one month, the BMC has spent towards various initiatives, from enhancing health care to opening community kitchens for migrant labourers. According to its estimates, around ₹20 crore has been spent only on providing food. The health expenses have also increased, as the BMC, in its annual budget for 2020-21 in February, had allocated only ₹2 crore to upgrade Kasturba Hospital in the light of a possible coronavirus outbreak. Currently, the BMC spent substantial amount of money to set up institutional quarantine facilities for around 6,000 people A majority of the BMC’s donations is in form of kind via corporate social responsibility (CSR) or organisations. Though the civic body is yet to calculate the exact quantum of donations in cash, as per its estimates, its expenditure can surge upto ₹130 crore a month in the upcoming months if the donations come down.According to BMC officials, the major expenditure in the coming days could incur on setting up institutional quarantine facilities and dedicated hospitals for coronavirus, procuring medical equipment and PPEs, purchasing groceries, as well as recruiting manpower.Ravi Raja, Congress corporator and leader of Opposition in the BMC, said, “One can understand that it this is an unprecedented situation, but our preparedness was very poor. Today, we are procuring equipment at much higher rate owing to the general increase in demand.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-has-spent-95-crore-in-a-month-on-covid-19-fight/story-UNEtx1hzwJycJPH0Qm8M8N.html
24-04-2020||City||Navi Mumbai crosses 100 mark with 6 new cases||The number of Covid positive cases in Navi Mumbai crossed 100 with six new cases reported on Friday. The city’s Covid positive cases are now 103.Two cases were reported from Turbhe and one each from Vashi, Kopar Khairane, Ghansoli and Nerul.After a domestic help was infected, her 32-year-old husband and seven-year-old son have tested Covid positive.A nurse and a ward boy at the TB hospital in Sewri have also tested positive. A woman software engineer from Kopar Khairane, who had complained of breathing problems on April 20, has tested positive. She works in an IT company in Airoli but has been at home since March 20. A 52-year-old woman, a cancer patient, too has tested positive.There are 24 containment zones in the city.Two cases were reported from Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) area, taking the total count to 44.A 51-year-old sanitation worker of Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation has tested positive. A woman doctor resident of Khanda colony, who works at Mumbai Port Trust as a medical officer, has been infected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/navi-mumbai-crosses-100-mark-with-6-new-cases/story-eaqpOYP8VdQF9b9IiczxDI.html
24-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab’s helpline to beat lockdown stress getting 200 calls a day||The lockdown and the curfew seems to have taken its toll on residents with the state government’s helpline on counselling for stress and anxiety, launched on Tuesday evening, receiving, on average, over 200 calls a day. The helpline has received 800 calls till Friday evening. Forty psychiatrists and counsellors from the state health department take calls from 10am to 8pm at the helpline number 1800 180 4104. Governance reforms department additional chief secretary Vinni Mahajan had launched this helpline. Doctors and psychiatrists associated with the helpline do not get to know the name of the caller.“Most calls we have received in two days are about people who are in extreme stress, just because they or somebody in their family has a mild cold or cough. A caller from Ludhiana said he was convinced that he had contracted covid-19 based on such symptoms. Our psychiatrist took an hour to persuade him that such fear only because of the stress,” said Kamal Gupta, manager technical, department of governance reforms.Senior citizens are also calling in with complaints of anxiety. “A family member of one such person, saying that his father was so stressed that he was reporting loss of memory and had even developed suicidal tendencies. Our team guided him,” a psychiatrist deployed with the helpline said.Another psychiatrist added that the unprecedented scenario over the past month had led to manifold rise in stress levels. He added that calls had been received from youngsters as well, who wanted to share their stress and relax before making critical choices for career, and examinations to take. “We plan to expand this helpline to provide career counselling for young people. The department is working on it with speed,” said Ravi Bhagat, CEO, governance reforms department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-s-helpline-to-beat-lockdown-stress-getting-200-calls-a-day/story-EbhTv2plnUlPQNAA207PKN.html
24-04-2020||Mumbai||Have put use of rapid antibody kits to detect coronavirus on hold, Centre tells Bombay high court||The procurement of rapid antibody test kits at the central level has been partly completed, but its usage to detect Covid-19 has been put on hold in view of the divergent outcome of some sample tests, the Centre had informed the Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday.“These kits are used only for surveillance and cannot be used for VRDL [Viral Research and Diagnostic Laboratory] centres,” assistant solicitor general UM Aurangabadkar had informed the bench of justice Nitin Sambre. He also clarified that the kits are at the disposal of the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) and will be distributed to states, if demanded by them.The court was hearing a petition filed by Nagpur resident CH Sharma in 2000, raising concerns about the quality of healthcare provided at the four government medical colleges in the Vidarbha region.Sharma had complained that the four colleges did not have enough medical seats for imparting medical education to students, lacked proper equipment required for taking care of the patients and imparting education, as well as they lacked adequate staff, expert teachers and suffered from paucity of funds.This year on March 18, he moved HC again pointing out that the government medical colleges in Vidarbha were completely ill-equipped to handle the Covid-19 patients and create isolation facilities.During the course of hearing, the court on Thursday was also informed that VRDL laboratories cannot be made operational at Yavatmal and Chandrapur before May 20, for want of infrastructure.Dr Ajay Kewaliya, dean of Indira Gandhi Medical College at Nagpur, also informed the court that the Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction Machines (RT-PCR) required for the laboratories are procured through Haffkine Institute, which in turn imports the machines from Singapore, and the shipment of the machines is a time-consuming process.In this backdrop, justice Sambre directed the authorities concerned that “once the equipment is received and the labs are installed, the operation of the same shall not be withheld for want of testing kits and it shall be the duty of the competent authority, including the state government, to make available sufficient number of testing kits for making such labs operational.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/have-put-use-of-rapid-antibody-kits-to-detect-coronavirus-on-hold-centre-tells-bombay-high-court/story-OUlEVoVTF8d0fBGr24wE1H.html
24-04-2020||City||Salary hike demand: NHM employees threaten to go on strike in Punjab from April 29||The NHM (National Health Mission) Employees Union, Punjab, on Friday threatened to go on strike from April 19 if the state government does not announce an immediate hike in their salaries. The demand came a day after the government increased salaries of only 100 NHM employees, who are working under Integrated Disease Surveillance Project (IDSP), as an appreciation for their work amid the Covid-19 outbreak.There are 13,400 other NHM employees, including doctors, staff nurses and ANMs, working in the state.Union state president Amarjeet Singh said, “Doctors, staff nurses, ANMs, community health workers, pharmacists and asha workers of NHM are risking their lives every day. Most of them are working on meager salaries. However, the government hiked salaries of only those who are working under IDSP.”“We are demanding immediate hike in salaries of all NHM employees. On Monday and Tuesday, we will wear black badges to show our resistance. We will go on strike from Wednesday if the government fails to meet our demand,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/salary-hike-demand-nhm-employees-threaten-to-go-on-strike-in-punjab-from-april-29/story-lvZhv7Ow81NiCqgBkKwZMK.html
24-04-2020||City||High Court tells Delhi govt to set up helpline for pregnant women||New Delhi: The Delhi High Court has directed the state government to set up a helpline for pregnant women who may be facing difficulties during the nationwide lockdown, imposed to curb the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. The Delhi government’s counsel had submitted that they were starting a helpline for senior citizens and will now ensure that it caters to pregnant women as well.The court passed the directions on April 22 while hearing a petition filed by a Delhi-based NGO through advocate Vrinda Grover on issues pregnant women across the city are facing. The NGO in its plea also highlighted the case of a 25-year-old woman, Malti, from Nizamuddin, who was supposedly denied admission to a hospital as she was a resident of a containment zone. The plea said that the woman had developed labour pains on April 25 after which she visited the Safdarjung Hospital, but was denied admission. The woman then visited another hospital, which also turned her down. She was finally admitted to AIIMS on April 16 where she gave birth to her child, the plea added.Citing the woman’s case among other such cases, the plea contended that ASHA workers should ensure that the delivery takes place smoothly. The plea had also sought that a nodal officer is appointed in every Covid-19 hotspot, whose a contact number of the helpline is made public and a dedicated helpline is set up for pregnant women seeking essential health services, which includes arranging transportation to and from hospitals and securing movement passes.Appearing for the Delhi government, its counsel Anupam Shrivastava told the court that they do not have any problem in setting up the helpline. He also submitted that one ASHA worker is assigned for every pregnant woman across the city. Following this, the bench comprising judge Hima Kohli and Justice Subramonium Prasad directed the Delhi government to ensure that the helpline number, which is proposed to be set up within two days for assisting senior citizens in Delhi, shall also be made available for pregnant women.“The helpline number shall be publicised adequately in newspapers and social media as also through the Delhi Police, wherever possible. The UOI (Union of India) and GNCTD shall work in tandem to make sure that no barriers are faced by pregnant ladies and their family members residing in hotspots during the lockdown,” the bench said while disposing of the matter.Ever since the nation-wide lockdown began on March 25, pregnant women in different parts of the city have faced problems in reaching hospitals. At least 300 women have called the police control room so far, after which they were rushed to the hospital in police control room vans..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/high-court-tells-delhi-govt-to-set-up-helpline-for-pregnant-women/story-yG32KFhCdbXbHuOmXHQnXN.html
24-04-2020||Delhi||IIT-D researchers develop dashboard to predict the spread of Covid-19||Researchers at the Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi (IIT-D) have developed a web-based dashboard for predicting the spread of Covid-19 across the country. The dashboard, PRACRITI (PRediction and Assessment of CoRona Infections and Transmission in India), gives detailed state-wise and district-wise predictions of infections in India, the institute said on Friday.According to a statement issued by IIT-D on Friday, such a platform will be highly useful for health care bodies, local and central authorities, to efficiently plan for different future scenarios and resource allocation.“A key parameter of interest on COVID-19 is the basic reproduction number ‘R0’ and its countrywide variability. R0 refers to the number of people to whom the disease spreads from a single infected person. For instance, if an active Covid-19 patient infects two uninfected persons, the R0 is two. Hence, reduction of R0 is the key in controlling and mitigating the Covid-19 in India,” the institute said in a statement. “PRACRITI provides the R0 values of each district and state in India based on the data available from sources such as the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW), Govt. of India; National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA), and World Health Organization (WHO).”NM Anoop Krishnan, Civil Engineering Department, IIT- Delhi said, “Getting the district-wise R0 is crucial as this will enable authorities to know the exact rate of spread in India locally.”The predictions in the dashboard will be based on a mathematical model that divides the population into four classes i.e. susceptible, exposed, infected, and removed. “Susceptible” refers to people who have not been exposed to the coronavirus, “exposed” refers to those who have been exposed to the virus from an infected person, “infected” refers to those who are actively infected with Covid-19, and “removed” refers to those who are no longer a carrier of the virus,” the statement read.It will also include the impact of the movement of population across states and districts in the spread of the Covid-19.“Based on the computed values of R0, a detailed district-wise model for India to predict the number of an actively infected person in each district can be developed,” it added||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/iit-d-researchers-develop-dashboard-to-predict-the-spread-of-covid-19/story-y6DNf2cyfosnLwAklQsAsJ.html
24-04-2020||City||Amritsar DC orders inquiry into purchase of PPE kits for hospital||Deputy commissioner Shiv Dular Singh Dhillon has ordered an inquiry into the purchase of 2,000 Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) kits at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Amritsar, after doctors, nurses and other healthcare staff refused to use these, alleging that these were substandard and did not even include N-95 masks. They have also accused the authorities at the hospital, run under the name of Guru Nanak Dev Hospital, of paying over Rs 41 lakh for the kits, claiming that the consignment should not have cost more than Rs 7 lakh. The kits were handed over to them a couple of days ago.Local MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla, who had given Rs 1 crore from his Member Parliament Local Area Development Scheme (MLADS), part of which was used in the purchase had also written a letter to the Amritsar DC seeking an inquiry on Friday. “As medical professionals are facing issues with PPE kits and masks purchased from MPLAD funds, I request the administration to immediately mark an inquiry and audit into the purchase of the kits,” Aujla said. Dr Shiv Charan Singh, head of medicine department at GMCH, said, “The PPE kits ripped apart, when the staff tried to wear them. The poor quality kits will not offer any protection and the staff will remain at risk even after wearing these. We have six covid-19 patients in our isolation ward. I wrote to the principal, seeking an inquiry into the purchase.” “The kits were incomplete and did not even have N-95 masks. Even the nurses have refused to wear thes. Such poor quality kits are of no use to us and should not have cost more than Rs 7 lakh,” claimed Narinder Singh, lab attendant in GMC Amritsar.GMCH principal Dr Sujata Sharma said, “Authorities at the GNDH, mainly the medical superintendent Dr Raman Sharma purchased the kits.” Dr Sharma did not respond to repeated calls on his mobile number. The DC added, “The allegations made by the staff may or may not be true but we cannot risk their lives, amid the covid-19 outbreak. I have ordered an inquiry into the purchase of the PPE kits and the funds used for it. Additional deputy commissioner (development) Dr Pallavi will head the inquiry and submit a report soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amritsar-dc-orders-inquiry-into-purchase-of-ppe-kits-for-hospital/story-Qn6OpZ2tFsl2eMJ0k6EgeJ.html
24-04-2020||Mumbai||No gathering at Mumbai mosques during Ramzan||The Mumbai police on Friday stated that gathering on terraces and mosques will not be allowed during the Ramzan festival. “Actions are being taken at the zonal level keeping in mind the lockdown guidelines. We are communicating with community leaders and encouraging them to observe the fasts keeping in view the lockdown,” said deputy commissioner of police (operations), Pranaya Ashok. “The food for Ramzan for those in red zones and containment zones will be taken care of through NGOs and volunteers who will deliver food at doorsteps,” he added. The police have also beefed up security by roping in quick response teams (QRT), state reserve police force (SRPF) and other special forces. “Drones will be used to monitor. Gathering at terraces and mosques is not allowed and public announcements will be made,” said Ashok. 141 FIRs on Thursday over lockdown violations The Mumbai Police on Thursday registered 141 FIRs against 210 people and arrested 121 of them over lockdown violations. A maximum of 78 cases are for gathering in public followed by 49 cases for not wearing masks. Till Thursday, about 20,563 calls were received on Mumbai Police helpline (100) over Covid-19 queries since the beginning of the lockdown. A total of 68,601 FIRs have been registered across the state and 14,806 have been arrested over lockdown violations. In all 477 people were arrested for assaulting police or obstruction and 47,083 vehicles were seized.Powai constable tests positive A 30-year-old police constable posted with the Powai police station was tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. The constable was showing symptoms since April 20 after which he was admitted to a trauma care hospital in Jogeshwari. He was later shifted to a quarantine facility in Powai. As his body temperature increased, he was shifted to Hiranandani Hospital. Ankit Goyal, DCP zone 10, said,” We traced three police personnel who were in touch with him and home quarantined them.” Father-son duo booked for selling fruits in containment zoneThe Ghatkopar police on Friday registered a case against a father-son duo for allegedly selling vegetables and stepping out in containment zone. A video went viral of the police action in which it is seen that the police are beating up a vegetable vendor at Asalfa village in Ghatkopar (West). A case was registered against the father-son duo for disrupting a public servant from performing his duty. The police alleged that the vegetable vendor began to obstruct police action when they asked him the reason to sell vegetables in a containment zone. The police are also enquiring on the alleged high handedness of the police constables captured on a video beating the vendor. Hotelier booked for denying rooms to BMC An FIR was lodged by Matunga police against owner and manager of a hotel for denying access to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) for using the hotel for quarantine facility. Senior police inspector Vijaysingh Ghatge confirmed the development. “The BMC officials approached the hotelier multiple times. The BMC engineer, Raju Wadile 52, approached the owner and also sent letters requesting them to use the hotel space in Dadar. But they didn’t give any response. We have registered a case and are further investigating the matter,” added Ghatge.Actor, husband booked for house partyThe Khar police booked actor Anita Raaj and her husband Sunil Hingorani for allegedly organising a house party with a few guests at their residence in Pali Hill on Monday. Gajanan Kabdule, senior inspector of Khar police station, said, “We have booked both under section 188 and 269 of the Indian Penal Code.”Alcoholic arrested for burgling wine shop A 20-year-old man was arrested by Meghwadi police for stealing liquor worth ₹2.5 lakh from a wine shop at Jogeshwari (West). Sudhir Nigudkar, senior Inspector of Meghwadi police station, said, “The incident is captured in a CCTV camera.” The accused told police that he is a habitual drinker and he was unable to buy liquor. 68 cops from state test positiveA total of 68 police personnel — nine officers and 59 constables — from Maharashtra Police have tested positive and another six who were positive have now recovered. With inputs from Pratik Salunke, Suraj Ojha and Faisal Tandel||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/no-gathering-at-city-mosques-during-ramzan/story-4d963wnrNQVyd66LDhRlNI.html
24-04-2020||City||Delhi Police, LG quell fears over rumours of ban on Azaan||New Delhi: With Ramzan starting Saturday, Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia and the police on Friday said there is no ban on Azaan (a call to prayer) from mosques in the national Capital.This comes a day after a video of two Delhi Police constables purportedly warning the caretaker of a mosque in north-west Delhi’s Rohini did the rounds on social media. In the video, the constables can be heard telling the caretaker and a local resident that “Azaan ke liye bhi mana kar diya hai LG saab ne (The Lieutenant Governor has banned Azaan as well)”.Delhi L-G Anil Baijal, in a tweet on Friday, said Ramzan should be observed while following the lockdown guidelines, and made a reference to the Delhi Police’s instructions for the same.About an hour before Baijal’s statement, the Delhi Police had tweeted: “Azaan may be carried out in accordance with NGT [National Green Tribunal] guidelines,” along with some other instructions. By the evening, though, the L-G tweeted that disciplinary action had been initiated against the erring police personnel. “It has come to notice that a video has been circulating in social media regarding instructions being given for not reciting azaan by police. @DelhiPolice has already communicated that no such instructions have been given and has clarified the same in their advisory,” Baijal tweeted.“Disciplinary action is being taken against the erring police officials. Appeal to observe the holy month of Ramzan as per the advisory given below to stay safe and follow lockdown in your, and public interest. Stay home, stay safe,” he added.Clarifying the Delhi government’s stand, Sisodia tweeted, “There is no restriction on Azaan. In a lockdown, there is a complete ban on the gathering of people for prayers in mosques or for worship etc. at any other religious place.”According to deputy commissioner of police (Rohini) Pramod Kumar Mishra, the constables in the video were confused between the meaning of “Azaan” and “Namaaz”. “We have removed the two policemen from the beat. There is no ban on Azaan. However, the gathering of people in any religious establishment for prayers is banned to maintain social distancing. Those already inside the establishments can offer prayers there while the general public can do so inside their homes,” the DCP said. Local religious leaders, however, allege that in some places, local mosques were not allowed to use loudspeakers for Azaan. Hafiz Mohammad Javed, a social activist, said: “Due to some misinformation, mosques in some parts of Delhi were not allowed to use loudspeakers for Azaan. With Ramzan starting Saturday, Azaan is important to inform people about the timings for Sehri and Iftar so that they can observe fasts and offer prayers.”Maulana Jameel Ahmed of Madeena Mosque in Durga Park in west Delhi’s Sagarpur area said the police have not allowed him to perform Azaan for around 20-25 days. “They said it is not allowed. We have requested senior officials to allow us to do Azaan during the month of Ramzan. There are a lot of people who are uneducated and depend on announcements from their local mosque for prayers,” said Ahmed.A senior police officer from southwest district, of which Sagarpur is a part, said they had verbally advised religious establishments in the locality against the use of loudspeakers, because people had started to step out of their homes and head to the establishments to pray.“It was negating the purpose of social distancing and police personnel were finding it difficult to enforce lockdown orders. However, it was a temporary restriction and not for the Ramzan season. Azaan should be done but within the decibel level permitted by the NGT. Also, there should be no violations of the lockdown,” the officer said, asking not to be named.“It is requested that Namaz may be performed while staying indoors and have Sehri at home. All must stand united to fight Covid-19 pandemic and follow the guidelines,” the Delhi Police tweeted Friday.Javed said, “I have been making announcements from nearby mosques telling people to stay at home due to the Covid-19 outbreak. It is in our interest that we all stay at home.”Many police officers said they have been taking the help of religious leaders to convince people to stay indoors.On the video and allegations of the ban on Azaan, the Shahi Imam of Delhi’s Jama Masjid, Syed Ahmed Bukhari, said the issue had been resolved after he brought the matter to the notice of senior officials in the police department and the Delhi government.“Both Azaan and Namaaz will be performed, but all guidelines issued by the government will also be followed. I have appealed to people to maintain social distancing and offer prayers at their homes. This coronavirus disease (Covid-19) can be eradicated from our country only when we follow the lockdown norms strictly,” Bukhari said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-police-lg-quell-fears-over-rumours-of-ban-on-azaan/story-6g4PrU2qutAernSVmhq7gK.html
24-04-2020||City||Three held for murder in Karnal||Days after the body of a 25-year-old man was recovered from a canal in Karnal, police on Friday arrested a woman, her sister-in-law and brother-in-law from Hakikat Nagar for his murder. As per the police, the main accused, Guddi, had an extra-marital affair with victim Nand Kishore. She hatched a conspiracy to kill him after he allegedly started mounting pressure on her to leave her husband and move in with him. She also roped in her sister-in-law Kavita and her husband Rajbir Singh, the police said. Karnal Sadar police station in-charge Baljeet Singh said on April 17, police had recovered the decomposed body of Nand Kishore from the JCW canal.He said Guddi had on April 8 called him at her residence, where he was strangled to death.His body was then buried in the dried up canal. The accused have confessed to their crime, the cop said. He said an FIR has been registered under sections 302, 201 and 34 of IPC against the trio. They will be produced in a court on Saturday, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-held-for-murder-in-karnal/story-eyCdZsWJG1nWUDgcHmKp7N.html
24-04-2020||City||Health dept clueless about source of infection of Jalandhar ‘super-spreader’||The health department is still clueless about the source of infection of a 40-year-old Covid-19 patient in the city who has spread the virus to at least 28 people.The man, a resident of Raja Garden who works in a media house, has infected four of his family members, 12 co-workers and 12 of their direct and indirect contacts. These include 7 family members of a co-worker, a resident of Basti Danishmanda in the city.The Raja Garden man, who was suffering from severe acute respiratory infection (SARI), tested positive for coronavirus on April 13. He neither has any travel history nor close contact with any positive patient.The health officials said a 26-year-old man, who worked in the same media house, also tested positive in Kangra district of Himachal Pradesh on April 15.Jalandhar civil surgeon Dr Gurinder Kaur Chawla told HT that more than 250 samples of the close contacts of positive patients linked to the media house were collected.Asked about the source of infection of the Raja Garden man, she said all these positive cases seem to be inter-linked to each other as the patients had been distributing langar among the people together. “They might have got the infection from there.”However, Chawla said that she won’t able to tell the source of infection of “a particular patient as we are screening thousands of persons.” The health officials said more than 100 persons linked to the media group have been put under home quarantine. They said all the positive cases from the media house are linked with the Raja garden man.In Jalandhar district, the number of Covid-19 rose to 64 on Friday, which is equal to the tally in Mohali, the worst-affected district in the state.Jalandhar has reported more than 50 cases in the past two weeks.As per the state government’s status report till April 22, the health department has no information about source of infection of 12 positive cases reported in Jalandhar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/health-dept-clueless-about-source-of-infection-of-jalandhar-super-spreader/story-To4AlijvA4JygTckrNvzzM.html
24-04-2020||City||Nine held for illegally transporting migrants in Punjab||Police, on Friday, arrested nine people for facilitating illegal passage of stranded migrants to Bihar and UP on fake curfew passes by charging hefty sums from beneficiaries.As per the FIR lodged at Tanda police station, the accused charged Rs 5,000-Rs 10,000 per person and used Tempo Travellers and Toyota Innova of a Tanda-based taxi owner to transport the migrants to their home states amid coronavirus pandemic.The arrested persons include Satnam Singh and Gaurav Kumar of Tanda, RaviKumar of Santokh Nagar, Chander Mohan of Miani, Ajay Pal, Kamal Mehra, Pankaj Kumar and Vishal Vohra of Hoshiarpur and Sukhwinder Singh of Allowal village.“Accused photoshopped curfew pass issued by SDM Batala and pasted them on the windscreens of the vehicles. The drivers even kept additional copies of the pass with them which they showed at every checkpost while crossing borders in every state,” said SSP Gaurav Garg.He said 71 persons had been illegally transported to Lucknow, Saharanpur and Gonda in Bihar with a consideration of around Rs 3.5 lakh.“We have impounded three Tempo Travellers, two Innova cars, a printer and five fake passes from the accused and booked them under the Indian Penal Code, the Disaster Management Act and the Epidemic Act,” the SSP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nine-held-for-illegally-transporting-migrants-in-punjab/story-myU4kY2fcXyafdNny15mOJ.html
24-04-2020||City||Health dept issues notice to senior deputy mayor for violating quarantine protocol||The health department, on Friday, issued notice to Patiala senior deputy mayor Yoginder Singh Yogi for flouting quarantine protocol.On Thursday, Congress’ Yogi had violated the home-quarantine norms by distributing ration in the city.He was tested negative for the virus on April 15, but was put on home-quarantine along with two of his family members till April 29 as a precautionary measure.Patiala civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said a notice has been issued to the senior deputy mayor, asking him to submit a written explanation by Saturday.“After studying the written explanation further action will be recommended,” Dr Malhotra said.Meanwhile, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has demanded Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh to sack the senior deputy mayor.In a press release issued on Friday, SAD’s Surjit Singh Rakhra said it is shocking that Yogi endangered lives of people by distributing food packets when he should have been in quarantine.“Yogi was directed to be on home-quarantine till April 29. Instead, he violated the norms and came out to attend a public function,” Rakhra said.Rakhra said that SAD has also demanded the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee president Sunil Jakhar to take strict action against the Congress leader.CORRECTIONIt was inadvertently reported in these columns on April 23 that senior deputy mayor Yoginder Singh Yogi was tested positive for coronavirus. It is clarified that his reports were found negative on April 16 and he is home-quarantined as a precautionary measure. The error is regretted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/health-dept-issues-notice-to-senior-deputy-mayor-for-violating-quarantine-protocol/story-gBxgljChhmb2QpUhnaN5jM.html
24-04-2020||City||Lockdown effect: India’s largest scientific instruments industry in Ambala reluctant to re-open despite relaxations||India’s oldest and largest hub of scientific instruments in Ambala district, with nearly 2,000 small, medium and large-scale units, is facing the heat of lockdown despite some relaxations given by the state government earlier this week.Five days on, only a few of these units fulfill the conditions of operating in the district, an office-bearer claimed. Industrialists assert that the relaxations are not enough to re-open the units and the conditions are creating confusion for them.With an annual turnover of nearly ₹2,000 crore, most of these units supply the instruments to educational and technical institutes or export them to other countries. Closure of these buyers and further raw material markets in Punjab, Chandigarh and Delhi, will remain a big problem even if they re-open their units.Ambala Scientific Instruments Manufacturers Association president Sanjay Gupta said, “Most of the small or medium units are spread across the industrial areas of both Ambala Cantonment and Saha town, while there are also some micro-units in Ambala Cantonment and surrounding villages. The government has asked us to fill forms online that will allow us to re-open our units, but the form itself is very complicated and is creating confusion for us.”“The labourers we have engaged come mostly from nearby villages and other parts of the district. The industrial space is not sufficient to accommodate them all and arrange for their food, so most businessmen are reluctant to open their units. The few who have applied, their applications are being rejected. As per my knowledge, there is not a single unit that is operating, but news reports citing government data are claiming that a couple of them have started working,” Gupta added.There are two industrial areas in the district – Ambala Cantonment and Saha. The latter is dominated by bottling plants associated with Coca-Cola, Tuborg, Frooti and other aerated/non-aerated drinks. There are also some units of packaging and scientific instruments in this area. Pointing out the “strict conditions” by the government, Saha Industrial Area Association president Rajbir Chaudhary said the conditions are creating confusion, but the clearance on FIR in case a worker gets infected, has come as a relief.“We were expecting more relaxations from the government, but the strict conditions imposed are not favourable for the industrialists. The government has asked us to complete medical insurance-related process for the workers among other conditions, but it is not possible on such a short notice. However, the government’s clearance that there will be no FIR against the owner if a worker tests positive for Covid-19, has come as a relief and I expect this will motivate many to begin operations. Out of 225, over a dozen industrial units are operating in Saha right now,” Chaudhary said.Deputy commissioner Ashok Kumar Sharma, however, refused to mention particularly about scientific instruments and said, “We allow only those units to re-open and start operations who fulfil the prescribed conditions, as directed by the state government. There are over 100 varied units that have started operations in the last few days in the district.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lockdown-effect-india-s-largest-scientific-instruments-industry-in-ambala-reluctant-to-re-open-despite-relaxations/story-QPIRK2hiERrTju5H5u6lHJ.html
24-04-2020||Lucknow||Old-age inmate donates her savings from widow pension to PM Cares fund||In a heartening gesture, Kamla Saini, a Muzaffarnagar-based octogenarian, who lives in an old-age home and survives on widow pension of Rs 500 per month, has donated her savings of Rs 21, 000 to Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations Fund’ (PM CARES Fund) to fight the war against Covid-19.Living in an old-age home since last two years, when his only son moved to Hardwar with his family, Saini said reports of plights of people during lockdown and those suffering from coronavirus prompted her to contribute her bit in the ongoing fight against the deadly virus.“I withdrew Rs 21,000 of my savings from pension fund and handed it over to the district magistrate of Muzaffarnagar to deposit the same in the PM CARES Fund,” said the octogenarian, who lost her trader husband Nannu Singh around eight years back.It was then she registered herself for widow pension and started receiving the amount in her saving account. She also had her little savings other than the pension.Her gesture also got appreciation from Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi.“Your gesture has made us proud. Helping people at the time of crisis is true patriotism. My admiration for you elevated further when I came to know that you are a widow living in an old-age home. Country will always show its gratitude for your sacrifice. Salute to your zeal for selfless service,” wrote Priyanka to her in an appreciation letter.Speaking to HT over phone, Saini said, “Priyanka is like my daughter and I am elated that she noticed and appreciated the little contribution from a poor woman.”Former MP Harendra Malik and Congress leader Zunaid Rauf handed over Priyanka Gandhi’s appreciation letter to Saini.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/old-age-inmate-donates-her-savings-from-widow-pension-to-pm-cares-fund/story-ewxX2q62wiusgVnXYL5jyO.html
24-04-2020||Mumbai||State tells BMC to increase bed capacity for Covid-19 patients to 7K from current 2K||The state government has directed the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to increase the bed capacity in the city’s hospitals to 7,000 from the current 2,000.This comes after an official estimated projection that the number of Covid-19 positive cases in the city will rise to 70,000 by mid-May or May end. Currently, around 80 to 90% of patients are asymptomatic and don’t need hospitalisation, going by this trend about 7,000 people (10%) of the projected 70,000 are likely to need hospital beds.Manisha Mhaiskar, principal secretary on special deputation to the BMC, as part of the core team of bureaucrats handling Covid-19 matters in the city, said, “All positive patients do not need hospitalisation. Going by the present figures, around 80% to 90% of the patients are asymptomatic. As per the projections, around 7,000 patients that show symptoms will need to be hospitalised. Thus, the BMC and private hospitals will have to ramp up to a capacity of 7,000 beds.”The number of cases in Mumbai is doubling every 7 days hence official reports project the figure at 70,000 by mid-May or May-end.Currently, Mumbai has 2,000 beds each across 26 private, municipal and state government hospitals in the city. BMC will now increase this capacity to 7,000 by converting non-Covid beds into those reserved for coronavirus patients. On priority, the capacity of existing Covid-19 hospitals will be increased and if required more private hospitals will be roped in to meet the demand of 7,000 beds. Preparations will include making oxygen points available at each bed and ventilators at some. “All Covid-19 patients do not need ventilators, only about 5% of the critical ones do. But all beds catering to Covid-19 patients must have oxygen points,” added Mhaiskar. BMC made the current 2,000 beds available by converting some of its current infrastructure. For example, from the Nair hospital at Mumbai Central, which was recently converted into a Covid-only facility, all non-Covid but critical patients were shifted to KEM Hospital at Parel and Sion Hospital.The civic body has also put elective medical procedures - such as a knee surgery - temporarily on hold to dedicate its resources to Covid-19. Similar measures will be taken to ramp up to 7,000 beds. However, hospitals will continue to treat non-Covid critical patients with serious health issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-tells-bmc-to-increase-bed-capacity-for-covid-19-patients-to-7k-from-current-2k/story-G0Bn2FpAP5EoF6icGxWqyJ.html
24-04-2020||Chandigarh||With five more cases, covid-19 count swells to 275 in Haryana||With five new positive cases — two each from Panipat and Gurugram and one from Rohtak — the Covid-19 count in Haryana swelled to 275 on Friday. Senior officials of the health department said while a 34-year-old woman and her 14-year-old son were found infected in Panipat, two persons, who were in contact with a Covid patient, tested positive in Gurugram. In Rohtak, a vegetable seller is the latest victim of the coronavirus. Panipat chief medical officer Dr Sant Lal Verma said the woman and her son, residents of Dhoop Singh Nagar, have been kept in an isolation ward at the local civil hospital. They had recently returned from Delhi. Stating that their locality has been sealed, Dr Verma said the woman’s husband, two more sons and nine other people in her contact have been isolated as well. The woman’s son, who tested positive, studied at a madarsa in Delhi and she had brought him back on April 21, the doctor said. FIVE TEST POSITIVE IN SONEPATFive people were said to have been found positive for coronavirus in Sonepat on Friday, though the health department bulletin did not mention them. They included corona infected nurse’s husband, a class IV health department employee in Sonepat, a cancer patient from Sahri village, a woman of Shahzadpur village here, who is wife of a health employee posted in Delhi and a man from Sonepat , who had also visited a cancer hospital in Delhi. Sonepat civil surgeon Dr BK Rajoura said all these patients have been shifted to Bhagat Phool Singh Medical College at Khanpur Kalan. Meanwhile, a constable of the Delhi Police was found infected in Panipat. As per the information, he is a resident of Sonepat, who had gone to his sister’s place in Panipat on Thursday. His sister, who is an ASI in Panipat police department, took him for examination and his samples were sent for testing. On Friday, his report came out positive. STATE RECOVERY RATE IS 68%Sixteen more persons were discharged on Friday — nine from Gurugram, two each from Kaithal and Sonepat and one each from Faridabad, Hisar and Kurukshetra. With this, the number of persons cured so far climbed to 186, making the recovery rate of about 68%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/with-five-more-cases-covid-19-count-swells-to-275-in-haryana/story-KaL9PV2mEEXGDoHzYx6NuK.html
24-04-2020||Mumbai||Housing societies in Mumbai order mangoes in bulk from farms||Unhappy with the high prices and poor quality of mangoes available with the vendors amid lockdown, residents of various housing societies in the city have started ordering mangoes in bulk directly from farms across the state. “Maybe because there is no export happening this year, good quality mangoes are available with farmers but are not reaching the markets. In a lockdown situation like this, one cannot really go hunting for mangoes all the way till Crawford market,” said Pervez Cooper, a resident of Colaba.The Colaba residents’ association ordered more than 225 dozen mangoes which are expected to arrive on Friday from Nashik.“If the quality turns out to be good, we could place a second bulk order. When my friend went to Crawford to find mangoes, there was too much crowd and police didn’t allow people to stand there, so he had to come back disappointed,” added Cooper.Other societies from across the city have opted for mangoes to be brought in bulk from coastal areas of Maharashtra such as Ratnagiri or Devgadh, which specialise in Alphonso mango.The traders and buyers also attributed this to APMC markets being shut.Kolan Bhumi Pratistan, a group which support farmers from Kokan region, said they have so far delivered around 10,000 dozen mangoes to 100 societies in Mumbai, Thane, Vasai and Pune.Sanjay Yadavrao, founder of the group, said they have started taking orders on online platforms and are in the process of launching an application.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/housing-societies-in-mumbai-order-mangoes-in-bulk-from-farms/story-8dqZFjgEcwOWUgivJD78lO.html
24-04-2020||City||Delhi prepares for Ramzan in days of pandemic||New Delhi: For Delhi, or Dilli, Ramzan -- the most important month in the Islamic calendar when Muslims observe fasts and perform special prayers each night -- is a festival. For the entire month, specially in the old quarters, thousands gather every night for a grand feast at hundreds of eateries, and it continues till early morning just before the time for ‘sehar’ ends and the devout begin their fast. It resumes later in the day, an hour before ‘iftar’ when the devout break their fast. “But, then this is pandemic year. All mosques have been shut down, there is a national lockdown in effect, all markets are shut, all food items are in limited supply and there is widespread panic and apprehension. It doesn’t feel like Ramzan at all,” said Mohammad Faisal, a resident of Kucha Pandit, Old Delhi, referring to the restrictions imposed by the government to contain the spread of Covid-19.With Chandni Mahal, situated just a kilometre away from Jama Masjid, reporting several Covid-19 cases so far, the usual hustle bustle ahead of Ramzan is missing. “People used to stock up groceries specially for Ramzan, local shops used to start making items such as ‘Khajla, Pheni’ (snacks eaten with milk during Sehar) and the bazar would come alive. There is nothing like that this year,” said Mohammad Sirajuddin, a resident of Haveli Azam Khan area. Chandni Mahal RWA said they were asking residents to not gather at local mosques for prayers. RWA president Anwarullah said the residents would observe fasts and offer prayers at their homes only considering the precarious situation in the area. The central district, which includes the Walled City, has seven containment zones. Of these, five are located in Old Delhi -- Sadar Bazar, Chandni Mahal, Nabi Karim, Nawab Ganj and Bara Hindu Rao, spread over less than two square km. The other two containment zones are in Sant Nagar Burari and Oberoi Apartment in Civil Lines.“It is not just feasting. Muslims donate generously and feed the poor daily during Ramzan. Special arrangements are made at mosques for ‘taraveeh’ and Friday prayers as the number of people coming to perform prayers almost double during this holy month. It is not just us, think about those who knew they wouldn’t have to go hungry at least for one month since they would find plenty of food and alms,” said Mohd Feroze, a resident of Matia Mahal. Taraveeh are special prayers that are performed during Ramzan after the Isha (night) namaz. Since mosques would remain shut, Imams and the Darul-uloom, Deoband, have appealed to all the Muslims in the country to stay inside their homes and perform taraveeh and other prayers there only. The iconic Jama Masjid also remains shut due to lockdown. Till last year, besides hundreds of people gathering at the iconic mosque for prayers, there used to be a fair-like atmosphere in its grand courtyard every evening during Ramzan with people breaking their fast with snacks and delicacies bought from the local market. Also there used to be ‘iftar dastarkhawans’ (special feasts) where people invited others to break fast with them. “Jama Masjid is shut, so are local mosques. It is difficult to imagine Ramzan in Old Delhi without Jama Masjid,” said Naseem Ahmad, a local resident. The Rahmatullah Hotel, another Jama Masjid area landmark, where hundreds of the poor are fed daily by the patrons and the hotel owners, is locked. Fazalur Rahman, the hotel owner, said, “This shop was established in 1948, and its has never shut down since. However, with the lockdown in place, this restaurant would also remain closed.” The hotel is known for its sheermal, paranthas and kebabs, besides meals that comes as cheap as Rs50. Mufti Mukarram Ahmed, the Shahi Imam of the Fatehpuri Masjid, said he has appealed to the people to stay inside their houses and offer their prayers. He also said that if for any reason, someone is not being able to keep the fast, he can observe it later during anytime of the year. “Those with medical or any other condition are allowed to skip fast during Ramzan and keep it when they attain health. We have appealed to the people that they should listen to what doctors and experts have advised,” he said. The Mufti also urged the authorities to make arrangements so that the markets, in some areas, can be opened in the morning at 3am and also in the evening for sometime so that the people can buy essential commodities, while maintaining social distancing. Sanjay Bhargava, president, Chandni Chowk Traders Association, said the area got additional footfall during Ramzan which meant extra business for the traders. “This would be a double whammy for the traders whose businesses are already shut from the last one month,” said Bhargav.Hazrat Nizamuddin, another centre of activity during Ramzan, also shows no signs of the usual hubbub. The Dargah has been shut down and the entire area has remained secluded ever since hundreds stuck inside the Alami Markaz, the headquarters of the Tablighi Jamaat, were evacuated with symptoms of Covid-19. Farid Nizami, caretaker of the Hazrat Nizmauddin Dargah, said the dargah was never shut down in its over 700 years of history. He also said that it would be the first Ramzan when there would be no arrangements for iftar, taraveeh at the adjacent Jamaat Khana Masjid.“During Ramzan, it used to be a different environment altogether. The place is completely crowded with people and also visitors who come to offer namaz. At any given time during the holy month, around 2,500 people offered prayers here. But it is for the first time in 700 years that we had to shut down the dargah,” the dargah caretaker said.“We have already told local residents and devotees to stay indoors and offer namaz. For Eid festivities, a decision will be taken only a week before the festival,” Nizami said. It is also a difficult time particularly for those living inside the containment zones. Mussarat Begum, 50, who lives with her son in Nizamuddin area said at least the authorities should have allowed access to ATMs and banks so that people could withdraw money for essential things. “I had some cash but it is finishing fast. Not many local shopkeepers and vendors accept e-payments. We need to shop daily for sehar and iftar, how are we going to do it now,” she said.Another resident, Mehrunissa Khan, a health worker, said the supplies are hit and many daily use items are not available. “Many food and other items that we associate with Ramzan are not there this time,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-prepares-for-ramzan-in-days-of-pandemic/story-p192NJKX0xA40GRo4QIHrK.html
24-04-2020||Gurugram||80 factories, 35 construction projects get go-ahead to resume ops in Gurugram industrial areas||At least 80 industries, 35 construction projects and 10,000 workers have been allowed to resume work this week. Development follows announcement of standard operating procedures (SOPs) announced by the state government on April 19 to reopen economic zones. The administration has allowed workers to cycle or ride a motorcycle to work if they stay within a five-kilometre radius of their workplace. For others, the employers will have to apply for to the administration for transport, officials said.In Gurugram, around 1,100 applications from industries and 150 applications for construction projects were received on the Saral portal till Friday. “Around 80 applications for resuming industry operations and 35 for construction projects, by government and private developers, were approved by Friday evening. The volume of applications is high and we are approving them only after proper scrutiny of the documents uploaded on a first-come, first-service basis. Applicants must read the application criteria properly and upload the SOP accordingly. In absence of these, applications are being rejected,” VS Kundu, GMDA chief executive officer and chief coordinator of Covid-19 response in Gurugram, said. About 6,700 industrial workers have been issued movement passes and nearly 4,000 such passes have been issued to workers at construction sites.Given the volume of applications being received from industries across the district, government said norms are being relaxed and their officials across departments, such as Industry, labour and the Haryana state industrial infrastructure development corporation (HSIIDC), were involved 24x7 in scrutiny of documents.“Travelling norms are being relaxed. Cycle and bike travel in 5km radius of the factory has been allowed for workers as in maximum industrial locations workers normally reside in nearby villages and, for them, industry owners need not provide additional transport facility, as was mandated under government guidelines currently in place. Beyond this range of 5km, industry owners will have to arrange transport and government has decided to provide its buses. Industry owners, through their associations, will send requirements to local administration,” HSIIDC chief coordinator Sunil Sharma said. The 80 industrial units that have received sanction are in Manesar, Udyog Vihar and Sector 37. “Government is currently allowing resumption of work in approved (regulated) industrial zones. In the entire state, 850 industries had been granted approval, as on April 24, and around 61,000 movement passes had been issued. The scrutiny of documents is underway in every district,” said Sharma.Those who got permission are to resume operations over the next couple of days.Rakesh Vohra, Sector 37-based industry owner, said, “Ours is packaging business and we will currently work with only seven workers. I applied on April 20 and I got approval on Friday morning.”Sanjiv Puri, Udyog Vihar-based industry owner who is in the garment business, said, “We got permission on Friday, but we have to see our staff/workers are available and they are in a position to resume work. All this will take a few days.”The industry owners in non-confirming zones such as Kadipur, Daulatabad, Basai and elsewhere will have to wait till the lockdown is lifted.“We are small-scale industry owners and we have been neglected on many fronts, and for long. We have no water, sewer etc; we have been fighting for these basic facilities for a long time. Currently, our operations are not even being considered by the government. This, after we applied for permission,” Kadipur-based industry owner Sanjiv Bansal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/80-factories-35-construction-projects-get-go-ahead-to-resume-ops-in-gurugram-industrial-areas/story-6EyPjZOyS7jhsTqe0oyosN.html
24-04-2020||Delhi||CISF constable tests positive for coronavirus||A constable of the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), who was posted at the Delhi airport, tested positive for coronavirus on Thursday. Senior officers said the man was off duty and in quarantine for the last one week. After the test results, he was shifted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Jhajjar of Haryana. A senior officer, on the condition of anonymity, said that the constable had been unwell for the past few days and had not been reporting to work. He was initially sent to the CISF’s quarantine facility in Shahbad Mohammadpur, near the airport. “He was kept in isolation. As soon as he tested positive, we shifted him to AIIMS, Jhajjar, for treatment. Because the airport isn’t operational for passengers and the constable was also not reporting to work, his colleagues didn’t need to be quarantined. His family lives in Dwarka and they are also under home-quarantine” the officer said.Hemendra Singh, assistant inspector general, CISF confirmed that a constable tested positive. Singh said all three men who live in the barracks are being regularly tested for symptoms by medical staff.This is the second coronavirus positive case reported from the Delhi airport. Earlier this month, a Delhi Police head constable, who was posted with the immigration department at the Indira Gandhi International Airport, had tested positive for the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/cisf-constable-tests-positive-for-coronavirus/story-c5CK3sAJNVhAVPEQQExbAI.html
24-04-2020||Gurugram||Over 2,300 govt staffers at forefront of Covid fight in Gurugram to be tested||Some 2,300 employees of the district health department, who have been on ground 24X7 since February 19 when their leaves were cancelled due to the global pandemic, will now be tested for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) over the next few days. Their RT-PCR testing will be done alongside routine screening and testing of citizens, especially those in the 24 containment zones.On Friday, the department screened 60 government employees in Mini Secretariat, out of which 20 people gave their samples for Covid-19 testing. The team took swabs from nose and throat for Real Time-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) after the antibody test for community surveillance was put on hold by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) following inaccuracies citied by different states.“Besides the routine surveillance and sample collection, we are now reaching out to government employees and workers who have been working at the forefront. Government employees are exposed to multiple people as they visit different areas,” said Dr Jaswant Singh Punia, chief medical officer. Starting with district administration employees in Mini Secretariat, the team will cover judiciary, Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) and police personnel. “While testing the government employees and people from judiciary we will be covering more than 2,500 people. For police personnel, we are preparing a plan to cover them in phases as the workforce is huge and their working cannot be disturbed,” Dr Anuj Garg, a rapid response team member, said, adding that the process will continue till next week.PVT SECTOR AIDHelping the health team is an online pharmacy company which has provided a van for sample collection and a lab technician. “We have been given 10,000 VTM (viral transport kits) by the company for collecting the swabs of government workers. The samples of identified persons with flu-like illness were easily collected inside the van,” said Dr Garg. These samples will be sent to PGIMS-Rohtak for testing.According to Punia, journalists who were earlier tested through antibody kits will now be tested through RT-PCR. On Tuesday, the health team tested 30 journalists and 36 people from the Sohna containment zone by using rapid testing kits. All the tests were negative. In Gurugram, 47 cases have been reported till now, of which 35 have been discharged, while 12 are undergoing treatment. No new Covid-19 case was reported from the city on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/over-2-300-govt-staffers-at-forefront-of-covid-fight-in-gurugram-to-be-tested/story-IzAwviA5d4ordRgAHzlejI.html
24-04-2020||City||Lockdown enforcement: On average, 104 people arrested daily in GB Nagar||Noida: The Gautam Budh Nagar police have been registering cases and arresting people for violating the prohibitory orders issued as part of the lockdown enforcement. In the one month of the lockdown starting March 23, on an average, 104 people were arrested per day in the district, shows the police data. According to the official data, from March 23 to April 23 (till 7pm), a total of 3,803 people have been booked under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code, of whom 3,325 have been arrested.“The arrests came in violation of Section 144 of CrPC that has been implemented in the district in the wake of the lockdown. It bars the gathering of four or more people,” said a police spokesperson.Anyone booked under Section 188 can be granted interim bail as it carries a punishment of less than seven years, said the police. “While we want people to understand the guidelines and abide by them, we don’t want to create unnecessary crowds in jails,” said Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police (zone 1).Prime Minister Narendra Modi had called for a three-week nationwide lockdown from March 25, which was later extended till May 3. However, the Uttar Pradesh government had already announced to impose a three-day lockdown from March 23, which subsequently merged with the nationwide lockdown. The UP government has also mandated the use of face masks in public places and cops have been booking people if they are found not using one.The police department is carrying out daily checks at 200 barricaded posts in the district, including border areas, and has checked 65,221 vehicles during the said period so far. Of which, 12,779 vehicles have been challaned for various violations, while 826 seized. The department has also collected almost Rs 1.5 lakh in fines.The police spokesperson said that five cases under the Essential Commodities Act, 1955, have also been registered, in which five people were booked while three arrested.In this duration, the police have permitted 3,245 vehicles of essential services for movement in and out of the district. Earlier this week, the GB Nagar district completely sealed its borders with Delhi like Ghaziabad. Police and health officials are scanning the temperature of anyone entering the district and people with an increased body temperature are not being allowed to come in.The district has reported 109 positive cases of Covid-19 till Friday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lockdown-enforcement-on-average-104-people-arrested-daily-in-gb-nagar/story-gFNCNhVSgPLeiOvJwS759H.html
24-04-2020||Gurugram||Sector 39, Jharsa village see highest number of Covid 19 cases in Gurugram city; 3rd highest in district||The sudden increase in the number of Covid-19 cases in Sector 39 and Jharsa village, also in Sector 39, has set the alarm bells ringing as this area now has the highest number of cases within the city and third highest in district after Sohna and Pataudi. A large number of health workers stay in these high-density areas, locals said, adding that supply of essentials has been hit. In all, six cases of the Coronavirus disease have been reported from Sector 39 and Jharsa village, as per the health department officials. Three cases were reported from Jharsa village over two days this week, prompting the district administration to declare it a containment zone. Earlier, on April 10, Sector 39 was declared a containment zone after three positive cases were reported. Till Friday evening, 47 Covid-19 cases were reported in the city, authorities said. The Sector 39 containment zone has 1,820 houses and 10,000 people while the Jharsa village, located in Sector 39, has a population of around 50,000 people and is a high-density area.The health department, on its part, said surveillance in the area has been increased and more teams of ASHA and ANM workers have been deployed here. “Each health department team has been doing door-to-door for surveillance in the sector assigned to them. They are looking for clinically suspected cases. The residents will have to give information about the suspected cases and, if required, they are being taken to Sector 10 hospital for taking swab sample. The teams have been trained to create awareness in the community about preventing disease from spreading, importance of home quarantine and reporting about cases if they see any signs and symptoms of cough and cold,” Chief medical officer Dr Jaswant Singh Punia said. SUPPLY WOESFollowing the containment order, officials said authorities concerned have barricaded the area and entry and exit of residents has been banned. However, residents said that in the last two days after the number of cases increased they were facing problems in getting dry ration, vegetables and milk. “My house is along the street where most cases of Covid-19 have been detected; these house have been sealed completely. We are not allowed to go out and buy vegetables or milk. There is need for the administration to supply essential commodities at door steps,” Jharsa resident Parveen Thakran.Sector 39 residents and RWA members, which is spread in five large blocks comprising HSVP plotted area and cooperative housing around Jharsa village, also said that getting essential supplies had been a big hassle. Pradeep Kumar, who is resident of Housing Board colony in Sector 39, said shops inside their condominium have closed and they were managing with whatever they had left in stock. “The situation is becoming difficult as movement is difficult. We understand the problem but basic issues need to be addressed as well,” he said.“There must be a dedicated official in every containment zone, who can interact with residents and resolve their problems. We have registered our issues with administration and hope something is worked out soon,” RWA president MS Dahiya said.Officials involved in managing the containment zone, however, said that shops were to operate from morning to 4pm. “Shops have been closed by owners on their own due to fear of Covid-19. Although movement of people outside containment zone is banned, essential supplies are being delivered. If any resident is facing problems they will be resolved,” said Chander Shekhar, duty magistrate, sector 39. Jharsa village duty magistrate Sanjay Yadav said that they have allowed supply of essential commodities but everyone will have to maintain social distancing and wear a mask while going out. “We have also installed warning board for residents,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/sector-39-jharsa-village-see-highest-number-of-covid-19-cases-in-gurugram-city-3rd-highest-in-district/story-EDnbrDH3thaFtEcHWeDyRJ.html
24-04-2020||City||Gzb administration restricts timings of vegetable and grocery shops; corporation defers hike in property-tax||The Ghaziabad district administration Friday directed that starting April 25, all fruit and vegetable shops will open only up to 2pm, while the grocery and kirana shops will operate only up to 4pm daily.District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said the timings were curtailed for stricter enforcement of lockdown conditions.The Ghaziabad district is among a list of 19 districts in Uttar Pradesh which have 10 or more cases.“The directions have been given in order to restrict movement of the public during the lockdown. If shop timings are restricted, we expect that it would also restrict the movement of people. Any selling of fruit or vegetables in residential localities will be allowed only up to 2pm. The grocery shops will also not open after 4pm,” Shiv Prakash Shukl, city magistrate, said.Till Friday, such shops were allowed to open from 6am to 9pm. Two days ago, the administration also restricted the timing of shops at Old Sabzi Mandi (near Navyug Market) till 2pm in order to avoid any crowding.On Monday, the district magistrate had also given directions prohibiting the movement of people between Ghaziabad and Delhi. The directions came after the health department said that at least six positive cases of Covid-19 resulted after the patients had travelled to Delhi.According to officials the Ghaziabad district, at present, there are 15 hot spots in the district which are completely barricaded and no movement of public is allowed except of those involved in essential supplies, sanitisation and home delivery of food, etc.Apart from the hot spots, the district also has 25 epicentre areas which have been temporarily sealed. The epicentre areas are created if Covid-19 cases emerge within a 5km radius of a hot spot area.The Ghaziabad municipal corporation on Friday also decided to defer a hike of 10% in property tax this year in view of the Covid-19 situation.“The decision has been taken to defer the stipulated hike and the proposal will be formally placed before the corporation board in the next board meeting. We did not want to burden ordinary citizens,” Dinesh Chandra, municipal commissioner, said.According to officials, there are about 3.53 lakh houses which pay property tax which includes 10% house tax, 10% water tax and 4% sewer and drainage tax. The tax is calculated on the basis of annual rental value of a property.“Last financial year (2019-20), we received about ₹127 crore as property tax. There was a proposal of 10% on annual rental value which has now been put on hold. We are now encouraging people to pay the property tax online. We are also thinking of making arrangements for manual collection of tax,” Sanjeev Kumar Sinha, corporation’s chief tax assessment officer, said.A tax payer gets a rebate of 20% if the tax payment is made by August 31; 15% in case tax is paid in September; 10% in case the payment is made in October or November and 5% if paid in December or January.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gzb-administration-restricts-timings-of-vegetable-and-grocery-shops-corporation-defers-hike-in-property-tax/story-EVO3rLMLcik3Y5RYywR1SM.html
24-04-2020||City||Nearly 50% fall in domestic violence calls amid Covid-19 lockdown||Ghaziabad: The instances of domestic violence in the district during the first phase of lockdown have seen a sharp decline of about 50% as compared to the pre-lockdown period in March. According to the data compiled by the Ghaziabad police for 18 police stations in urban and rural areas, cops received about 501 calls related to domestic violence from March 1 to March 22, while only 258 calls were made between March 23 and April 14 when the lockdown was put in place.The data showed that only two police station areas of Niwari and Kaushambi received such calls, which landed at police emergency number 112, in single digit while eight police station areas stood in single digit during the lockdown period.“The calls reduced drastically during the lockdown period. It could be due to regular movement of police in different areas and closure of liquor shops. It is generally seen that people consume liquor and resort to fight at home or indulge in domestic violence. The trend of decline in figures is encouraging and we expect that it should continue,” said Neeraj Kumar Jadaun, superintendent of police (rural) and nodal officer for police response vehicles (112).The police station areas where major decline in calls was witnessed include Vijay Nagar (reduced from 63 to 30), Indirapuram (33 to 19), Kavi Nagar (44 to 12), Loni (46 to 30), Loni Border (41 to 26), and Sahibabad (47 to 22).The police said that they will quantify more data for further analysis once the lockdown period ends.Overall, the Ghaziabad police received 312 calls from the urban pockets and 189 from the rural areas during the pre-lockdown period. The number of calls from the urban centres dipped to 161, while in the rural areas it went down to 97 during the lockdown period.Dr Saket Tiwari, consultant psychiatrist with National Mental Health Programme, who is also looking after counselling of patients at quarantine centres in Ghaziabad, said that currently people are more focussed on dealing with coronavirus.“They are trying to fight the disease which is spreading. There are responses of humans where we conserve our energies to deal with the imminent danger. So, these energies are getting conserved to deal with coronavirus situation. There is also a fear of survival and people are also inclined to analyse the future,” Tiwari said.“The lockdown has also given us a situation where people are at home and spending more time with family. So, the communication gap has also got reduced. Further, the stress levels which people bring home from their workplace has also reduced now. Generally, from the cases, we see that a male is inclined towards domestic violence. But now he is in protection mode and thinking more about his family,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nearly-50-fall-in-domestic-violence-calls-amid-covid-19-lockdown/story-igGiGDc92KyLal1TZgVZZN.html
24-04-2020||Gurugram||Tulip Violet makes the best use of lockdown||The lockdown to contain the spread of the SARS-CoV2 is seeing people across the country get innovative with their time indoors. At Tulip Violet in Sector 69, residents are being motivated by the residents’ welfare association (RWA) of the society to share their quarantine experiences through a contest. Residents who upload unique ways of spending their time doing what they love the best will be rewarded when the lockdown ends.Quarantine fun The details of the contest was shared on the society’s Facebook group. “We started the contest #VioletBeatsCorona in late March. So far we have got around 250 entries. The idea was to encourage residents to share their activities and experiences while being under lockdown,” says Puneet Goyal, RWA president.Goyal adds that the entries were a mixed lot. From recipes to art works, from musical performances to innovative versions of familiar games, the list is long. “One of the residents turned around the old snakes-and-ladder game into a task-oriented one. Suppose, if you hit five, then you may have to do five sit-ups,” says Goyal. The closed Facebook group dedicated to the society’s residents routinely sees various posts of memes, TikTok videos, home recipes for hand sanitisers and others. In the absence of any physical engagement due to the lockdown, the residents have shifted their interactions online.Help at handThe condominium has a special task force to help tackle the various challenges being faced during the lockdown.It consists of eight members, including a resident doctor and public health expert. The force formed around March 20, has been responsible for all the safety measures taken by the society. “Initially the team met every day to plan out steps. Now, the meeting is held on a weekly basis as well as when required,” said Anoop Kumar, RWA secretary.For instance, upon realising the urgent need of servicing AC units due to the approaching summer, the RWA has taken a unique initiative. Realising that residents calling in maintenance services individually would mean at least a hundred outsiders stepping inside the society, the RWA has decided to call in a team of service personnel, who have been provided accommodation at the society for the duration of their service. “A team of six servicemen for AC repair and servicing have been hired and they are now staying in an apartment at the complex. They are expected to stay here for the next 15 days or so till the maintenance work is complete,” said Goyal. The society currently has a reduced team of in-house technicians, electricians and plumbers, whose services can be availed by residents at any time. “I used the services of the electrician to do a few repairs around the house. I am glad they were available during this time,” said Rakesh Gupta, a resident. A few home chefs in the society have came together to form a group that provides home-cooked food to residents based on the number of orders received. The customers usually include elderly residents, who are unable to cook in the absence of maids. The menu is altered on a day-to-day basis and is shared on their WhatsApp group. It usually includes rice, chapatti, sabzi and an array of evening snacks. “My menu usually includes rice, dal, subzi, chapatti, samosa, lithi chokha, dal bati and others. There are a lot of orders for evening snacks as well. Residents know that the food is made at home and is hygienic and safe,” said Pallavi Sharma, one of the of home chefs. She adds that the price of a vegetarian thali starts at ₹140. The orders are usually collected from the apartments of the home chefs. Caring for the poorThe society has also put together a ration-distribution drive for the support staff employed at the society. The RWA collected funds from residents for the purpose. A fund amounting to ₹1.5 lakh was created and the ration bought with that money was distributed to families of the tower guards, gardeners, maids and others employed at the society. “The ration drive saw donations by residents. The fund was used to provide ration to the support staff at the society,” said Aditya Kumar, joint secretary, RWA.The residency has one departmental store and a vegetable store inside its complex that cater to the close to 3,000 residents, said Sumit Gulati, vice-president of RWA. For the time being, all doorstep deliveries during the day have been stopped. Executives are allowed only till the tower lobby. The society is also maintaining a no-walks-allowed policy but it agrees that there are a few rule breakers. For such residents, the RWA is holding an awareness drive. “We found that roughly 1% for the condo population was coming out for walks. These were mostly senior citizens. We tried to convince them and made them aware of the situation. A few insisted further and provided medical proof of why they need to walk. For those cases, we have made special provision and allowed them to take walks on the rooftop,” said Goyal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/tulip-violet-makes-the-best-use-of-lockdown/story-GqsyudsvwEWpybZkkKyRuK.html
24-04-2020||City||CRPF jawan among 6 new cases in GB Nagar, total reach 109||Noida: Six more persons tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Gautam Budh Nagar on Friday, taking the total number of cases to 109 in the district.The new Covid-19 patients include a 35-year-old CRPF jawan from Delhi’s Mayur Vihar Phase 3 and five persons from the slums of Sector 8 in Noida. According to health officials, 16 people have been found positive for Sars-CoV-2 virus from the slums of sectors 5 and 8 in Noida, increasing the fear of community spread.Among the five positive patients, two are minors aged 11 and 16 years, while two others are men aged 18 and 48 years. One of the patients is a 32-year-old woman.According to the officials, all the persons who are found positive for the infection from sectors 8 and 5 were already under quarantine at different government centres, which have helped contain the spread of the infection.The CRPF jawan, who found positive on Friday, had got himself checked for blood pressure at a dispensary of the central security force, and later when he developed symptoms, he got himself checked for Covid-19 at Prayag Hospital in Sector 41 of Noida. The hospital has a tie-up with the CRPF.All the new patients have been admitted at Sharda hospital in Greater Noida, the officials said. “We have been putting a lot of effort in the slum areas to avoid community spread. All the persons found positive were already under quarantine at the government centres. Our multiple teams are working in sectors 8 and 5,” said Dr Deepak Ohri, chief medical officer, GB Nagar.Since April 8, hundreds of people have been shifted from the slums in sectors 8 and 5 to government quarantine centres as a precautionary measure. The step was taken after four persons, with one linked to Ceasefire company, tested positive for Covid-19 in JJ Colony in Sector 5.The officials are taking more precautionary measures in areas where there are no residents’ welfare associations and where social distancing is not possible because of higher population density, such as the slums. The health department has been waiting for the sample reports of over 500 Covid-19 suspects, the officials said.Meanwhile, a 27-year-old woman and a 26-year-old man were discharged from the Super Speciality Paediatric Hospital & Post Graduate Teaching Institute in Sector 30 after being cured.By Friday night, the health department collected a total of 2,821 samples. A total of 109 cases have come out positive, while 56 patients have been discharged. Currently, there are 53 active Covid-19 cases in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/crpf-jawan-among-6-new-cases-in-gb-nagar-total-reach-109/story-gvYvQsKEoPa0yLXGLsiaQI.html
24-04-2020||Gurugram||Man booked for passing inappropriate comments, casteist slurs against Dalit woman||A man was booked on Thursday for allegedly passing inappropriate comments, casteist slurs, and threatening to kill a Dalit woman at a village in Pataudi. According to the police complaint, the man had been allegedly harassing the woman for the past few days.The police said they are investigating the matter now.According to the police, the woman is a resident of a village in Pataudi. The suspect is also a resident of the same village. In her police complaint, the woman alleged that the suspect had harassed her earlier also, and claimed that when she had approached the police, no action was taken.“For the past two days, the suspect has been passing inappropriate comments, casteist slurs at me, and has been threatening to kill me. I had given a police complaint earlier also, but the police did not take any appropriate action against him,” the woman said in her complaint. The police received the complaint from the office of sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) on Thursday after which a case was registered against the suspects under sections 354 and 506 of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act at Pataudi police station.Suresh Kumar, station house officer (SHO), Pataudi police station, denied inaction on the part of the police and added that there might be a money dispute between the two parties. “We have been investigating the case. Our preliminary probe suggests that there was a money dispute between the woman and the suspect. The suspect is yet to be arrested.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/man-booked-for-passing-inappropriate-comments-casteist-slurs-against-dalit-woman/story-cRyX0P3OM9Cxlzqf0pVp9K.html
24-04-2020||City||State government deputes three officers to review and inspect Coronavirus situation in Ghaziabad||The Uttar Pradesh government has sent three special officers to Ghaziabad to carry out a daily review of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation, carry out inspections and send daily progress reports to state officials. In a decision taken on Thursday, the state government deputed Sudhir Garg, principal secretary (forests); Praveen Kumar , inspector general (Meerut range) and Dr AK Paliwal, state program manager, National Health Mission, Uttar Pradesh as the three officials chosen for the task. State officials familiar with the matter said various state-level officers have been sent to 18 districts in the state that have reported 20 or more positive cases of coronavirus. Till Friday evening, the total number of cases in Ghaziabad stood at 52 and 17 of them were discharged from different hospitals.“The special officers will have several responsibilities, such as daily inspections and reviews of foreign travellers, keeping a track of members of the Tablighi Jamaat and their contacts, telemedicine facilities, Covid and non-Covid hospitals, quarantine centres and reviews of the lockdown and emergency services,” said Awanish Awasthi,additional chief secretary (home), Uttar Pradesh. “The officers are also expected to review the functioning of the emergency services and also ensure that infection prevention protocols are being followed at all hospitals. They will also inspect and review the food distribution programmes and the operations of the community kitchens. They will also be sending daily reports to the state government,” Awasthi said, adding that CEO of Greater Noida Authority, Narendra Bhooshan, is already present to look after Gautam Budh Nagar district, apart from Alok Singh, commissioner of police. Additionally, Dr Awdhesh Yadav, who is the joint-director (malaria) in Lucknow has also been deputed to the Gautam Buddh Nagar district.These special officers will camp in the respective districts for about a week.Across the state, 1,604 Covid-19 positive cases were reported till Friday evening and 204 of these cases were discharged from different hospitals. The tally also includes 24 people who died. According to Amit Mohan Prasad, principal secretary (health), 21 persons who died were also suffering from comorbidities, such as diabetes, kidney ailments, hypertension and cancer, among others.The remaining three patients were aged over 50 years.“Most of the present cases are now emerging from the hot-spot areas and containment zones. In new directions, the UP chief minister has asked to ensure a minimum of 15 oxygen cylinders, nebulisers and pulse oximeters at L1 category hospitals, adequate number of ventilators at L2 category hospitals and a minimum of 40 ventilators at L3 category hospitals,” Prasad added.In Ghaziabad, the officials on Friday also sealed two places at Kaila Bhatta and Khoda after Covid-19 cases were reported. They said that two patients, one each from Nandgram and Indirapuram, turned negative on Friday.“The test report of woman patient from an ATS high-rise in Indirapuram turned negative while another man from Nandgram also tested negative. In all, we have 52 positive cases till Friday night and 17 of them have already been discharged from different hospitals. I have also issued directions to the private labs conducting Covid-19 tests to take up two samples for testing. One of the samples will be tested at their labs while the other sample will be sent to the health department, where we will get it tested at our end to confirm positive cases,” CMO Dr NK Gupta said.Meanwhile the police have also registered an FIR against a man, a woman and several others who are lodged at a quarantine centre in Dasna for allegedly circulating a fake video, in which they claimed that a man was lying dead. The claims were busted by the health department officials on Thursday as the man was found to be alive.He was later admitted to a hospital for checkup.“The FIR has been lodged under Indian Penal Code Section 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) and also under provisions of the IT Act. The FIR was lodged on the basis of complaint forwarded by the executive officer of Dasna Nagar Panchayat,” said an officer from Masuri police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/state-government-deputes-three-officers-to-review-and-inspect-coronavirus-situation-in-ghaziabad/story-orMBV7Bzv4IrqgpQiR0k5M.html
24-04-2020||Delhi||400 labourers, traders at Azadpur mandi screened for Covid-19||Over 400 labourers and traders at the Azadpur wholesale fruit and vegetable market were screened for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Friday. The step came three days after a trader from the market died of Covid-19.“Today we sent a 19-member surveillance team, which included 12 doctors, to conduct thermal screening, temperature measurement and other tests on labourers, traders and others linked with the Azadpur mandi,” said Deepak Shinde, district magistrate (north). Meanwhile, the business partner of the dead trader has tested negative for the disease. HT has seen his test report. However, the test results of the 15 employees at the shop are still awaited, Shinde said.Adil Khan, chairman of agricultural produce marketing committee said there was no shortage in supplies of fruits and vegetables at the market. “The supply has rather increased by around 30% with the market functioning round-the-clock for seven days a week. There was no rise in the rates as well. In view of the coronavirus epidemic, general cleanliness is being emphasised and regular sanitisation is going on,” he said. The team of doctors who visited the market on Friday also created awareness about social distancing norms and other steps to prevent the Covid-19 infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/400-labourers-traders-at-azadpur-mandi-screened-for-covid-19/story-ExmFGFWPnoloYiJARIcKKN.html
24-04-2020||City||Gurugram: Three arrested for assaulting police officers when asked to show curfew pass in Manesar||Gurugram: Three men were arrested for allegedly assaulting a police official when they were stopped at a checkpoint in Manesar and asked to show curfew passes on Thursday night. Police said the accused allegedly hurled abuses at the policemen, tore the uniform of a traffic police official and threatened them of dire consequences. According to the police, the incident took place around 11.50pm when a police team was inspecting vehicle movement at a check point near the Manesar bus stand. Police said they noticed a car headed towards Jaipur and flagged it down. A police official privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said the driver did not slow down and the car was eventually stopped when a police official closed the barricades.Police said the driver claimed to be headed to Rewari with his two friends on the pretext of purchasing some medicine but when questioned, he could not name the medicine he was out to buy. “A traffic police official asked the driver if they had a curfew pass. The driver got agitated and started hurling abuses at the police officials. He alighted from the car and grabbed him by the collar and tore his uniform. The accused claimed to have “connections” and threatened to have the police official fired for stopping him,” alleged the police official.When other policemen tried to reason with him, his two friends also allegedly started arguing and manhandling the officers. Police said the three were arrested and later released on bail. A case was registered against the accused under sections 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty) and 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 51 (b) of the Disaster Management Act at the Manesar police station on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-three-arrested-for-assaulting-police-officers-when-asked-to-show-curfew-pass-in-manesar/story-v4zZZ3AdKvhwmBl7iZmIyL.html
24-04-2020||Noida||Patients cry foul over faulty sample collection as test results prove inconclusive||The health department of Gautam Buddh Nagar is facing a problem of sample collection from patients suspected of suffering from coronavirus disease(Covid-19). Over 100 samples sent to the laboratory of Government Institute of Medical Sciences(GIMS) in Greater Noida in the past four or five days turned out to be inconclusive. The inconclusive reports have forced officials to once again collect samples from suspected Covid-19 patients, leading to panic and restlessness among those who are currently under quarantine at various government centres in the district.Since April 20, the doctors and lab technicians involved in the testing of Covid-19 samples are facing a huge challenge as most of the samples have failed to be of any use. Officials have said that either the samples have not been collected properly as per the guidelines or the quantity so collected is not adequate for testing. “A lot of the samples collected from suspected Covid-19 patients have turned out to be inappropriate for testing. Most often, the quantity of nasal and throat swabs are not enough for producing conclusive results. Further, the lack of experience of the technicians collecting the samples is another cause of concern. However, we are still trying to figure out the exact reasons behind the poor collection of samples,” said Dr Rakesh Gupta, director, GIMS.“Our lab doctors are working till late at night in three shifts to clear the pending reports. Sample collection are being carried out by multiple teams, including those from the health department and GIMS,” added Gupta.A large proportion of the 92 samples that were sent for testing at GIMS turned out to be useless as the results proved to be inconclusive. GIMS has received over 600 samples in the 10 days.A 30-year-old dentist from Greater Noida, who is at a paid quarantine centre at Stellar Gymkhana in Greater Noida, now wants to shift to Delhi for Covid-19 test after two of his samples got wasted. The dentist had come in direct contact with an elderly couple from Jharkhand who had come down for a hand surgery at a private hospital in Ghaziabad and were staying in Greater Noida.“The couple is from my home town. As such, my father had asked me to help them out. The 76-year-old man was discharged from the Ghaziabad hospital on April 18. I picked him and his 72-year-old wife from the hospital to take them to a rented place. The moment we reached Greater Noida, I got a call from the hospital, saying that the man was found positive for Covid-19. Immediately, two ambulances arrived that took the couple to the Saket branch of the same hospital,” said the man who runs a dental clinic in Greater Noida.“On April 19, his wife was also found to be positive for the infection. I went to GIMS on April 20 and gave my sample for the test. I took a room in the paid quarantine for ₹2,500 per day. On April 21, I was informed that they needed to collect my sample again as the first one got wasted. On April 24, I was again told that they needed to take my sample for the third time as the previous two samples proved to be inconclusive. This shows that the technicians collecting the samples are not experts. I have been panicking because there is no communication from the administration,” added the doctor.The doctor now wants to be shifted to some Delhi hospital to get himself tested. “I have written to the district magistrate(DM) and the chief medical officer(CMO) regarding the problems of sample collection. I have also suggested that I can go to a Delhi hospital to get myself tested but they haven’t got back to me on that. Every passing hour is taking a toll on my mental health as I wait for my results,” said the doctor.Another family of four undergoing treatment for Covid-19 at the Sharda Hospital had a similar story to share. The family shifted to a private hospital in Delhi on Friday afternoon after sample reports were delayed repeatedly. The family from Sector 50, includes a 45-year-old man, his 41-year-old wife, their 19-year-old son and 11-year-old daughter.“My mother was found to be positive for Covid-19 at a private hospital in Okhla on April 8, after which we were found positive for the infection. On April 19, our samples were collected, which showed that I was still positive while the other members of my family were negative. On April 21, officials again took the samples of my wife and children to confirm the negative test. The reports were expected on April 23 but on Friday, when we enquired, we were told that the samples got wasted and they need to collect all three samples once again,” said the 45-year-old patient from Sector 50.“If the reports had come on time, then at least my wife and children could have got discharged. We wrote to the DM and the CMO asking for the permission to shift to Apollo Hospital. All four of us have now shifted to Apollo because we were panicking following the delayed reports in GB Nagar,” added the man.The doctors inside the GIMS lab are also worried as they are not being able to complete the test following the poor collection of samples. “We are being exposed to the virus while testing the samples of Covid-19 suspects. When the samples turn out to be unfit for test then it is indeed very demotivating,” said a lab technician from GIMS.“We have once again collected the samples which had got wasted. The exact reason behind the reports turning inconclusive is not known, but either the tests failed or the collection procedure was not followed properly,” said Dr Deepak Ohri, chief medical officer, Gautam Budh Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/patients-cry-foul-over-faulty-sample-collection-as-test-results-prove-inconclusive/story-isYIqnzCfhenSVNjZWqEdP.html
24-04-2020||City||11 fresh cases in Punjab, tally 298||Eleven more cases of coronavirus, including six from Rajpura, two from Mansa, and one each from Jalandhar, Ludhiana and Amritsar, were reported in Punjab on Friday, taking the total tally of those infected in the state to 298.Rajpura, the new Covid-19 hotspot in the state, reported six more cases. With this, the count of infected persons in Patiala district has reached 55. Of these, 36 are from Rajpura. Patiala civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said of the 58 samples collected on Thursday, six are found to be positive. “The positive patients are contacts of infected people. We have contained the area and the process has been initiated to shift new patients to isolation ward of government medical college,” he said. JALANDHAR CATCHES UP WITH MOHALI With another sample from Jalandhar testing positive for the novel coronavirus on Friday, the number of positive cases reported from the district has touched 63, the same as Mohali, which has the highest in the state. Jalandhar health department nodal officer Dr TPS Sandhu said a 36-year-old resident of new Raj Nagar, Basti Bawakhel, was a co-worker of 40-year-old Raja Garden patient who works in a media house. The district has so far reported two Covid-19-related deaths while seven people have recovered. The district administration has sealed New Raj Nagar as part of containment efforts. LUDHIANA MANDI OFFICIAL’S DAUGHTER TESTS +VEDays after the district mandi officer tested positive for Covid-19, her 35-year-old daughter was also found infected, civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga confirmed.The 35-year-old is posted as the block development and panchayat officer (BDPO) of Doraha and is the seventh government official to have contracted the disease in Ludhiana district. She had been in self-quarantine ever since her mother had tested positive for the virus on April 17. As per health officials, she is asymptomatic as of now. Her five-year-old son and husband, a food supply official, are also stated to be asymptomatic.Meanwhile, a 46-year-old food and civil supplies department employee died under mysterious circumstances at the civil hospital on Friday morning. He was suffering from hypertension and diabetes and was unwell for the past 10 days and had proceeded on leave. On Thursday, his condition deteriorated and he was rushed to the Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMC&H) and later to the civil for treatment.2 JAMAAT ATTENDEES INFECTED IN MANSA After a lull of 14 days, Bathinda reported two fresh cases. Two Tablighi Jamaat attendees, who tested negative in earlier testes, were found infected in Mansa. They were a part of 10 Jamaat members from Chhattisgarh who were staying at a mosque in Budhlada after arriving there in March. Their samples were collected again as precautionary measure even as two were asymptomatic, said Mansa deputy commissioner Gurpal Singh Chahal. 30-YEAR-OLD WOMAN TESTS POSITIVE IN AMRITSARA 30-year-old woman of Amritsar’s Krishna Nagar tested positive and has been admitted in isolation ward of Guru Nanak Dev Hospital (GNDH), Amritsar civil surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore said on Friday.The woman got infected from her 37-year-old husband, who along with father tested Covid-19 positive on April 22.HAZOORI RAAGI’S CONTACTS RECOVERThe four associates of former Golden Temple hazoori ragi Bhai Nirmal Singh, who died of the virus, recovered from the disease ad were discharged from a private hospital on Friday.Nirmal Singh died of cardiac arrest on April 2, a day after he was tested positive for the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/11-fresh-cases-in-punjab-tally-298/story-lJI0grghJcyLVb8lthHAQK.html
24-04-2020||City||Nurse, 2-year-old girl among 20 new cases in Thane||A 24-year-old nurse was among the 20 people, who tested positive for coronavirus in Thane on Friday. Thane’s tally of positive cases is 198. A two-year-old girl from Mumbra has also tested positive.The nurse, working in Chatrapati Shivaji Hospital in Kalwa, had come in contact with a man from Lokmanya Nagar who died last week and was tested positive after his death. Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has quarantined 60 employees of Kalwa hospital including doctors, nurses, care takers and ward boys.Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner, said, “We had quarantined 72 people who attended the man’s funeral. Now, 60 employees of Kalwa hospital are quarantined as they are among the high-risk contacts. We have also shut the labour OPD of the hospital.”Six new cases of Covid-19 were reported in Kalyan-Dombivli on Friday. The total number of cases in Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation has touched 114.Among the new patients are a 42-year-old police constable posted in Mumbai and a 38-year-old woman from Dombivli (West), who is a dialysis technician at private hospital in Mumbai.KDMC has acquired 10 portable ventilators.“Considering the rising number of Covid-19 cases, the portable ventilators will be useful to transport patients easily,” said Vijay Suryavanshi, KDMC commissioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nurse-2-year-old-girl-among-20-new-cases-in-thane/story-ugb2U6dnwT4uXbY3ydSSgK.html
24-04-2020||Gurugram||MCG asks RWAs to not dump horticulture waste outside parks||To curb open waste burning, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) on Friday asked all Resident Welfare Association (RWAs) responsible for the upkeep of parks in the city to keep horticulture waste within the respective boundary walls and not dump it elsewhere. In their directions, MCG officials said that they are facing issues with the lifting waste across the city during the lockdown period, as most of their tractors are currently engaged in sanitisation and disinfection drives. Since last month, the MCG has been disinfecting and sanitising common spaces of all condominiums, gated societies, plotted colonies, and other residential sectors across the city. MCG officials said that from now on, horticulture waste will be directly lifted from parks. Officials added that they have been receiving several complaints from residents that such waste was being burnt in the open, while some of it was simply being dumped in open areas, and the waste could catch fire which could spread to nearby residential areas. “If any RWA is found violating the directive, then the entire cost for lifting waste from their area would be borne by the RWA management. Scattered dumping of horticulture waste can cause accidents or fire and hence, the MCG is enforcing such heavy measures,” Said Devender Bhadana, executive engineer, MCG horticulture wing.The city has over 793 parks that fall under the MCG’s jurisdiction. Of these parks, 483 are maintained by RWAs and 310 by the civic body. On March 22, the MCG had closed all parks in the city to curb the spread of Covid-19.“We will support MCG in this initiative. We will issue circulars and spread messages to residents via WhatsApp groups informing them that they need to coordinate with the RWA for dumping horticulture waste at designated points within a park. Further, we will also ask residents to inform us if such waste is being dumped elsewhere so that corrective measures can be initiated,” said Dhruv Bansal, official spokesperson of DLF Qutub Enclave Resident Welfare Association (QERWA).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mcg-asks-rwas-to-not-dump-horticulture-waste-outside-parks/story-Y1tuuGTK5fLVpv2TeOqkdK.html
24-04-2020||Gurugram||Some construction work to resume in city, all social-distancing, lockdown procedures to be followed||The work for building an underpass at Huda City Centre Metro station resumed on Friday, a day after the district administration granted approval to this site and three other sites — Basai Chowk, Shankar Chowk and Sohna Road — to restart construction, while adhering to prescribed guidelines and social distancing norms amid the ongoing Covid-19 lockdown.The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) is custodian authority of underpass and Basai Chowk flyover, while NHAI is looking after the construction of the Sohna Road flyover. NHAI and GMDA together are building the Shankar Chowk flyover. The two agencies applied separately for resumption a week ago. The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority, which is the custodian authority of the underpass project, had applied for permissions for resumption of work along with other development projects such as one at Basai Chowk flyover and other for flyover at Shankar Chowk, NH 48, in the city that had been stopped in the last week of March after the Centre announced a nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19.Work on the L-shape underpass at HUDA City Centre, which is coming up near the Metro station’s Gate No 1, started in September last year on a 11-month deadline, which will most likely not be met now, officials said. Officials said permission had been granted to start work with 40 workers only instead of the original strength of 200. The availability of construction material continues to be an issue during the lockdown, which will be in place till May 3 at least..A senior GMDA official said, “The contractor cannot be forced to expedite the construction work in such a situation when there is a shortage of manpower and construction material. However, we will try to complete the underpass work by November this year.”Once completed, commuters heading from Signature Tower on NH 48 towards Sector 45, 44 and Bakhtawar Chowk can use this underpass to travel signal-free.VS Kundu, GMDA chief executive officer, said, “Deadlines of stalled projects will be reviewed in the current scenario. All such projects are bound to go slow in terms of construction activities, due to many constraints. We have to make sure all norms of social distancing and lockdown restrictions remain in force.” The National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) has got approval for lane widening and flyover work for Sohna Road. NHAI, along with GMDA, is constructing flyover at Shankar Chowk, work on which is likely to resume from Saturday. GMDA’s flyover work at Basai Chowk will start from Sunday.Ashok Sharma, NHAI project director, said, “Approval for Sohna Road project and Shankar Chowk project has been granted and contractor will start work in day or two.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/some-construction-work-to-resume-in-city-all-social-distancing-lockdown-procedures-to-be-followed/story-aQc4e9gvK7pjkYQZxeeGHO.html
24-04-2020||City||Covid-19: Quarantined patient’s relative attacks doctor||Kasarvadavli police have arrested a man for attacking his family member’s doctor for making him waiting for a long time and not allowing him to keep tiffin and other items at the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) treatment centre.According to Kasarwadvli police, the accused, who is in his 30s, had gone to the Covid-19 treatment centre near Bunderpada where an infected family member is receiving treatment. The accused wanted to drop off some food and other items for his relative but was asked to take them back home.The man waited for a long time and then got into an argument with the authorities. He then attacked Doctor Sunil Katkar, 30, and slapped him several times for not allowing him to deliver the items.Senior police inspector K Khairnar said, “The accused is a family member of one of the patients. Because it is against the rules, the authorities didn’t allow him to keep the things in the hospital, following which he got into an altercation and slapped the doctor. We have therefore booked him under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-quarantined-patient-s-relative-attacks-doctor/story-cLJtbdwJVQhX3QamDG9VEM.html
24-04-2020||Chandigarh||Jalandhar, Mohali and Patiala account for 60% cases in Punjab||Even as Punjab has witnessed more than 100 Covid-19 cases in the past eight days bringing its tally to 298, nearly 60% of the total cases have been reported from the three districts of Jalandhar, Mohali and Patiala.These districts have contributed 181 cases to the overall tally of the state with most cases coming from Jalandhar and Mohali, 63 each.An analysis of the medical bulletin of the Punjab health department reveals that out of 100 cases recorded in the state in the past eight days (since April 17), 80 have been reported from the three districts, including 44 from Patiala and 29 from Jalandhar.Mohali, the district which witnessed a sharp spike in number of cases in the first fortnight of the current month, added only seven cases in the past eight days. If the figures of Pathankot (24) and SBS Nagar (19), the districts with fourth and fifth positions are also added, the tally of the five districts reaches 224, nearly 75% of the total cases in the state.Notably, 18 patients in SBS Nagar have already been cured of coronavirus while one person had died in the district. The SBS Nagar has no active case now.Of the 22 districts in Punjab, three districts – Bathinda, Tarn Taran and Fazilka -- have not witnessed any Covid-19 positive case.Apart from SBS Nagar, there are no active cases of the virus in Moga, Fatehgarh Sahib, Gurdaspur, Barnala and Rupnagar as all patients in these five districts have been cured.Five districts of Hoshiarpur, Kapurthala, Muktsar, Sangrur and Ferozepur districts have now one each active case.“The fast addition of cases in Jalandhar and Patiala is a cause of concern. But it’s also a fact that because of strong mapping of the positive cases and containment of areas, we have been able to stop the spread of cases in more than half of the districts now. It’s a positive sign before the start of the deliberations for opening the lockdown in certain areas, post-May 3,” said health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu.HIGHEST EVER TESTING IN A DAYMeanwhile, Punjab on Friday ramped up its testing by taking 1,854 samples across the state, the highest in a day so far.“We have decided to expand the testing further in the coming days,” said Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, health department spokesperson for COVID-19.The department also started pool testing in some districts on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/jalandhar-mohali-and-patiala-account-for-60-cases-in-punjab/story-sZ2zt9dv2Q2kSicmWrXrAO.html
24-04-2020||Delhi||Sweating in their plastic suits, cops labour on in red zones||Head constable Anil Kumar Dhaka begins perspiring within five minutes of wearing a personal protective equipment (PPE) kit. Over the next few minutes, his hair gets drenched in sweat, his eyebrows turn moist and his uniform is stained. Soon, the sweat begins dripping down his legs, into his shoes.“In those moments I feel a strong urge to have a bath. It feels like the biggest luxury of life,” says Dhaka.Since Tuesday, Dhaka has been deployed outside a Covid-19 containment zone in South Delhi’s Deoli Extension, which is one of the 92 sealed areas in Delhi. His job requires him to don a PPE multiple times a day — four on Thursday, for instance.With the number of cases among police personnel rising over the last week, at 28 on Thursday, is imperative that Dhaka wears the PPE kit to protect himself and his family.Dhaka is deployed about 200 metres from a containment zone, where residents can’t step out of their homes and authorities have to ensure essentials are supplied to their doorsteps. While he isn’t required to wear the PPE while standing guard at the barricades, he needs to don it each time he enters the zone. “If a doctor or an officer needs to go into the containment zone, I have to accompany them. If a resident requires anything, I have to go in wearing the PPE,” the 43-year-old says.Dhaka’s PPE includes a single piece zipper gown, face shield, face mask, hair cover, hand gloves and shoe cover. It takes him about five minutes to kit up.As soon as wearing it, he fights a strong urge to take it apart immediately. “I want to rip apart the plastic. It just doesn’t allow air to pass through,” says Dhaka.The policeman’s shift timings, between 8am and 4pm, doesn’t help either. “The second half of the shift is the hottest in the day. So, I have let the residents know that if there is anything they need from me, they must place a request early in the day,” he says.Last week, the maximum temperature in Delhi had soared to nearly 40 degree Celsius. While Thursday was cooler in comparison, the maximum temperature in Delhi has been around 36 degree Celsius for the last few days and is expected to rise to 40 degrees by the time the lockdown ends, on May 3.Dhaka says that responding to the calls of the residents usually take just a few minutes, but up to two hours if he is accompanying a doctor or an official who is tracing contacts. He is afraid to even drink water inside the containment zone. “It is anyway a task to have water while being decked in a PPE,” he says.Covered from head to toe in the kit, speaking on his phone seems a Herculean task. He has asked his family members not to call him during his work hours. “In any case, my voice turns feeble when I wear the PPE. I don’t feel like talking,” he says.Upon returning to the barricade, he immediately pulls off the PPE, unbuttons his shirt and takes in a lungful of fresh air. “Since taking a bath is not possible (during duty), I use a towel to wipe myself clean. If the wind blows at that time, it gives a feeling of a shower,” he says.By the time he returns home on his motorcycle, his uniform has dried, but the white stains are a reminder of the important duty he has performed, albeit in uncomfortable circumstances.For the safety of his family as well as to ensure they don’t see what he has been through, he removes his uniform on the ground floor of his house and walks to the first floor in a towel. “I immediately dip my uniform in hot water. No one at my home sees what state it is in,” says the policeman, who is attached to the Tigri police station.The police say that they are doing all that is possible to limit the entry of their personnel into containment zones so that they don’t have to spend long periods in PPEs.“We are not deploying our policemen inside containment zones unless it is essential. Instead, we are using drones for surveillance inside the zones,” says Sudhanshu Dhama, assistant commissioner of police (Sangam Vihar).Dhama himself has to enter the containment zones in his jurisdiction. “I end up making several rounds in a day and each time, I have to wear a PPE. The PPEs are uncomfortable for all our officers, but it is something we can’t do away with,” says ACP Dhama.Head constable Dhaka, meanwhile, says he is more concerned about how he would deal with the PPEs when the humidity increases. “We’ll feel itchy and may get rashes. If zones continue to be contained for a long period, I’ll continue doing my job here. I just pray that someone comes up with a better PPE soon,” he says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/sweating-in-their-plastic-suits-cops-labour-on-in-red-zones/story-ID6PgXlfJsiobOyavCkGeK.html
24-04-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Maharashtra to soon start clinical trials for plasma therapy, pool testing||With a nod from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the Maharashtra government is all set to start clinical trials of plasma therapy at Sassoon Hospital in Pune in the coming days. The state is yet to get permissions to try out the therapy at three hospitals in Mumbai, Nagpur and Solapur. The state has got permission for pool testing for Covid-19.Last week, the state had sought permission from the Centre to start clinical trials of plasma therapy and Bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG) vaccine for treatment of Covid-19 patients. The process requires permissions from multiple central agencies such as ICMR, Central Drugs Safety Organisation (CDSO) and Drug Controller General of India (DCGI), among others. BCG is given to newborns and children to prevent childhood tuberculosis. It is said that mild and moderate cases of coronavirus got cured and severe cases got mild with BCG therapy. “We have got permission from the Centre to conduct clinical trials of plasma therapy and pool testing as well. Union minister for health and family welfare Dr Harsh Vardhan gave the nod in an interaction with the health ministers and secretaries in a video conference meeting on Friday,” said state health minister Rajesh Tope.The convalescent plasma therapy aims at using antibodies from the blood of a recovered Covid-19 patient to treat those infected. The therapy can also be used to immunise those at a high risk of contracting the virus such as health workers, families of patients and other high-risk contracts. Pool testing involves checking up to five samples in a single test. So far, one sample is tested at a time. The pool testing algorithm involves the Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) screening of a specimen pool, comprising multiple samples. In case a pool test comes positive, each sample is tested individually. “Once cleared by the ethics committee of the state, it will start at Sassoon Hospital, Pune in the next three-four days. It will also start at JJ Hospital in Mumbai, Indira Gandhi Medical College in Nagpur and Solapur Medical College in Solapur once the permissions are in place,” said Dr Tatyarao Lahane, director, Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER). “We have also sought permission for clinical trials of BCG vaccine, which will be carried out at JJ Hospital, Mumbai,” he said.Once the clinical trials are successful, the state can start plasma therapy and BCG vaccine treatment. Kerala and Delhi have already got permission to conduct the trials. Maharashtra is the most affected state with the maximum cases of coronavirus in the country. In his interaction with the Union health minister, Tope also suggested use of portable pulse oximeter and chest X-ray for early detection of coronavirus, which will ultimately help in reducing the mortality rate. Oximeters are crucial because Covid-19 patients can have pneumonia for days before they develop shortness of breath. Low oxygen levels are a way to detect such cases earlier without Covid-19 tests, the officials said.To deal with the shortage of personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, Tope also suggested their re-use after getting them disinfected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-maharashtra-to-soon-start-clinical-trials-for-plasma-therapy-pool-testing/story-SUGZnu4HjPAJKfzReR6VqJ.html
24-04-2020||Lucknow||UP liquor sellers to get 7 days to clear stocks post lockdown||The UP excise department, which is staring at a loss of nearly Rs 3,200 crore due to closure of liquor shops since the lockdown began, has decided to grant shopkeepers seven days to clear stocks after the lockdown ends.The stock of those shopkeepers unable to clear leftover quota of last fiscal (the validity of licences was till March 31) would be destroyed, the excise department order says.Meanwhile, liquor sellers said in order to clear their leftover stock in seven days after the lockdown ends, some shop keepers could sell liquor at lower prices. As many as 3,711 country-made liquor shops did not take the required minimum guarantee quota (MGQ) of stock in March due to lockdown, forcing the excise department to provide relaxation to such shopkeepers who had approached the department, saying that the closure of liquor shops for over a month has impacted their businesses.Under the liquor policy, all country-made liquor shops have to necessarily buy minimum quota of stock from the government each month.Another 1,857 shops (country-made and IMFL sellers), whose renewal had been done and were required to pick two per cent stock above what they had bought from the government last year, cited helplessness in meeting the requirement due to lockdown.The government has relaxed the norms for them as well.The excise department is among the highest revenue earners for the state government, raking in Rs 78 crore per day for the state round the year, say officials. In Uttar Pradesh, more than four lakh people are directly associated with liquor business. “We have been hit due to no sales for over a month. What’s worse is the growing number of thefts that have been reported at liquor shops across the state,” said Kanhailal Maurya, a liquor seller and functionary of liquor sellers’ association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-liquor-sellers-to-get-7-days-to-clear-stocks-post-lockdown/story-v4DTaj2YQeDfC1uQV5NdbJ.html
24-04-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: BMC says 92,112 are in home quarantine in city||In the past 10 days, the number of people who have been home quarantined by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has doubled. As of April 15, around 43,249 citizens were home quarantined for 14 days; this number increased to around 92,112 as of Thursday, according to data released by the civic body.Further, the number of those under institutional quarantine was 3,271, as of April 15, and rose to around 6,000, by Thursday.On Friday, 242 new positive cases and 11 deaths due to the coronavirus were reported, according to state health department data. The number of cases rose to 4,447 on Friday with the death toll reaching 178.According to the BMC’s data, the number of citizens under home quarantine was 10,968 on April 6; 43,249 on April 15; 57,700 on April 17, and 92,112 on April 23. High- and low-risk contacts of positive patients, those having travel history, and people identified from fever clinics are typically home quarantined.The spike in the number of people home quarantined and institutionally quarantined has been attributed to the BMC’s focus on identifying maximum possible close contacts of Covid-19 patients. “We are identifying more citizens for home quarantine due to which the number has increased,” said Daksha Shah, deputy executive health officer.The Central government’s team that had visited Dharavi earlier this week has also asked the BMC to increase quarantine facilities for the slum area.To increase the capacity at institutional quarantine facilities, BMC officials said they are not looking at any particular area considering the patients can also be shifted. P Velrasu, additional municipal commissioner, said, “Every ward will have its limitations, so we are planning to have quarantine facilities spread across the city. Till now we have identified around 44,000 rooms for institutional quarantining.”The BMC anticipates that in a worst-case scenario, Mumbai will have around 70,000 positive cases by the end of May. As of Thursday, of around 4,200 positive cases, 1,647 were identified through fever clinics, contact tracing, and from containment zones. The number of citizens screened at fever clinics has increased from 1,906 as of April 10, to around 5,836 till April 22.Several wards that have the highest cases also have a higher number of containment zones. According to the BMC, six wards have around 2,179 of the city’s total 4,232 Covid-19 cases as of Thursday. These wards include G/South (Worli, Prabhadevi) with 534 cases; E (Byculla, Mumbai Central, Mazgaon) with 421 cases; L (Kurla, Powai) having 312 cases; K West (Andheri West, Oshiwara) having 311 cases; FN (Matunga, Sion, Wadala) having 305 cases, and G/North (Dharavi, Dadar, Mahim) with 296 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-bmc-says-92-112-are-in-home-quarantine-in-city/story-G6QONPJwp0pTrvTWtHPV6J.html
24-04-2020||Lucknow||Bareilly seals borders with Moradabad and Rampur||The district administration of Bareilly, which was declared corona-free by the state government on April 17, on Thursday night sealed its border with Moradabad and Rampur after 26 fresh cases were detected in the two neighbouring cities on Wednesday, said a top administrative official.While 21 people had tested positive in Moradabad five were confirmed Covid-19 positive in Rampur.“Our district has been declared Covid-19 free but we are still taking all measures to ensure that the infection does not re-enter here,” said Bareilly district magistrate Nitish Kumar.He said “Policemen manning the five entry points of Bareilly have been given thermal scanners, gloves and N-95 masks to ensure that while keeping themselves protected they don’t let any corona infected person slip into the district. They will scan all people associated with essential services coming from outside,” Kumar said.According to Kumar, no new Covid-19 positive case has been detected in the district after six Subhash Nagar residents recovered from the infection and were discharged from hospital on April 17. In this context, some relaxation might be given in the coming days.“However, this will be possible only if precautionary measures are strictly enforced,” he said. He said the policemen will scan all visitors and inform the health department if they find any suspected case. Kumar said pool sampling has also started and for the purpose 30 mobile labs have been pressed into service in the district. “Each mobile lab has the capacity to collect 100 samples and will cover at least two villages per day,” he said.Random samples of vegetable vendors, medicine shop owners and people connected with essential services are being taken for tests, the DM added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/bareilly-seals-borders-with-moradabad-and-rampur/story-g7Y1dF1nz6ucMnwHdNfv0N.html
24-04-2020||City||During the Covid-19 pandemic focused distribution is key, say HT Chandigarh readers||PUT EXPENSIVE PROJECTS ON HOLD TO GENERATE FUNDS FOR POORThe Indian government should come up with a scheme to put adequate funds in the accounts of the poor. The requisite data is already available with the authorities as it has been collected when people applied for gas connections etc. More funds should be allocated for rural development projects and more benefits given to small and large scale businesses to prevent retrenchments in the near future. The government can generate funds by putting on hold expensive projects such as the new Parliament building proposed to cost Rs 776 crore. Around 90% to 95% money collected by all political parties in the last two to three years in electoral bonds should be transferred to the PM Cares fund. Similarly, foreign tours of officials and ministers should be totally curtailed and all unnecessary expenditure by various ministries must end to help the needy.Suresh Verma, ChandigarhPEOPLE NEED TO KNOW WHERE MONEY IS BEING SPENTThe government and NGOs are asking for donations from the public and government employees. It’s a good step but many people don’t know where this money is being utilised. Spendings should be done transparently. Also, people can make donations at the macro level to the administration of their cities to actually find out how their money is being spent.Avinash Goyal, via emailDONATE ACCORDING TO PEOPLE’S NEEDSA collective streamlined effort for welfare work is needed. For this, the administration must form a body to demarcate areas where food and funds are to be distributed. Local resident welfare associations and self-help groups can also identify the areas to be reached. Those who have stoves and fuel for cooking can be given ration and others who do not can be given cooked food. Wastage should be avoided. The administration should also create a ration bank. People should be encouraged to donate food at the local level.Karan Pundir, ChandigarhIDENTIFY GENUINE CASESCharitable organisations are doing their best to feed the hungry and give them essential items, but it has become challenging for them to identify people who are genuinely without any means of sustenance. However, in the times of a pandemic it is also not safe to visit people’s homes to verify their bona fides. Therefore, by seeking the help of public representatives of the area their status as real beneficiaries can be ascertained for effective distribution.Surinder Paul Wadhwa, MohaliDC SHOULD HANDLE CHARITY DISTRIBUTIONAll charity distribution work should be handled at district level by a committee headed by deputy commissioner or collector of the district. Members should include police commissioner or senior superintendent of police, municipal corporation commissioner; executive officer and civil surgeon and representatives of local NGOs. This committee should sanction and distribute goods through a chain of government officials, including sub-divisional magistrates and block development officers to different wards in the urban areas and panchayats in the rural areas. Naresh Johar, AmritsarPUNJABIS AT THE FOREFRONTWe people can proudly say that Punjabis are always at the forefront of charitable initiatives. Sikh organisations in particular are known worldwide for serving ‘langars’ whenever the situation demands. Now during the Covid-19 pandemic we have witnessed hundreds of such organisations serving community meals or distributing ration to the needy. I am a member of one such organisation in Amritsar which is going from village to village to distribute ration to the needy and also serving langar. We have put up handmade posters around the city with contact numbers of our organisation for people who need help. Food and ration will be provided to the needy. This is only for people staying close to Amritsar. All gurdwaras in Punjab are preparing langar. No one in this state can say he or she has slept hungry unless there are restrictions in their area, such as Jagatpura village in Mohali. Gurpreet Singh Malhotra, Kansal villageCHECKS AND BALANCES REQUIREDDonations can reach targeted populations when these are deposited in PM’s/CM’s relief funds though these don’t go directly to the public exchequer where expenditure is duly budgeted and passed by the legislature. Private or religious institutions are dutifully and rightfully doing altruistic service routinely or during some calamity, though there have been instances galore when scams involving charity-funds were exposed. All donations should reach the targeted groups and be subjected to checks and balances as government income for public welfare. Need of the hour, besides charity in cash and kind, is volunteer service by individuals, NGOs and citizens’ welfare associations.Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaSAFETY MATERIAL FIRSTCharity can be done in phases. First the poor should be given masks and gloves to protect themselves. They should be provided with handwash, hand sanitisers and clean clothes. Then they should be given food, including breakfast and dinner. They should also be adequately compensated for the money they would have earned in this period.Ishita Nara, PanchkulaLOCAL COUNCILLORS SHOULD BE ROPED INKudos to the organisations involved in distributing langar. However, if local councillors are involved in distributing food and other material then it would help the administration cover all colonies and slums of the city and no one will go unfed. As and when the industries open, such identified poor can be offered employment through these charitable organisations. At this stage, the government must also refrain from transferring the meagre amount of Rs.500 into the accounts of beneficiaries, as they tend to make a beeline for the banks and don’t follow social distancing norms.Arvinder Kaur, MohaliDONATE TO NGOs OR PM CARES FUNDFunds or materials should only be donated to reputed NGOs or the PM Cares fund. Proper schedules should be drawn up when relief material is distributed and it should be ensured that nobody is left out.Priyam Aggarwal, ChandigarhMAKE RED CROSS SOCIETIES COLLECTION CENTRESEveryone from the middle class upwards should donate for the poor. The Red Cross Society can be made a collection centre for government relief material and all NGOs, political parties, social workers can donate dry rations, medicines, clothing and perishable items such as vegetables, cooked food, milk, bread etc. Municipal corporation employees can help. It should be supervised by the additional deputy commissioner or the senior superintendent of police. The city should be divided into five to 10 zones depending on the population density with each zone under the supervision of sub-divisional magistrates or deputy superintendent of police. NCC, NSS Bharat Scouts and Guides can be entrusted with the task of delivering relief materials. District transport organisation can supervise and arrange vehicles for distribution.Anil Vinayak, AmritsarIDENTIFYING NEEDY FAMILIES MOST IMPORTANTNGOs of repute should be involved in the distribution of charity. Sub-divisional magistrates should act as nodal officers assisted by their staff armed with data on locals requiring help obtained from field studies. They should draw up a comprehensive plan for distribution of charity among targeted populations involving their representatives in decision-making. It would be effective if volunteers from within such groups can give feedback on the success of such measures. As it appears from reports in newspapers and TV Channels, a fairly large number of the deserving populace remains unidentified because of typical bureaucratic handling planned in the comfort zone of AC board-rooms.SS Bhatti, ChandigarhCOUNCILLORS, SARPANCHES CAN IDENTIFY NEEDY FAMILIESLocal councillors and sarpanches who are familiar with families in their areas should be involved in welfare initiatives in order to ensure equal distribution of essentials.Saikrit Gulati, ChandigarhGOVT SHOULD RELEASE NGOs LISTThe government should release a list of authorised NGOs to help the needy and donations and funds can be provided to them to distribute relief material to people. A layout plan should be made of city areas where relief material is required urgently and NGOs should be given different responsibilities or food distribution or cleaning up areas. All those involved in these initiatives should be equipped with safety kits such as sanitisers, protective suits, masks and gloves so that they don’t get infected.MuskanMAP ALL AREAS IN DETAIL FOR RELIEFFor streamlining distribution system, the selected areas should be mapped after consulting local residents so that each and every person is covered when food or other materials are distributed.Amanpreet Tangri, GharuanDO GOOD, BUT NOT AT THE COST OF SOCIAL DISTANCINGFor charitable endeavors to be streamlined and reach the targeted populations, we need efficient planning that minimises the virus spread. The government is required to create a city map, highlighting the spots and areas where food and other material have to be delivered. Since a number of people need help, the officials concerned can be assisted by people from the community who were previously doing the charity work. We can introduce new functionality in the Aarogya Setu app, to enable the needy to send requests for basic supplies, thus making it easier for the Central and state governments to track them. However, it is mandatory during lockdown that social distancing norms be followed.Raghu Mahendru, LudhianaA GOOD DEED SHOULD NOT BE PUBLICISEDWhen it comes to distribution of charity there should be checks to ensure that rations are not being stockpiled in a few households and are instead reaching the needy. Dial up as many people you know to find out how they are doing as a sign of togetherness and moral support as charity is not just about money. Those who are capable of sustaining themselves should donate but not flaunt how much they have given.Inderpal SinghDON’T FORGET ABOUT JOB CREATIONEffective streamlining of funds such as PM Cares has to be done with the support of local government. The focus should be helping poor at first while finding out opportunities to create work opportunities in future.Pawan Kumar, LudhianaDON’T LET OTHERS MAKE ILLEGAL PROFITSIt is imperative that the government provide the needy with essential utilities free of cost. One way is to streamline the process with a system of checks and balances to ensure middlemen do not make illegal profits from the same. Another solution is to identify the underprivileged to ensure only they get the benefits and no one else. Also, special care must be taken that social distancing is strictly followed when relief material is distributed.Sehaj Inder SinghUSE TECHNOLOGY TO IDENTIFY POOR FAMILIESThe best possible way to avoid wastage is to ensure that every NGO has access to real time information on the areas where cooked meals are required and in what quantity. However, this is easier said than done. Smart technology can prove very beneficial here. An app can be created for needy families to send requests for food and this will help NGOs route supplies to areas needing it the most. NGOs and local authorities can create such platforms.Sachin Jain, LudhianaDISTRIBUTE FOOD, RATIONS AT PEOPLE’S DOORSTEPSThe government should distribute rations at the doorsteps of the needy through vehicles and take their signatures as proof. Also, volunteers should be sent to slums and colonies for random checks to ensure distributions systems are streamlined.Neha Chaurasia, Ludhiana||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/during-the-covid-19-pandemic-focused-distribution-is-key-say-ht-chandigarh-readers/story-aGTtkbzqVhstUVFO4DiI1O.html
24-04-2020||Mumbai||TB detecting app to be repurposed for Covid-19 pre-screening||A mobile app, which screened if an individual needed to get tested for tuberculosis (TB), based on the sound of the cough, is set to be repurposed as a pre-screening technology for Covid-19. The mobile application developed by Hyderabad-based start-ups Docturnal and Salcit are among seven deep science technologies identified by the Bengaluru-based Centre for Cellular and Molecular Platforms (C-CAMP) Covid-19 Innovations Deployment Accelerator (C-CIDA).“As the pandemic expands beyond local transmission, it is essential to step on the testing pedal. This pre-screening technology can help identify asymptomatic individuals, those quarantined in a sealed apartment and even in rural areas where there is a shortage of healthcare workers,” said Taslimarif Saiyed, director and chief executive officer, C-CAMP.C-CIDA’s third list of innovations for near-ready deployment in areas of screening, monitoring, diagnostics and novel approaches in therapeutics employs artificial intelligence/machine learning for stem cell therapeutics, ultrafast molecular assays for rapid diagnostics, cloud-based mobility for telemedicine support.Since its launch on March 26, C-CIDA received more than 900 applications, and have so far chosen 23 innovations that can play a role in containing the spread of the pandemic. “We have appointed a nodal officer to handhold each start-up and help them connect with funding opportunities including grants and investments, navigate regulatory pathways, and provide government and industry links to scale-up their innovative products,” said Saiyed.Similar to Docturnal and Salcit, Bengaluru-based Predible and Analytek are radiology-based (CT scans and X-rays) that offer real-time analysis for the initial prognosis of individuals suspected with Covid-19.With research throwing up Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) as a potential novel therapeutic approach for critically ill Covid-19 patients, MSC-based therapy is currently undergoing clinical trials in Europe. Bengaluru-based Stempeutics is the only Indian/Asian stem-cell therapy solution being tested alongside companies from Israel, USA and Europe. Huwel Lifesciences Pvt Ltd, Hyderabad, is an indigenous ICMR-approved NARI validated real-time qualitative PCR kit for quick diagnostics. “With all molecular reagents and diagnostic consumables made in-house, their ultrafast and sensitive chip-based PCR can handle large volumes making rapid and confirmatory diagnosis accessible,” said C-CIDA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/tb-detecting-app-to-be-repurposed-for-covid-19-pre-screening/story-ETbLeq15aG9C5jv5iUc3SN.html
24-04-2020||Delhi||Dates do a disappearing act from markets during Ramzan||Dates, one of the most sought after dry fruit during the holy month of Ramzan, which starts this week, is likely to missing from the plates this year — courtesy a supply chain that has been both broken and overwhelmed by the ongoing Covid-19 lockdown. According to traders, the lack of transport and labourers amid the lockdown has hit the business by about 60%. Wholesale traders are not being able to transport the dry fruit while retailers are failing to procure available stocks from the mandi, making the Ramzan staple literally disappear from the local markets.Dates are used by the devotees (rozedaars) to break their daylong fast during Ramzan. In India, dates are imported majorly to Mumbai and Gujarat from countries like Iraq, Iran, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, UAE, Algeria, Malaysia and Israel. They are then brought to the city’s Azadpur agricultural produce market, from where they are supplied to different markets in Delhi and other states, such as Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir.According to traders, this year due to the Covid-19 lockdown, the supply of the fruit has been severely hit. They said that dates could not reach the city markets in sufficient quantities, even though due to Ramzan the demand was high.A wholesale trader of dates at Azadpur Agricultural Produce Market Committee, Azadpur, Pankaj Chawla said that due to the lockdown, transportation of dates is very tough. The scarcity of labourers was also adversely affecting business. He explained that wholesalers purchase dates nearly two months in advance for Ramzan ,which are then kept in cold storages in nearby towns of Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh. Dates are transported to Azadpur Mandi as and when required from these godowns.“Ramzan is the only month when we do brisk business due to high demand for dates. But this year, business has gone down by more than 60%. Dates are kept in godowns but we are not able to transport it to the mandi in required quantities. Since dates are not essential fruit, so we require special permission to transport them during the lockdown. Sometimes we get permission, but do not get the labour to load and unload vehicles as most of them have returned to their hometowns,” Chawla said.From Azadpur Mandi, dates are majorly transported to markets in areas such as Jama Masjid, Seelampur, Chandni Chowk, Okhla, Jamia and Mehrauli, which is further distributed in local areas. Dates are sold at a wholesale price ranging between Rs 100 to Rs 250 per kilo depending upon the quality. Traders said that dates imported from Iran and Iraq are heavy in demand by consumers in Delhi.Another trader at Azadpur mandi, Anil Dua said that during Ramzan over 600-tonne of dates are sold easily. But this year the supply chain is broken due to transportation problems and scarcity of labourers. So sales have plummeted.“Not only the supply is affected but buyers are also not able to reach the mandi to purchase dates. The stock, which we have at shops already, is yet to be cleared because retailers are not able to enter the wholesale market due to stringent regulations. Things have turned worse after a vegetable trader died of coronavirus,” Dua said.Ajit Ramneeklal Joshi, a member of Dates and Dry fruits Traders Association in Mumbai, said that many wholesalers in Delhi purchase dates from different importers in Mumbai and Gujarat but this year they were not able to supply due to the ongoing lockdown.“Goods (dates) are either stuck at ports or at godowns. Local supply is okay but due to the lockdown, we are neither getting labourers not the permit to transport dates to cities like Delhi, Lucknow, Jaipur. Business has gone down by about 60%-65%,” Joshi, who supplies dates to Delhi traders, said.Due to the lockdown, both dedicated and makeshift shops in many localities have not been set up this year, so dates are scarcely available in the retail markets.“Mandi authorities are not allowing buyers to enter the market, so we are unable to purchase dates. Labour shortage is another issue of concern. Hence this Ramzan. dates will not be easily available in retail markets across the city,” Yamin Khan, a retailer at Jama Masjid market said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/dates-do-a-disappearing-act-from-markets-during-ramzan/story-kFY37LxH8VdE8yxluk16kL.html
24-04-2020||City||‘Maximum samples of suspected patients are being sent for testing’||To arrest the spread of coronavirus in district, maximum samples of suspected patients are being sent to the laboratory for testing, deputy commissioner (DC) Pradeep Kumar Agrawal said on Friday.“Now, the samples will be sent to Government Medical College, Patiala; Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education & Research, Chandigarh; and Dayanand Medical College and Hospital here. Over 100 samples have been taken and more such samples will be taken in the coming days,” he added.Agrawal said to date, 1,378 samples have been taken, of which the reports of 1,201 samples have been received and 1,181 samples were found negative. “Of the 20 samples that were found positive, 17 were from Ludhiana and the rest were from other districts. Unfortunately, five patients have lost their lives and four patients (three from Ludhiana and one from Jalandhar) have been discharged after treatment,” he said, adding that 11 active patients are left in the district.‘SENIOR GOVT EMPLOYEE IN DISTRICT FOUND COVID POSITIVE’On Friday, a senior government employee in district was found Covid positive and her treatment has been started, the DC said.“To help the migrant labourers from Bihar who are stuck in Ludhiana, the Bihar government has launched a website–www.aapda.bih.nic.in–through which the migrants can get financial assistance (of ₹1,000 per person) from the Bihar government by filling up their details,” Agrawal said.“I appeal to the residents to stay at their homes for the benefit of the society and to follow all directions of the Punjab government,” he added.Besides, an interactive live session on the issue of opening of factories was held by the district administration on the Facebook page of the Ludhiana Police. It was attended by the DC, police commissioner Rakesh Kumar Agrawal and senior officials from the industries department, labour department, Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) and Employees’ State Insurance Corporation (ESIC).Participants were told that in view of the lockdown and as per the directions of the Punjab government, relaxations have been given to all industries to start their operations in district. The interested industrialists can apply at www.pbindustries.gov.in.“Once the operations of any industry begin and a worker is found Covid positive, then a proper inquiry will be conducted. If it is found that the industrialist failed to provide the necessary facilities to the workers, then action will be taken against the industrialist concerned. I appeal to the industrialists to follow all directions issued by the Punjab government,” the DC said during the session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maximum-samples-of-suspected-patients-are-being-sent-for-testing/story-ZL2lwu1A6LFefXihZgSFRN.html
24-04-2020||Lucknow||Jail inmate’s wall portraits teach how to fight against corona||BAREILLY At times when the government, health officials, police, celebrities and common people are using every available platform to spread awareness regarding coronavirus, the prisoners confined within the jail walls have also joined hands in fighting the epidemic in every possible way.Anupam Trivedi, a prisoner in Pilibhit district jail is using his painting skills to spread awareness among the prisoners about essential safety measures they need to adopt to prevent getting infected by Covid-19. Anupam has made two paintings on the walls of the jail campus that portray how people may checkmate Covid-19 by resorting to minor lifestyle changes.A commerce graduate, Anupam, 41, was sentenced to imprisonment for 10 years by the district and session’s court on November 10, 2016, after he was convicted for killing his wife, Sandhya, for dowry.Anoop Singh, the superintendent of the district jail, said, “Anupam’s artistic skill was first seen by the jail authorities when he sketched a picture of Lord Shiva on a jail wall with a pencil. We then started showing him YouTube videos on painting techniques to embellish his skills. These efforts have transformed Anupam into a refined painter.”The inmate is now using his painting skills to spread awareness among prisoners about essential safety measures needed to prevent getting infected by coronavirus.Officials said that Anupam plans to make some more paintings to depict the importance of social distancing and the moral duty of the masses to honour frontline corona fighters, as a token of gratitude to them for their struggle to protect the people from the pandemic.He also plans to spread the message through his art that attacks on doctors and police personnel are an ‘act of devilry’. The paint, brush and other material are being arranged by the jail officials.A few days ago, Anupam had also composed a poem to inspire prisoners to collectively fight the virus pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/jail-inmate-s-wall-portraits-teach-how-to-fight-against-corona/story-MrPPhzCUpztJL5ERy0c5yI.html
24-04-2020||Mumbai||Monsoon preparedness: BMC may allow work at construction sites amid lockdown||With monsoon approaching, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) may allow controlled construction activities for incomplete constructions to make them monsoon-ready and avoid damage during rains. However, this will not be allowed in containment zones. With this move, BMC wants to eliminate possibility of flooding, subsequent landslide, and creation of mosquito breeding grounds, which may lead to additional health hazards during the Covid-19 pandemic.The allowed constructions include completion of foundation or basement of buildings, retaining wall which separates the site from adjoining buildings. A senior civic official associated with the development said, “Sites where construction began but abruptly stopped due to lockdown, need to be brought to a safe level. During monsoon, construction sites pose many hazards; especially those of mosquito breeding grounds, landslides or damage to existing structure due to flooding at half-completed construction sites.”Another senior civic official said, “Malaria and dengue have some symptoms that are similar to early signs of Covid-19, such as weakness and fatigue. There will be large scale panic if these vector-borne diseases are on the rise during the outbreak.” BMC may also allow structural stability work in buildings where it had already begun as well as water proofing work.However, the allowed construction sites will have to follow rules including camping of labour at the site, ensuring labourers wear masks during work, disinfecting common areas such as toilets and pantries twice a week, isolation facility in case workers fall sick, weekly visits by doctors to examine the workers as well as conducting rapid test on workers.Dr Niranjan Hiranandani, president of National Real Estate Development Council (Naredco) said, “Naredco welcomes the permission to carry out ‘urgent pre-monsoon work for safety purpose’, as it will ensure no damage happens to on-going projects as a result of water-logging during monsoon. It has already brought out a set of norms to be followed in such situations, and these will ensure that all necessary precautions are taken.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/monsoon-preparedness-bmc-may-allow-work-at-construction-sites-amid-lockdown/story-a6d5WdwtSLNmwQdVh4jVIL.html
24-04-2020||City||Kalyan railway school distributes 20.5K masks, 600L sanitiser||Central Railway School, Kalyan has distributed 20,500 cloth masks and 600 litre sanitiser to BMC workers, railway employees and the needy. Principal Jacob Thomas, 58, took up the initiative to stitch masks in the school’s activity area after he failed to procure masks. “When the lockdown began, the first things I tried to acquire were masks and sanitiser. I found there was a shortage of these, and hence I decided to make masks and sanitiser for myself and others. I learned the process from a tutorial by World Health Organization,” said Thomas.Along with stitching masks and making sanitiser, the school canteen is being used to cook food for 200 needy people.“When there was a direction to shut the school, some of the contract labourers working inside the school agreed to stay and help me make masks. I also hired seven professional tailors to stitch the two-layered cloth masks. We managed to provide 2,000 masks to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC),” said Thomas. Thomas along with his wife, two children and two other teachers of the school make the masks alongside the tailors and workers. “Preparing sanitiser was difficult as there were no alcohol available. However, I managed to get 400 litres of alcohol and prepared it by myself. I found people to help me pack the same in bottles,” the principal said. Around 6,000 masks were delivered to railway employees and workers while the remaining masks along with sanitiser were distributed to needy community in Kalyan and nearby areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kalyan-railway-school-distributes-20-5k-masks-600l-sanitiser/story-ycEt7eOs6JHZ3pfVsJuIGN.html
24-04-2020||Lucknow||Plasma therapy process at KGMU||The plasma therapy process for coronavirus patients will begin at King George’s Medical University in Lucknow on Saturday.“We shall start with donation of plasma from a patient who has completed 28 days of quarantine after being treated for the coronavirus and (has been) discharged from hospital,” said professor Tulika Chandra, head of the department of transfusion medicine at KGMU.After plasma is donated, it will be screened and given to a patient under medical observation.“Use of plasma therapy to treat Covid-19 patients is being done at various medical centres in the country. Patients who have become all right can come forward as volunteers to donate their blood,” said Dr Ved Prakash, head of the department of pulmonary critical care medicine at KGMU.“We have 10 patients who got treated here. More shall be discharged soon, giving us the chance to move ahead in plasma therapy,” said Dr Ved Prakash. He said the therapy had been used in 2003 on severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) patients and the results were impressive.The patients who will receive plasma therapy have also been identified. They will get the first dose of 200 ml plasma and remain under medical observation.Doctors will observe the response to the transfusion and then take further steps in the therapy.“Preparations have been done and the staff have been trained,” said Dr Ved Prakash.Doctors said utmost care was being taken at each step for the plasma therapy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/plasma-therapy-process-at-kgmu/story-k9uP2hUmArG5ih6wgQAFJK.html
24-04-2020||Mumbai||Women join hands with NGOs to stitch masks for relief staff||Sewing machines are coming to the aid of relief workers during the Covid-19 outbreak, with more than 100 women in the city using their tailoring skills to making reusable, protective masks. The women volunteers are working with non-governmental organisations like Apnalaya (which works with urban poor), Coro India (which works with marginalised communities) and Sneha (which works in the field of public health). The masks are intended for relief workers.With a little help from Coro India, which pays ₹5 per mask and supplies the material, 75 women from 10 Mumbai-based women’s self-help groups have made 350 washable, reusable masks. These women worked as domestic help or were employed in local industries until the lockdown was enforced, said Rahul Garware of Coro India, adding that they currently have no source of income. “I stitch 30 masks a day. My family helps me cut, wash and iron the cloth,” said Kiran Shaha, a Chembur resident.In the slum area of Shivaji Nagar, 15 women, who are part of Apnalaya’s project Svavalamban, have stitched 900 masks till date. “They [the women] used to stitch bags and accessories before. However, they have no business since the lockdown so they came up with this idea,” said Malathy M of Apnalaya.Both Coro and Apnalaya shared a manual issued by the Centre on making re-usable masks with the volunteers.Garware said, “Close to 30 women working with us have made 6,500 masks. It was one of the rural self-help groups that came up with the idea since many of the women own machines. In Mumbai too, we are aiming to make 5,000 masks.” Sushma Shende of Sneha said volunteers have made and distributed close to 250 masks. Dhaaga, a micro-enterprise initiative supported by Tata Power, has made over 1,20,000 masks in Maharashtra and Jharkhand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/women-join-hands-with-ngos-to-stitch-masks-for-relief-staff/story-eKkZsSL5WklHwc5K03iJzM.html
24-04-2020||City||Panchayati Raj Diwas: Ludhiana administration hails villagers’ efforts to fight Covid-19||On the occasion of Panchayati Raj Diwas, the district administration on Friday lauded the efforts of panchayats that have blocked the entry points of their villages for the safety of residents.The administration’s remarks came after Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in a video conference with different gram panchayats across the country, said that coronavirus crisis has taught the citizens to be self-sufficient.‘AWARENESS ACTIVITIES IN 60% VILLAGES’As per the district officials, most of the villages have banned the entry of outsiders by installing checkposts at the entry points and villagers are guarding the same day and night. Awareness activities are also being conducted in 60% villages. Further, efforts are on to provide ration to the needy at village-level only.In-line with the efforts of panchayats, the district administration urged the city residents to follow the footsteps of the former and stay inside their homes during the ongoing lockdown. “Panchayati Raj Diwas is observed to make the gram panchayats aware about their rights and other responsibilities, but this time, the villagers are leading the way in the fight against coronavirus,” the attendees said.At Baddowal village, the youth can be seen guarding the entry/exit points ever since the lockdown was imposed. Visitors are being stopped at the checkpoints and provided hand sanitisers by the volunteers. Village panch, who is leading the youth, said, “People vote for the panchayats for the benefit and development of their villages, that is why, it becomes the duty of the panchayats to work for the betterment of residents.” He also said that checkpoints are set up from early morning till late evening everyday and villagers are deployed there in shifts, adding that registration numbers and details of all vehicles crossing the checkpoints are also noted down. “No outsider is allowed to enter the village and only the outer roads can be used to move ahead to the neighbouring villages,” the panch said.‘RATION DISTRIBUTION BY GURDWARA’Similar arrangements have been made at the checkpoints established at the entry points of Gill village. Sarpanch Harpreet Singh Mika Gill said the outsiders are allowed to enter the village only for purchasing medicines from a medical store located in the area and for visiting banks. “If the residents need any essential item such as milk, they call up the supplier and collect the supply at the entry point only,” he said. Besides, five dairy units of the village have been facilitated to sell milk. They supply their produce to the outsiders only at the entry points by maintaining optimum distance, the village head said, adding that ration is also distributed among the needy by the panchayat and gurdwara management committee of the village. The people’s representative also said that sanitisers and protective gear have been provided to the residents guarding the checkposts.Deputy commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal appreciated the efforts of the gram panchayats and appealed to the residents of other villages to enforce self-lockdown in interest of the society. He also urged the city residents to stay indoors and follow the guidelines given by the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panchayati-raj-diwas-ludhiana-administration-hails-villagers-efforts-to-fight-covid-19/story-tt0eUElqAy1iUVxswAq7jK.html
24-04-2020||Lucknow||Officer on duty, doting mother at home||Inspecting corona hotspot Nakkhi Ghat in Varanasi twice daily to ensure strict compliance of the lockdown, looking after a toddler son and performing household work as well: It seems Provincial Civil Service (PCS) officer Shubhangi Shukla has her hands full. But she performs all her roles with elan.Mother of a one and a half-year-old son Abhish, Shubhangi is presently posted as additional city magistrate IV here. Her day begins at 6 am. Leaving her son with her husband Abhishek Dwivedi, she goes out for inspection at the vegetable mandi in Paharia to ensure that people follow social distancing. After spending around two hours on duty, she gets back to her official residence where she cooks food and then leaves for duty at the corona hotspot at Nakkhi Ghat between 9 am and 9.30am. She does inspection and returns home only for lunch at around 12.30. In the afternoon, she again goes to the hotspot and returns home at around 7 or 7.30pm.“As an officer, I put my duty first. I inspect the corona hotspot Nakkhi Ghat twice daily and ensure that the lockdown is followed strictly,” she said, adding that if needed, she visited the area thrice or more.When she is on duty, Abhish remains with her husband Abhishek Dwivedi at home. “When I return home, Abhish becomes happy and insists on coming into my lap immediately. Abhishek somehow holds back him for about half an hour. In the meantime, I sanitize myself and sit there for about half an hour before I meet my son,” she said, adding that it was very difficult to convince Abhish to stay away from her for a while. However, she takes full preventive measures against corona virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/officer-on-duty-doting-mother-at-home/story-cDdNTKhQjSoBb4Ut959QxL.html
24-04-2020||Lucknow||Cops make elderly couple’s golden jubilee special in Lucknow||Dr BML Varmani and his wife Geeta Varman, residents of Gomtinagar, celebrated their 50th wedding anniversary on Friday, albeit with a difference. Men in khaki were the only ones on the guest list, who arrived in a patrol jeep blowing siren and carrying a vanilla cake to celebrate the occasion.Almost over a month ago, Dr Varmani and his wife Geeta had planned to throw a lavish party on their 50th wedding anniversary but the plan was foiled as their son and daughter, who live in the United States, could not come to Lucknow due to the Covid-19 lockdown. Relatives and friends also could not come. So the cops decided to step in.The couple was sitting alone when a team led by additional deputy commissioner of police (additional DCP) crime, Dinesh Puri along with inspector of Gomti Nagar police station Dheeraj Kumar surprised them. The police officials brought a cake to convey good wishes on their wedding anniversary.“We came to know about the elderly couple from one of his neighbours, who informed us about their wedding anniversary and their loneliness in the absence of their children. We decided to gift them a cake so that they could celebrate the anniversary together but things unfolded differently when we reached their doorstep,” said the additional DCP.He said the couple was so happy and emotional that they invited the team inside their house and cut the cake. “On their request, the siren of the police patrol jeep was also played for a few minutes to make neighbours realise that they were celebrating their anniversary,” he said.Puri said the couple’s celebration for 10 minutes also made the police personnel emotional when they shared the 50-year–old moments of their marriage with them. S-I AWARDEDA sub-inspector of Gomti Nagar police station Amar Nath Yadav was awarded cash prize of ₹10,000 by Lucknow commissioner of police (CP) Sujeet Pandey for his humanitarian act when he jumped into a 10-feet drain to pull out the body of an unidentified youth floating in it.The body was found inside the drain near Ram Bhawan intersection in Viram Khand-2 of Gomti Nagar on Thursday. The S-I single handedly pulled out the body in the absence of sanitary workers as some passers-by kept watching instead of helping him. The body has been sent for post-mortem examination and efforts are on to ascertain its identity. MEDICINES SENT FROM VARANASI TO KUSHINAGAROn a single tweet of a Kushinagar resident Prince Gupta, UP 112 personnel arranged the medicines of his mother suffering from severe arthritis and delivered them at his door step after travel of 250 kilometres. The woman’s treatment was going on from a medical college of Banaras Hindu University for past many years and medicines were not available in her home town in Kushinagar.Her son tweeted for help when he failed to get the medicines in Kushinagar after searching at several medical stores. The UP 112 personnel in Varanasi send the medicines to Deoria railway station which is closest railway station to the patient’s place in Kushinagar through goods train. From the Deoria railway station, the medicines were delivered to the patient through three different PRVs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/cops-make-elderly-couple-s-golden-jubilee-special-in-lucknow/story-8jl7qmxDoPbDjJOTnPXOKP.html
24-04-2020||Bhopal||Tribal labourer about to be quarantined commits suicide||A 30-year-old tribal labourer who was about to be quarantined in Sidhi district, 672 kilometres north east of Bhopal, allegedly committed suicide on Wednesday night outside his village, about 80 kilometres away from the district headquarters, said police on Friday.Superintendent of police in Sidhi district RL Belvanshi said, “The deceased Rajbhan Baiga, a resident of Dubari Kala village was stranded in Ahmadabad along with more than 20 other labourers of his village during the lockdown, where they had gone to earn their living. The group of villagers returned home on April 22.”After the labourers returned to the village, the sarpanch asked them to go in quarantine at a school outside of the village till the medical examination was done.He said, “Since the labourers didn’t inform the administration before or after returning home, the sarpanch of the village informed the district administration about them and asked them to stay in a school outside the village till their medical examination was supposed to be conducted. The labourers were to be medically examined and quarantined on Thursday. Rajbhan was found hanging from the branch of a tree in jungles outside the village on Thursday morning.”The SP said the man perhaps got emotionally hurt after being asked by the sarpanch and others to stay outside the village. There was no complaint from the family members of the deceased to the police about any foul play behind the death. However, the body was sent for a post-mortem examination and police are investigating the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/tribal-labourer-about-to-be-quarantined-commits-suicide/story-drPKMueqJfrsYa9nYwqXcK.html
24-04-2020||City||Amid coronavirus outbreak, Ludhiana residents battle water woes||Amid the ongoing coronavirus lockdown, around 450 families of Hero Suman Nagar and Satguru Nagar in Lohara are dependent on tankers for the supply of water. As the water in tankers lasts for about one hour, people gather around the vehicles, not caring two hoots for social distancing norms. At times, residents even indulge in verbal spats to collect the water first. Locals say the supply of water tankers is also not regular due to which people try to store as much water as they can, often resulting into spats. On Friday, no one from the two colonies got water and no tanker came during the day, the residents said.Akashdeep of Satguru Nagar said, “Fifteen days before the lockdown, the lone tubewell that supplies water to both the areas had stopped functioning. Municipal corporation workers took away its motor for repair, but never returned. Since then, we are dependent on tankers, but they are also not regular.” Romi Raj, a Hero Suman Colony resident, said clashes between people is a common sight in the localities. KL Sachdeva of Satguru Nagar appealed to the authorities to intervene in the matter, saying that people don’t follow social distancing norms, increasing the chances of Covid-19 infection. According to women, they do not wash clothes daily, their family members take bath on alternate days amid the scarcity of water and fear that their problems might rise with an increase in temperature in the coming days.‘AUTHORITIES TO BE BLAMED IF CASES RISE’Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Sandeep Shukla said the locals are suffering a lot. “They (locals) have made several complaints, but to no avail,” he said, adding that in case of Covid-19 outbreak in the area, the authorities would be responsible. SAD councillor from ward number 29, Prabhjot Kaur, said she has raised the issue before the MC officials several times, adding that she is supplying water to the colonies in tankers, but it is not adequate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amid-coronavirus-outbreak-ludhiana-residents-battle-water-woes/story-hP2Byyk30zPlsqUhpyCIaP.html
24-04-2020||Chandigarh||PU syndicate takes up proposal to appoint new DUI||Members of the Panjab University (PU) syndicate took up the proposal to appoint the dean university instructions (DUI) on Friday. The proposal to appoint the new DUI and dean research was sent by syndicate members Navdeep Goyal and Keshav Malhotra and was later put up before the syndicate for final decision.“The proposal was taken up in a virtual meeting of the syndicate members, but no conclusive decision was made,” said a committee member, requesting anonymity.The term of DUI Shankar Ji Jha will come to end on April 30 this year. The two syndicate members have proposed the name of Dr RK Singla for the new DUI as per seniority. Similarly, they have suggested the name of Dr VR Sinha of University Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences (UIPS) as new dean research once Singla takes over as the new DUI.According to a syndicate member, 13 members had given their consent to the proposed names, while three members raised objections. Two of the objecting syndicate members have said that no proposal can be mooted on this social media platform as it is neither legitimate nor there is any provision in the university calendar.The proposal was sent by the Panjab University registrar Karamjeet Singh for consideration in the syndicate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pu-syndicate-takes-up-proposal-to-appoint-new-dui/story-YhVpjoP2xf9YkSJqdq7SjN.html
24-04-2020||City||Ludhiana civil hospital told to serve protein-rich food to Covid-19 patients||A day after 72-year-old Surinder Kuar, a Covid-19 positive patient, was heard stating on camera that she was not served hot food while she was being treated for the virus at the civil hospital, the department of health and family welfare, Punjab, on Friday issued a circular instructing the hospital to serve protein-rich meal to the patients.The circular reads that the patient in isolation should be served protein-rich meal comprising eggs, paneer, milk and seasonal fruits.Recently, assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Sukhdev Singh, who is currently admitted at SPS Hospital, Sherpur Chowk, has accused the staff of Mother and Child Hospital (MCH) located on Chandigarh Road for starving him for food.Even the family of retired Kanungo, who died of coronavirus, had accused the DMC&H for not offering food.In another case, district mandi officer (DMO) Jasvir Kaur, who was tested positive for COVID-19, was at loggerheads with the staff of Fortis Hospital over the same issue.The department on Thursday installed five washing machines and 15 air-conditioners in the Covid-19 unit of the civil hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-civil-hospital-told-to-serve-protein-rich-food-to-covid-19-patients/story-cPzK7Me9PuALBJyuAxsuBO.html
24-04-2020||Chandigarh||Facebook live session: Non-essential industries can also open with conditions, says Ludhiana DC||While essential industries, including food processing, manufacturers of PPE kits, gloves and masks, etc, have been allowed to resume work, non-essential industries have also been permitted to open with conditions.This was stated by deputy commissioner (DC) Pradeep Kumar Agrawal in a Facebook live session over lockdown and the problems faced by city residents.Commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal, officials of the department of industry, Employees’ State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) and Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) and assistant labour commissioner (ALO) also attended the session and listened to the complaints and suggestions of stakeholders and residents. The officials also replied to their queries.Most of the queries related to the opening of factories, supply of raw material, etc. Some Facebook users also inquired about the procedures for initiating new ventures and opening computer and stationery shops.People also complained about not getting help in repairing electric equipment and electricity problem.At least, 2,400 people watched the video while 774 asked questions from the officials in the one-hour long session.Mahesh Khanna, general manager (GM), industry department, said, “Permission to operate has been given to the industry, situated in focal points (FPs) and out of city areas with conditions. Up to 50% employees have been allowed to work with the condition that they will stay inside the factory. The owner will also ensure social distancing between labourers, arranging transport, food, masks and hand sanitisers for them.”He added, “As many as 926 factories, including essential and non-essential ones, have received permission to start operations and 35,000 labourers are engaged in them.”He added, “A total of 92 companies had sent samples for production of PPE kits and 16 have got permission from the Centre and the Punjab government. Three companies are already making N-95 masks.”A Facebook user Dushyant Gupta said, “I want to open my unit, but residents of nearby villagers are opposing the opening of the factory.”Regional EPF commissioner dwelt on schemes of the government for employees and employers. He added, “The EPF has been settling all claims in three days. People can apply to withdraw a part of the PF on Umang app.”ESIC head Kunwar Ajay Singh said, “The ESIC is open and operational.”Deputy director of factories Jatinder Singh Bhatti said, “The units having permission to start operations should also avoid biometric system for attendance.”When a Facebook user, Ansh Rai, complained that factory owners were not paying salaries to workers due to lockdown, Bhatti stated that at action would be taken against such factories under the Disaster Management Act and under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the IPC.Facebook users also suggested the authorities to complete repair work on the Jagraon Bridge, as the government has now given permission for construction works.Replying to queries about medical facilities, the DC said, “The civil hospital is equipped to deal with Covid-19. Three out of five patients, who have been cured, were admitted to the civil hospital. The DMCH has testing facilities for Covid -19 and the CMCH will get permission in day or two.”Gaurav Kumar, a user, raised the problems faced by the middle class families during the lockdown.The commissioner of police appealed to labourers for not trying to leave the city. He added shelter homes have been established for them and the police and the district administration are supplying ration and food to them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/facebook-live-session-non-essential-industries-can-also-open-with-conditions-says-ludhiana-dc/story-dFGzOwr1QynAr9ISyzr3ZO.html
24-04-2020||City||Migrants, labourers, slum dwellers of Mohali want change in menu, demand rotis instead of rice||More than a month into curfew now, the migrants, labourers and slum dwellers who are being supplied cooked food daily by the district administration, say they are bored of eating rice daily and want a change in the menu.In Mohali district, as many as 18 community kitchens operate daily to provide cooked food to around 30,000 people. Each kitchen caters to a particular area.In Kharar, these community kitchens were operational till April 20, but were later discontinued amid fears of spread of coronavirus. Dry ration is now supplied instead.The menu of the community kitchens depends entirely on the donations received in terms of raw material. Considering the inability of the administration to engage huge manpower, the kitchens resort to making food that requires less cooks. As a result, making rotis is not viable and the needy are provided with rice and cooked vegetables or pulses instead.SPECIAL DESSERT REQUESTS A DAILY OCCURRENCE “We regularly get requests to bring something sweet along with the food. Special requests for paneer and soya chunks are received, too. Interestingly, most of the people making requests for rotis are from states where rice is a staple,” said a senior administrative official, not wishing to be named.“We received bulk donations of potatoes and cauliflower once, so we repeated the same dish for a few days. The residents called up complaining that the menu was repetitive,” said another official. “A few days ago, potatoes and rice were being served in a market in Dera Bassi, but many refused to eat. Apparently, word had spread soya chunks had been served in another part of the sub-division. It took a lot of effort to convince them that those were rumours,” he added.“We have to change the menu daily and introduce varieties like chhole-puri, roti-sabzi, kadi-chawal,” said JP Singh, president of Phase 4 gurdwara that supplies cooked food in different areas of Mohali.Rajinder Singh, manager of Amb Sahib gurdwara in Phase 8, said, “We stopped going out to distribute community meals after the administration asked us to restrict movement. But, we are feeding those who come to the gurdwara premises on a daily basis.” DEMAND FOR DRY RATION GROWINGBeneficiaries demand for dry ration is also growing by the day. “Kichdi se kya banta hai, roti sabzi ho too zada acha hai (Rice and lentils are not enough; if we are served vegetables, that would be better),” said Nirmala of Sukhna Colony, adding, “Ration de dete to hum khud hi ghar mein bana le khana. Sabzi aaram se mil jati hai. Roz line mein khada hone se bach jayenge. (If we are provided with dry ration instead, we can cook the food ourselves. Vegetables are available anyway. This way we wouldn’t have to stand in queues.)” Sakuntala, while standing in a queue for cooked food in a Zirakpur market, said, “Only one packet of food is provided for two persons, which is not enough for the whole family. Administration should instead supply dry ration, so that we can eat well.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/migrants-labourers-slum-dwellers-of-mohali-want-change-in-menu-demand-rotis-instead-of-rice/story-LcoMGgcBWhTivA9EV43u6N.html
24-04-2020||Mumbai||Friday was the cleanest air day so far this year: SAFAR||Two days after the city recorded its lowest air quality for the year, the pollutant-measuring indicator further plummeted on Friday. The air quality index (AQI) was recorded at 42 for PM2.5 pollutant, falling in the ‘good’ category, making Friday the cleanest air day so far this year, according to the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR). It was 56 (satisfactory) on Thursday and 46 (good) on Wednesday. SAFAR researchers said a drop in temperatures from Monday’s 37.8 degrees Celsius to 34.9 degrees Celsius on Friday combined with the setting in of sea breeze at the right time helped the decline in pollution levels. Mazgaon had the cleanest air in the city with an AQI of 14 while BKC had comparatively higher AQI at 61 (satisfactory). Meanwhile the weather bureau said respite from hot and humid conditions was expected over the weekend as the maximum temperature is expected to drop a degree Celsius below normal due to the western disturbance of north India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/friday-was-the-cleanest-air-day-so-far-this-year-safar/story-4hjQX3xKHiLpjdewxklpxK.html
24-04-2020||Chandigarh||HP government demands more masks, ventilators from Centre||The Himachal Pradesh government on Friday urged the Centre to provide more masks and ventilators to effectively fight Covid-19.In a video conference, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur appealed to Union health minister Harsh Vardhan for ventilators in case of any eventuality.There are only 60 ventilators available in the health institutions across the state. Apart from it, the state government has also demanded more N-95 masks.The chief minister also apprised the Union health minister about various steps being taken by the state government to combat coronavirus pandemic.The CM said that no case has been reported in six districts of the state. He said that more than 8,800 persons were under surveillance in the state, out of which 5,637 had completed a 28-day mandatory observation period while 3,210 were still kept under home or institutional quarantine.Thakur added that the state has also tested 3,394 persons for Covid-19.To date, 40 persons have tested positive for Covid-19 in the state of which 18 have been discharged after being cured, he said.“Besides, four patients have been shifted out of the state for treatment,” said Thakur adding only one fatality was reported due to the virus in the state.CM said that the government had set up 183 quarantine facilities across the state with the capacity to accommodate 9,200 persons.The state has four Covid-19 testing facilities including IGMC, Shimla; Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College (RPGMC), Tanda; Insitute of Himalayan Bio-resource Technology (IHBT), Palampur and Central Research Institute (CRI), Kasauli.The state government had notified five hospitals as dedicated Covid-19 hospitals.These include Lal Bahadur Shastri Government Medical College, Nerchowk in Mandi; ESIC Model Hospital, Katha in Baddi of Solan; Charitable hospital, Bhota in Hamirpur; Civil Hospital, Sarahan, in Sirmaur and Agarwal Hospital, Jwalamukhi in Kangra.The CM added that more than 70 lakh persons were screened under the Active Case Finding campaign launched in the state earlier this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hp-government-demands-more-masks-ventilators-from-centre/story-2WMC8UsfPLclkss7826YVP.html
24-04-2020||City||300 Mohali MC employees pitch in a day’s salary for the needy, raise ₹6 lakh||Three-hundred employees of the Mohali municipal corporation are leading from the front in lessening the blow of the Covid-19 pandemic. Voluntarily donating a day’s salary, they have raised ₹6 lakh to feed the needy.The staffers are utilising the money to arrange for meals to feed the people who have been rendered jobless due to the lockdown. That’s not all. They have also been providing dry ration and cooked food every day to nearly 40 people since the curfew began on March 23.A team, constituted under the supervision of superintendent Jaswinder Singh and sub-divisional engineer (SDO) Harpreet Singh, distributes the food.Hemraj, a labourer at Kumbra village, said, “I am thankful to the municipal corporation for helping me out. It is almost a month now since I lost my job. Whenever we are in need, we just call them and they provide us ration in no time.The officials said they were also receiving help from various non-governmental organisations (NGOs).“Besides, distributing dry ration among the needy, we are distributing ration in bulk provided by the district administration in villages,” said Jaswinder, with Harpreet adding, “Our aim is to feed the underprivileged. If need be, we will donate another day’s salary.”MC commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg said, “Our employees are reaching out to the needy and they are aware about the people who are in need of ration.”Besides Phases 1 to 8, Mohali has five villages, including Shahimajra, Mohali village, Mataur, Sohana and Kumbra. The district also has three slums in Udham Singh Colony, Phase 7 Industrial Area, Guru Nanak Colony, near cremation ground and Balmiki Colony in Phase 6.The employees have also been providing services such as fogging, sanitation, water supply and maintenance of streetlights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/300-mohali-mc-employees-pitch-in-a-day-s-salary-for-the-needy-raise-6-lakh/story-wFZRFAOU7LISB8ePc5kxDP.html
24-04-2020||City||Man, brother booked for trying to open fire at neighbour after spat in Ludhiana||The Division Number 7 police have booked a history-sheeter and his brother for allegedly assaulting their neighbourers over petty issue on Thursday. The accused, identified as Ajay Pandit, along with his brother Rajan Pandit and some unidentified accomplices, allegedly opened fire at the complainant, Sandeep Singh, a property dealer and a resident of Guru Arjan Dev Nagar.Sandeep said that he along with his friends, Shammi, Gogi and Kamal, were at his house for some business-related work. When his friends were leaving for their houses, Shammi got into a spat with the accused. When the complainant got to know about this, he went to intervene. However, the accused started assaulting him and also pointed a gun at his chest but the gun did not go off.When the accused started to reload the gun, the bullet fell down. The accused then hit him with the gun and escaped. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Sukhwinder Singh, who is investigating the case, said the accused are also property dealers and have their offices nearby. The accused thrashed Sandeep because he had gone there to talk to them for abusing his friends. On being asked if there was an old rivalry, the ASI said that nothing of the sort has come to the fore as of now. The accused are absconding and will be arrested soon. After their arrest, police will identify if the weapon used was licensed or not.The case has been registered under Sections of 307 (attempt to murder), 506 (criminal intimidation), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (wrongful restrain), 34 (act done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code and Arms Act. A hunt is on for the arrest of accused. Ajay Pandit is already facing trial in several criminal cases, including assault.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-brother-booked-for-trying-to-open-fire-at-neighbour-after-spat-in-ludhiana/story-Cyvgz5oni0aKAta3MpEATO.html
24-04-2020||Chandigarh||Will go by expert panel advice on lockdown lifting, says Capt Amarinder Singh||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Friday said he would go by the advice of the expert committee, set up to formulate lockdown exit strategy, in the matter of opening up the state.Interacting with leading industrialists, economic experts and diplomats of some countries during a webinar, Amarinder said any decision on lifting the curfew and lockdown would be taken on the basis the recommendations of the 20-member committee, which is expected to submit its report on Saturday.According an official spokesperson, the CM stressed that his priority was saving the lives of Punjabis. “Factories can be restarted, but we can’t get people back,” the CM said.“If the expert committee, which includes medical experts and doctors, recommends opening up, either partially or completely, we will do so,” he said. “Punjab witnessed three peaks in the Covid curve in the past 40 days and it may not be possible to lift the lockdown completely for some more time. But the state will examine the recommendations of the expert committee and the prevailing ground situation,” he added. In Punjab, 5 of the 22 districts are currently in the green zone. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to consult chief ministers of all states on the issue of lifting the lockdown through a video conference on Monday.The CM extended his condolences to Italian ambassador Vincenzo de Luca over the large number of lives lost in their country due to the Covid pandemic. The envoy, on his part, expressed solidarity with the people of Punjab in their fight against coronavirus.Pointing to over one lakh Punjabis living in Italy, which is one of the most affected countries in the world, the ambassador urged the Punjab government to explore prospects for more investment by Italian companies in the state, especially in the field of food processing and agricultural machinery manufacturing.Ambassador of Denmark Freddy Svane also expressed keen interest in exploring investment opportunities in Punjab. CM for approval to eligible units within 12 hoursMeanwhile, Amarinder on Friday directed the department of industries and the district industries centres, functioning under deputy commissioners (DCs), to give approval to all industrial units eligible to reopen, along with required curfew passes, within 12 hours of applying.The CM also said he would raise the issue of central support for industry with the Prime Minister during the latter’s video conference with chief ministers on Monday.The industry cannot pay wages endlessly, he said, responding to the concern expressed by some participants over the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/will-go-by-expert-panel-advice-on-lockdown-lifting-says-capt-amarinder-singh/story-DGN1NRFMG4uuxDfBluo7lJ.html
24-04-2020||Chandigarh||Register for BS4 vehicles till April 30 in Chandigarh||People who had bought Bharat Stage IV (BS4) vehicles in the city, but could not register these due to the Covid-19 lockdown, can get the registration done till April 30.The extension is available only for those who have already submitted their documents online.Representatives from the automobile industry had taken up the issue with the UT administration in a video conference on Thursday.They had contended that because of the sudden announcement of the lockdown and curfew, many could not complete the process of registration of BS4 vehicles. This decision of the administration will benefit all those who could not complete the process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/register-for-bs4-vehicles-till-april-30-in-chandigarh/story-aaNHngj9TA0i8P2fjbmI4J.html
24-04-2020||Gurugram||22-year-old Yemeni national nabbed for staying illegally in Gurugram||Gurugram Police have arrested a 22-year-old Yemeni national who they claim had been allegedly staying illegally in the city for about a year. The man was arrested from his apartment in Sector 67 after he failed to provide valid documents, the police said.The suspect was identified as Mohammad Suleman Ahmed, is a native of Aden, Yemen.Police said he was staying at a rented accommodation in a condominium in Sector 67 in the guise of a Nigerian national. Investigations have revealed that he had come to India in December 2014 on a student visa and had taken admission in a renowned university of Pune. He joined a private hospital as an interpreter and for the past several months had been living in the city.Muhammad Akil, commissioner of police, said that Ahmed was apprehended from his apartment after a tip-off. “During verification, it was found that he was residing without legal documents. His travel documents were also not valid. He had come to India in 2014. After completing a diploma course, he moved to Gurugram and joined a private hospital as an interpreter. He has been living in the area for the past several months. We have arrested him under Section 14 of the Foreigners Act,” he said.“The Yemeni Embassy and central intelligence agencies have been informed about the arrest. Police is questioning him to establish his antecedents,” Akil added.The police were keeping a close watch on him, when they received a tip-off about the suspect. When a crime investigation unit team accosted him and asked him to produce his passports, he allegedly tried to mislead the police by claiming that he was not carrying his documents on him and tried to escape. He was, however, nabbed, said police.Police said the man’s passport had expired on April 17 this year and his visa had expired in November, 2015.During the course of the interrogation, Ahmed claimed that his visa and other travel-related documents had already expired and he had submitted a copy of these documents to Foreigners Registration Officer (FRO) in Pune during his stay there in 2016 for renewal.Akil said that in order to mislead the police, the man also told police that he had also applied at UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) but his application was under consideration.Police has written to FRO, Pune to verify his statement, said police.Ahmed has been sent to 14-day judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/22-year-old-yemeni-national-nabbed-for-staying-illegally-in-gurugram/story-kTxquEGaSKphx1YPCJqNeO.html
24-04-2020||City||IIT-Ropar develops Covid screening device||The Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Ropar, has developed an infrared vision system for identification and easy screening of suspected Covid-19 patients.The team comprising associate professor of department of electrical engineering from the institute Ravibabu Mulaveesala, post-doctoral researcher Vanita Arora, and MS Suresh from SS Automation Pvt Ltd, Bangalore, has developed a prototype remote temperature mapping device for monitoring the infrared radiation emanating over the human face and is looking for clinical tests by medical industry experts.The system detects the suspects based on the relative temperature measurement over selected features of the face with self-reference, which makes the screening process easy and risk-free as compared to the limited range hand-held thermal imaging devices widely used at various crowded places, Mulaveesala said.The portable, remote-controlled system measures wide range of temperatures with a pixel resolution of 160 x 120 and sensitivity of 70mK. Further, the thermal images, captured within two seconds, are exported to the processing unit wirelessly and the decision — saying infected, suspected or healthy — will be displayed on the connected desktop computer almost in no time.Mulaveesala said the prototype was ready and the medical industry experts had been invited for clinical trials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/iit-ropar-develops-risk-free-covid-screening-device/story-EP1gp5E7oCgiXdXpYafpcK.html
24-04-2020||City||J&K admn in fix as terminally ill man from UP wants to meet family for last time||Amid lockdown, a terminally-ill patient from Uttar Pradesh’s Bijnor district wanting to meet his family members has left Jammu and Kashmir administration in a quandary.Narinder Singh, 50, a migrant labourer was admitted at Government Medical College and Hospital here on April 18 and was discharged on April 23. He was diagnosed with last stage cancer.The hospital staff alleged that repeated pleas to shift the patient to his native village where he could meet his family one last time have fallen on deaf ears.His family back home hopes to see him one last time but the administration here allegedly remains in a state of inertia.Arif, one of Narendra’s attendants said that the doctors here said that there are no or minimum chances of his survival and that he should be allowed to go to his native village.Rajeev, the patient’s nephew, said, “We have completed all the documentation process and have arranged an ambulance but the administration is yet to grant permission for the same.”Jammu divisional commissioner Sanjeev Verma, however, said that there were certain rules to be followed in such cases.He said that he would help them while adhering to certain protocols. The attendants have sought the intervention of lieutenant government Girish Chandra Murmu in the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-admn-in-fix-as-terminally-ill-man-from-up-wants-to-meet-family-for-last-time/story-aSDLgc1lUZMWU8DFxelsVL.html
24-04-2020||Chandigarh||Rainy weekend on the cards in Punjab, Haryana||The weather department has forecast rain in the region on Saturday and Sunday, with chances of light rain in isolated stations on Monday as well.Officials at the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Chandigarh, said the rain will be caused due to moisture influx from the Arabian sea, and low-level easterly winds blowing in the region. “Light to moderate rain, up to 30mm, will commence from south-western parts of Haryana on Friday night itself and spread over the state on Saturday. It is likely to cover Chandigarh and parts of Punjab as well, but Haryana will be affected most. Gusty winds up to 40km per hour with thunder and hail are expected in isolated stations,” they said.A drop of up to four degrees in the prevailing temperatures can be expected during this time, especially if it rains in the mornings. Temperature will rise from Monday onwards, but is still expected to stay 1-2 degrees below normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/rainy-weekend-on-the-cards-in-punjab-haryana/story-FzjlLOVQqIyqA2zjsgPcZK.html
24-04-2020||Chandigarh||Una DC urges Muslims to pray at home during Ramzan||Una deputy commissioner Sandeep Kumar on Friday appealed Muslims to offer prayers during Ramzan while staying in their houses and not to gather at mosques keeping in view the Covid-19 pandemic.“Due to this pandemic and the lockdown, I request all the Muslims to offer prayers from their residences during this Ramzan,” he said, adding that there is a complete ban on organising gatherings at religious and public places.He said the administration will ensure public safety and urged people to cooperate in order to help combat coronavirus.DC said that some members of the Muslim community from other states were staying in the buffer quarantine centres in the district and special arrangements had been made for them keeping in view the holy month of Ramzan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/una-dc-urges-muslims-to-pray-at-home-during-ramzan/story-YpxYiWSdJ31sLnueTNQmrJ.html
24-04-2020||City||Youngest sarpanch in Punjab gets call from PM||Pathankot The youngest sarpanch of Punjab, Pallavi Thakur, 22, was among a few village heads across the country who interacted with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, via video conference, on the National Panchyati Raj Day on Friday. The young woman, elected sarpanch two years ago, says she gave up her BSc (IT) course in Chandigarh to serve people better. The village has a population of around 2,000. She says, “Before the call, officials from the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) called me to be prepared. It was a real surpris, but it was a great experience speaking with the PM. I told him about the action plan I had adopted to deal with covid-19.” She added, “I also told the PM that we have put barriers on the two entry roads of our village. No outsider is allowed to enter and no villager is allowed to leave his house.” The village has no covid-19 case, with the district reporting 24.She added that she also briefed the PM on how her panchayat was helping farmers transport produce to government hubs, while following social distancing. “The PM told me he had spent some time in Punjab and assured me of his support and help,” Pallavi added. — With PTI inputs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/youngest-sarpanch-in-punjab-gets-call-from-pm/story-4DCgFldvmXq3rPeHfTdnGP.html
24-04-2020||Chandigarh||HC allows termination of 24-week pregnancy of Sangrur woman||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday asked the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) to terminate pregnancy of a 24-week pregnant woman from Sangrur district of Punjab.The direction came from the high court bench of justice Sudhir Mittal after the permanent medical board of PGIMER stated that the unborn child is afflicted with the Down’s syndrome. The abnormality is associated with severe physical and mental handicap and is not compatible with normal life, the board had stated, adding that the termination of pregnancy is possible without endangering the life of the mother.The couple had approached the high court on April 22, with a plea seeking termination of pregnancy. Acting on the plea, the high court had sought opinion of the board. The Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act, 1971, does not permit termination of pregnancy beyond 20 weeks. The court, however, took note of the recommendation, which it said is based upon internationally recognized medical guidelines, according to which, termination of pregnancy beyond 22 weeks can also be safely done.The high court directed the PGIMER to admit the woman after taking all necessary precautions required in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic and perform the procedure at the earliest. On the request of the woman’s counsel, the court also asked PGIMER to treat the case as one of a poor patient and give all assistance available for such patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hc-allows-termination-of-24-week-pregnancy-of-sangrur-woman/story-FXzgvXMlNhlCMpvS20H4vM.html
24-04-2020||City||Stage 2 of National Talent Search Examination postponed, students disappointed||The postponement of stage 2 of the National Talent Search Examination (NTSE) in the wake of coronavirus outbreak has left many Class 10 students disappointed as they were preparing for the exam after they cleared the stage1 exam in February this year.The exam, which was earlier scheduled to be held on May 10, is conducted by the National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT). The new date will be soon intimated by the NCERT.​From Ludhiana, 25 students (including two government school students) have cleared stage 1 of the NTSE exam. “The lockdown has been extended by the government till May 3 and we don’t know about when the authorities will conduct the exams. In fact, the lockdown can even be extended further,” the two students said.Ektapreet Kaur, 15, a student of Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Bharat Nagar, said, “I have been preparing for both (board and competitive) exams for the last two months. I get a lot of time for preparation as the school is closed. I feel dejected as the competitive exam has also been postponed. Nevertheless, health should be given the top priority and so staying at home is the right step to combat the virus.”​“I have been spending three hours daily to revise the concepts of Class 10 board exams. I devote two hours during the evenings to prepare for the competitive exam”, she added. However, Parneet Kaur ,15, a student of Government Senior Secondary School, Hargobindpura, said, “Despite the school being closed and board exams having been postponed, I am in contact with my schoolteachers and prepare for the competitive exam.”“Though I am upset that the competitive exam has been postponed, I am glad that I have now got more time to prepare for this exam and become eligible for the scholarship,” added Kaur, who belongs to Dully village.​Yuval Goyal, a student of Sacred Heart Convent School, Sarabha Nagar, scored 185 out of 200 (the highest marks in the district) in the stage 1 exam. He said, “I have opted for the non-medical stream and online classes have been started by the school authorities. I was expecting to get free after appearing for the stage 2 exam on May 10. Now, if the council will conduct the exam in June, I will be burdened with studies as the syllabus of Class 11 is already vast.”​Last year, 5,322 students from Ludhiana appeared for the NTSE held on November 3.​Students who will clear the stage 2 of NTSE will become eligible for an annual scholarship of ₹15,000 (₹1,250 per month) for two years (classes 11 and 12) and ₹2,000 per month at the undergraduate level.​||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/stage-2-of-national-talent-search-examination-postponed-students-disappointed/story-LSPG48ymh0sQkoqNikjzYP.html
24-04-2020||City||Self-quarantine till Covid test report is out: TMC||The Thane civic commissioner has directed the suspected Covid-19 patients to get the tests done from central government authorised testing laboratories. They should also self-quarantine themselves till the report is out.A TMC official said, “If a resident has any symptoms such as cold, cough, breathing difficulty, fever and weakness, they get a test done for Covid-19. Most residents get the test done from private laboratories without informing us. They also do not self-quarantine till the report is out. They will spread the virus to others if they are Covid positive.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/self-quarantine-till-covid-test-report-is-out-tmc/story-Urzk08k16rf6Lpc0ROKzuN.html
24-04-2020||City||Ram Rahim’s parole plea rejected||The parole plea of Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim, who is lodged in Rohtak’s Sunaria jail, was rejected on Friday. An official at Sunaria prison privy to the development said Ram Rahim’s mother Naseeb Kaur had applied for his three-week parole on April 13 to attend to her, citing her poor health condition.“The jail authorities rejected the parole plea on the basis of Sirsa deputy commissioner’s report. The DC had formed a board of doctors to examine Naseeb Kaur’s health. The doctors concluded that she was stable and did not face any major health issue. The second reason mentioned in the DC’s report was fear of deteriorating law and order situation in Sirsa district amid the extended lockdown,” the official, who sought to remain anonymous, added. He said they have received five applications to grant parole to Ram Rahim ever since he was moved to the Sunaria jail. Sunaria jail superintendent Sunil Sangwan, regarding rejection of dera chief’s parole, said that he was not authorised to speak on the matter. However, jail minister Ranjeet Singh Chautala confirmed that Ram Rahim’s parole was rejected on the recommendation of Sirsa DC. It is pertinent to mention here that a jail superintendent has authority to exercise the powers of the state government pertaining to temporary release of a prisoner if a family member of the prisoner has died or is seriously ill or the prisoner himself is seriously ill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ram-rahim-s-parole-plea-rejected/story-2sRF9HuudmeCNj9YLKigcJ.html
24-04-2020||Chandigarh||State response panel, experts meet to strengthen testing||The Health Sector Response and Procurement Committee (HSRPC) of Punjab held a meeting over videoconference with experts from Johns Hopkins University, USA; Centre for Policy Research, New Delhi and PGIMER, Chandigarh, to discuss approaches to strengthen testing strategy in the state. “The state government is focused on increasing its testing capacity and numbers, but we are also mindful of taking an approach to testing that shall be most effective in containing the infection and preventing its spread any further,” said HSPRC chairperson Vini Mahajan. She added that the state was also making efforts to design testing strategies for, during and post-mobility restrictions when social engagements will rise. Professor Devesh Kapur, Asia programmes director, Johns Hopkins University; Dr Amita Gupta, deputy director, Johns Hopkins University Centre for Clinical Global Health Education; and Ms Yamini Aiyar, president, Centre for Policy Research, and member Punjab State Advisory Council were some of the participants on the call. Mahajan added a team led by Yamini Aiyar will be preparing a testing strategy for Punjab for the coming weeks. The team also included other public health experts, economists and statisticians. From Punjab government, the participation included members of the HSRPC Dr KK Talwar, Dr Raj Bahadur, and others as well as medical experts and advisors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/state-response-panel-experts-meet-to-strengthen-testing/story-gXCollz51uOZbz4EzRI3fP.html
24-04-2020||City||‘Anomalies in ration distribution’: Ludhiana councillors call off decision to protest||The councillors of the opposition parties in the general house of municipal corporation (MC), Ludhiana, on Friday have decided to call of their move to stage a protest outside the residence of deputy commissioner (DC) Pradeep Agrawal over alleged pick and choose policy of the Congress in ration distribution. The move comes after cabinet minister and MLA (west) Bharat Bhushan Ashu held a meeting with the councillors at mayor Balkar Sandhu’s camp office here on Friday.Ensuring the councillors that no pick and choose policy is being adopted by the administration and the Congress leadership, Ashu assured them that the ration would be supplied to their respective wards without any discrepancy.The councillors of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) attended the meeting. They were led by leader of opposition in the general house, Harbhajan Singh Dang. MC commissioner Kanwalpreet Kaur Brar and SDM Amarjit Bains were also present in the meeting. Dang and SAD councillor Jaspal Giaspura said that the decision to call off the move to stage a protest was made after the cabinet minister assured them that the ration will reach to all the wards in two days. We will continue to fight if the administration fails to provide ration to the needy, said Dang.Earlier alleging anomalies in the ration distribution, the councillors on Thursday had gathered at Zone-D office and had announced to stage a protest outside the DC’s house on Monday. The councillors had alleged that the administration in connivance with the Congress was providing ration only to the Congress leaders, who were further providing essentials to their family and friends only, while the general people were starving.Meanwhile, SAD district president Ranjit Singh Dhillon wrote an open letter to DC Agrawal asking the administration not to adopt pick and choose policy in ration distribution. Dhillon said that many people, especially the labour class, are suffering because of the biased approach of the administration and the Congress..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/anomalies-in-ration-distribution-ludhiana-councillors-call-off-decision-to-protest/story-onQySkuS4ESDdMPxMttxiJ.html
24-04-2020||Lucknow||10 UP cities fight Covid-19 war ‘smartly’, and how!||Covid-19 pandemic is no less than a war. And what’s coming in handy in the fight against the deadly virus is the ‘war room’ set up in each UP district to manage different tasks on a real-time basis.While all the districts are handling the crisis in a best possible manner, 10 UP cities are managing the pandemic smartly — all thanks to paraphernalia, including the Integrated Command & Control Centre (ICCC), they got under the Smart City project.“The infrastructure was there. Only it was used for a different purpose. When the Covid-19 challenge was thrown upon us, we tweaked the functioning of the ICCC into processes needed for pandemic management and the results are for all to see,” said Deepak Kumar, principal secretary, department of urban development, UP.The day the government announced the nationwide lockdown, the ten municipal bodies with Smart City project —Lucknow, Agra, Varanasi, Saharanpur, Moradabad, Bareilly, Prayagraj, Jhansi, Aligarh, and Kanpur —turned their respective ICCC into war rooms for Covid-19.“These war rooms with their robust integrated technology support are serving well to the entire gamut of Covid-19 activities,” said Kumar while listing the functions which the district administration is managing through the ICCC.“Hotspot management, grocery-vegetable helplines, security and surveillance, including home isolation and institutional quarantine of Covid-19 positive cases and suspects, traffic monitoring, lockdown monitoring, sanitization, cleaning, water supply, sewer — all are being managed from here,” said Kumar. Additionally, the tweaked version of the ICCC also network about telemedicine, black marketing response system, food for the needy scheduling-monitoring, community kitchen management, and animal welfare. They also relay live telecast of advisories through VMS (variable message signs) systems and public address systems, and aid video conferencing with Lucknow.“In Agra, a 25-member team works round the clock at the war room much like the teams in nine other Smart City war rooms. The Varanasi centre has its ICT (Information and Communication Technologies) with 25 terminals and an additional helpdesk. Just the way Varanasi centre is networked with 404 surveillance camera for monitoring and 49 public address system, same is the network in the other Smart Cities,” said Dr Kajal, director, local bodies, Uttar Pradesh.These war rooms do have helpline integrated into them and they do realtime data crunching, information and response sharing back and forth between the stakeholders.“Incidentally, most of the ten Smart Cities also happen to be among the high Covid-19 incidence districts in the state and they have a significant edge in management over other cities that lack such integrated system. Such tech networked management system proves all the more relevant in crisis management,” said an official.When asked, why cases are rising drastically in cities like Agra or Lucknow if the smart city set ups are aiding the fight against Covid-19, Dr Kajal said: “Smart City is the tech support for information, logistics, movement etc. It cannot do anything to the transmission or pathogenesis (the manner of development of a disease ) of Covid-19. Smart City is an integrated administrative tool and not a medical set up in itself and cannot do anything to the medical aspect of the disease. It is helping in a big way in managing non-medical aspects and interventions. For instance, if someone with symptoms is hiding, the technology in itself cannot do anything.”Caption 1: Agra Smart City’s Integrated Command & Control Centre (ICCC) converted to Covid-19 War Room.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/10-up-cities-fight-covid-19-war-smartly-and-how/story-Ci5zysN41kFQvP2nRBqvwO.html
24-04-2020||City||TMC changes Mumbra market timing||Thane Municipal Corporation has decided to open Mumbra market from 3am to 12 noon.The first day of Ramzaan on Friday saw a huge crowd at the Mumbra market, near the railway station. Hundreds of people came out to shop and did not follow social distancing rules.“It was not feasible to keep the market open during afternoon hours as those fasting will find it difficult to visit the market. So, we have changed the timing and kept it open for a longer duration,” said Mahesh Aher, assistant municipal commissioner, TMC.He added that they have made announcements in all areas about the new market timing.Some residents said a fake message about the changes in market timings was doing the round, so people might have come out in droves to shop.“People were confused and this may have added to chaos in the market area,” said Adil Pathan, 42, resident of Mumbra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tmc-changes-mumbra-market-timing/story-2eQf1KzV4PMIQi9QQ9R4TI.html
24-04-2020||Chandigarh||Samba police bring medicines from HP for cancer patient||Samba Police delivered medicines to a cancer patient in Gurha Slathia village of Vijaypur after a 158km-long journey to Dharamshala in Himachal Pradesh.Samba SSP Shakti Pathak said, “Balwant Singh, 77 is using ayurvedic medicines from Tibetan Market in Dharamshala for the last three years. Due to lockdown restrictions, the medicines cannot be brought from outside J&K. So, I immediately contacted my counterpart, Kangra SSP and the medicines were provided to the patient at his house on Thursday.”Some volunteers from Gurha Slathia village had approached Samba Police for providing medicines to the cancer patient as Singh had no medicines with him and the same were desperately required.Similarly, in Kulian village of Reasi district, an 81-year-old man, who runs a gristmill by the side of a stream has been grinding wheat free of cost for the villagers.Shanker Singh said, “Till the time the situation returns to normalcy, I will keep grinding wheat free of cost at my gristmill. I saw some people helping the needy by distributing free ration, masks and vegetables, so I decided to do my bit for society.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/samba-police-bring-medicines-from-hp-for-cancer-patient/story-g5nK5HMNZme2M6J0VSqqwM.html
24-04-2020||City||Kharghar woman booked for communal post over Palghar lynching||The Kharghar police have booked an insurance agent after she posted a communal message on social media over Palghar lynching of sadhus. Police are yet to trace the woman. The Kharghar police filed a suo motu case against Trupti Vaidya for allegedly posted the video of the lynching on her Facebook page with a commentary against the state government and casting abusive rant against the Muslim community.“We have registered the case of public mischief and defamation against the woman but we are in the process of tracing her. We are also checking if it is her actual profile,” said Ashok Medhe, sub-inspector at Kharghar police station. Officer said they have established that she is an insurance agent based on her profile.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kharghar-woman-booked-for-communal-post-over-palghar-lynching/story-4JF1QA3xjXlznA8eoafIMK.html
24-04-2020||City||Ludhiana mandi officer’s daughter also tests positive||Days after the district mandi officer (DMO) tested positive for Covid-19, her 35-year-old daughter was also found infected, civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga confirmed.The daughter who is posted as the block development and panchayat officer (BDPO) of Doraha, is the seventh government official to have contracted the disease in Ludhiana. Two officials, assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Anil Kohli and revenue department kanungo Gurmail Singh, had lost their battle to the virus last week, while three other cops are undergoing treatment at various hospitals in the district.‘HAD BEEN IN QUARANTINE’The DMO’s daughter had been in self-quarantine ever since her mother had tested positive for the virus on April 17. A police team had also sealed the street where her house is located. As per health officials, she is asymptomatic as of now. Her five- year- old son and husband, a food supply official, are also stated to be asymptomatic. She said to be living in a joint family. The 35-year-old had recently been in the news when she accused the Fortis Hospital authorities of forcibly confiscating her mother’s phone. She had also alleged that the hospital was not providing proper food or water to her mother.MYSTERY SHROUDS THE DEATH OF FOOD SUPPLY DEPT OFFICIALMeanwhile, a 46-year-old food and civil supply department employee died under mysterious circumstances at the civil hospital of Friday morning. He was suffering from hypertension and diabetes. A clerk in the department of food and civil supplies located at the municipal corporation’s Zone-D office, he was deployed on Covid-19 duty.As per the available information, he was unwell for the past 10 days and had proceeded on leave.According to family members, the 46-year-old had been suffering from fever for the past four days. On Thursday, his condition deteriorated and he was rushed to the Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMC&H) for treatment. The family alleged that they had to take him to the civil hospital after they were told about the exorbitant treatment charges for Covid-19 suspected patients at the private facility.His body has been kept in the mortuary and his swab samples have been taken for test.The family members and two friends, who had rushed him to the hospital, have been told to remain in self quarantine till the arrival of the report. He was living on Churpur road.Another person, who was rushed to DMC&H from Hoshiarpur, also died of heart attack.1,378 TESTS SO FAR, 1,182 NEGATIVEDeputy commissioner (DC) Pradeep Agrawal said that so far 1,378 tests have been conducted in Ludhiana. The reports of 1,181 samples have been received and 1,141 have been found negative. So far, the city has 20 positive (three patients from other district). He said five patients, including one from Jalandhar, have been cured.The DC added that the contact tracing of the DMO’s daughter has started.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-mandi-officer-s-daughter-also-tests-positive/story-cHxNg89R0M6CpPT0HBw9dL.html
24-04-2020||Mumbai||IATA estimates 47% drop in passenger numbers in India in ’20||International Air Transport Association (IATA), which represents major world airlines, has estimated that India’s domestic and international passenger traffic will decline by 47% in 2020 as compared to 2019. IATA said that Indian aviation and related sectors like tourism will suffer 2.93 million job losses, with the number of annual passengers falling to 89.7 million.The latest estimates from IATA indicate a worsening of the country’s impact from the Covid-19 crisis in the Asia Pacific region. Airlines in the Asia Pacific region will see the largest revenue drop of US$113 billion in 2020 compared to 2019, and a 50% fall in passenger demand in 2020 compared to 2019.Conrad Clifford, IATA’s regional vice president (Asia-Pacific) identified India, Indonesia, Japan, Malaysia, the Philippines, Republic of Korea, Sri Lanka, and Thailand as priority countries that need to take action. “The situation is deteriorating and airlines are in survival mode. There will be more casualties if governments do not step in urgently to ensure airlines have sufficient cash flow to tide them over this period,” he said.“Providing support for airlines has a broader economic implication. Jobs across many sectors will be impacted if airlines do not survive the Covid-19 crisis. In Asia-Pacific, 11.2 million jobs are at risk, including those that are dependent on the aviation industry, such as travel and tourism,” Clifford added.While airlines continue to transport essential goods, after the Covid-19 pandemic is contained, governments will need to look to them for help with economic recovery, to connect manufacturing hubs and support tourism. Keeping this in mind, governments need to act urgently now, IATA stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/iata-estimates-47-drop-in-passenger-numbers-in-india-in-20/story-L4uoMHqjWy89uv826I1njN.html
24-04-2020||City||346 milk vendors, booth owners screened in Mohali||As many as 346 milk vendors and milk booth owners were screened in Mohali district on Friday. Vendors from Verka, Amul, HF Super and Himalayan Creamery were screened and all were found asymptomatic. This was done following the directions of deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan, district development and panchayat officer (DDPO) and cooperative societies in collaboration with the health department.The screening was done at Rose Garden Park in Phase 3B2; City Park, Sector 68; Silvi Park in Phase 10; Children’s Park near police chowki, Sunny Enclave in Kharar; Ram Lila ground near bus stand in Dera Bassi and Lohgarh Park in Zirakpur. The milk vendors and booth owners were also given two cloth face masks each and were made aware about social distancing guidelines and other precautions that should be observed in view of the coronavirus outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/346-milk-vendors-booth-owners-screened-in-mohali/story-clcKO0MBq6VurLO8PAydcP.html
24-04-2020||City||Three new corona cases surface in Prayagraj||PRAYAGRAJ Barely a few days after Prayagraj was declared corona free, three new cases of Covid-19 were reported in the district on Friday. Prayagraj had only one Covid 19 case, an Indonesian national and member of Tablighi Jamaaat. After undergoing treatment at a Level 1 hospital in Kotwa on the outskirts of the city, the patient had tested negative in three repeated tests, as per WHO guidelines before being shifted to a guest house in Kareli on April 17. He was kept under observation for 14 days, said officials. According to the district nodal officer (corona) Dr Rishi Sahai, the three new patients included two labourers in Kapari village under Shanker development block while the third was a youth in Shivkuti locality of the city.“The two labourers had returned from Mumbai to attend a religious ceremony on April 22 after their father died. After showing symptoms of flu, their samples were sent for testing, which confirmed coronavirus. The third patient is a youth from Shivkuti locality who had gone to Varanasi on an e-pass after the lockdown began and had returned recently,” he said.As per Sahai, area of around 1 km around Kapari village had been sealed and sanitizing operations had been launched. Similarly, the areas near the house of the youth in Shivkuti were also sealed and sanitized.“All the three new Covid-19 patients have been admitted to the Level 1 hospital in Kotwa,” he added.Besides, the other six patients of Pratapgarh and two patients of Kaushambi had also recovered at the same hospital in Kotwa and sent back to their respective districts where they were kept under observation for 14 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-new-corona-cases-surface-in-prayagraj/story-LCbo6xPMEdCNGsqHwI1jaJ.html
24-04-2020||Noida||Afghanistan arranges special flight to evacuate its nationals from Noida, Delhi and Punjab||The Embassy of Islamic Republic of Afghanistan has written to the ministry of external affair and authorities of Noida, Delhi and Phagwara in Punjab to facilitate the movement of their nationals so that they catch a special flight from the Indira Gandhi International Airport in Delhi on April 25. The Afghanistan government has decided to evacuate its national stuck in India, in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.The external affairs ministry has issued a letter with details of vehicles ferrying Afghan nationals and their names for the authorities of Noida, Delhi and Phagwara for hassle-free movement to reach the airport. All Afghan nationals have to board the special flight at 5.30pm Saturday.Around 171 Afghan nationals living in these three cities will be leaving for Kabul. The list includes students from the Lovely Professional University in Phagwara, Punjab, Sharda University and Noida International University.Around 50 of them are in Greater Noida, of whom 41 are students of Sharda University. The other Afghan nationals are those who had come to India on medical emergencies or for personal reasons.“The Covid-19 situation is same all over the world. Our nationals are safe in India. We have arranged a special fight to bring them back to Afghanistan. We have provided the list of our citizens who will be travelling from Noida, Punjab and Delhi to reach the IGI Airport,” Sediqullah Sahar, education attache, Afghanistan embassy in Delhi, said.Sharda University has made all the required arrangements as per the letter from the Ministry of external affairs. “Our 41 Afghan students will be leaving on Saturday to board the evening flight. We have made all the required arrangements so that they can reach the airport on time. We will be giving them masks and hand sanitisers to ensure their safety. All persons leaving tomorrow will be tested at the Kabul airport upon arrival and those who test positive for Covid-19 will be sent to the isolation wards, while suspected persons will be sent to the quarantine centre,” Dr Ajit Kumar, joint registrar, Sharda University, said quoting the ministry’s letter.On March 9, Bhutan had evacuated its 41 students from Gautam Budh Nagar. There are around 3,000 foreign students studying in Greater Noida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/afghanistan-arranges-special-flight-to-evacuate-its-nationals-from-noida-delhi-and-punjab/story-8t8nr3HeVR3f1YXDVennjM.html
24-04-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University’s move to vacate four hostels leaves students worried for their belongings||With Panjab University (PU) starting to vacate its four hostels on the south campus following orders from Chandigarh administration as part of the Covid management plan, hundreds of students from different states, who had left the campus before the lockdown began, are worried about their belongings at the hostels. The university’s assurance that they will vacate girls’ hostels number 8, 9 and 10, and the international hostel under camera surveillance has also failed to allay the students’ concerns. The varsity has also told the students that they can also authorise someone on their behalf to collect their belongings.“There is no way to reach the university under these circumstances nor do I have anyone who can collect my belongings on my behalf. I am worried,” said Veronica, a student from Himachal Pradesh who stayed at girls’ hostel number 10.Sreshtha Rajput, who is from Uttar Pradesh, and stayed at girls’ hostel number 10, said, “The university administration has no plan and we are being told to collect our belongings. I had left some important documents at the hostel. How can I come all the way from my hometown during the lockdown?”‘CONTACT WARDENS’PU dean students’ welfare (DSW) Emanual Nahar said, “We have requested the UT administration to provide curfew passes to the students of neighbouring states so that they can come and take their belongings. Students can contact their hostel wardens concerned and send their details for the same.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pu-move-to-vacate-4-hostels-leaves-students-worried-for-their-belongings/story-op7Xo9hEOJuOQS97S9LZEM.html
24-04-2020||Education||Take advantage of DD channels: Higher education department tells students||State Higher education department has advised students of state`s universities and degree colleges to take maximum advantage of four Doordarshan channels, which have been launched in collaboration between the department and Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU), so that students could make preparation for exams in lockdown in case they had no access to internet in the remote areas. These channels are GDI, GDII, GDIII and GDIV. All these channels are free of cost and are aided by ministry of human resource development, information and broadcasting ministry and Prasar Bharti, an official said. “Doordarshan channels must be used extensively because students in remote and backward areas may not have access to Internet. We are continuously guiding students and providing them information that can help them prepare for their examinations,” said principal secretary higher education, Monika S Garg. These channels are specially designed to impart education to the students in every nook and corner of the state. Students need only to switch on their television sets and study in their homes without having to install any device for Internet or downloading any data, she said.The schedule about the teaching is also displayed on TV sets. Not only this, students preparing for competitive exams are also being provided online study material to help them learn and solve problems analytically, Garg said.The department has also hinted at yet another breakthrough, i.e. DTH channels for the benefit of students of degree colleges. There are very useful for students who do not have access to the Internet or may not be having devices that carry data services, an official said. In addition, government has also launched Massive Open Online Course (MOOC), which is a course of study, made available on the internet free of cost to a large number of users. MOOC is a platform owned by SWAYAM Bharat which provides study material for the fields of engineering, law, management, human resources, social sciences and business studies, she said. In the series of these efforts, an important tool is that of virtual labs that are designed to help students understand the practical application of theoretical concepts as to how to conduct practicals, collect necessary data, develop an understanding and how to simulate online in order to visualise results of these practicals.National Digital LibraryHigher education department also mentioned about National Digital Library of India, which is providing all necessary course material that can be downloaded and read online.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/take-advantage-of-dd-channels-higher-education-department-tells-students/story-k1OJy1KH2TrdFa9aYG0tSL.html
24-04-2020||Mumbai||22-year-old arrested for morphing CM’s photo on social media||The Bandra Kurla Complex (BKC) police have arrested a 22-year-old resident of Panvel for allegedly morphing the images of Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and minister Aditya Thackeray. According to the police the accused Paresh Borse, a resident of Panvel, was arrested based on a complaint by advocate Sunny Jain. Jain said, “The accused had morphed the image of the CM and his son onto a photograph of pallbearers.” The CM and his son, in the image, were two pallbearers and the coffin had Maharashtra written on it. An officer from BKC police station said, “Following Jain’s complaint we registered an FIR against the Facebook account user under sections 188 (Disobedience to an order lawfully promulgated by a public servant) and 500 (Punishment for defamation) of Indian Penal Code,”“We later took help from Mumbai police’s technical team and arrested the accused from Navi Mumbai. We have removed his Facebook post,” said another officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/22-year-old-arrested-for-morphing-cm-s-photo-on-social-media/story-4z4QILM09eWmbDnlDm9AbL.html
24-04-2020||Chandigarh||ATM cabin catches fire in Ludhiana; cash safe||Fire broke out at an HDFC automated teller machine (ATM) near Hero Bakery Chowk on Pakhowal Road on Friday morning. However, no casualties were reported and the cash is also stated to be safe.According to the reports, the incident took place around 10:30am and fire tenders were rushed to the spot.“However, the bank employees managed to douse the flames with the help of a fire hose installed outside the bank, before our team reached the spot,” sub-fire officer Atish Rai said.Fire officials say the cause of fire is suspected to be short-circuit in the air conditioner (AC) installed in the ATM cabin but it is yet to be verified.They added that no casualty was reported from the spot and the cash in the ATM was also safe.“Only the AC and down ceiling of the cabin got damaged in the fire,” Rai said, adding that after the incident, smoke had engulfed the bank premises, so the fire fighters opened all the doors for ventilation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/atm-cabin-catches-fire-in-ludhiana-cash-safe/story-GGClp6F3b8p5rvyar55fOJ.html
24-04-2020||City||Uber Essential, Uber Medic launched in Mohali||Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan on Friday flagged off Uber Essential and Uber Medic initiatives, in collaboration with Uber India, to provide vehicles round-the-clock for essential emergency transportation of residents and frontline workers within the district.As per the arrangement, Uber Essential will provide 24 vehicles to the residents round-the-clock for any health/medical emergency within the district. The vehicles can be booked using Uber’s mobile application.Uber Medic, on the other hand, will provide 20 vehicles for use by frontline workers of the health department as well as the administration. The DC, however, said since the administration had adequate vehicles, Uber Medic will be placed at the disposal of the Mohali civil surgeon to be used to serve the needy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/uber-essential-uber-medic-launched-in-mohali/story-tVUGvbkiLQvwYNl9hpmb1O.html
24-04-2020||City||Panvel nodes face power cuts||Panvel residents are fed up of frequent power cuts in the past one week. As most residents are working from home, the irregular electricity has disrupted their schedule.“I am unable to schedule any meeting or meet deadlines because of power failure,” said Jitendra Dange, 42, a Kamothe resident.Kamothe, Kalamboli, Taloja and Old Panvel are some of the nodes facing frequent power cuts. There is no power for 30 minutes and sometimes an hour.“With temperature rising, it is difficult to complete our work and chores. Our entire schedule has been affected,” said Vishal Sawant, 46, a Kamothe resident.Mamta Pandey, public relations officer MSEB, said, “Cable fault has been reported at several places at Kamothe, Kalamboli and Panvel. The damaged cables would be replaced in a day or two.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panvel-nodes-face-power-cuts/story-SAMbM4N0UdrAYXLQTS15VN.html
24-04-2020||Chandigarh||Vegetable vendor loses wallet to snatchers in Manimajra||Two men on a motorcycle snatched the wallet of a vegetable vendor near Bitta Petrol Pump in Manimajra in the early hours of Thursday.The victim, Vijay Dhariwal, who hails from Theog tehsil in Shimla district, Himachal Pradesh, told the police that he was driving his Isuzu goods carrier towards the Sector 26 wholesale market around 4.30am. On the way, two men on a bike signalled him to stop. They got into an argument with him, which was spotted by constable Manjit Singh, who was out on patrol. As the cop rushed towards them, the accused snatched Dhariwal’s wallet and sped off towards Mauli Jagran. The victim said his wallet contained Rs 1,500 and important documents.On his complaint, a case under Sections 379-A (snatching), 356 (assault or criminal force in attempt to commit theft of property carried by a person) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Manimajra police station. Efforts are on to trace the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/vegetable-vendor-loses-wallet-to-snatchers-in-manimajra/story-bO1uDTTJQUDVVekNFURFbJ.html
24-04-2020||Delhi||With hospitals out of bounds, home health care providers step in to help||Thirty-four-year-old Shikha, whose mother is a cancer patient undergoing chemotherapy, was in Catch-22 situation when the lockdown was first announced. She knew that taking her mother to the hospital for chemotherapy sessions was going to put her mother at risk of contracting the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), and not having her treatment would mean her cancer would grow.Out of sheer desperation, Shikha searched high and low for options and got to know about a home health care service provider that was offering chemotherapy at home. After undergoing two sessions of the chemotherapy at home, her mother now believes that such services are essential in times of crisis.“Initially, I was a little apprehensive about chemo at home because at hospitals, one tends to get personal attention and care. This is extremely significant for a cancer patient. But, after availing of the sessions from home health care service Portea Medical, I got to know that their process was indeed beneficial,” she said.Home health care services is supportive care which is generally provided by licensed health care professionals and include both medical treatment and daily assistance to patients and the elderly.The service is seeing many takers during the lockdown. Home health care service providers say there has been an increase in calls seeking nursing services, care for ailments such as diabetes, and even flu for which patients would have otherwise visited a hospital.Dr Vishal Sehgal, medical director of Portea Medical, said the he has been receiving more calls seeking care for illnesses for which the patients would have, on a normal day, visited the out-patient department of any hospital.“We try to sanitise our staff and conduct regular checks with all necessary precautions to give the best services to our clients,” he said.Prateek of Elders Home Care Services said while the number calls to his office has not increased as such, a majority of calls these days seek 24-hour services, rather than the 12-hour services, as clients fear that if the health service provider leaves, (s)he might contract the Covid-19 infection.“We are only entertaining clients for 24-hour services because along with transport issues, there is a safety issue as well. Even attendants are not comfortable moving in and out,” he said.Aarti Sharma, a nursing staff at Life Circle Health Services, says calls have dipped because everyone is working from home, so they can look after their near and dear ones. Only those who do not have a care provider are calling for their services.“We are getting more calls from the elderly people. Since helps have stopped coming, and relatives are unable to do such work, we have major calls from the elderly seeking our assistance. Other patients who are bedridden, semi-mobile or paralysed also seek our help,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/with-hospitals-out-of-bounds-home-health-care-providers-step-in-to-help/story-6q7y3liswO93oBxD8FceWO.html
24-04-2020||City||With zero Covid-19 case, Yeoor forest declared a green zone||The Yeoor range of Sanjay Gandhi National Park, and Yeoor village, which falls under Vartak Nagar ward, has been declared as green zone on Thursday as there have been no cases of Covid-19 from this area. The authority has imposed strict restriction on movement in this area to ensure there is not infection from outsiders. No one will be allowed to go inside Yeoor, only the people residing inside since the lockdown was imposed will be allowed to go in and out for buying essentials.The demand to declare Yeoor range a green zone was made by few tribals and NGOs.Charusheela Pandit, assistant municipal commissioner, said, “Though there are lot of cases in Vartak Nagar ward, Yeoor does not have a single case. We heard that people who have property inside used to go there for weekends. To curb this movement we have sealed the forest, and declared it as green zone. Outsiders will not be allowed to go inside Yeoor.”The Yeoor Environmental Society (YES) had written to the corporation two days ago asking it to seal the forest area to ensure the locals inside do not get infected. “The tribals of Yeoor village had requested to make the village and the Yeoor forest area as green zone as many people from outside come inside the forest, especially those who have their bungalows inside. The villagers are poor and their earnings may collapse even if one person is affected.” Range Forest Officer Rajendra Pawar said morning-walkers have also been stopped from entering the area. He said, “Only those who were living in Yeoor have been allowed to stay, and only one member per family is allowed to go outside for essentials.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-zero-covid-19-case-yeoor-forest-declared-a-green-zone/story-E7nDyFJlZ9PSbCpgJkRPuO.html
24-04-2020||Mumbai||Teachers, principals to supervise quarantine facilities in civic schools||As the civic body is in the process of setting up isolation and quarantine facilities in BMC schools, teachers and principals of the schools are likely to be assigned duties to oversee arrangements in these schools.In a circular issued on Thursday, the BMC education department has asked its deputy education officers, across the city, to ensure that schools prepared to be converted into quarantine facilities. “If there is an issue with respect to water, lights etc, they need to be fixed immediately. Staff from the school like teachers and principals can be appointed to supervise the facility,” states the circular issued by BMC education officer Mahesh Palkar.BMC has asked its officers to ensure that all the teachers and principals of civic schools remain available to work in the city. “Some teachers have reportedly gone to their villages during the break. It is important to ensure that they are given the necessary orders to come back in case of need,” the circular states.Uday Nare, a teacher at Hansraj Morarji Public school in Andheri said that while teachers can be used for the task, officials need ensure that they receive appropriate training to supervise a facility. “They should also be trained to save themselves and ensure their own safety in such cases,” he added.Meanwhile, the civic body has also asked to keep private primary schools ready for the same as the guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/teachers-principals-to-supervise-quarantine-facilities-in-civic-schools/story-autG1IoYhccaomy0dxKUjM.html
24-04-2020||Mumbai||Free ambulance service for cancer and dialysis patients||A free ambulance service for cancer and dialysis patients to travel to hospitals during the lockdown was inaugurated at Kurla on Thursday. The service, which will be provided by the Jamaat-e-Islami Hind, Mumbai, will be made available at Kurla, Vikhroli and Nagpada.The group said the initiative will help patients in availing ambulances during the lockdown.”In these difficult times of a pandemic, dialysis and chemotherapy patients have a problem travelling to hospitals. Therefore, we started this service for these patients to reach hospitals on time with utmost safety precautions,” said Abdul Haseeb Bhatkar, president, Jamaat-e-Islami Hind, Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/free-ambulance-service-for-cancer-and-dialysis-patients/story-eus9cP0dcptSCMrKnxhjTL.html
24-04-2020||Mumbai||4,060 prisoners released as per SC directions to decongest jails: State tells HC||The state government told the Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday that it has released on interim bill or parole, 4,060 of the 11,000 prisoners who were serving sentences of less than seven years. The HC directed the state to immediately release the remaining inmates. This comes in the backdrop of the Supreme Court (SC) directions to decongest jails during the Covid-19 pandemic. The court also directed the high-power committee to expedite the hearing on the representation made by two inmates who were refused interim parole as they were accused of crimes under special enactments. A single bench of justice G S Kulkarni issued the directions while hearing a suo moto petition prompted by the letter from advocate Satish Talekar who claimed that there was little or no effort by the state to implement the SC directions. The state claimed that as per the apex court’s directions, 4,060 out of 11,000 prisoners had been released on interim bail or parole. It also assured the bench that no prisoner in jails across Maharashtra was affected by Covid-19. Public prosecutor Deepak Thakare also submitted a letter dated April 20 by additional director general (prisons), which stated that none of the inmates was affected by the coronavirus. The letter added that further action to release more prisoners was underway.After hearing the submissions through video conferencing, justice Kulkarni observed, “...As the state is already in process of releasing 11,000 prisoners, it is not necessary to issue immediate directions. However, it is clarified that the state government may expedite such steps...being taken so that the SC orders are implemented in letter and spirit.”The court also asked the high-power committee to consider the representation made by inmates who were refused temporary bail or parole as they were booked for crimes under special enactments and posted further hearing on April 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/4-060-prisoners-released-as-per-sc-directions-to-decongest-jails-state-tells-hc/story-M1GI9pCtETRZew70yik1WJ.html
24-04-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh postal division delivering meals on wheels||The Chandigarh postal division has introduced “Food on Wheels” for food distribution using mail vans during the Covid-19 lockdown.The mail vans are accompanied by a public relations inspector of the Chandigarh division, along with postal staff, while taking care of social distancing during food distribution. The staff use face masks and gloves and ensure the vans are sanitised before departure. According to a press release by the division, it has so far distributed over 1 lakh meals, including lunch and dinner, at different locations of the city in coordination with NGOs, gurdwaras and the UT food supply department.These were supplied in Vikas Nagar, Mauli Jagran, Colony Number 4 of Industrial Area, Dhanas, Sarangpur, Sector 11, 15, PGIMER, Khud Ali Sher, Sanjay Colony, Bhatta Colony, Mauli village, Raipur Kalan, Makhan Majra, EWS Colony and Raipur Khurd.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-postal-division-delivering-meals-on-wheels/story-jMiSFBl3rRF3Ti8baEYZoJ.html
24-04-2020||City||Month after Covid-19 lockdown, stranded Sikh pilgrims on their way back to Punjab from Takht Hazur Sahib||MUMBAI: After the central government’s intervention, the Maharashtra Government has begun the process of sending stranded Sikh pilgrims from Nanded’s Takht Hazur Sahib to their native places in Punjab, Haryana and Delhi. Ten buses carrying 300 pilgrims started from Nanded on Thursday night and are expected to reach Punjab, Haryana and Delhi by Saturday evening. Nearly 2,400 pilgrims are stuck at Nanded, according to the local authorities. “We have started the process of sending them back,” said Bhushan Gagarani, the principal secretary in the Maharashtra chief minister’s office.Public works department minister Ashok Chavan said the Union cabinet secretary had informed the state government about the nod for the inter-state passage of the pilgrims.Bhupinder Singh Manhas, the president of the shrine’s management board, said: “Around 400 pilgrims were stranded at the gurdwara after the Covid-19 lockdown announced by the Maharashtra and central governments last month. The gurdwara management has taken care of their stay, food and now transportation.”He said that the permission was given after Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh took up the matter with his counterpart in Maharashtra Uddhav Thackeray and Union home minister Amit Shah.“We are sending them in batches of 300 each in 10 buses every day. The gurdwara board has organised around 150 buses that will be run over the next few days. The second fleet of 10 buses leaves Nanded on Friday evening,” said Ravinder Singh Bumgai, the secretary of the Sikh Gurdwara Takht Sachkhand Shri Hazur Abchal Nagar Sahib Board, Nanded.The shrine, which is on the banks of the Godavari river in the Marathwada region, is among the holiest ones for the Sikh community as Guru Gobind Singh, the 10th Guru, left for his heavenly abode (parlok gaman) from here on October 7, 1708.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/month-after-covid-19-lockdown-stranded-sikh-pilgrims-on-their-way-back-to-punjab-from-takht-hazur-sahib/story-0LNxK6o9hK93VdIhWeL3FN.html
24-04-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal government’s intervention saves Jubbal man’s life||The Himachal government’s timely help to an ailing resident stranded in Panchkula may have very well saved the man’s life.64-year-old Kuldeep Sood of Jubbal depends on an oxygen machine to breathe. However, after the machine broke down amid the lockdown Sood began to suffocate.The state government helped arrange necessary medicines and an oxygen machine for Sood.On April 20, the CM also arranged an ambulance free-of-cost for Sood and his family members to ferry them back to Jubbal.Sood’s family members have thanked the state government and the CM for their timely intervention.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-government-s-intervention-saves-jubbal-man-s-life/story-EXbKyyagIXlUfFwJhevdNO.html
24-04-2020||Delhi||70% class 12 govt school students register for DoE online classes||Over 70% of the 150,000 Class 12 students in government schools have registered for its online classes during the ongoing Covide-19 lockdown, said officials from the education department.These were launched two weeks ago so that students in their final year of schooling do not suffer much during the lockdown in place to contain the spread of the disease. Certain government schools have launched their own online classes and the students have the option of choosing either or both.Shailendra Sharma, advisor to director of education, said, “Nearly 112,000 students have registered for the online preparatory classes in 11 subjects. Around 44% of science students login regularly compared to 35% of commerce students. All students have been sent the registration details by now.” While online classes for science and commerce students had commenced on April 6, those for humanities students started this week. The department expects more students to attend the classes in the coming weeks. “The number of students joining the online classes depends on different subjects. For subjects like English, the lecture videos have had up to 30,000 views in a single day since it covers all streams. However, due to technical limitations of the platform we are using, it would be difficult to assess how many students attended the class for the entire 90 minute session,” said a senior official from the department of education (DoE).However, not all among the registered students are attending these classes. In addition to the accessibility and connectivity issues, another reason is that many government schools had already started their own online classes.“It [DoE classes] has become a college-like set-up. Students now have a choice to attend classes or not. They can choose to miss one class because they may have studied that particular chapter before,” the official added. Ashish Jha, a Class 12 student of Rajkiya Pratibha Vikas Vidyalaya (RPVV) Shalimar Bagh, is one such student. “The education department conducts two classes per day for science students. Since we have limited internet, I prefer attending the classes organised by my school because we know the teachers and have a rapport with them,” he said.Another Class 12 student, Tisha Phukan, who studies at the School of Excellence in Kalkaji, however, had a different opinion. “Since students in these (DoE) classes belong to different categories, the teachers, who are very experienced, make sure they cater to all and simplify the chapters. The teachers engage students with a new way of teaching, which is why I like to attend it,” she said. A new teaching-learning processThe Covid-19 pandemic and subsequent lockdown has propelled the education sector towards online learning almost overnight. As a result of this, teachers and students are now figuring out the new teaching-learning process on the go.Talking about the challenges that are cropping up, RPVV Shalimar Bagh’s Asha Seth, who teaches business studies for the DoE, said, “These students are growing up in the internet age. So sometimes, they start asking each other personal question like when they would meet on the group chat during the class. When this happens, we try to bring focus back to the class. This is not the time to scold them since all of us are trying something new.”She also said that the teachers have taken into account the mixed pool of government school students who attend these classes. “Teachers are studying Hindi terminologies before conducting classes so that they can teach even those who are not very fluent in English,” Seth added.Arun Sethi, a member of the education department’s core academic unit who is working on these online classes, said, “We do conduct quizzes for students and ask them to answer different types of questions. Some students respond in the chat boxes and that is looked at by the teachers in the session. We are also thinking of creating a Google Form for assessment of all students who attend these classes. However, these would not be counted as internals and would remain for learning purpose.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/70-class-12-govt-school-students-register-for-doe-online-classes/story-0X3wHYYHudaKRfTu8SSs7K.html
24-04-2020||Delhi||Virtual learning medium fails to connect with children with special needs||With private and government schools in the city having moved to e-learning during the Covid-19 lockdown, children with special needs and their parents are finding it difficult to cope with the sudden change in the medium of education. Parents of children with hearing, speech and intellectual disabilities are having a hard time helping their kids with assignments and activities at home, in the absence of special educators. Officials in many schools said they were unprepared to deal with the needs of children with disabilities when the medium of learning changed during the lockdown that was put in place to prevent the spread of Covid-19 pandemic.The mother of a 15-year-old speech impaired child, enrolled in a South Delhi private school, said they were not receiving “age appropriate” study material. “Either the school doesn’t send us anything or it sends us random videos and worksheets without a systematic approach. Every child with some disability have an individualised education plan (IEP), based on their ability and learning levels, and the study material should also be provided accordingly,” she said, not wishing to be identified.Parents of a hearing impaired student of a private school in West Delhi said they are struggling to help their son, a class 7 student, in finishing his assignments. “We don’t know sign language properly and it becomes difficult to make him understand his worksheets and assignments. On normal days, he finishes all his work at school with the help of special educators. We are really worried about him lagging behind in studies,” Lalit Kumar, the father of the 14-year-old, said.While both private and government schools are sending videos, worksheets and audios to children with special needs amid the lockdown, some are also holding online classes for them. However, schools feel that there is a need for “inclusive” e-learning modes for children with disabilities.Seema Tuli, principal of Amar Jyoti School, said they are sending videos in sign language for students with hearing disabilities and audios of the lessons for visually challenged students based on their IEPs. ”Although we are trying our best to provide uninterrupted learning to all students with special needs, the pandemic has made us realise that online education tools are not inclusive and equally accessible to all. Many of us are struggling to find modes to cover different kinds of disabilities under the ambit of online education,” she said. Directorate of Education’s (DoE) inclusive branch, earlier this month, issued guidelines to all government school directing them to develop a home-based intervention plan for children with disabilities. The schools were asked to send daily activities to these students, including daily life activities, domestic skills, art and craft, among others. Schools were also asked to take feedback from their parents every three days. Special educators working in government schools said they were not ready for a sudden shift in the medium of education. Dharmendar Kumar, a special educator, said they are sending only basic activities to students. “We are only focussing on daily life activities. We are asking to learn to do their own work such as brushing their teeth, bathing, eating, dressing and cleaning,” he said, adding that he fears that his students may lag in their learning by the time the lockdown ends.“For instance, it’s not possible to make students with visual disability learn Braille virtually. We send them audios of lessons and new words so that they can hear and learn. Also, not all of these students have access to the internet,” he said.Shyam Nath, father of an intellectually challenged student at a school in East Delhi’s Patparganj, said, “It is difficult to make my daughter understand several things. Now, the teacher calls her every alternate day and gives her some activity. We are not being able to help her as much as we want to. The teacher has asked us to join a WhatsApp group for parents like us, but we don’t have a smartphone at home.” Experts said all stakeholders will have to join hands to come up with a pedagogy that will these children in situations like the current one. “Instead of each school trying on its own, there should be uniform guidelines on how to handle children with specific disability in a virtual learning setting. The Do) needs to come up with a format,” disability rights activist Satendra Singh said.A senior DoE official said they have recently received a letter from the state commissioner asking them to ensure a smooth learning process for children with special needs. “We have already issued guidelines for government schools. We may also approach private schools with these,” the official, not authorised to speak to the media, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/virtual-learning-medium-fails-to-connect-with-children-with-special-needs/story-kXdHQ36DFEt2FSTHR1UjEO.html
24-04-2020||Chandigarh||Month on, 2.53 lakh stranded people wait to return to Himachal||A month after a nationwide lockdown was imposed to contain the spread of Covid-19, the clamor for easing travel restrictions has grown louder in Himachal.A large number of students, senior citizens and private sector employees are stranded in different parts of the state.In the last 25 days, more than 2,56,173 people stranded within and outside the state in different locations have applied for electronic passes. However, the deputy commissioners and authorities concerned have only approved 53, 764 permits. Permissions granted to the kith and kin of bureaucrats, Indian Police Service officers and political leaders have invited criticism. Recently, the police sought clarification from The Kinnaur superintendent of police over his children travelling to Kinnaur from Delhi during the lockdown. Villagers protest forced the police to book a former IAS officer and seven others for violating lockdown orders.The Congress and CPI( M) have been critical of Mandi Lok Sabha member Ramswaroop being allowed to travel to Jogindernagar during the lockdown. The government has issued passes to scores of Himachal Pradesh secretariat employees allowing them to travel during lockdown. From Bilaspur 21,075 people have applied for passes, from Chamba 2,293, Hamirpur 22589, Kangra 26903, Kinnaur 14553, Kullu 8370, Lahaul and Spiti 124, Mandi 82972, Shimla 38,135 Sirmaur 12,892, Solan 19,112 and from Una 7,255. E-pass applicationsTotal: 2,56,173Approved: 5,77,69Rejected: 1,69,600Pending: 28,804Pending for three days: 16,033Students, senior citizens, monks, farmers strandedThe governed rejected has rejected the electronic passes of around 1,69,600 people. Those waiting to make their way back home are monks from Kinnaur stranded in monasteries in Dharamshala , Rewalsar Battu and Jogindernagar.”No one seems to be bothered about senior citizens who had come for medical checkups to Chandigarh and are now stuck. They are forced to stay with their distant relatives,” says Vijay Verma , who retired as Manager from Sutlej Jal Vidyut Nigam.CPI( M) demands transportation for KashmirisThe communist party of India welcomed the government’s decision to send buses to Kota to get back 129 students stranded in different coaching centres. However, the party demanded that the government make arrangements to transport migrant labourers, particularly Kashmiris.IT department had developed application for passes with 36 hours of lockdown The Himachal information and technology department had developed a software within 36 hours of lockdown.“The department of information technology, and the department of information have developed a number of applications to facilitate citizens and the administration during the lockdown,” said director IT Rohan Chand Thakur These apps will maintain social distancing and contactless services among the public and within the government.Five apps have been rolled out so far, including Government Orders, (http://covidorders.ho.gov.in, Covid Curfew ePass http://covidepass.hp.gov.in and Covid Quarantine App (http://covid19.hp.gov.in)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/month-on-2-53-lakh-stranded-people-wait-to-return-to-himachal/story-wJHhMxEigndi8v8YFiLqsL.html
24-04-2020||Bangalore||Traffic snarls plague Bengaluru as lockdown norms relaxed||The Karnataka government has partially relaxed COVID-19 lockdown norms in the state allowing IT and IT-enabled services to operate with essential minimum staff and also certain construction activities, manufacturing of packaging materials, courier services, among others from Thursday.The activities will be permitted only outside the COVID-19 containment zones identified by the government.There were reports of some large-scale traffic movement in some parts of the city this morning as lockdown curbs were relaxed.“To mitigate hardship to the public, select additional activities have been allowed,which will come into effect from 00.00 hours of April 23,” Chief Secretary TM Vijay Bhaskar had said in an order on Wednesday.However, these additional activities will be operationalised by District Administrations and BBMP (city corporation in the case of Bengaluru city) based on strict compliance to the guidelines on lockdown measures, it said.Before operationalising these relaxations, district administrations and BBMP (city corporation) shall ensure that all the preparatory arrangements on social distancing in offices, work place establishments as also sectoral requirements are in place, it added.IT and IT-enabled services will be allowed to operate with essential minimum staff only while the rest would work from home.Official sources said, IT companies will work on essential staff required to work from office spaces and will mobilise them.Earlier on April 18, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, hours after announcing that IT/BT companies can resume operations with 33 per cent strength after April 20, had rolled it back, citing public opinion as the reason.Facing a financial crunch, the state government has been eager to kick-start economic activities in the state that had come to halt due to the coronavirus lockdown.There were reports of some large-scale traffic movement being noticed in some parts of the city this morning, which came in for criticism from the Karnataka Congress.“Announcement of partial relief to ease lockdown by @BSYBJP has created chaos in #Bengaluru today. Massive traffic jams are reported across city with confusions & no proper guidelines. This shows lack of co-ordination in Governance with improper planning,” the opposition party in the state tweeted.While hospitality services, bars, malls, theatres, shopping complexes, religious and places of worship among others will continue to remain shut, according to Wednesday’s order, relaxation of norms would be for activities that are linked to essential services such as health, infrastructure and agriculture.As per the order, while, public transportation will continue to remain suspended till May 3, private vehicles with passes for emergency services and personnel commuting with passes to places of work and back will be allowed.Services provided by self-employed people like electrician, IT repair, plumbers, motor mechanics and carpenters in local areas have also been given exemption.Tea, coffee and rubber plantations have been allowed to work with 50 per cent workforce, and a similar exemption have been given to processing, packaging, sale and marketing of these produce.Activities permitted include construction of roads, irrigation projects, buildings and all kinds of industrial projects, including MSMEs, in rural areas and all kinds of projects in industrial estates, where workers are available on site and no one is required to be brought in from outside.Also permitted to function are manufacturing units of essential goods - drugs, pharmaceuticals, medical devices, their raw materials and intermediates; food processing industries in rural areas, coal production (mines and mineral production and activities incidental to mining) besides manufacturing units of packaging materials.PTI KSU SS PTI PTI||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/traffic-snarls-plague-bengaluru-as-lockdown-norms-relaxed/story-CmbDcXYO84uNr1UymW9vxH.html
24-04-2020||Bangalore||Funeral of Covid-19 victim held amid protest in Karnataka||The funeral of a 75-year-old woman, who died of Covid-19, was held amid opposition from local people in Dakshina Kannada district in Karnataka, police said on Friday.The final rites of the woman from Kasba village were held at the Hindu Rudrabhoomi at Kaikunje near Bantwal town, about 30 kms from here, on Thursday night under strict police protection, even as local people who feared risk to their health raised protests, they said.The funeral was held as per the protocol for Covid-19 deaths, police said.The authorities had earlier decided to hold the cremation at Pachanady, but changed their plans after stiff opposition from the local residents there.Local MLA Bharath Y Shetty denied reports that he had objected to the cremation at Pachanady.There will not be any danger to the local people if Covid-19 victims are cremated in their places, he said in a post on social media.Such protests due to misconception about spread of coronavirus had been witnessed in some other parts of the country, including in Chennai, and the governments have warned of action against those opposing cremation or burial of Covid-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/funeral-of-covid-19-victim-held-amid-protest-in-karnataka/story-IxnP2mXWEzpXYM4zpopdPP.html
24-04-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 lockdown: Delhi’s power demand slashed by 49 per cent, no change in domestic load||Delhi’s peak power demand has reduced by up to 49 per cent with commercial and industrial activities virtually at a standstill due to the Covid-19 lockdown, discom and power department officials said.According to official data reported by news agency PTI, the peak power demand during the day has reduced by 40-50 per cent, while the peak electricity demand during the night by around 20-30 per cent.Since the Janta Curfew on March 22 which was followed by the nationwide lockdown, the city’s peak power demand has reduced by up to 49 per cent in comparison with the peak electricity demand last year, PTI quoted officials as saying.However, the domestic load has experienced no impact during the lockdown.Delhi’s peak electricity demand in April last year was 5664 MW, while the peak demand till April 22 this year was 3169 MW.Meanwhile, the number of Covid-19 positive patients in Delhi has reached 2,376 of which 808 patients have recovered, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday morning. Fifty patients have lost their lives, the ministry’s data said.The number of containment zones in the city rose to 92 on Thursday, said a Delhi Health Department’s bulletin. The bulletin said 84 patients were cured of the infection and discharged on the day.It said since April 18, there had been a steep rise in the rate of recovery of Covid-19 patients with 735 of the cured 808 patients recovering in a short span of only six days.The Covid-19 positive cases have been rising among the Delhi Police personnel, prompting Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal to direct authorities to create a dedicated facility to treat infected police personnel.Twenty police personnel have tested positive for Covid-19 in the city so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-lockdown-delhi-s-power-demand-slashed-by-49-per-cent-no-change-in-domestic-load/story-sXJa4u3Vn27pjPJL5OtuUI.html
24-04-2020||Pune||Covid-19 death toll reaches 66 in Pune||A 61-year-old and a 40-year-old with comorbid conditions, who had tested positive for COVID-19, have passed away in Pune on Thursday night, state Health Department officials said.With these two deaths, the total death toll due to coronavirus has reached 66 in the district.The total count of coronavirus cases in Maharashtra has climbed to 6,427, said the state Public Health Department. While the death toll due to the infection has risen to 283. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/covid-19-death-toll-reaches-66-in-pune/story-IdHWlTizDzDoNN55sPPMaN.html
24-04-2020||Education||Patna University admission process to start from April 30, details here||Patna University (PU) is set to begin online admission process for the new academic session from April 30.As per the latest notification issued by PU on Wednesday, the online applications for various undergraduate, postgraduate and self-financing programmes will be invited from April 30. The last date for filling the online admission form is June 20 and the entrance test and interview for the courses will be held in July.On Thursday, PU dean students’ welfare NK Jha said, “Patna University Common Entrance Test (PUCET) is scheduled in July.We are expecting that the pending board exams and other competitive exams would be over by then. The classes for new academic session will commence on August 24.”“Depending upon the availability of seats, the university can fill up casual vacancies in September,” he said.For the first time, the university has exempted entrance exams for regular master courses in science, commerce and humanities. Admission in these courses will be taken on the basis of marks secured by the candidates in their bachelor’s degree.Earlier, PU had issued a notification to start the online admission process from April 3 which was postponed due to suspension of all the official work owing to lockdown.Meanwhile, the Central University of South Bihar (CUSB) has also extended the last date of filling admission form till May 23. Previously, the last date for applying was April 25.CUSB’s controller of examination Rashmi Tripathi, said, “Considering the students’ inability to fill admission forms due to the lockdown, the university has extended the date for filling online admission form. Also, the previous dates for conducting the common entrance test and result declaration has been cancelled. The university will notify the revised schedule for entrance tests and further process at the earliest.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/patna-university-admission-process-to-start-from-april-30-details-here/story-jaHVtCegWoGOzYODPNZgON.html
24-04-2020||Chandigarh||Jalandhar catches up with Mohali in Covid-19 cases as tally touches 63||With another sample from Jalandhar testing positive for the novel coronavirus on Friday, the number of positive cases reported from the district has touched 63, the same as Mohali, which has the highest count in the state. Jalandhar health department nodal officer Dr TPS Sandhu said a 36-year-old resident of New Raj Nagar Basti,Bawakhel, had tested positive for the infection. There have been two Covid-19 related deaths in the district while seven people have recovered. Health officials said 1,630 samples had been collected from the district so far, of which 1,168 had tested negative. The district administration has started the process of sealing New Raj Nagar as part of containment efforts. The Doaba region of Punjab has reported 92 Covid-19 cases so far, including three deaths. 19 cases have been reported from Shaheed Bhagat Singh (SBS) Nagar, seven from Hoshiarpur and three from Kapurthala.51 positive cases reported in Jalandhar in two weeks In Jalandhar, 51 positive cases of the novel coronavirus have been reported in the past two weeks. On April 10, only 12 positive cases had been reported in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/jalandhar-catches-up-with-mohali-in-covid-19-cases-as-tally-touches-63/story-UpyNDMQCh638WOIdz6RCfN.html
24-04-2020||Delhi||The ‘catwomen’ of Daryaganj : Two women walked 10 km in the heat to save a stray cat||Fatima and Sultana, two sisters who live in Darya Ganj used to feed and play with a stray cat in their locality. They suspected that the cat was pregnant, as she had become becoming very sluggish. One day, to their horror, they found the cat unconscious, and figured out that she had fallen from the second floor of a building.As the city had gone into lockdown, the two sisters didn’t know what to do. They could not find a single veterinary doctor in their neighbourhood who could attend to the cat whose condition was extremely critical. Someone suggested that Fatima and Sultana take the cat to Freindicoes in Jangpura, an NGO that runs a shelter for stray, abandoned and bused animals, along with a veterinary clinic.  But there was no way the sisters could reach Jangpura without any conveyance. All the roads were shut and there were policemen deployed everywhere to stop people from stepping out of their homes. But the compassionate women could not bear to see the cat in such a terrible state. So they decided to walk all the way to Jangpura holding the pregnant cat in a basket! The distance was about 10 km and the heat only made the journey worse. “We pleaded to so many people on our way to give us a lift, but no one stopped. So we kept on walking, as every minute was crucial,” says Fatima. It took them about 2 hours to reach the clinic with the cat.As soon as they arrived, a team of doctors headed by Dr Banajit Majumdar attended to the cat. “The cat had fainted due to the trauma. I removed the four unborn kittens that were inside her, but we could not save them. She survived the complicated one hour surgery,” says Dr Majumdar. The doctor says that it’s really sad that no one agreed to help the woman. “The police and even citiziens should come ahead to help in such cases. It is tragic that no one agreed.” Geeta Sheshamani, founder, Friendicoes, says, “It’s touching to see the compassion in the lesser privileged…the poor do have a big heart. We have rickshawallas and daily wagers coming in with injured animals, asking us to help.”The cat was sent back with Fatima and Sultana in an ambulance by the NGO, and she is healing under the care of her human friends who love her unconditionally, and would always go the extra mile for her, literally! Friendicoes shared this beautiful tale of kindness and compassion on its page, and the sisters were dubbed as the ‘catwomen’ of Daryaganj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/the-catwoman-of-daryaganj-two-women-walked-10-km-in-the-heat-to-save-a-stray-cat/story-Vr73aH6eaaClaR1bV9rAZL.html
24-04-2020||Lucknow||13 students who had contact with Tablighi members in Kanpur test positive||As many as 13 madrassa students, who had come in contact with Tablighi Jamaat members suffering from coronavirus, have tested positive for the virus here, a senior health official said on Friday.Kanpur has reported 107 cases of the virus so far.Chief Medical Officer Dr Ashok Shukla said, “50 samples were tested on Thursday of which results of 13 have come positive. They are the students of a madrassa in Coolie Bazaar, a hotspot zone, from where about 30 people have already tested positive.” The 13 students had come in contact with Tablighi Jamaat members who were infected with the virus, he said.They had been quarantined and isolated at the madrassa and now are being admitted to COVID-19 isolation wards at government hospitals, the CMO added.  Contact-tracing of all patients testing positive was underway.So far, three people have died of the virus in Kanpur, while the total number of recovered cases is seven.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/13-students-who-had-contact-with-tablighi-members-in-kanpur-test-positive/story-my4dTKZmZlsqziQhJr0PfL.html
24-04-2020||City||Kinnaur legislator accuses a head constable of extortion||Kinnaur legislator Jagat Singh Negi has accused a police head constable of extorting Rs 60,000 from five people.Negi said, “On April 16, five people visited a wine shop in Katgaon village in Nichar block, Kinnaur, to inquire about the sale of liqour and got into an altercation with the salesman. The salesman informed the police, after which the police took the party of five to the police station.”“The constable then demanded money from them and threatened to file a case of robbery if they refused to pay up,” said Negi.“On April 17, the victims deposited Rs 50,000 in the account of a worker in the employ of the Kangra deputy commissioner, Kangra, and Rs 10,000 in the account of a driver employed in Katgaon Police station,” Negi said.“The victims kept monitoring the accounts and found that Rs 50,000 was then deposited into to a bank account of a doctor of Katgaon Hospital who then deposited the same amount into the account of a chemist in Jeori. The chemist and driver then gave money to the constable,” he said.One of the affected men has filed a complaint in Bhawanagar police station, Negi added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kinnaur-legislator-accuses-a-head-constable-of-extortion/story-C4cmQmy3IhbXL5yM2cNOxL.html
24-04-2020||Chandigarh||Leopard spotted in Sangrur’s Dirba Block||A leopard sighting was reported in Sangrur’s Dirba Block on Thursday evening. Forest officials have been unable to confirm the sighting despite combing through the area, they say perhaps a different animal was mistaken to be a leopard. Sangrur divisional forest officer Vidya Sagari said, “Based on site inspection, CCTV footage verification and information gathered from people who saw the cat, it is unlikely that it was a leopard. Therefore, humans are not at risk. Our forest team is looking for other evidence and pug mark to identify the jungle cat spotted,” said.“Leopards are not found in Punjab.However, but we expect it came from other states such as Rajasthan,” added Sagari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/leopard-spotted-in-sangrur-s-dirba-block/story-QBVWkP99YIixKHEhG2wJHN.html
24-04-2020||Patna||Masks made mandatory, Covid-19 cases up to 153 in Bihar||There was a spike in the number of coronavirus cases from Rohtas after six people tested positive in Sasaram, followed by four in Munger, accounting for 10 cases on Thursday, pushing Bihar’s tally to 153.A sudden surge in the number of cases, with around 86 having been reported since April 15, had prompted the state government to make masks mandatory in public places with immediate effect.“Masks need not be surgical masks but can be homemade double-layered or a clean multi-layered ‘gumcha’. We must protect ourselves and others. Collective action is what we need,” said Bihar’s principal secretary, health, Sanjay Kumar, in a tweet.Two people from Biharsharif, a 24 year-old male and 70-year-old female in Biharsharif of Nalanda district turned positive late Wednesday evening. The septuagenarian woman is the oldest Covid-19 positive case reported in the state so far.All the 10 cases reported on Thursday had come in contact with Covid-19 positive patients, said an official of the health department. Further tracing of their contacts were on, said the official.Among the 10 cases reported Thursday, four were senior citizens. The gradual increase in the average age of Covid-19 patients was adding to the worries of the health department as immunity of elderly people and children below 10 years of age was believed to be compromised, especially if they had co-morbid conditions.Jamalpur has accounted for over a dozen cases in the past one week, and most of these have been linked to a 60- year-old vegetable seller who had travelled on foot to and from Bihar Sharif in Nalanda district last month to attend a Tablighi Jamaat congregation.Around 13,785 samples had been sent for tests.Around 2,254 people with influenza like illness and severe acute respiratory syndrome, which were identical to Covid-19 symptoms, had been found during the house-to-house survey. Samples of 1,804 had already been taken, said health officials. Of Bihar’s total 153 cases, Nalanda and Munger accounted for 31 cases each, followed by Siwan (29), Patna (16), Begusarai (9), Buxar (8), Rohtas (7), Gaya, Bhagalpur (5 each), Gopalganj, Nawada (3 each), Saran, Lakhisarai, Vaishali, Bhojpur, East Champaran, Banka (1 each).With 44 patients having recovered, the health department claimed 30% patients had been cured, while two deaths were reported to the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/masks-made-mandatory-covid-19-cases-up-to-153-in-bihar/story-WaQrqAkLpSpxyTzufBRkhK.html
24-04-2020||City||Punjab cop dismissed for extorting money from fruit vendor in Hoshiarpur||Assistant sub inspector Gulzar Singh, posted at Sadar police station, who was placed under suspension early this week for extorting money from a fruit vendor, has been dismissed from service.Senior superintendent of police Gaurav Garg said that Punjab Police chief Dinkar Gupta had taken a serious note of Gulzar Singh’s corrupt conduct.The ASI had extorted Rs 1,000 from a vendor in the vegetable market by threatening to impound his vehicle.The incident was caught on CCTV camera. The recorded telephonic talk between the ASI and the vendor was shared on social media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-cop-dismissed-for-extorting-money-from-fruit-vendor-in-hoshiarpur/story-mQD6vbzLUTRbQXMy9k5wiM.html
24-04-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan Covid-19 cases cross 2000-mark, Jaipur most affected||Rajasthan on Friday morning breached the 2000-mark after 36 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) were reported from four districts across the state, news agency ANI reported citing health officials.A person died in the state capital of Jaipur taking the number of fatalities due to Covid-19 to 29 in the state, according to the morning bulletin by the health department.Out of the 36 new cases, 18 came from Kota, 13 from Jaipur, four from Jhalawar and one from Bharatpur.Jaipur has the highest number of cases with 753, Jodhpur has 310, Kota has 140 and Bharatpur 107 cases of Covid-19.  Also read: 2,000 students stranded in Rajasthan amid coronavirus lockdown plead to Maharashtra government for helpAccording to government data, Rajasthan has become the only state with six districts that have more than 100 cases of Covid-19.Data shows that around 27 districts across 10 states in the country have more than 100 cases, of which maximum six are from Rajasthan.Maharashtra, which has the highest number of Covid-19 infections in the country, has only four districts with more than 100 cases of coronavirus infections.Other states with maximum affected districts are Uttar Pradesh with four districts each, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu with three each, Madhya Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh and Kerala two each and Telangana and Karnataka one each.  Also read: Rajasthan spends Rs 2,440 on each person in quarantine centresDespite the rising number of Covid-19 cases, Rajasthan also has one of the lowest mortality rates in the country.  Rajasthan health minister Raghu Sharma said more people testing positive is not a concern but it is helping to get the real picture of the pandemic.“Under a strategy, it was decided to conduct the maximum number of tests across the state. Our testing capacity was zero on March 2, which we have increased to 4700 per day and in the coming time will take it to 10,000 in a day. Next on agenda is developing testing facilities at all district headquarters,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-covid-19-cases-cross-2000-mark-jaipur-most-affected/story-K2D48yikvvCdRu2hjaxAfK.html
24-04-2020||Chandigarh||Six-month-old dies, Punjab death toll now 17; Covid tally 283||A six-month-old child succumbed to COVID-19 here on Thursday, pushing Punjab’s death toll to 17 as the state reported nine new coronavirus cases. Its tally of people infected by the virus is now 283.The girl from Phagwara died at Chandigarh’s Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), where she was admitted for corrective heart surgery.  She was suffering from congenital heart disease and was on ventilator support. She tested positive for coronavirus on Tuesday. PGI spokesperson Dr Ashok Kumar said the child died at 12.47 pm. In a statement, the hospital said the patient died due to refractory shock, pulmonary artery hypertension and COVID-19.“When patient was admitted to the hospital, she was not fit for surgery for the heart congenital malformations. She was kept on ventilator and required medication. Patient status deteriorated over the days. She tested positive for the virus on Wednesday,” read the statement. “The last rituals of the deceased were coordinated through Red Cross UT Chandigarh and her family members have tested negative,” the spokesperson added.She was first treated in Phagwara and then at a Ludhiana hospital, from where she was referred to the PGIMER, officials said.  Fifty-four doctors and health workers who were exposed to the infant while treating her have tested negative for the virus, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/six-month-old-dies-punjab-death-toll-now-17-covid-tally-283/story-70SL5Lq3JcRGtg87eRdauN.html
24-04-2020||City||Rent due: Domestic help suffers broken leg in assault by landlord’s nephews||Police have booked two men for allegedly assaulting their uncle’s tenant to force her to vacate his property amid the curfew imposed in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak in Dhakoli on April 19.The victim, Man Kumari, a domestic help, suffered a fractured leg in the incident, after one of the accused attacked her with a brick.Kumari told the police that she and her husband, Munshi Lal, who worked as a daily wager, were out of money in the wake of unemployment due to the curfew. As they were unable to pay the rent, their landlord had asked them to vacate the accommodation.When they did not leave, the house owner’s nephews, Maula and Sahil, hurled abuses at them on April 19. While Maula proceeded to rain blows on her, Sahil hit her leg with a brick, before the duo fled the spot. An injured Kumari was taken to Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, Chandigarh, where her fracture was diagnosed . Acting on her statement, police booked the two accused under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 325 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt), 341 (wrongful restraint) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code at the Dhakoli police station.Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan had previously directed house owners not to evict paying guests or tenants, especially those from out of the district and with nowhere to go, till the curfew or lockdown was lifted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rent-due-domestic-help-suffers-broken-leg-in-assault-by-landlord-s-nephews/story-iyXr3PbJnBoG1I2RRu9NqK.html
24-04-2020||City||Curfew violator booked for manhandling cop in Zirakpur||A resident of Pabhat village, Zirakpur, was arrested for violating the curfew and misbehaving with policemen deployed at a check post in the village on Thursday.In his complaint, duty officer Sukhdev Singh stated that they had set up a naka at Pabhat village where they spotted a local, Sandeep Kumar, moving around aimlessly. When he was stopped for questioning, he started arguing with the policemen and even manhandled them, the officer alleged.On his complaint, Kumar was arrested. A case under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Zirakpur police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/curfew-violator-booked-for-manhandling-cop-in-zirakpur/story-WQhvHdH1jiPRKt64ZC8ovK.html
24-04-2020||City||20-year-old woman found hanging in Mohali village||A 20-year-old woman was found hanging at her house in Khedi village in Gharuan on Thursday. Police said the deceased had an inter-religion love marriage about three months back, and had tied the knot at a gurdwara in Daun village. After her father ruled out foul play, police initiated inquest proceedings under the Code of Criminal Procedure. No suicide note was found.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-found-hanging-in-mohali-village/story-gtzS9mRX2zFnNjM2qGjuKL.html
24-04-2020||City||2 doctors and a nurse among 12 new Covid cases in Navi Mumbai||Twelve people, including two doctors and a nurse, from Navi Mumbai tested Covid positive on Thursday, taking the number of total cases to 97.A 28-year-old doctor from Vashi, who works in Somaiya hospital in Sion, Mumbai, has tested positive. She has been admitted to the same hospital.A 37-year-old doctor from Nerul working at Prince Alikhan hospital at Byculla has been infected and being treated at Hiranandani Fortis hospital in Vashi.A 52-year-old head nurse working in Rajawadi hospital in Ghatkopar has tested positive.Two cases were reported from Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) area, taking the total to 42. A woman doctor and a sanitation worker of KEM hospital have tested positive. Kalyan-Dombivli reported 11 new cases of Covid-19 on Thursday and the total number of cases has crossed 100.Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) has reported 108 Covid positive cases till now. Of the new cases, six are from Kalyan, four from Dombivli and one from Titwala, said KDMC officials.A portion of a housing society in Kalyan (East) was sealed and residents were home quarantined after a 43-year-old man tested positive. His family of five is under observation.Thane reported 11 positive cases of Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the tally to 178 cases. Among these, two are from Kopri, two from Chendani Koliwada, two from Wagale Estate and one from Kranti Nagar slums in Rabodi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-doctors-and-a-nurse-among-12-new-covid-cases-in-navi-mumbai/story-lZoK9FZwE2X9yHdS7WYH5L.html
24-04-2020||City||Eight family members, 18 Panchkula contacts of 82-year-old Covid positive Chandigarh woman test negative||Three days after an 82-year-old woman of Sector 18, Chandigarh, tested positive for Covid-19, reports of her eight family members and 18 other contacts came back negative on Thursday.The woman was staying on the premises of a private school in Sector 12, Panchkula, with her son before being admitted to a private hospital in Sector 21 here. Two caretakers of the school also tested negative on Wednesday.Panchkula civil surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur said all 28 contacts of the woman, including her eight family members, four school employees, staff and doctors of a private hospital, where she was admitted, and another doctor who came for a home visit have tested negative.The family has been quarantined on the school premises. The elderly woman had come to meet her son at the school on April 14. She was admitted on April 17 and her samples were taken on April 19. The doctors and staff of the private hospital have also been advised home-quarantine.Panchkula deputy commissioner (DC) Mukesh Kumar Ahuja has declared the premises of the Sector-12 school a containment area. A home guard volunteer has been deputed outside to keep a check and orders have been issued to restrict movement in the area. MC has also been directed to sanitise the locality and ensure disposal of solid waste.Meanwhile, no fresh case has been reported in Panchkula in the last three days, and the district count stands at 18.Ahuja said samples of 1,236 people had been taken till now, of which 18 turned out positive and 1,093 persons tested negative. He said reports of at least 98 samples were awaited. Also, around 108 jamaat attendees who were quarantined at Nada Sahib gurdwara and Mouli village in Raipur Rani, have now been advised home quarantine and sent back from the facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/eight-family-members-18-panchkula-contacts-of-82-year-old-covid-positive-chandigarh-woman-test-negative/story-QzyO3d0bQzobfzgmtWpQ6M.html
24-04-2020||Mumbai||Run special trains for migrants in Maharashtra after Covid-19 lockdown: Ajit Pawar||Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar has urged Railway Minister Piyush Goyal to run special train services from Mumbai and Pune to ferry migrant workers stuck in Maharashtra to their native states after the lockdown ends on May 3. According to an official statement, in a letter to Goyal, Pawar said that the migrant workers, stranded in different parts of Maharashtra, may step out in big numbers to return to their states when the train services resume after the lockdown is lifted.This can lead to law and order problem (with workers coming out in big numbers), he added.To avoid this, the Railway Ministry should run special trains, he demanded.The Maharashtra Finance Minister said that the state government has arranged accommodation and food for the migrant workers, who hail from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and other states.He said six-and-half lakh workers are currently staying across the shelters provided by the state government.Pawar also referred to the scores of migrant workers gathering outside Bandra Railway Station here on April 14 -- when the nationwide lockdown was to end, but was extended till May 3 -- and said the incident marked how desperate the labourers were to return to their home states.“The law and order problem can be avoided and workers can return to their respective home states safely if the Railway Ministry runs special trains for them after the lockdown period is over,” the statement quoted Pawar as saying in the letter. PTI ENM NP NP||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/run-special-trains-for-migrants-in-maharashtra-after-covid-19-lockdown-ajit-pawar/story-gtPMLOx6C32XWMgnfhY5sN.html
24-04-2020||Chandigarh||650 symptomatic cases identified in Chandigarh’s house-to-house survey, 546 being tracked||Even as no one is being tested as part of a house-to-house survey to track Covid-19 cases, about 650 persons exhibiting likely symptoms have been identified by the Chandigarh health department, which aims to cover the city’s entire population of around 12 lakh. About 586 cases are being monitored daily by the medical officer, it has been learnt, as the administration puts the onus of responsibility on the citizens to be forthcoming with their health details.Till date, a population of 9.92 lakh from 2.53 lakh households has been covered by 1,291 teams. “It’s a survey, not a screening,” said Dr Sangeeta, who goes by one name, from the department. “The intention is to give people locked down in their homes a sense of comfort that the health department is there for them. Health workers are approaching them at the doorsteps. It’s the social responsibility of the residents to reveal details,” she said.“No samples are being taken,” she said.The survey is being conducted on the pattern of pulse polio campaign with the city divided into four zones. Hotspots are covered first, followed by colonies and then sectors.“About 150 auxiliary nurse midwives (ANMs) are deployed in the field, with one ANM and one beldar (local worker) in each team. They have been given a set of questions to ask and it’s the responsibility of the people to come forward and share details if there’s any symptomatic case,” Dr Sangeeta added.About 650 symptomatic cases have been traced and follow-up of 586 is being done daily by the medical officer of the area. Of the remaining 67, she said either they were not at home or their houses were locked so they were not being tracked.On the ANMs, Dr G Dewan, director, health services, said, “They are doing a wonderful job and it should be appreciated by city residents. They are not doctors as we cannot employ doctors for field survey. The ANMs are going from house to house to save time and are filling forms only for symptomatic cases. We are following these cases daily.”The survey is likely to be completed by the weekend. “It’s on the pattern suggested by the Union ministry and we will be putting it forth to see if it can be used in other parts as well,” said Dr Shivani Gupta, World Health Organization consultant, Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/650-symptomatic-cases-identified-in-chandigarh-s-house-to-house-survey-546-being-tracked/story-srjkfzsFja6UtK8cFAAzJL.html
24-04-2020||Lucknow||UP: MSMEs awaiting relaxation in guidelines||Even after four days of the government’s initiative for a staggered lift of the lockdown for industries and resumption of partial production, there has been no response from industries across the state. Stringent guidelines of the government for running an industrial unit have proved to be a deterrent for industrialists.On Thursday evening, however, there was some assurance from the Centre to India Inc to roll back the FIR clause in the guidelines. Industry associations are opposing the guidelines, including lodging of an FIR against the factory owner if any of his employee tests positive for coronavirus. HighlightsMSMEs are the lifeblood of the Indian economy. They employ a workforce of around 120 million, contributing 33.4 per cent of India’s manufacturing output and making up 45 per cent of India’s exports.In Uttar Pradesh, MSMEs contribute to around 45 percent of total export from the state.“If the government is able to address major concerns of the industry, then from coming Monday onwards we can see resumption of some industrial activity in Uttar Pradesh. The government has assured to roll back the FIR clause in the guideline,” said Pankaj Kumar, national president, Indian Industries Association (IIA). After directives from the Centre, the Yogi government had permitted industries to resume production from April 20 onwards. For this, the government had made following of guidelines in all industrial units mandatory to check spread of coronavirus. Barring industrial units in ‘essential goods’ category, all are shut across the state. Out of an estimated nine lakh micro small and medium enterprises (MSME) registered with the Indian Industries Association (IIA), an industry lobby body of MSMEs, only a handful of around 7000 were operational across the state on Thursday.Even these were working on half the capacity and facing problems in continuing production. “No MSME has resumed production across the state. Only those listed in ‘essential goods’ category are operational. We have come across three cases in which FIR has been lodged against factory owners,” said Manmohan Agarwal, general secretary, IIA.“One case is of Kasna industrial area, Greater Noida, Uttar Pradesh and the other two are of Thana district, Maharashtra,” added Agarwal.Ministry sources in the state government said that they were also looking at ways to address problems of the MSMEs but could do little as the guidelines had been framed by the Centre and they were in no position to dilute them.“Any relaxation in guidelines has to come from the Centre. The union MSME ministry has to take a decision in this regard,” said a state government official. The biggest challenge for small business owners is dwindling operating capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-msmes-awaiting-relaxation-in-guidelines/story-W4vsNWiFiZTGKDdb6BptJJ.html
24-04-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh administration rejects relaxation in curfew for commercial activity||After city-based industry and business representatives on Thursday sought curfew relaxations for opening of some commercial establishments, the UT administration has decided against making any such provisions.In a video conference with UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida and UT finance secretary Ajoy Kumar Sinha on Thursday, the local business community had sought a range of economic concessions amid the curfew.“We requested the administration to allow opening of some shops for a few hours daily, and allowing movement of stranded trucks laden with goods,” said Neeraj Bajaj, president, Chandigarh Business Council.Other curfew relaxation demands included allowing two to three property registrations in a day, back-end office work, and some small-scale industry operations where nine or fewer people are employed.“It was also urged that Chandigarh must be given relaxation to open up borders along with adjoining states. Our supply chain is linked with them,” said Naveen Manglani, president, Chandigarh Chambers of Industries.In the daily review meeting chaired by Punjab governor and UT administrator VP Singh Badnore, Parida said, “The central government is monitoring the Covid management arrangements in the city and no further relaxation can be allowed under the present curfew.”DEMANDS UNDER CONSIDERATIONThe business community requested the administration to waive fixed charges for electricity, adding that bills should only be based on actual consumption. Bills should also be deferred to at least a month after the lockdown, they demanded.Even as the administration deferred payment of MC property tax, it was requested that it be waived for six months. Water bills should be deferred for at least one month after the lockdown ends, the community demanded.Representatives of automobile companies requested for extension for sale and registration of BS4-compliant vehicles. The last date for BS4 vehicle registration was March 25. No excise duty should be charged from liquor vendors, bars, pubs and hotels during the entire period of lockdown, demanded the hospitality industry representatives.Parida said, “Many of these demands relate to the central government and as such, these will be forwarded with favourable recommendations. Demands pertaining to the administration are under examination.”Industrialists asked the administration to chalk out a plan for post-lockdown operation of industries. “Besides finances, supply chain and availability of labour will be a big challenge for the industry. Ministry of home affairs suggesting penal action and criminal charge against businessmen if a worker gets infected, makes it risky for business owners to operate,” said Pankaj Khanna, president, Chandigarh Industries Association.CELEBRATE RECOVERY OF COVID PATIENTS: BADNOREIn the meeting, Badnore directed the heads of all medical institutions to focus on critical non-Covid cases, too. He said stories of patients who had been cured should be publicised and society should celebrate their recovery.The administrator also appealed to the Muslim brethren to observe and celebrate Ramadan indoors and conduct the prayers while practising social distancing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-rejects-relaxation-in-curfew-for-commercial-activity/story-s1GvtJnk4VXAX9FxDq8hpJ.html
24-04-2020||Lucknow||For the love of reading: Online fora mark World Book Day||The World Book and Copyright Day was marked by online activities, as the power of reading was promoted despite the Covid-19 contagion scare and the lockdown, on Thursday.Urdu poet Sanjay Mishra ‘Shauq’, who has penned several books, said in an online session organised by Bharat Vimarsh Foundation, “Without books, life is not possible. Without a doubt, books are our best friends. They are the best guides, they are the best teachers. There is no doubt, anyone who connects to books, becomes a better human being. Today, books share our pain and prepare us for the future with confidence.”He added, “Through books, we come to know about places which we have not visited. They create a feeling which we cannot imagine if we don’t go through them.”He said, “In normal times, there would have been a number of literary functions but because of this epidemic, the day is being celebrated through online sessions.”Lucknow Sahityik Manch also organised an online session. Lucknow Sahityik Manch convenor Chandrashekhar Varma, said, “Around 60 writers participated in the online session to popularise book-reading among everyone. Due to the time people spend online, they are deprived of books from many great writers like Jay Shankar Prasad, Sumitranandan Pant, Suryakant Tripathi Nirala, Ramdhari Singh Dinkar, Maithili Sharan Gupt, Bhagwati Charan Varma. Through such book-reading sessions we wish to generate interest in people about book reading.”Poet Mukul Mahan said, “In 1995, Unesco’s general conference decided to make April 23 the World Book and Copyright Day to acknowledge books and authors and encourage everyone, young people in particular, to discover the pleasure of reading.”Sarvesh Asthana, another poet, said, “Book Day celebrations are aimed at developing the book-reading habit and development of the book industry. Today, digitisation of books is important as many are into online reading, and online platforms like Kindle are doing good business. By promoting online book-reading habits we can target the youth, especially college-going youngsters.”Manoj Chandel, who organises the Lucknow Book Fair every year, said, “Lucknowites love books and after the Covid-19 threat is over the book fair will surely be back.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/for-the-love-of-reading-online-fora-mark-world-book-day/story-IbWvO0PZ29kV1Ta58K6AUM.html
24-04-2020||City||Punjab sees eight-fold increase in domestic violence cases amid lockdown||Last week, the Punjab State Commission for Women (PSCW) received a frantic call from the mother of a three-month-old girl that her in-laws and husband were taking the infant away. A team from the commission, along with cops, was immediately sent to Ajnala, a town in Amritsar, from where the complaint was received. It was only after hours of counselling that the matter was resolved and the infant was in the mother’s care again. This is just one of the several such calls that the commission receives everyday. Since March 24, when the curfew was imposed, the commission got 800 distress calls and has recorded an eight-fold increase in the number of domestic violence cases. “Earlier if we received 25 calls a day, only three to four calls pertained to domestic violence out of the total. Ever since the curfew has been imposed, all the 25 to 30 calls are related to domestic violence only,” says Manisha Gulati, chairperson, PSCW.According to officials dealing with the cases, the maximum cases are pouring in from Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Mohali and Ropar districts in the state. A majority of these are from the educated class where working women, who are ordinarily at work, are finding themselves on the receiving end of harassment and approaching the commission for help.Gulati adds, “Another reason is that women aren’t approaching the police directly as they fear that presence of cops may give an impression that it is a Covid case. Majority of the complainants are in the age group of 30 to 35 and are working women now confined to homes.” She added that there is also a significant number of complaints from rural areas in the state but majority of those are from housewives above the age of 40.Recalling another such complaint that the commission received from Mohali, Gulati says the woman called to say that her in laws have pushed her out of the house. Gulati added that most of the complaints are received directly on their helpline number (7814103253).Ludhiana assistant commissioner of police Prabhjot Kaur says their first response is to provide help to the victim. “Due to social distancing norms, we are not able to counsel couples fighting dispute these days. Women who are harassed cannot leave their homes which adds to the problems.”Gulati adds that stereotypical ideologies exist in many parts of the state. “There are some highly modern literate families who may be fighting over trivial issues. On the other hand, there are uneducated people in rural areas who may be very progressive,” she says.The commission is also receiving a lot more complaints from women who are suffering from depression in the lockdown. “An elderly woman from Ludhiana called our helpline number and said she was very lonely. Her two sons in Mohali and Jalandhar are settled with their families and do not have time for her. She told us that she locks herself up and bites herself,” narrated Gulati. The woman was told that she is suffering from an illness which needs immediate treatment and we provided her help.According to inspector general of police, Jalandhar Range, Naunihal Singh, the cases of domestic violence will further spike when the lockdown ends. “Police are doing the best they can. But since its a lockdown, many of the complainants are forced to remain at homes. The number is expected to further rise when things return to normal,” he says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-sees-eight-fold-increase-in-domestic-violence-cases-amid-lockdown/story-llwh2mYHDzrxhGyqbOUZRN.html
24-04-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus outbreak: At 51%, Chandigarh’s recovery rate is more than double the national average||The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients in Chandigarh at 51% is more than double the national average of 21%, and also highest among Mohali and Panchkula in the tricity area. Out of the total 27 cases reported in Chandigarh, 14 patients have recovered, while there has been no fatality. In Mohali, 14 of the 63 patients have been discharged (22%). Panchkula has reported recovery of three of the 18 positive patients, a recovery rate of 16%. Among the three cities, only Panchkula has a recovery figure lower than the national average. However, tricity’s overall recovery rate is 28%, with 31 cured patients, 7% more than the country average.Nearly 30 lakh people reside in the three cities.As per www.covid19india.org, which maintains the national Covid-19 data, till Thursday evening, a total of 21,774 cases had been confirmed, of which 4,595 have recovered (21%). There have been 691 deaths nationwide, among them two in the tricity – both in Mohali.Chandigarh reported its first case on March 18. Till April 1, Chandigarh had 16 cases, Mohali 10 and Panchkula only two, a tricity count of 28. Thereon, there was a sudden spike in cases, especially in Mohali and Panchkula, and the number has since swollen to 108.A total of 1,104 people have been tested in Mohali, while the number is 1,236 in Panchkula. Chandigarh has the lowest number of tests at 599.Both Mohali and Chandigarh have been under curfew since March 23, while Panchkula is under lockdown. Public transport is shut and essential items are either being delivered door-to-door or through neighbourhood shops. PGIMER director Jagat Ram said the patients in the tricity were mostly young. “This is one of the reasons that they are recovering at a better rate than the national average. As per our assessment, more patients will recover soon. Also, comorbidities such as hypertension and diabetes are not common among the tricity patients,” he added.The premier medical institute has been designated as the Covid-19 Centre of Chandigarh. It currently has 13 coronavirus patients from Chandigarh and seven from other states.“The level of awareness in the tricity is better. Residents are adhering to the advisories. Social distancing norms have also been largely followed, which has helped contain the outbreak here,” said Dr JS Thakur, chairman, Covid-19 Prevention and IEC Committee at PGIMER.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/coronavirus-outbreak-at-51-chandigarh-s-recovery-rate-is-more-than-double-the-national-average/story-o5XWFfUOvuIvWtSajyQfJJ.html
24-04-2020||Lucknow||TB diagnostic machines to be used for Covid||Diagnostic machines, which are used for samples of suspected tuberculosis patients, can now be engaged for Covid-19 testing as Indian Council of Medical Research gave its nod in this regard earlier this month.This means at least a dozen more centres in Uttar Pradesh can test coronavirus samples apart from the 14 laboratories that are already examining coronavirus samples on other machines (RTPCR),Uttar Pradesh has 14 laboratories for coronavirus testing in different cities with a cumulative capacity to examine over 3500 samples every day. ICMR guidelines say, “Specimen collection and transfer of sample for CBNAAT (cartridge-based nucleic acid amplification test machines that test TB samples) must be performed using appropriate PPE and following all applicable biosafety requirements. ICMR recommends that any testing is carried under BSL-2 (biosafety level two) conditions and with appropriate biosafety precautions.”“BSL-2 (biosafety 2) level has to be ensured in the lab where these samples will be tested. Also, required training to staff members,” said Prof Sheetal Verma, senior faculty, microbiology, at King George’s Medical University.Covid-19 testing in UP is being carried out at King George’s Medical University, Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences, Central Command Hospital, Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Science (all in Lucknow), Banaras Hindu University in Varanasi, Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College at Aligarh Muslim University in Aligarh, Moti Lal Nehru Medical College, Prayagraj and seven other medical institutes in the state.“An evaluation will now be done to see which centre can be added to the list and then training will be arranged for the staff to conduct tests under BSL-2,” said a senior health official. He said biosafety levels of these labs will be increased to BSL-2 before samples are given for testing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/tb-diagnostic-machines-to-be-used-for-covid/story-BJzxgogLJSQU24SsAYx5sN.html
24-04-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s child rights body without chairman for over a month||Amid the epidemic, the city’s only child rights body, the Chandigarh Commission for Protection of Child Rights (CCPCR), has had no one to head the organisation for more than a month. The previous chairperson retired on March 17, after which no one has been appointed by UT’s department of social welfare to fill the position.Meanwhile, Yashpal Garg, who is also the secretary of Chandigarh‘s social welfare department, said he was the acting chairperson of the commission.However, a former member of the commission, Pramod Sharma, stressing that the commission needed co-ordination at all levels to prevent the health crisis from becoming a child rights crisis, has written to UT administrator VP Singh Badnore on the matter. Requesting him to appoint someone to head the CCPCR office, Pramod wrote, “The appointment of a chairperson to make CCPCR ‘fully operational’ is long overdue.”Pramod said with all requisite resources and manpower, a closed office of CCPCR served no purpose when it could have been fully utilised in the times of the epidemic.“With schools, offices, commercial establishments closed, family distress level is all-time high. And joblessness will force poor families to cut back on essential health and food expenditures, particularly affecting the well-being of children,” he said. He also said very soon, children will drop out from Chandigarh’s schools, an action spurred by the present crisis and reverse migration. “Noting that children are both victims and witnesses of domestic violence and abuse, with schools closed, an important early warning mechanism is missing,” he added.He also said whenever schools re-open, thousands of children cannot simply come back. “A post-pandemic school plan is essential and has to be prepared in advance in consultation with all stakeholders,” Sharma said. Harjinder Kaur, former chairperson of CCPCR, said the child rights body had the same roles and responsibilities as the UT administration. “Amid the pandemic when every other office in the city is overburdened with work, CCPCR could have taken a lead in child rights in the city, especially when we just lost a girl child to coronavirus. I wish CCPCR was working with the same spirit,” she said.Yashpal Garg refused to comment on the contents of the letter, but said the CCPCR was operational with him as acting chairperson and Navjot Kaur, the director of social welfare, as the secretary. He said, “It is the selection committee that takes a call on the appointment of the chairperson with the approval of the administrator.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-s-child-rights-body-without-chairman-for-over-a-month/story-akgGPe9LeB9Cck9nBKH61M.html
24-04-2020||City||Panchkula man held for harassing 52-yr-old neighbour by dumping garbage||Police arrested a 32-year-old man for allegedly harassing at a 52-year-old woman neighbour in Sector 26 on Thursday. The woman in her complaint told police that the accused, Vikas Kharab, used to throw waste at her veranda from his house’s rooftop, and misbehave whenever she confronted him. The woman alleged that on Wednesday when she took up the matter with the accused, he threatened her of dire consequences and harassed her.Based on the complaint, a case was registered under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 354-C (voyeurism) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code at Chandimandir police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panchkula-man-held-for-harassing-52-yr-old-neighbour-by-dumping-garbage/story-iqJajYdspRhUTQzzf15bsN.html
24-04-2020||City||Tough to test 12 lakh people, but we’re identifying people with flu symptoms, says Chandigarh health director||With Chandigarh declared a containment zone, recording 27 Covid-19 cases, of which 14 have been treated and discharged, Dr Gajinder Dewan, director, health services, Chandigarh, speaks to Amanjeet Singh Salyal about the challenges faced, future plans and level of preparedness to tackle the pandemic. What is the health department’s assessment of the present and future situation?Compared to other countries we are in a better position. We have to keep our fingers crossed for what will come. Which way the virus will go is unpredictable, but the situation is under control. We have our projections and counter plans in place. Healthcare workers are ready to deal with any kind of situation. It is difficult to say anything beyond this. Is Chandigarh in the community transmission phase as source of infection in three cases is not known?I completely disagree with that. Mapping of cases in which the source of information is not known shows a scattered pattern, but in a majority of cases it (source) has been identified. Though we have stray cases, these are not on a large scale. A majority of cases are linked with persons who have travel history to foreign countries and those have been mapped successfully. Tests for unknown sources are underway. We haven’t aggressively tested people. Do you agree?We are not running short of kits. That depends on the protocol and the wisdom of physician who needs to be tested. We can carry out tests of people who come under the protocols set by the Central government. We have also directed that all persons with flu-like symptoms in the city be tested and they are being tested in turns. Rapid kit testing has stopped and we are awaiting directions on how to go about it. We are testing wherever required. How efficient has the house-to-house survey been?You cannot test 12 lakh people in the city at this stage, but we are on the job when it comes to identifying people who might have got infected. Moreover, the survey is a confidence-building exercise. The residents are terrified with what is happening around the globe we are reaching out to them to find out whether they have any Covid-19 symptoms. People are being identified and will be examined further. This is also to rule out apprehensions of community transmission. What challenges is the health department likely to face after the post Covid-19 lockdown period?We need to educate people about the precautionary steps they have to take and safety measures for that scenario have to be in place. The question is: What will happen after the lockdown will be lifted? You cannot give a certificate that the region is coronavirus disease-free region and everything is normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tough-to-test-12-lakh-people-but-we-re-identifying-people-with-flu-symptoms-says-chandigarh-health-director/story-8JMByjFj2K3Q17cU94ixRL.html
24-04-2020||Lucknow||Many Tablighi Jamaat members among 295 shifted to temporary jails in UP||A total of 295 people, most of them related to the Tablighi Jamaat, were shifted to 12 temporary jails in as many districts across the state, jail officials said on Thursday.Director general (DG) of UP Prison Administration and Reform Services Anand Kumar said 156 foreign nationals were among the people lodged in temporary jails.He said all the foreign nationals were members of the Tablighi Jamaat who came to India from Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Bangladesh, Indonesia, Nepal, Sudan, Thailand, Malaysia, Saudi Arabia, France, Palestine, Syria, Mali and Morocco to attend a religious congregation.Giving a break-up, he said 64 people, including 54 foreign nationals, were lodged in a Saharanpur juvenile home that was converted into a temporary jail.Similarly, 46 people, including 15 foreign nationals, were lodged in a Jaunpur temporary jail, he said.Besides, 45 people, including 16 foreign nationals, were shifted to a temporary jail in Bulandshahr.The numbers for the other districts are: Prayagraj (30, including 16 foreign nationals), Lucknow (23 foreign nationals), Varanasi (22 locals), Sultanpur (17, including 10 foreign nationals) Gyanpur in Bhadohi (14 including 11 foreigners), Moradabad (14), Bjnor (eight foreign nationals), Sitapur (four, including three foreigners) and Agra (seven).Kumar said temporary jails were also set up in other districts, including two jails each in Mirzapur, Hardoi, Fatehpur, Pratapgarh and Meerut, one each in Ghaziabad, Muzaffarnagar, Kanpur, Agra, Mathura, Sonbhadra, Unnao, Lakhimpur Kheri, Hamirpur, Shahjahapur, Badaun, Rampur, Bahraich, Barabanki, Baghpat, Pilibhit, Kannauj and Banda. In all, 39 temporary jails have been set up in as many districts.The Uttar Pradesh government decided to set up these temporary jails to lodge Tablighi Jamaat members and suspected Covid positive people who were arrested during police raids after six inmates of the Moradabad district jail tested positive, leading to fears that other prisoners could also get infected.Five out of the six accused are those arrested for an attack on a medical team in Nagfani area of Moradabad on April 15. Two people, including a doctor, were injured in the attack.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/many-tablighi-jamaat-members-among-295-shifted-to-temporary-jails-in-up/story-XcnlcZ2JcClGGlK6yWFoYP.html
24-04-2020||Lucknow||Govt-run school begins online teaching in Kaushambi village||A government-run Prathmik Uchtar Madhyamik Vidyalay in neighbouring Kaushambi district has set an example for other rural government schools by starting online teaching during the lockdown.Remotely located in Laudhana gram sabha of Sarsawan development block, the school has started online classes through WhatsApp by making a group of 127 students, out of the school’s total strength of 455 students.The school principal Pankaj Singh, who had taken the initiative to start online teaching, said that availability of smart phones in every house in a remote village was something impossible but now it was picking up.The principal said, “I started with just 6 students in the first week of this month. Today, the strength of students has swelled up to 127. Children, not having smart phones in their homes, are gradually getting connected to the school group through phones of relatives or neighbours.” “Every day, I receive calls from my students to add phone numbers of their relatives or neighbours, having smart phones. It is encouraging,” he added.According to the school principal, online teaching is being done in four subjects-English, Hindi, Mathematics and Science- besides tasks in Arts subjects were also being given to students.“Students first receive videos of lecture by teachers and subsequently they are asked questions and they have to write answers in their respective subject note books. Once the school opens, notebooks would be corrected by teachers concerned. Presently there are four teachers in the school,” he added.Assistant basic shiksha adhikari, Sarsawa block, Kauskambi Mithilesh Kumar said the initiative had set an example for other primary and upper primary schools to follow as in present time of lockdown, online teaching was the only mode and slowly the rural population would also have to turn to it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/govt-run-school-begins-online-teaching-in-kaushambi-village/story-kRCOVCsdCf0eUXq9r3DqbN.html
24-04-2020||Mumbai||778 Covid-19 cases in a day take Maha tally to 6,427||Maharashtra on Thursday recorded its highest single-day jump in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases with 778 new infections, taking India’s worst-hit state’s tally to 6,427. Of these cases, 522 were in Mumbai, taking the country’s most battered city’s case count up to 4,205.Maharashtra also recorded 14 deaths, making the toll 283. On Thursday, Mumbai recorded six deaths, taking its toll to 167, while five were reported in Pune, and one each in Navi Mumbai, Nandurbar and Dhule.A total of 122 fresh Covid-19 cases were from the other parts of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) — Thane, Mira-Bhayander, Kalyan-Dombivli, Palghar, Navi Mumbai, Vasai-Virar, Panvel, among others.Thane city reported 48 new cases, taking its tally to 214, as Thane rural recorded an additional 10 cases. Mira-Bhayander recorded 35 new Covid-19 cases; 27 new cases were recorded in Kalyan-Dombivli. Malegaon, in Nashik district, which is one of the five hotspots in Maharashtra, recorded 15 fresh cases as its tally rose to 109.In the past 24 hours, the state has carried out 6,136 coronavirus tests and 778 people have tested positive for the virus, which is 12.67% of the total people tested.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray held a meeting with two inter-ministerial central teams (IMCTs), who are visiting Mumbai and Pune to see the measures taken by the state government to tackle the spread of coronavirus, and has assured to implement the measures suggested by the Central teams.The Central teams, during their video conference with Thackeray and key officials from the state, have pressed for more institutional quarantine facilities in slums like Dharavi; shifting of people from Dharavi into quarantine facilities; ramping up testing; operationalise private clinics and hospitals for non-Covid-19 patients, among others. The state government has also been told to focus on the hotspots in Mumbai owing to the spiralling of cases over the past few days. The teams have advised the state government to carry out more “focussed” testing in the two cities as they expected the rate of doubling of cases to be improved to at least 10 days from the existing rate of 7.01. The teams also reviewed the steps taken by the state government in terms of implementation of lockdown and social distancing.They looked at the supply of essential commodities, preparedness of health facilities, and the arrangements for migrant workers.The Central team, which visited parts of Mumbai over the past three days, is headed by Manoj Joshi, additional secretary, ministry of food processing industries, while the five-member team visiting Pune is headed by Sanjay Malhotra, additional secretary, ministry of power.The teams were apprised that the highest number of tests were being performed in Maharashtra, among other states. Chief secretary Ajoy Mehta told the teams that the tests being conducted in Maharashtra are six times more than that in Kerala, which is being praised for containing Covid-19 speedily. Of the 90,000-plus tests conducted in Maharashtra, 55,000 are in Mumbai alone, with a rate of 4,270 tests per million.Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) commissioner Praveen Pardeshi informed in the meeting that the containment zones in non-slum areas in Mumbai are rapidly reducing. Mumbai has 930 containment zones, including 447 in non-slum areas. Pardeshi said that the tests in Dharavi have been increased and they conducted 1,180 tests on Thursday in the area.CM Thackeray reiterated the need of more personal protection equipment (PPE) kits from the entre. The state government has also expressed for the need for clarity on usage of PPE kits and their manufacturing in domestic market. The state government assured the Central teams of the rigorous implementation of their instructions in terms of facilities at hospitals, quarantine facilities, tests in Pune and Mumbai.Following the instructions by the teams, CM Thackeray directed the state authorities to look into the complaints of hardships faced by the non Covid patients. “Private clinics and hospitals should be directed to operate for non-Covid patients. The general public should be made aware about non-Covid hospitals and fever clinics,” he said.State health minister Rajesh Tope, too, said that PPE kits will be provided to doctors as and when they are made available by the Centre, but they should be open for the patients facing other ailments.Meanwhile, Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar wrote to railway minister Piyush Goyal, seeking special trains to take migrant workers home as it may become a law-and-order problem.In the letter, the deputy CM said that the migrant workers who have been staying at shelter camps will likely take to the streets on May 3, when the second phase of the lockdown ends. “This could lead to a law-and-order problem, like it happened in Bandra in Mumbai on the last day of the first lockdown,” read the letter.On April 14, nearly 1,000 out-of-work migrant labourers gathered outside a railway station in Mumbai’s Bandra, hours after Prime Minister extended the lockdown to May 3 to check the spread of the coronavirus infections, demanding for trains to take them home. “The Railway ministry should plan well in advance for special trains for these workers to various parts of the country. The trains should be operated from Pune and Mumbai,” the minister wrote.Earlier in the week, Thackeray assured migrant labourers in the state that his government would ensure that they are sent home once the lockdown is lifted. “I give you my word that the Maharashtra government will take you to your homes the day this crisis ends. I believe that when you go back to your homes, you should go back happily and not out of fear,” said the CM.Manoj Josh, who headed the Central team, told HT, “After our visit to various parts of Mumbai, we had a meeting with Maharashtra CM and the officials. We will submit our report on the assessment to the Central government.”When asked about the report purportedly submitted by his team projecting an exponential rise in cases in Mumbai by May 15, Joshi said that no such report was submitted by them and the team was not on a state visit for any such projection.The team reportedly expressed their concerns on the hardships being faced by non-Covid-19 patients, owing to the closure of private dispensaries, clinics and hospitals. “The elders, facing other ailments, including heart diseases, diabetes, blood pressure, are suffering as private hospitals are not operational. The state government should ensure that they go operational at the earliest,” the team reportedly told the state government.Health minister Rajesh Tope said that private practitioners have been demanding PPE kits, expressing reservations over their safety when treating patients. CM Thackeray expressed unhappiness over the short supply of PPE kits by the Centre. “Around 40,000 PPE kits are required per week in Mumbai alone. In absence of their supply from the Centre, the civic body has been managing from domestic manufacturers, but the Centre needs to bring clarity on permissions for the kits and their usage for the private practitioners,” he said. Two days after reversing the relaxation of lockdown in the MMR and Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR), the state government on Thursday allowed pre-monsoon work to be carried out, along with construction of Metro lines in the two regions. Besides that, the state allowed food processing units, such as bread factories, milk-processing centres, flour and dal mills, shops of electric fans. The order issued on Thursday also allowed bedside attendants and caregivers to senior citizens residing in their homes and allowed facilities of export /import such as pack houses, treatment facilities for seed and horticulture produce, and research establishment dealing with agriculture and horticulture activities. Forestry plantation and related activities are also allowed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/778-covid-19-cases-in-a-day-take-maha-tally-to-6-427/story-J5BvHbWkP7u3dpgksReNxL.html
24-04-2020||Lucknow||Three held for mufti’s murder in Kairana||Three people were arrested for murder of a madarsa’s mufti in Kairana on Thursday after police recovered the victim’s body from a nearby river. Police said that two of the accused murdered the mufti over donation money while the third helped hide the evidence. Yashpal Rana, station house officer, Kairana police station, said, “On April 16, 35-year-old Mufti Sufiyan son of Habib-ur-rehman did not return to the madarsa in Mavi village after he went out to buy some eatables. A missing complaint was registered on April 21.” Rana further said, “On Thursday, following clues, police arrested Abdullah and Tauseef who worked in the madarsa along with their relative Sajid.” During interrogation, investigation, the accused revealed that on April 16, when the victim went out, Abdullah and Tauseef overpowered him and beat him to death using a brick. They sprinkled petrol on the body and burnt it to hide the victim’s identity.. Later they dumped the body in Yamuna river flowing nearby and hid the motorcycle of the victim at their relative Sajid’s house.Police said that the accused revealed that Mufti Sufiyan used to travel abroad to collect donations. They murdered him for the donation amount. Cops revealed that foreign currency worth Rs 90,000 and cash worth Rs 50,000 were recovered from the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/three-held-for-mufti-s-murder-in-kairana/story-1dAnBXxZWcnspkqFeo6uGJ.html
24-04-2020||Mumbai||Lockdown perspective: With no balconies in Mumbai’s new constructions, is it time to save the space?||Even though Covid-19 brings to mind scenes of empty streets, there is one space that has come into prominence for the way it connects the private realm with public spaces — the balcony. The Italians have made music on their balconies to entertain neighbours. In Spain, a neighbourhood organised a game of community bingo, which again saw residents step out onto their balconies. In France, residents hung banners from their balconies from to thank caregivers. Across the world, the balcony has allowed people to feel a sense of community even while they practice physical distancing. Unfortunately, in Mumbai’s newer constructions, the balcony is a rare feature. In old Bombay, whether in the picturesque art deco buildings or chawls, the balcony has long been a way to connect with the neighbourhood, celebrate festivals together and even hold political talks. “People would read their newspaper, talk to neighbours, dry spices, watch Ganesh Chaturthi processions from their balconies in the olden days. It was an integral part of the neighbourhood and the wider city,” said Manjiri Kamat, history professor and assistant dean, faculty of humanities, Mumbai University. Kamat added verandahs in chawls were also used by mill workers to discuss politics.In Mumbai’s newer constructions, balconies are hard to come by. “It would have helped citizens to connect socially,” said Kamat.An increasing population, unaffordable property rates, policy interventions and smaller tenement sizes has led to Mumbai losing out on this architectural feature. “Balconies almost vanished by the 1990s. It is the right time for the planners to introspect if we need to bring back these spaces,” said conservation architect Rahul Chemburkar.In most present-day apartments, balconies are brought into a room in the apartment or used as a dry area (for the washing machine, for instance). Some who have balconies use them as storage area.“Balconies are no longer affordable for Mumbaikars,” said architect Vilas Nagalkar. “Today, anyone would prefer a 2BHK [bedroom, hall, kitchen] admeasuring 600 square feet (sqft) to a 550 sqft [living area] + 50 sqft balcony,” he said.Changing regulations for floor space index (FSI) are also responsible for the disappearance of balconies since FSI determines how high a building may be. In 2012, balconies were brought into the ambit of fungibility of FSI. “Earlier, balconies were free of FSI, so everyone opted for it,” said Nagalkar. “The present rules include balconies in FSI again, but its concept has changed socially over the years, so only the affluent, buying bigger than 2BHK, opt for it now,” he added.At a time when people are seen walking or doing yoga on their building terraces, the balcony could have been a transition space, Nagalkar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/lockdown-perspective-with-no-balconies-in-mumbai-s-new-constructions-is-it-time-to-save-the-space/story-6CnCLln84LlNUwqD47WxnJ.html
24-04-2020||City||Lack of transportation, storage facilities irks farmers||Amid restrictions imposed in the wake of Covid-19, with a fewer number of farmers allowed to enter mandis, they are finding it difficult to store their produce.Lack of storage space and transportation has become a cause for concern for them.As the wheat harvesting is picking pace in the state, most farmers are facing trouble to store wheat and take it to the mandis.“This is a race against time as we cannot afford to delay the harvesting. But we cannot sell our produce until we receive a call from the mandi”, said Madan Numberdar, a farmer from Dhanokheri village of Karnal district, who is waiting to sell his produce of four acres.“Not only space storage, but we are also facing problem to take our produce to mandis due to lack of transportation as we don’t have a tractor-trailer,” said another farmer Balbir Singh of Indri. Since the ahrtiyas or the commission agents have all the rights to decide the farmers who could bring their produce to the mandi, the farmers alleged that the commission agents give importance to the big farmers only as they ignore small farmers in the list provided to the market committee.Officials of the state agriculture marketing board said, “We have already prepared the list of farmers registered under the Meri Fasal Meri Mera Byora portal and it is up to the commission agents to decide.”As per the reports collected from the different grain markets in the region, the mandi secretaries have fixed the numbers of farmers as per the procurement record of the commission agents and the commission agents are allowed to procure the wheat of their farmers as per their capacity.“Small farmers should be given priority as they don’t have space and transportation facilities but as per the norms, we allow six farmers of big ahrtiyas and three farmers of small ahrtiyas on a daily basis to maintain the balance. The commission agents give importance to big farmers,” said a mandi secretary of Kurukshetra district.On the other hand, some big farmers, who have not taken advance from the commission agents are also selling their produce directly to the seed companies even above the Minimum Support Price.“I have already sold around 350 quintals of wheat at ₹205,5 per quintal ₹130 per quintal above the MSP of ₹1,925 to a seed company in Naharpur,” said Surender Singh, a farmer from Radaur of Yamunanagar district. Rain pours trouble for farmers in Hisar Light to moderate shower in the Hisar region added trouble for the farmers who have reached the grain market and waiting for the purchasing agency to procure wheat and mustard.However, the Meteorological department located at the Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University (CCSHAU) had already predicted light to moderate shower in the entire state and had issued a special advisory for the farmers that they must cover the reaped crop properly.Head of the department of meteorology and agriculture department of CCSHAU said, “The farmers must strictly follow the advisory of the meteorology department to keep their produce safe at home or at the grain market. The same condition will prevail until April 25.”In Sirsa, the local administration has increased the number of purchasing centres from 60 to 186. The farmers also claimed that they are getting many facilities such as drinking water and food on time. However, they said that there are no shed facilities in these centres which is a matter of concern.(With inputs from Bhaskar Mukhejee)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-irked-over-poor-transportation-procurement-arrangements-in-mandis/story-cJ8VOTkgHbuwNSbpp3AKCN.html
24-04-2020||Delhi||58, including 45-day-old, test Covid positive in 2 clusters in Delhi||New Delhi: Fifty-eight people, including a 45-day-old child -- nearly half of the 128 Covid-19 cases reported in Delhi on Thursday -- were from two clusters in Jahangirpuri and Jama Masjid, according to the latest Delhi government data. The contagious disease has so far infected 2,376 people in Delhi; 50 of them have died and 808 have recovered.Officials said 46 of the new cases were members of different families in Jahangirpuri, and 12 from Chooriwalan in Jama Masjid. Different places in both the areas have already been demarcated as containment, or red, zones. With three new containment zones announced on Thursday, the total number of such areas in the city -- where there is a hard lockdown in place with a ban on movement and home-delivery of essential supplies by the administration -- has reached 92. According to district administration officials, in the Jama Masjid case, the positive cases belonged to two families, including the 45-day-old child, from Chooriwalan. The infant, and three people who have underlying health issues such as diabetes, hypertension and chronic kidney disease, were admitted to the dedicated Covid-19 Lok Nayak hospital. The rest of the people have been admitted to Covid Care Centres, which look after patients with mild to moderate symptoms.“From what we have learnt, these are members of two different families, but their address is the same. They might be living on two different floors of the same building. We came to know of the case after the families got tested at a private clinic. We are currently assessing the area,” said Nidhi Shrivastava, district magistrate of Central Delhi.District officials in Jahangirpuri said the 46 people come from about 10 families in H-block and all of them have been shifted to the quarantine facility in Narela. They also said that contract tracing exercise has begun and other members of the positive people have been asked to remain in home quarantine. Officials who are tracing contacts for positive people from Jama Masjid said one of them has a history of travel to Russia, before India imposed a complete ban on international travel on March 22. Russia has so far reported 62,773 cases and 555 deaths linked to Covid-19. “We are still investigating the source of the infection,” said Shrivastava. “This lane is already within a containment zone but we will declare it a micro-containment zone, and carry out all the measures aggressively.”District officials in Jahangirpuri also suggested micro-containment of the area since three lanes of the H-block (H1, H2 and H3) were declared as containment zones on April 14 after a Covid-19 positive case was reported there. “Samples of residents of these areas were collected earlier this week after a house-to-house survey. The test report of residents was released on Wednesday evening in which 46 were found Covid-19 positive,” Jahangirpuri councillor Poonam Bagri said.An official of the district administration, requesting anonymity, said that with more cluster cases emerging, vigilance and preventive measures in the area have been stepped up. “The area will now be monitored on micro level. Intensive sanitisation activities have been started in the area,” the official said.JC Passey, director, Lok Nayak hospital, said: “Only one the family members apart from the baby needed to be admitted here, but we admitted two others who had some co-morbid conditions. The others have been referred to Covid Care Centres.” He played down reports of the family having an altercation with the doctors when they reached there for admission on Wednesday night. “The government has now decided that only the category III patients – who either have severe symptoms or are a at a high risk of developing such symptoms – will be admitted to the hospital. There are five levels (four excluding the dedicated hospitals) of facilities right now – the Covid testing centres where samples are collected; the isolation centres are there for those waiting for their results; Covid Care Centres in government flats etc. admit those with mild symptoms; and the Covid health centres admit those with moderate symptoms,” said Passey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/58-including-45-day-old-test-positive-in-2-clusters-in-delhi/story-QDMXnlIofJNWoGxTBZPtBN.html
24-04-2020||City||Coronavirus cases in Maharashtra up, mortality rate down to 4.4% from 7.41% in 12 days||The mortality rate for Covid-19 in Maharashtra has dipped to 4.4% from 7.41% in the past 12 days, after the protocol for testing was changed. The health officials are looking to bring down the state’s mortality rate, which is still higher than the national rate (3.18%), further.According to health officials, earlier detection of Covid-19 patients with comorbidities from April 12 has ensured timely treatment to them, which is increasing the chances of recovery. Since April 12, the testing protocol for asymptomatic high-risk people in the state, too, has changed. People with no symptoms are tested only in case of 34-week or more pregnancy or if they are on dialysis or chemotherapy. Other asymptomatic patients are home quarantined. They can be tested only after five days of getting exposed to the virus. On April 12, of the 1,996 patients, 148 succumbed to the infection. Till Thursday night, Maharashtra recorded 6,427 cases with 283 deaths. The data from the state health ministry showed that till Friday night, Maharashtra has tested 89,561 samples. The focus is on patients in the age group of 61-80, which has seen the highest number of deaths. People between 61-70 years have a 16.90% death rate,followed by patients between 71-80 years with 15.48%. “At least 78% of the deceased had comorbid health issues such as diabetes, hypertension and cardiac ailments. We are testing more number of people above the age of 60 and high-risk contacts of Covid-19 patients, which is why the detection rate has gone up,” said Anup Kumar Yadav, commissioner (family welfare) and Director National Health Mission, Maharashtra.Mumbai too has seen a similar trend. With the narrowing down of targets in containment zones, the detection has increased to 4,205 on April 23 from 1,399 on April 12. The death rate has dropped to 3.9% from 7.07% in the same period. Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner (health), BMC, said due to the change in policy, they are being able to focus more on symptomatic patients, whose chance of spreading the infection is higher than asymptomatic ones. “Every day, we are increasing the number of containment zones, so we can test more people who are at a higher risk. Once we are successful in bringing down the graphs in these areas, we can relax the current testing rules,” he said. As HT had reported earlier, delay in treatment is one of the reasons for high mortality rate in the state. Patients are often being referred from one hospital to another.However, the Opposition has accused the state and BMC of hiding the mortality rate. Kirit Somaiya, a politician highlighting a case in Sion Hospital, said, “On April 21, a Covid patient died at the hospital, but in the death certificate, the doctor wrote the cause of death as ‘natural’. The death certificate mentions ‘lower respiratory tract infection (LRTI)’ as the immediate cause of death with Covid-19.” HT has a copy of the letter.Dr Avinash Supe, former dean of King Edward Memorial Hospital, who heads the seven-member task force, refuted the allegation. “We analyse the reasons for the death of Covid-19 patients. If the patient has any comorbid health issues, we study it and put it in our records which help the experts in formulating their policies for Covid-19,” he said.Shift in trendAccording to data provided by the state health ministry, more young people in the 21-31 age group are reporting the highest number of cases. Till April 12, patients between 41-51 reported highest cases. “In the containment zones, most of the asymptomatic patients are young working professionals. As there is a rising awareness about susceptibility of the virus among older people, they have stopped stepping out, but the youths are still not following it,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner (health), BMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-cases-in-maharashtra-up-mortality-rate-down-to-4-4-from-7-41-in-12-days/story-YNJX8CztzRVZNo2TZZf7ZL.html
24-04-2020||Chandigarh||Spike in domestic violence cases in Punjab amid curfew||The domestic violence cases have seen a sharp spike across Punjab after the imposition of curfew/lockdown last month to check the spread of Covid-19 in the state.There has been a 21% increase, from 4,709 to 5,695, in cases of crimes against women between February 1 and April 20 this year, and a similar percentage of increase in cases of domestic violence against women (from 3,287 to 3,993) in the same period, police said in a statement. On the other hand, there has been a substantial decrease in registration of cases relating to dowry harassment, rape and eve-teasing cases during the same period.Director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta said the average number of calls received on ‘DIAL 112’ per day went up to 133 – a whopping 34%, for domestic violence cases during March 20-April 20, from the previous 3 months’ average of 99.33. The per-day increase in total crime against women cases in this period is 30%.The DGP on Thursday held a video conference with all DSPs of crime against women cell and women helpdesk officials to take stock of the situation and discuss measures to tackle this increase. As per the detailed strategy, presented during the video conference by Gurpreet Deo, ADGP community affairs division, SOPs have been put in place to devise the police’s response mechanism, according to an official release.The meeting decided that DSP, crime against women cell, will send a daily report in a defined format to track all such complaints and monitor the action taken. The police will coordinate, as needed, with one-stop centres, which are manned by counsellors nominated by the department of social security, women and child development. The services of these counsellors will be utilised, wherever needed, to counsel the victims, perpetrators, and provide necessary protection in case of children. The DGP also issued a stern warning that such cases will not be tolerated and strict action will be taken.The Punjab State Commission for Women is also receiving 25 to 30 complaints of domestic violence per day ever since March 22 when the curfew was imposed in the state. The commission has received around 800 complaints on its helpline number in a month. “Earlier, if we received 25 calls a day, only three to four calls pertained to domestic violence. But after the curfew was clamped in the state, all the 25 to 30 calls are related to domestic,” said Punjab State Commission for Women chairperson Manisha Gulati.According to officials dealing with the cases, the maximum cases are pouring in from Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Mohali and Rupnagar districts. A majority of these are from the educated class where working women, who are ordinarily at work, are finding themselves harassed at home and are approaching the commission for help.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/spike-in-domestic-violence-cases-in-punjab-amid-curfew/story-viOyCy2nZRPph3xelhQSJK.html
24-04-2020||Chandigarh||Gambling, hookah parties turn Rajpura into Punjab’s new Covid-19 hotspot||Illegal gambling activities and hookah parties organised by well-knit groups amid the ongoing lockdown, not giving two hoots for the social-distancing norms, have emerged as the key reasons behind turning Rajpura into Punjab’s new Covid-19 hotspot. As many as 18 residents tested positive for the coronavirus on Wednesday alone.The town, located 26km from the Patiala district headquarters, has reported 30 positive cases so far, with the health department on Thursday collecting 35 more samples from the ‘containment zones’.“Most of the 18 persons found positive yesterday are contacts of each other. Many of the men are believed to have met at gambling parties recently,” an official said.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicPatiala senior superintendent of police (SSP) Mandeep Singh Sidhu said, “It came to the fore during investigation that they held frequent get-togethers on a vacant plot near Anaj Mandi. Many residents of the locality confirmed that a group of men would remain there for hours.”The infection spread after a group of 5-6 men involved in illegal activities like gambling continued to hold get-togethers and arranged liquor and hookah parties on multiple occasions even after the lockdown came into force, another official said.Police have booked Krishan Kumar and Balraj, who tested positive for the coronavirus a day before, for allegedly endangering the life of fellow residents by violating curfew restrictions. The two travelled outstation before contracting the infection early this week, the SSP added.A case was registered against them under Sections 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease endangering life), 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of others), 271 (disobedience to quarantine rule) and 188 (disobedience to order promulgated by a public servant) of the Indian Penal Code and sections of the Disaster Management Act.With this, the district’s tally has risen to 49 cases, of which 47 have been reported in the past one week only.Town declared a buffer zone In a tweet, Punjab special chief secretary KBS Sidhu said Rajpura town was notified as a ‘buffer zone’ by the district administration.“Movement from Rajpura to Patiala has been restricted. The result of 40 samples taken from the town on Thursday will come on Friday,” Sidhu tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gambling-hookah-parties-turn-rajpura-into-punjab-s-new-covid-hotspot/story-BRB2Y2vkiO2JMfVwPcvF3L.html
24-04-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt orders landlords not to force students to pay rent for a month||Weeks after Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal urged property owners in the city not to force tenants, especially migrant workers to pay their monthly rent during the lockdown, the Delhi government has issued a fresh order that covers students living in the city.The first order on migrant workers was issued on March 29 after Delhi witnessed a mass exodus of labourers in violation of lockdown rules and social distancing norms, despite appeals by the government urging them to stay back.In the days that followed, several student groups wrote to the chief minister seeking help on similar grounds, officials familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity. The fresh order issued on Wednesday -- HT has reviewed it -- calls for a waiver of at least one month’s rent and makes forceful eviction a punishable offence under the Disaster Management Act. It also directs district magistrates to spread awareness on this issue and advice people to call the police in case of a dispute. The order mandates that deputy commissioners of police in the city’s districts submit a weekly report to the district magistrate on such instances, starting April 27.Both orders — the one issued on March 29 and the other issued on Wednesday — invoked Section 22 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, which particularly deals with the power of the state executive committee. In Delhi, for Covid-19 outbreak and the related lockdown, chief secretary Vijay Dev is the head of the committee and is the officer who signed both orders.“Instances of landlords forcing students for immediate payment of rent or forcefully evicting them have been brought to the knowledge of the government,” Dev said.The order said: “The district magistrates shall undertake awareness campaign on this issue particularly in areas with a higher density of migrant workers, labourers and students, to advice people to lodge complaints to police control room dialling 100…”The order comes as a big relief for hundreds of students who are stuck in Delhi due to the ongoing lockdown. The Delhi University’s Kerala Students’ Association last week wrote to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal stating that landlords were pressuring many students to pay rent.Amal K Simon, president of the association, said: “This will be a big relief. Many students from Kerala are stuck in Delhi. We are really happy that the government has brought this matter under the ambit of the Disaster Management Act.”A majority of the students enrolled in Delhi University colleges live in rented flats and paying guest accommodation in the absence of adequate hostel facilities. Many of those studying in Jawaharlal Nehru University also live in rented rooms in the Ber Sarai, Munirka and Kishangarh areas.Saket Moon, vice president of JNU Students’ Union (JNUSU), said that the government order will help many students who are unable to pay rents due to the delay in the release of their fellowship amounts because of the lockdown. BS Vohra, president of a residents’ welfare association (RWA) collective, however, said, “The government should also think about people whose only source of income is house rent. There are many such retired people, widows, disabled and elderly people in the city. They should be compensated.”A senior official in the chief minister’s office said the government is open to this and may come up with a scheme by next week.Office bearers of several other RWAs too raised the issue and said the fresh order would affect their livelihood, which is a constitutional right.Sanjay Hegde, a senior advocate in the Supreme Court, said: “This is a state executive committee’s response to a different form of disaster and such a committee has the power to specify measures to be taken for prevention or mitigation. A waiver of a month’s rent is arguably a measure of mitigation and is likely to be upheld, as such, if ever challenged in a court of law.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/govt-orders-landlords-not-to-force-students-to-pay-rent-for-a-month/story-4952qGoiMq6tAI7KSC7afO.html
24-04-2020||Delhi||2 days after Delhi’s Azadpur trader’s death, 300 shops shut||Nearly 300 registered shops in Azadpur agriculture produce market in Delhi remained closed on Thursday with the traders demanding authorities to scale up coronavirus tests in the market premises, amid concerns over the death of a vegetable dealer this week who tested Covid-19 positive.All closed shops were located in the D block of the market – the one where the dead trader’s fruits and vegetables shop is located. While two new cases had surfaced in the market on Wednesday, the daughter of a trader associated with the Mandi tested positive on Thursday. “The daughter of a trader tested positive. The entire family and other contacts will soon be traced and tested,” said Deepak Shinde, district magistrate (north).Senior officials of the health department said that they have no evidence to explore if the cases are interlinked but they did not dismiss the possibility either so far. The cases have sparked concerns among the traders, with some demanding that portions of the huge market be temporarily shifted to nearby areas. Meanwhile, the business partner of the dead trader has tested negative. HT has seen his test report. “I appeal to the authorities that all traders and workers in the market should be tested. It is not possible to maintain social distancing in such a busy market,” he said over the phone.The test results of the 15 employees at the shop are still awaited, Shinde said.FEAR AMONG TRADERSAnil Malhotra, a trader in D-Block and an elected member of the committee that manages the Azadpur market, said: “The D block of the market was closed today. It has 292 shops. Traders are scared. All of them have demanded that the government should scale up testing of people in the market. Groups have also demanded Rs 1 crore ex-gratia for the family the traders, if they die of Covid-19.” The Azadpur agriculture market is considered the food supply lifeline of the national capital. Spread over an area of around 101 acres, the market has around 2,800 registered dealers and employs around 12,000 people in a wide range of jobs -- porters, helpers, loaders, and accountants. On any normal day, it witnesses a footfall of more than 100,000 and the arrival of at least 3,000 trucks of fruits and vegetables.Adil Khan, chairperson of the Azadpur agriculture market committee, said: “Yes, several shops were closed but a larger part of the market continues to operate 24x7 and trade has increased manifold compared to the average of the previous week.” The decision to operate the market round-the-clock was announced by cabinet minister Gopal Rai, who also heads Delhi’s agriculture department, earlier this week in the light of farmer distress and supply crunch which had led to increase in retail prices of several fruits and vegetables last week amid the nationwide lockdown. Till last week, the market was operating on an odd-even basis, with traders in odd and even-numbered sheds opening their shops on alternate days. Khan further said: “Currently, the government is not in a position to test every trader and employee in the market. It is impractical. People must understand the basics. They should maintain hygiene, adhere to social distancing norms, look out for symptoms and quarantine themselves, if needed. Tests are for symptomatic individuals. There are clear guidelines on that.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-days-after-azadpur-trader-s-death-300-shops-shut/story-QPWlhJHNuGTW0ZqTE3ksQJ.html
24-04-2020||Delhi||Tihar prisoners to make sanitisers, supply to police in Delhi||The prisoners of Tihar have, their own way, answered that age-old question: who watches the watchmen? Their answer: “We do”. And so, they are producing sanitisers exclusively for the use of policemen on duty across the city. A senior Delhi police officer said that the departments need for sanitisers and masks is very high because policemen are on the front line of efforts to combat the disease — managing containment zones, conducting checks, ensuring social distancing, even feeding the hungry. While there is no problem in getting masks, the demand for sanitisers across police stations is rising, the officer added on condition of anonymity. There was a discussion on manufacturing sanitisers, but the department realised it needed a licence.Deputy commissioner of police (licensing and welfare), Asif Mohd Ali, “We approached Tihar jail authorities. The prison department already produces its own sanitisers for internal use. They do it based on government guidelines and as per approved composition. From the fund of the Police Families Welfare Society(PFWS), we will supply the raw materials to the prisoners. The prisoners will help us by making the sanitisers. It will have the logo of the PFWS with the words ‘Prepared under specific licence inside Tihar’ written. We will get 200ml bottles and distribute it among our staff. This must be the first time in history that prisoners are directly helping the people (police) who put them there.”Of the 18,000 prisoners in Tihar when the lockdown began (around 3,000 have subsequently been released to reduce congestion), almost 95% were arrested by Delhi police. The remaining are those who were arrested by other agencies — such as the Central Bureau of Investigation, National Investigation Agency, Enforcement Directorate, Department of Revenue Intelligence and Narcotics Control Bureau. The prisoners inside Tihar work in different units such as carpentry, bakery and bag-making. The furniture made inside the factory is supplied to government schools. About four months ago, the prison department obtained a drug licence to manufacture sanitisers inside prison. The in-house sanitisers were being used by the 18,000 prisoners.The director general of prisons, Sandeep Goel, confirmed that prisoners will be making sanitisers for the police.“Through this arrangement, our prisoners will be helping the police in the fight against Covid-19. As a front line force, the police personnel put themselves at great risk. Together, we will win this fight against Covid-19,” he said.Delhi police officers say the demand for sanitisers among the force is very high. Over 500 police personnel are in quarantine. A police station in Central Delhi has already been sealed. At least 28 police personnel have tested positive for the virus so far. Many police personnel who tested positive were posted in containment zones such as Chandni Mahal, Nabi Karim, Jahangirpuri. Around 30% of the police personnel at every station have been sent on leave but been told to join duty within an hour.Delhi police’s spokesperson, Mandeep Singh Randhawa, said the department has been ensuring adequate supply of masks and sanitisers. “Our force is fully prepared to deal with this pandemic. We have arranged for masks and sanitisers for everyone on the road. We will ensure that our men and women on the ground are fully equipped. We thank prisoners and jail authorities for helping us with the sanitisers. We have a common enemy today and we need to fight it together.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/tihar-prisoners-to-make-sanitisers-supply-to-police-in-delhi/story-WCEmSaJvseZm1re4x9PCEP.html
24-04-2020||Delhi||IIT-D develops cheaper RT-PCR test, gets ICMR nod||Researchers at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Delhi, have developed a more economic real time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test for Covid-19. This will say will reduce the cost of a test by at least ₹700, they said.The government has capped the price for an RT-PCR test at private labs at ₹4,500.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) approved the kit on Thursday, making it the first kit by a research institute to get the approval. So far, RT-PCR kits of at least eight Indian companies have been approved by the ICMR.It will bring down the cost of the basic assay to ₹400 per test, from around ₹1,100 per assay at present.This is the first “probe-less” test that has been approved by the apex research body, which will help in not only making the tests cheaper, but also scalable. “All the tests that are currently available in India use a fluorescent probe for the readout from the assay. We have removed that step in our test kit. This does two things — one, the fluorescent probe is an expensive component and two, the manufacturers around the world are currently backed up and it is taking a while to get these, making it difficult to scale up tests,” said Prof Vivekananda Perumal, who heads the team that developed the kit, at Kusuma School of Biological Sciences in IIT Delhi.The team received the ICMR nod on Thursday evening and plans to apply for an approval from the drug regulator Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation next week.“A few companies have shown interest and have been in touch with IIT. We will soon choose a manufacturing partner,” said Perumal.The kit had been submitted for an evaluation to ICMR’s National Institute of Virology in Pune in March, but had not been approved as the specificity was found to be 10%. The sensitivity was found to be 98%.Now, both the values are at 100%, a requirement for approval by ICMR.The specificity is the ability of a test to correctly identify those without the disease (or true negatives) and the sensitivity of a test is its ability to correctly identify those with the disease (or true positives).The team, which was initially working with the DNA sequence of the virus, said the efficiency of the test increased with the use of the viral RNA. The DNA encodes the genetic information in humans and the RNA copy of this genetic information is needed to build different proteins in the body.Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, encodes its genetic information in an RNA. The IIT Delhi team identified unique regions (short stretches of RNA sequences) in the Sars-Cov-2 genome, which are not present in other human coronaviruses, to make the test efficient.“I have not used a test kit without the fluorescent probe, so my confidence in the test is not high. This is not to say that there is anything wrong with the test. I will prefer conventional technology that I am comfortable with instead of trying out a new test at this time, even if it is cheaper,” said Dr Navin Dang, founder, Dr Dang’s Lab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/iit-d-develops-cheaper-rt-pcr-test-gets-icmr-nod/story-6A20OO4vRdoTre9VgYfamK.html
24-04-2020||Delhi||36 ‘addicts’ fled from Delhi govt school shelters last month||Thirty-two persons managed to escape from a shelter home operating in a government school in Mukherjee Nagar between March 17 and March 21. Another four escaped from a shelter home in nearby Model Town around the same time.According to shelter home staffers as well as the police, most of those who escaped are drug addicts who were brought here from North Delhi areas like Kashmere Gate and Yamuna Bazar. Their “desperation for drugs” is causing them to flee, they said. At the Mukherjee Nagar centre, the escapees took advantage of an unguarded secondary gate of the school to flee on four separate nights. The presence of two unoccupied schools beyond the walls of this shelter home further helped them, said Mahesh Kumar, the school principal. In fact, on Saturday night, as many as 18 people escaped from here. “We carry out a headcount during breakfast every day. We found that people had escaped during the headcount,” Kumar said. There were 135 people at this shelter home. On Thursday, only 103 remained. “None of the 21 migrants staying here since April 1 has tried to escape,” he said. “I feel suffocated here,” a shabbily dressed masked man said, rolling up his sleeve to show injection marks on his arm. On Monday, the 25-year-old man, who worked as a daily wage labourer in North Delhi’s Yamuna Bazar, had made a failed attempt to scale the walls of the shelter home.He is being treated by doctors for drug withdrawal symptoms.Kumar said that most homeless persons brought here were displaying withdrawal symptoms, forcing the staffers to seek help from the Institute of Human Behavior and Sciences (IHBAS). “Some of them beg the school staff to arrange drugs and beedis for them. One day, they turned aggressive with us for repeatedly serving rice instead of rotis,” Kumar said.Amit Pal, another labourer from Yamuna Bazar said that the escapees used to talk about arranging tobacco products and drugs. “They didn’t talk about escaping, but they got away night after night while the rest of us slept,” Pal said. Now, school staff and civil defence volunteers have been deployed at the points of escape at night. “We have arranged rotis for the inmates and are also holding happiness classes and yoga sessions for them,” Kumar said.They have also piled up desks along the stretches leading to the escape points. While the desks are clearly not enough to prevent an escape, the school staff said that they hoped that an escape attempt would create noise and alert the people on duty. Deepak Shinde, the district magistrate of North Delhi, said that the two centres have seen additional deployment since the escapes, and the police have been asked to take legal action. The police said that an FIR has been registered at Mukherjee Nagar and Model Town police stations. “We have booked the escaped people under a section pertaining to disobedience to an order by a public servant. Our teams are looking for them,” deputy commissioner of police (north-west), Vijayanta Arya, said. But tracing them won’t be an easy task. “We have only their names and approximate addresses that they mentioned while being brought to the shelters. They submitted neither the copies of their identity proofs nor their photographs,” another investigator said.None of the 36 escapees has been traced so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/36-escape-from-two-north-delhi-shelter-homes-school-staff-pile-up-benches-to-keep-others-from-escaping/story-64iyPfJqnaCZk3lfhZUYhP.html
24-04-2020||Delhi||Delhi feels the sting as Covid work made priority||Breeding of drain-borne Culex mosquito is a cause for concern as the municipal staff is mostly engaged in activities, such as spraying disinfectants, to contain coronavirus. April is the start of the breeding season for this genus of mosquito and officials have started receiving complaints of mosquito menace from residents.Usually, around this time of the year, field workers (FWs) of civic agencies undertake drives to kill mosquito larvae in drains and ponds. Equipped with backpacks and 6,000-litre tanks, workers spray chemicals — BTI (bacillus israelensis), temephos emulsifier and diflubenzuron — to contain the mosquito growth.At present, besides undertaking sanitisation drives and tracing Covid-19 patients, the sanitation staff is working at 10% below its total capacity. Many field workers and domestic breeding checkers (DBC), who primarily destroy larvae in coolers and water tanks in households, are unable to reach their work stations due to the lockdown.“Many of our workers come from far off places like Sonepat and Ballabhgarh in Haryana, and Baghpat in Uttar Pradesh, via trains. But with the train service shut, they are unable to reach Delhi,” said Devanand Sharma of the Anti-Malaria Ekta Karamchari Union.“Some of us have been promised health insurance, but not everybody wants to risk contracting Covid-19 and worse, spreading it to their families at home,” Sharma said.The three municipal corporations of Delhi employ around 5,000 FWs and DBCs, who are the front-line workers to contain the spread of vector-borne diseases such as dengue, malaria and chikungunya. These two posts — FWs and DBCs — were created after a massive dengue outbreak in Delhi in 1996, which affected 10,252 people and caused 423 deaths.“The silver lining here is that Culex in Delhi is not known to cause any disease, unlike the malaria-causing Anopheles or dengue-causing Aedes Aegypti. Both Anopheles and Aedes breed in freshwater, such as in puddles formed during monsoon, and not in drains. Culex is infamous for its nuisance value only,” said Dr Lallan Verma, public health officer, South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC).“However, Culex is definitely responsible for causing several hundred cases of Japanese encephalitis and filariasis in eastern Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. Migrants from these areas are always coming to Delhi for work opportunities and there is always a chance of these diseases arriving in Delhi too with them, via the Culex,” he said.Municipal health officer (MHO) with the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC), Dr Somashekhar, said even the DBCs who are undertaking drives to check mosquito breeding are facing problems.“People are not opening the gates. They are obviously scared that our workers, who are out in the public, may be carrying the virus. So our FWs are passing on instructions to residents at the gates. We (the authorities in headquarters) have also shot letters to group housing societies today that in such paralysing conditions, they will have to ensure that water doesn’t collect anywhere on their premises, in coolers or puddles,” he said.Meanwhile, the north municipal corporation’s mayor, Avtar Singh, wrote to the Lieutenant Governor, Anil Baijal, on Monday requesting that his employees be “exempted from participating in a COVID warriors team ordered for by the Chief Secretary.”“We are already constrained with the anti-larvae work we have to carry out. We request you to please excuse us from this work,” he wrote.The north municipality commissioner, Varsha Joshi, said, “It is true that a lot of mosquito-related complaints are coming and we are doing our best to contain larvae proliferation, including raising the larvae-eating Gambusia fish at designated spots like PUSA Institute.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/mosquito-menace-starts-as-covid-activities-take-precedence/story-mmoxaoUI1CWvF6mCKHcw4L.html
24-04-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s Mehrauli on alert after vegetable vendor tests positive||A contact tracing nightmare is staring at district officials in south Delhi’s Mehrauli who were sent into a tizzy on Thursday evening after a vegetable vendor who used to roam around from one block to another with his cart tested positive for Covid-19. Vegetables are listed as essentials and the vendor operated across Mehrauli amid the ongoing lockdown. As on Thursday evening, 2376 people have tested positive for the contagious disease in Delhi. While 50 people have died so far, 808 have recovered, as per the latest Delhi government data.Soon after the test report came out, officials from the sub divisional magistrate’s office and civil volunteers were roped in to patrol localities in Mehrauli zone and make announcements on loudspeakers to alert the residents about the situation and ask them to remain indoors, a senior government official said.“The vendor is admitted in a hospital now. His wife and children have been quarantined and they will be tested at the earliest. Contact tracing will be the biggest challenge in this case because he regularly procured vegetables from the Okhla market, frequented the Mehrauli market and used his cart to travel from block to block selling vegetables. Public announcement is underway in the entire zone,” said BM Mishra, district magistrate (south).He said the vegetable seller lives in a slum in Mehrauli and contact tracing in the next few hours would help the government decide if that has to be sealed and declared a containment zone. “The whole of Mehrauli will now be under stricter surveillance. Any decision on more containment zones will depend on out assessment,” Mishra added. Earlier on Thursday, the area around A3 Lake View apartment in Mehrauli was notified as a containment zone after a nurse working with a south Delhi government hospital – with no dedicated Covid ward – tested positive the previous day. On Thursday, her father-in-law tested positive too, said a senior government official.The official said, “They are a family of nine members of which two have tested positive and five are symptomatic. The other two are children below 10 years age. They all have been quarantined and they will be tested at the earliest.”More than 200 people live in the apartment but there are clusters around it with high population density, another official in the health department said.Other than Lake View apartment in South Delhi’s Mehrauli, two more containment zones were notified in the Capital on Thursday - one in Raj Nagar II in Dwarka and Shahdara’s Dayanand Vihar – taking the total number of such “red zones” to 92. These are entirely sealed lanes and blocks subjected to strict surveillance, health checks, sanitisation, tests and and doorstep delivery of essentials so that residents do not have to venture out. Earlier, a pizza delivery person associated with an outlet in Malviya Nagar had tested Covid positive, following which 72 families were directed to go for home quarantine. The test results of the 72 have come negative. The delivery person is a resident of Savitri Vihar in South Delhi’s Malviya Nagar. The area round his residence was cordoned off as a containment zone last week.A senior official said, tracing contacts for the pizza person was easier because orders he had delivered were recorded with the food outlet. He was part of mobile application-based food delivery aggregator services too. “But there are no records when it comes to a vegetable vendor who operates freely in an area,” the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mehrauli-on-alert-after-vegetable-vendor-tests-positive/story-UVEFWRzepSHCpqnpG9oIVO.html
24-04-2020||Delhi||Delhi Covid-19 death toll hits 50, as 128 more test positive||With two more deaths recorded on Thursday, the Covid-19 toll of the city reached 50. More than half of these deaths were among people aged than 60 years or older, while 84% had other comorbid conditions like diabetes, hypertension, heart and kidney disease.On Thursday, the number of cases in Delhi increased by 128, taking the total number of Covid-19 cases to 2,376, as per the daily health bulletin of the Delhi government. For the last three days, Delhi had recorded a higher number of recoveries than infections. However, on Thursday, only 84 people recovered from Covid-19 in Delhi, as per the data. So far, 808 people have recovered. Of the 1,518 people in the city with the infection, 422, with moderate to severe symptoms, are admitted to nine designated hospitals. Of these, 23 people are in the intensive care units, with eight on ventilators. As many as 822 people with very mild or no symptoms are admitted to eight Covid Care Centres. Besides, 59 people with moderate symptoms are admitted to two Ayurvedic Hospitals, which have been converted into Covid Health Centres. “The government has now decided that only the category III patients — who either have severe symptoms or are at a high risk of developing such symptoms — will be admitted to the hospital. There are five levels of facilities right now — the Covid testing centres, where samples are collected, isolation centres, for those awaiting their results, Covid Care Centres in government flats, etc, to admit those with mild symptoms, Covid Health Centres, to admit those with moderate symptoms,” said Dr JC Passey, medical director of Lok Nayak hospital, the biggest Covid-19 centre in the city.Hospitals constitute the fifth level of the facilities.On Thursday, 2,251 test samples were collected, with reports of 3,068 pending. So far, 5,691 samples have been collected from the community.The government on Thursday set up a state-level media cell to monitor the social media and news for issues related to Covid-19, misinformation, complaints, and requests for medical intervention. A committee of nursing and paramedical staff has also been set up to monitor the quality, quantity and timing of food distribution and accommodation in the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-death-toll-hits-50-as-128-more-test-positive/story-K6VvK2Fy1ZK55TICr28KJJ.html
24-04-2020||Delhi||Are hospitals becoming high-risk zones for Covid infections?||City hospitals might have become the new “high-risk” areas, with more and more doctors and patients testing positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The district authorities had raised the issue with the lieutenant governor this week. Fifty-seven healthcare workers—including 21 doctors at the Delhi-government run Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital in Rohini—are being tested for Covid-19 after coming in contact with a suspected patient in the emergency department last week. The 40-year-old woman from Jahangirpuri was admitted to the hospital’s medical emergency ward in isolation, where she later died. There was a similar scare in Bhagwan Mahavir Hospital last week, where 68 members of the staff had to be quarantined. However, they returned to duty a day later when the suspected patient tested negative.In Jahangirpuri’s Babu Jagjivan Ram Memorial Hospital, staff members started testing positive for Covid-19 over the weekend. Till Thursday evening, 10 healthcare workers—some asymptomatic—tested positive for the infection. Around 191 hospital staff had to be quarantined. “We do not know where they got the infection from; however, this area is a hot spot. Many of our staff members live around the area and patients from the area also come here. We do screen them for symptoms before allowing them in, but if they are asymptomatic carriers, what can we do?” said a doctor from the hospital, on condition of anonymity. To prevent infection within the hospitals located in hot spots, the union health ministry on Monday had advised a clear demarcation between the out-patient clinics and the wards where patients are tested for Covid-19 and admitted. This, however, is not the norm in Delhi. All of the 11 districts in Delhi are hot spots.All hospitals have set up flu clinics that are separate from the main building to screen patients for fever and cough and any history to suggest contact with a positive person. Only those that the doctors suspect are asked to get tested. Looking for an infection, however, is not enough as even Indian Council of Medical Research—the country’s apex health research body—says that 80% of the people either have nil or very mild symptoms.“Hospitals are likely to become high-risk areas. This is because the doctors are not testing everyone—that is not possible. What we are doing is running flu clinics—if you have fever, cough and cold you go there. So, if a large number of the population has no symptom, then if they will infect doctors and nurses once they get to the hospital, who will then pass it on to others—colleagues, families and patients. This is going to happen unless in the future there are cheap testing kits, and everybody coming to the hospital is tested before they come in,” said Dr SK Sarin, director, Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS). He is the chairperson of the five-member committee that advises the chief minister on Covid-19.Delhi hospitals have started scaling up services, including routine surgeries, Monday onwards as per the guidelines of the union home ministry.Hospital hotspotsThe paediatric intensive care unit of Lady Hardinge Medical College in central Delhi emerged as a hotbed for infections last week, with 12 healthcare workers from the ward testing positive for Covid-19. Two children in the ward —a 45-day-old and a 10-month-old—were also infected, with the 45-day-old baby succumbing to the infection on Saturday morning. The baby is the youngest person to die of Covid-19 in the country so far. The father of the 45-day-old baby has also tested positive for the infection.The authorities are yet to trace the source of the infection. Before that, the Delhi State Cancer Institute had come under the scanner, where 25 healthcare workers had tested positive. Four cancer patients admitted to the hospital and the relative of one of the patients also contracted Covid-19. Two of the patients died. The 2-year-old child of one of the nurses in the hospital also tested positive. This Tuesday, the hospital reopened its out-patient clinics after putting a screening mechanism in place.Not just healthcare professionals, but a lot of patients, with no history of foreign travel, who have visited some hospitals have also tested positive, said a senior Delhi government official.“The increase in the number of healthcare workers, and those posted at hospitals and their contacts testing positive is a cause for concern. It might be that adequate measures for protection from the infection are not being taken by hospital authorities, including those not treating Covid-19 cases. There is an urgent need to fix these lapses,” said a district magistrate, requesting anonymity.Infections at homeBut it is not just the hospital, doctors and the patients visiting the hospitals also take the infection back home. For instance, a house in northeast Delhi’s Shastri Park was declared a containment zone after a cancer patient and her daughter tested positive. Their family members were placed under home quarantine.Similarly, a few days ago, two lanes in Mahavir Enclave in the south-west district were declared containment zones after a nurse, her two family members, her neighbour and his 20-month-old son tested positive. A senior northeast Delhi district official said, “A constable posted at Bara Hindu Rao Hospital had tested positive a few days ago. His wife and daughter are also positive.”In the last two days, the south-west district has reported five cases of healthcare professionals and paramedic staff testing positive, while the south district has close to eight such cases. “There are several patients who go to hospitals for treatment. Hospitals have to ensure a high standard of hygiene and sanitisation. They should also provide Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) to all the staff,” said another district magistrate.Currently, only the healthcare workers in Covid-19 wards wear the full PPE kits, as per the recommendations of the union health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/are-hospitals-becoming-high-risk-zones-for-covid-infections/story-OcDYNhdcXvlnsUxdnYwolN.html
24-04-2020||Gurugram||Senior citizens a high priority for Rail Vihar residents||To help senior citizens, particularly those living alone, procure daily essentials residents of Rail Vihar in Sector 47 have set up a dedicated team. The team of volunteers delivers their daily requirements to their doorsteps.Senior citizens can call up any of the volunteers for help to procure not only consumables, such as dairy products and groceries, but also medicines, at any time of the day. The team of 10, mostly members of the residents’ welfare association (RWA), also call up seniors from time to time to check their requirements.“They have been informed that they can reach out to any of us for help in getting essential items. We have advised them against stepping out, as they are the most vulnerable to the disease,” said RK Sharma, the president of the RWA.Sharma said that neighbours of senior citizens, when they step out to stock up, are also helping in the procurement of essential items.Girish Bhatnagar, 70, who lives with his wife, said, “The society is providing assistance to seniors who are living alone. There must be around six such residents like us. When we have deliveries at the gate, the society deputes someone to drop the supply to our apartment so that we don’t need to step out. Also, when they buy gloves and masks, some are given to us. Sometimes, we place our orders on WhatsApp at the shop inside the complex and pay through PayTM. The owner drops off the items after he closes his shop, at the end of the day.”He adds that since the lockdown happened, the couple have caught up on indoor exercises, including ‘pranayama’ (breathing exercises).The society, which has 300 families, has cut down the number of staff on the premises to four, responsible for cleaning, maintenance and housekeeping. Sanitisation drives have been carried out twice in the complex, with the help of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram.At the gate, the society has placed sanitisers and provided masks to all employees. Unable to procure an infrared thermometer, the society has placed a digital thermometer with the guards to measure temperatures of those suspected to have a fever. “We were unable to get a thermal gun due to stocks running low. So, we have given the guards a digital thermometer, to be used on those suspected of running a high temperature,” said Sharma.The residency has restricted all deliveries to the entry gate, from where residents pick them up. Residents receive alerts about the same on a shared app. The RWA has also placed three to four tables outside its gate for delivery executives to drop off their packages.Entry of visitors has also been suspended since the lockdown was imposed. Household helps have also been directed to suspend work, except for those helping senior citizens and those needing constant assistance. “In some cases, we have allowed the helpers to stay with the seniors, if it is a necessary support for them,” said Amrish Kumar, secretary of the RWA.The society decided to close its clubhouse and park even before the lockdown, to prevent large gatherings. The RWA, through a circular, also asked residents to stop taking walks. However, a few residents have resumed taking walks, albeit in different time slots, said Sharma. “The park was closed about the time the MCG sealed the others,” said Alok Goel, who has been residing here for 11 years.The society has one grocery shop on its premises complex. Residents can place their orders in advance through WhatsApp and collect the same after payment. “We have one shop that caters to our essential needs. When shopping, we ensure social distancing and use of masks by everyone,” said Kumar.When the lockdown began, the society decided to contribute food packets to be distributed by third parties in slums. Families were directed to provide two packets, each, on Wednesday and Saturday. However, over time, the initiative has dwindled, said Sharma.“We had informed residents that the food packets would be collected from 10-11 am. Tables were set up for residents to place their food packets. At its peak, we collected 80-150 packets. After the lockdown extension, we saw little interest in the initiative and so, we stopped it last Saturday,” said Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/senior-citizens-a-high-priority-for-rail-vihar-residents/story-qW9q7EtVafLPWgkW9DuCgN.html
24-04-2020||Mumbai||4.2K Covid-19 cases reported in Mumbai, 930 containment zones||The number of containment zones in Mumbai shot up by 117 between Tuesday and Wednesday, taking the total to 930 as of Wednesday evening, according to data from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). The total number of Covid-19 positive cases in the city also increased by 522 on Thursday, taking the total to 4,205. Mumbai has seen a total of 167 deaths, with six new deaths recorded on Thursday.However, a presentation made by municipal commissioner Praveen Pardeshi and chief secretary Ajoy Mehta to the Centre said there are 771 containment zones in Mumbai. Explaining the difference, Pardeshi told Hindustan Times, “The number of containment zones increases every day, and fluctuates as some zones finish their 14-day quarantine period, and show no patients with symptoms.” Pardeshi confirmed that as of Wednesday evening, there were 930 recorded containment zones in the city. The G-South ward in Worli crossed the 500 Covid-19 positive cases mark, and recorded 507 cases as of Wednesday. The same data revealed that 62.8% (2,360) of the total cases in Mumbai fall in seven wards –G-South, E ward of Byculla, L ward of Kurla, K-West ward of Andheri West, F-North ward of Wadala, G-North ward of Dadar and Dharavi, D ward of Tardeo and Malabar Hill, and K-East ward of Andheri East.However, the silver lining is that most new cases are among people already quarantined by the BMC. “It is a good thing because it means we have been able to contain the spread to the area which is already a containment zone. In containment zones, there is rigorous contact tracing, testing, fever clinics, and strict lockdown,” said Pardeshi.Also, the BMC removed 187 containment zones from its list until Wednesday, as these are areas have finished their 14-day quarantine period and showed no new cases.The solution for BMC going forward is quarantining more people, who are contacts of Covid-19 positive cases. Another method of containing the outbreak in these areas is monitoring human movement with drone images. “We are flying drones every day, all the time, and carefully inspecting feed from them for any crowding. Police or ward staff is immediately intimated, and these people are moved indoors. Food packets are delivered on time.”Kiran Dighavkar, assistant municipal commissioner of G-North ward, said, “We are increasing our quarantine facilities and ensuring that our hotspots and containment zones have a regular supply of food and medicines.”Dharavi recorded 25 new cases and one death on Thursday taking the total count to 214 cases, and total 13 deaths. K-WEST WARD SEES 41 cases in 24 HRSSagar PillaiMUMBAIThe K-West ward, which covers Andheri West, Irla, Juhu, Oshiwara and parts of Jogeshwari, has reported 41 cases within 24 hours, taking the tally to 264, according to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s data on Wednesday. There were 123 positive patients on April 17. So far, 32 patients have been cured and discharged. Anand Nagar and Gandhi Nagar are among the seven hotspots.Ranjeet Dhakane, deputy municipal commissioner of K-West ward, said, “A majority of the hotpsots are in slum areas. We are setting up more fever clinics. A door-to-door survey is being carried out to identify people at high risk and quarantine them within three hours.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/4-2k-covid-19-cases-reported-in-mumbai-930-containment-zones/story-dbfG406prLijWH7j5JsstN.html
24-04-2020||City||Covid-19: 10 more test positive in Punjab, tally reaches 287||Ten more cases of the coronavirus, including seven from Jalandhar and one from Mohali district, were reported in Punjab on Thursday, taking the total tally of those infected in the state to 287. In Jalandhar, those found infected include a 55-year-old woman of New Raseela Nagar locality whose 65-year-old husband was found positive earlier and a 39-year-old wife a 42-year-old positive patient from Basti Sheikh.Others are a 70-year-old man who is landlord of a 27-year-old infected man in Pacca Bagh area, a 46-year-old woman of Basti Danishmanda who is a close contact of a 70-year-old positive patient besides a 65-year-old woman from Jawala Nagar, four men aged 48, 39 30 and 31, all co-workers of a 40-year-old Covid-19 patient from Raja Garden.Except the Basti Danishmanda woman resident aged 46, eight are contacts of the 40-year-old infected man from the Raja Garden locality. With this, the total number of positive cases in the district has reached 62, said health department nodal officer Dr TPS Sandhu.Of a total of 1,630 samples collected in the district, 1168 tested negative while results of 248 are awaited, he added.The district administration has asked the health department to ensure throat swab testing of everyone having flu-like symptoms.The Doaba region has reported 92 Covid-19 cases, including three deaths, so far. SBS Nagar has 19 cases, Hoshiarpur seven and Kapurthala three. The son of a 70-year-old woman from Nijamtam Nagar, who was cured of the virus infection after treatment in a private hospital in Ludhiana, was declared as recovered on Thursday at the local civil hospital after being tested negative twice. PGI employee found infected in MohaliIn Mohali, a 30-year-old resident of Nayagaon and an employee of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, was tested positive for the coronavirus on Thursday. His family members were tested negative. The district’s count has now reached 63. Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said the man is a primary contact of a previous positive patient and resides in the same building in Adarash Nagar locality of Nayagaon. The reports of all family members of the previous infected patient were found positive. The reports of 45 persons are awaited in the district which has reported two deaths with 14 people having recovered, the civil surgeon said. Of a total of 1,104 samples collected in the district, 978 have been found negative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-10-more-test-positive-in-punjab-tally-reaches-287/story-lnD01zeLItheDmFlXyGT9I.html
24-04-2020||Chandigarh||Screen, test all patients for Covid-19, demand PGIMER doctors||The faculty members at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) have demanded that all patients visiting the tertiary care institute be tested to rule out the possibility of coronavirus infection spread.The faculty association raised the issue after a six-month-old baby admitted to the institute with a cardiac problem tested positive for the coronavirus disease in a pre-operative test, following which 54 health workers were quarantined and tested negative. The association has highlighted that the infection among healthcare workers ranges between 10-20% all over the world and has been reported from medical Institutes in India as well. “PGIMER should take only referred patients at least from district/state hospitals and there should be no direct registration. The issue may be taken up with chief secretaries of adjoining states,” a press release from the association said.“Patients should also get tested in their local designated state and medical college lab in order to avoid delays at the PGIMER,” said Dr JS Thakur, president of the association.PGIMER director Dr Jagat Ram said the demand was under active consideration of the administration and a decision in this regard was expected shortly. “We will not go with haphazard testing, but also feel that all incoming patients should be screened and tested for Covid-19,” Ram said.OTHER ISSUES FLAGGEDThakur said the PGIMER administration was putting efforts for provision of mask and personal protection equipment as per the institute guidelines, but there were still issues related to equitable distribution which needed to be addressed.“The protocol which the institute has, has been refined four times, but we need to ensure that what is on paper is being followed on the ground too,” Thakur said.General secretary of the association, Dr Arun Bansal, said, “The main focus of the administration is the screening of Covid-19 and the Nehru Extension Block where the patients concerned are. However, doctors from other areas, where some surgery or procedure are to be conducted, should be provided better safety gear.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/screen-test-all-patients-for-covid-19-pgimer-docs-demand/story-xryqgJYojBkhOt8DMcs1iP.html
24-04-2020||Delhi||2 more Delhi cops test Covid-positive, 28 personnel now infected in Capital||Two more Delhi Police officers tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Thursday, taking the total number of infected personnel in the city to 28. Both the personnel are assistant sub-inspectors (ASI) in different wings of the Delhi police force, and were asymptomatic. They have now been sent to separate quarantine centres in the city. The rising number of cases among police officers in the city highlights the dangers frontline workers are exposed to, in the fight against the contagious disease.One of the officers is posted with the police’s crime branch at its office in north Delhi’s Kotwali. The other is attached with the anti-terror special cell office in Lodhi Colony, where a head constable had tested positive for the disease on Sunday. As many as 72 personnel of the office were sent to self quarantine on Tuesday, and all personnel at the office were also asked to get themselves tested.The head constable had been admitted to Deen Dayal Upadhyay hospital on April 11 after displaying flu-like symptoms. Of the 28 Delhi Police personnel infected with Covid-19, 12 are from Nabi Karim and Chandni Mahal police stations in central Delhi, and six from the Jahangirpuri police station, who tested positive on Tuesday. All three police stations are among the 89 neighbourhoods in the city that have been declared “containment”or red zones. Residents of these zones are not allowed to step out of their houses, and authorities deliver essential items to doorsteps. Entries and exits to and from these neighbourhood are restricted as well, and pickets are continuously guarded by police personnel.A senior special cell officer said their ASI was not among the 72 who are in self-quarantine, as he had not been visiting the office regularly. “The ASI informed us that he has tested positive for the virus. He has now been shifted to a quarantine centre. His family members, who live in northeast Delhi’s Babarpur, are now in home quarantine. His contacts are being traced to ascertain whom he contracted the infection from,” the special cell officer said. In the other case, deputy commissioner of police (crime) Rajan Bhagat said the ASI lives in a Shahdara neighbourhood that has already been designated a containment zone. “The ASI was off duty, since his residential area was declared a containment zone. His family members are in home quarantine, and he has been shifted to a quarantine centre. Three personnel who worked with him in the Kotwali office have been screened, and have tested negative,” Bhagat said.Of the 28 Delhi Police personnel found positive so far in the city, an assistant sub-inspector in the traffic police, who was the first to be diagnosed, was discharged from hospital last Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-more-delhi-police-officers-test-covid-ve-number-of-cases-in-force-up-to-28/story-qOpIuGWNUxV2VCmVgM5pAP.html
24-04-2020||Pune||33,000 vehicles seized in a month during lockdown in Pune||In a month during the lockdown to curb the spread of Sars-cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 (coronavirus) infection, the Pune police have seized over 33,000 vehicles.According to police between March 23 and April 22, 10,843 cases were registered under Section 188 of Indian Penal Code (IPC), 33,141 vehicles including two and four-wheelers were seized, and 36,689 warning notices were issued.In the first few days of the lockdown, the police were issuing warning notices and confiscating keys of vehicles of lockdown violators. However, as the spread of the Sars-Cov2 virus increased, the lockdown was also intensified.With the number of vehicle seizures going up, the places used for storage of seized vehicles are filling up fast. For example, the Shivajinagar police station, where multiple vehicles are already languishing, the newly seized vehicles are piling up. However, there is open ground around the police station which can be used if the police choose to, said police officials.At Kondhwa police station, a patch of land near the police station is generally used for vehicles seized from vehicle thieves, traffic rule violators, or accident spots. However, the already filled-up space is now used to park vehicles which are being seized from lockdown violators.Senior police inspector Vinayak Gaikwad of Kondhwa police station, said, “There is a ground near the traffic division. Right now that is being used.”“We are seizing vehicles of violators for a day whenever possible and then returning them by evening, but if the vehicle is seized under a case (under Section 188 of IPC), then it has to be confiscated,” said Gaikwad.While most of the seized vehicles are two-wheelers, there are cars also getting seized for plying on the streets without reason, said officials.Action taken between March 23 and April 22 10,843 : cases under Section 188 of IPC33,141: vehicles seized36,689: notices issuedCases reported on WednesdayCases under Section 188 of IPC- 510Vehicle seized- 1073Crpc notices issued -970Morning walkers detained -207Mask rule violations- 47||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/33-000-vehicles-seized-in-a-month-during-lockdown-in-pune/story-KyxbAoCFpERhcXisomk10K.html
24-04-2020||Chandigarh||Police stations run out of space for parking impounded vehicles of curfew violators||The issue of police stations in Ludhiana running out of space to park the impounded vehicles of curfew violators has left the police officials scratching their heads.Since the lockdown, the police have to date, impounded 4,500 vehicles (mostly two-wheelers) which are parked outside police station buildings.Cops said the vehicles impounded in various other cases are already occupying the entire parking space in police station compounds. “With no space left in police stations to park the impounded vehicles of curfew violators, we have parked these vehicles around police station buildings,” they said.To solve the problem, the police personnel, who are already overburdened due to curfew duties, have requested the senior officials to release the vehicles after checking the documents. However, the documents will be released after the vehicle owner will pay the fine.An SHO, requesting anonymity, said, “The police station yard is already full with case properties. Now, we have to accommodate the impounded vehicles of curfew violators also. At least 20 vehicles are being impounded every day.”The impounded vehicles of curfew violators will be released after the curfew will be lifted.606 CURFEW VIOLATORS HELDPolice commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said the Ludhiana Police have registered 344 FIRs of curfew violations in city and 606 residents have been arrested. “Over 13,000 curfew violators were rounded up and sent to open jails. But they were let off after they pleaded guilty and their records were verified,” the police chief said.”I appeal to the people to follow the norms in view of the curfew for their own benefit. If people stay indoors, they will keep themselves and their family members safe from Covid-19. We do not want to be strict with anyone,” Agrawal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/police-stations-run-out-of-space-for-parking-impounded-vehicles-of-curfew-violators/story-pPsXfwZSUeK1Gn4M2eecwN.html
24-04-2020||Noida||Temporary jail in Ghaziabad for suspects of coronavirus-related cases||On directions of the Uttar Pradesh home department, Ghaziabad district will soon set up a temporary jail where those who attacked police personnel and healthcare workers, those linked to the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi who had hid their association history, and foreign nationals apprehended during the lockdown will be lodged. The state director general (prisons) said the temporary jails have started to come up in 34 districts across the state.In Ghaziabad, it will be set up at Adhyatmik Nagar near Dasna, where district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey and senior superintendent of police Kalanidhi Naithani went for inspection on Thursday afternoon.“A facility at Adhyatmik Nagar has been identified and inspection was done to assess facilities. A final decision for a temporary jail will soon be made. The facility should be able to house those -- about 282 so far -- who attended various religious congregations or foreign nationals apprehended in Ghaziabad,” Pandey added.Earlier in April, the Ghaziabad police had picked up several persons from the Sahibabad area, including some citizens of Nepal and Indonesia.UP’s Director General (DG – prisons) Anand Kumar said: “The district magistrate is empowered to make temporary jails and decide the location as well. The idea behind this is to keep the usual inmates lodged in regular jails away from the people linked to the Tablighi Jamaat event, the foreign nationals or those arrested for attacking police and healthcare staff, due to the coronavirus threat,” Kumar said.“Many of these persons are in isolation or quarantine and will be shifted to the temporary jails once they complete their isolation/quarantine period. Here, they will be under judicial custody,” he added.According to official records, 11 districts in the state have so far set up temporary jails where a total of 132 Indian nationals and 156 foreign nationals are lodged. The rest of the 23 districts where temporary jails are going to be set up include Ghaziabad, Meerut, Baghpat, Agra and Mathura.“There is a provision in the jail manual where the district magistrate is empowered to create such jails in times of emergency situations like an epidemic, etc. With the creation of these temporary jails we do not wish to bring into contact any of our regular inmates with people who have Covid-19 disease,” Kumar added.According to official records, there are 71 regular prisons in the state which house about 90,000 inmates at present. Ghaziabad has a regular prison at Dasna.District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said people who attended religious congregations and even foreign nationals nabbed in Ghaziabad have almost “saturated.”“We have a figure of about 282 such persons and our area is now saturated. We don’t expect more people to be found further. However, the Ghaziabad police are keeping a watch with the help of surveillance activities,” DM Pandey said.After the inspection of the proposed temporary jail at Adhyatmik Nagar, the DM on Thursday evening gave directions to different departments, including the police, to make arrangements for barricading, CCTVs, deployment of police force, electricity connections and proper cleaning and sanitisation of the premises.Under the electronic surveillance measures, the police obtain CDRs of suspects and can track their contacts and also their locations with the help of data obtained from the cellular operators.Police said they have so far tracked or assisted in more 1,000 cases linked to the Covid-19 disease and have so far tracked about 200 Covid-19 positive patients or their close contacts in Ghaziabad.“The surveillance activities are regularly going on and are being taken up on requests of the health department. We have taken care of hundreds of requests which have come from police of other states and also from various districts in UP. The electronic surveillance is taken up in order to find the movement of suspects or their close contacts. In Ghaziabad alone we have tracked about 200 persons who are either positive cases or their close contacts,” said Prakash Kumar, superintendent of police (crime).He added that most of the cases tracked by the district police were linked to people who had attended religious congregations and even related to Ceasefire, the Noida-based company from which a large number of cases – 45 in Gautam Budh Nagar and over 17 in other districts -- had come.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/temporary-jail-in-ghaziabad-to-keep-suspects-who-had-a-brush-with-covid-19/story-SaTHyyvm2jr64024J03ISI.html
24-04-2020||Noida||Ghaziabad told to set up 500-bed L1 category Covid-19 facility||A four-member team sent by the Union health ministry which visited Ghaziabad on Wednesday has directed the district administration to come up with a 500-bed L1 category Covid-19 facility in the city to treat non-critical positive cases.The officials of the district health department said they have launched a search for a building where the facility can be set up.“The health ministry team visited Ghaziabad, and expressed satisfaction about the arrangements we have put in place to deal with Covid-19 cases. However, they have asked us to come up with a 500-bed facility where Covid-19 positive patients can be kept. Our officials have started a search. The building need not be a 500-bed hospital as such, it can be a banquet hall, college or any other similar building where the facility can come up,” Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer, Ghaziabad, said.At present, Ghaziabad has one L1 category Covid-19 hospital at Muradnagar which can host up to 30 patients at a time. The officials said the Muradnagar facility will not cater to coronavirus cases, once the 500-bed facility is set up. They added that positive patients from other nearby districts can also be accommodated at the new facility once it starts operating.Under the three-tier dedicated health care facilities to deal with Covid-19 cases, the Uttar Pradesh government has identified different health centres under L1, L2 and L3 levels with L1 catering to non-critical Covid-19 patients, while L2 and L3 will deal with more complicated and critical cases. The L1 attached is a sub-category under L1, for asymptomatic Covid-19 patients.Health officials said most of the Covid-19 patients in Ghaziabad are either at Covid-19 facility in Muradnagar or at the ESI Hospital in Sahibabad. Till Thursday evening, no patient was admitted to the L2 facility at Sanjay Nagar.“In Ghaziabad, we have a 76-bed L1 attached facility at ESI Hospital, Sahibabad. We have an L2 hospital in Sanjay Nagar which is now a dedicated Covid-19 hospital. At present, we have no patient at the Sanjay Nagar district combined hospital. Once we start with a 500-bed L1 category facility, health centre at Muradnagar will not cater to Covid-19 cases,” Dr Gupta added.The CMO said that only two patients—residents of Indirapuram, both suffering from cancer, have been referred to L3 hospitals at Meerut and Delhi, respectively.In another related development, the state government on Thursday decided to send two senior state officials to each district which has reported 20 or more Covid-19 positive cases.“We have about 15 officials from state and districts’ administration, and another officer from the state health department, and these officials will be sent to these districts with 20 or more cases in a pair of two to monitor the lockdown and healthcare-related efforts. They will camp in these districts for a week,” said Awanish Awasthi, UP’s additional chief secretary (home).“The chief minister has given directions for strict enforcement of the lockdown across the state. We have directed officials to keep a close watch on border areas and seize any commercial vehicles if they are found carrying more than two persons other than the driver and the helper. People who will violate lockdown norms will be nabbed and sent to quarantine centres, and their vehicle will also be seized,” he added.The Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar districts have already sealed their borders with Delhi to keep the number of positive Covid-19 cases from rising.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-told-to-set-up-500-bed-l1-category-covid-19-facility/story-WoTIQIRcnTDcjuYyfNgG7K.html
24-04-2020||Chandigarh||Covid contingency plan: Panjab University starts vacating four hostels for Chandigarh admn||Following a Chandigarh administration directive, Panjab University (PU) has started vacating its girls’ hostels number 8, 9 and 10, and international hostel to be used as Covid care centres in case the coronavirus situation worsens in the city.The four hostels have over a thousand students, almost all of whom left for their homes ever since classes at the varsity were suspended on March 15. Around 16 students, some foreigners, have started vacating their rooms in the hostels for shifting to the girls’ hostels on the Sector 14 campus.The decision came on Thursday in a virtual meeting of a committee under the chairmanship of dean university instructions (DUI) Shankar Ji Jha. International hostel warden Harveen Kaur said, “The students are vacating the hostels. If they cannot come, there is no compulsion to take their belongings.”The university will store the belongings of the hostellers in such cases. In case students have any valuable items in the hostel, they have to inform the wardens concerned.“The university will pack up the belongings of the students and store them with labels in a single room. The process will be carried under video surveillance,” said a member of the committee.The university has decided that time will be given to the students to collect their belongings or they can authorise any person to collect these on their behalf. The varsity has also requested the Chandigarh deputy commissioner to issue curfew passes to facilitate collection of belongings by outsiders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-contingency-plan-pu-starts-vacating-4-hostels-for-chandigarh-admn/story-pxLkeORBKKgZ3rDes9UgSN.html
24-04-2020||Pune||With least positive cases, Kothrud and Aundh-Baner ready for ‘green zone’, says Pune civic chief||PUNE: With Kothrud and Aundh-Baner recording no fresh cases in almost weeks, zero deaths and barely three positive cases as of April 21, both these wards are ready to be designated as ‘green zone’, Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad has said.“Currently they are in orange zone but they can be marked as green zone any time now since there have been no fresh cases reported in weeks in these two wards,” Gaikwad said.The green zone refers to areas where there are no cases of Covid-19 (coronavirus), as per the Union health ministry guidelines. He said good leadership, public participation and awareness was much better in these wards than in other parts of the city. “People have been responding well to social distancing. Even the slightest mismanagement or anyone found breaking the rules is being reported by the people themselves which is like a social policing on the people by the people which is helping keep down the figures,” Gaikwad said.Dr Ganesh Damale, ward medical officer at Aundh-Baner ward, is responsible for the home surveillance in Aundh-Baner ward said, “We kept a strict watch on not just foreign travellers but domestic travellers by including society chairmen and local leaders who keep us informed. Any person found with any flu like symptoms is immediately referred to the nearby flu clinic and from thereon to the hospital if required for swab testing. Also we ensure that home quarantine is strictly being followed not just for 14 days but for 28 days by calling the person daily and also cross checking with the society chairman.”Ram Sonawane, ward medical officer and responsible for home surveillance at Kothrud said, “We ensured separate disposal vehicles for waste from quarantine centres. At slums we ensured that we sprayed over 1,000 toilets seats at public toilets with one percent sodium hypochlorite atleast three times a day. We asked our staff coming from Bhawani peth or Kashiwadi, both which are red zones to take leave to contain the spread. All society chairpersons were added in a common groups to inform about any new person entering their societies be it a vegetable vendor too. Every shopkeeper made sure that social distancing was being followed.Each ward has been appointed with a civic doctor who will look into the house-to-house survey. Sandip Shankarrao Kadam, assistant ward officer at Kothrud ward said, “We found only one positive and that patient too has been discharged. We kept a strict surveillance on the people who came from foreign travel or from the Tabligi event at Delhi. We disinfected all public places for seven days continuously which contained the spread of the virus. In slums too we sealed the areas and made sure that the essential supply continuous and the main roads in slum area like Jai Bhawani wadi and Kelewadi were also sealed. We will soon supply masks and sanitizers in all houses in our wards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-least-positive-cases-kothrud-aundh-baner-ready-for-green-zone-says-gaikwad/story-QptcAgVid2I8txP01dXRXL.html
24-04-2020||City||Soon, Panchkula to set up its own lab to accelerate Covid testing||With the coronavirus outbreak raging on and testing patients becoming an uphill task for hospital administration, the Panchkula health department will now be setting up its own Covid-19 testing lab, likely by the end of the month. Officials in the know said the process had begun at the Sector 6 civil hospital in the district.As per information, the hospital administration has finalised a space near the psychiatric ward on the fourth floor of Block C, and a team will be checking the premises to install the machine, which will test 80 samples at a time.Currently, the district health department is dependent on Chandigarh’s PGIMER and the Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College in Karnal, where samples are sent for tests.On this, Panchkula civil surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur said the health department was working to set up the project and aimed to open the lab at the civil hospital in the next week. “Installation is underway. Some parts are awaited. It is being calibrated and staff is being trained for it,” said Dr Kaur. She said this will streamline the process of collecting samples and cut down the waiting period of reports, as other labs were deluged with the increasing number of samples coming in every day. Officials said when the lab opens next week, they will first hold a trial. 750 RAPID KITS, BUT STAY ON THEIR USETo collect more samples in Panchkula, the district’s health department has also got around 750 rapid test kits. Officials said till now, only those with travel history, their contacts and suspected patients, who visited the hospital, were being tested. But with several confirmed cases which were asymptomatic, more people will need to be tested.Meanwhile, these rapid test kits cannot be used for the time being in absence of permission from higher authorities. Dr Kaur said, “We have got more than 750 testing kits, but currently their utilisation has been stayed, as we are following the directions of the Indian Council of Medical Research.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/soon-panchkula-s-new-lab-to-accelerate-testing-for-covid/story-Yrg8xdcrka4zlRSjOGBRiP.html
24-04-2020||Pune||Baramati model of containing Covid-19 guiding path for others: central team||An inter-ministerial central team which is on tour in the Pune district to asses the Covid-19 (coronavirus) situation visited Baramati on Thursday.According to officials of the district administration, the team collected details of the ‘Baramati pattern’ of containing the Sars-cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 (coronavirus) infection, and called it a ‘guiding path’ for other cities and districts.The team included Dr P K Sen, additional director general directorate general of Health Services and Dr Arvind Aloni. The team visited Siddheshwar lane area, MHADA Colony and Shramiknagar where Covid-19 positive cases were reported. They also visited the Silver Jubilee Hospital and took a detailed review of the hospital condition, its operations and management of handling Covid-19 patients.Dr Sen said, “The presentation given by the Baramati team was excellent and the kind of preparations they have done and shown the results in fighting against this disease is commendable. The model they are following can be beneficiary and a guiding path for other districts and cities too.”After the death of a local person and six Covid-19 positive cases, the district administration evolved what was called as “Baramati pattern” during the first week of April. The pattern, originally based on Bhilwara model, involves completely sealing clusters which reported positive cases and preventing people from stepping out even to buy essentials and deliver the milk and vegetables at their homes. The efforts have helped the administration to arrest the number of Covid-19 cases in the Baramati tehsil.Medical superintendent Dr Sadanand Kale briefed the team about medical services and the tasks were undertaken to contain the spread of the diseases. After which a detailed presentation on overall preparations, monitoring and action plan of Baramati taluka was given to the central team members at the government rest house.Deputy collector Amrut Natekar, Tehsildar Vijay Patil, additional police commissioner Jayant Meena, Baramati taluka health officer Manoj Khamane and several other senior officials were present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/baramati-model-of-containing-covid-19-guiding-path-for-others-central-team/story-sbzgduCAw36RJLYHXRo3FI.html
24-04-2020||Pune||Shopkeeper, son held in Pune for violating lockdown order, assaulting police||A shopkeeper and his son were arrested on Thursday and remanded to 14 days judicial custody by a local court for keeping their shop open despite an order from the police to keep the shops closed in the area. The incident took place on Wednesday.The two also attacked the policemen who tried to shut their shop down, according to the complaint in the incident.The accused in the case have been identified as Tarun Mukesh Lilani, 58, and Tarun Mukesh Lilani, 31, both residents of Hariganga Society at Alandi Road in Yerawada.The two policemen who were on duty have been identified as Police Naik Sandeep Patil and Nagesh Kunwar, according to a complaint lodged by Patil.Groceries and vegetable stores were ordered to stay shut according to an order by the police in areas which come under the jurisdiction of 10 specific police stations in the city and that included Yerawada where the incident took place.“The area where the incident took place comes under containment seal. The shop was to remain shut,” said assistant police inspector (API) Balbhim Nanavare of Yerawada police station who is investigating the case.Patil alleges that the two went to the shop around 12:35 pm on Wednesday as a crowd had gathered outside the shop and the shopkeepers were not wearing masks. The customers were also not following social distancing norms.“The two (policemen) have suffered minor injuries. The shopkeeper and the son have been arrested and sent to 14 days in judicial custody in Satara jail,” said API Nanavare.A case under Sections 353, 332, 188, 269, 270, 271, 34 of Indian Penal Code along with Section 3 of Epidemic Disease Act 1897, Section 11 of Maharashtra Covid19 Regulation 2020, and Section 51(b) of Disaster Management Act, 2005 was registered against the two at Yerawada police station against the two.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shopkeeper-son-held-for-violating-lockdown-order-assaulting-police/story-Y3UFm5bDNU23VwUjMH7y8O.html
24-04-2020||Pune||Three held for assaulting, robbing cop on duty in Chakan||Three men have been arrested by Pimpri-Chinchwad police for assaulting and robbing a policeman in Chakan on Tuesday night.The accused arrested have been identified as Ashwin Pravin Rokade, 27; Shahrukh Ijajkha Pathan, 22; Pratik Yogiraj Khadse, 21, all resident of a rented flat in Pansare Mala area located along Shikrapur road in Chakan. They are all natives of Washim, according to the police.The complaint in the matter was lodged by Indrakumar Tukaram Dhotre, 30, who lives in a house along Markal road in Khed. Dhotre works as a hawaldar and is attached to the Chakan police station.The incident took place around 8:30 pm on Tuesday when Dhotre was on his two-wheeler along the road in Rase that Alandi to Chakan. He was dressed in his uniform when the incident happened, according to the complaint.“We received information from our sources that three men matching the description were in the area. We were also tracking the phone they had stolen. They are labourers addicted to drugs and gambling. They were under the influence even when they committed the crime,” said police sub-inspector Vijay Deepak Jagdale of Chakan police station who is investigating the case.The three allegedly hit him on the back of his head with a wooden rod after which he fell off the moving bike. The three then proceeded to blow punches and kicks on him before fleeing with his mobile phone, cash, and two bank cards collectively worth Rs 9,000, according to the complaint.A case in the matter was registered on Wednesday under Sections 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Chakan police station against the three.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-held-for-assaulting-robbing-cop-on-duty-in-chakan/story-2GIH6laYqmw3suFrapY6II.html
24-04-2020||Pune||On the frontline: We receive calls daily requesting for help, says president of Vande Mataram Sanghatana||Vaibhav Wagh is the state president of the Vande Mataram Sanghatana, which is a city-based youth organisation currently working to provide help to all those in need during the times of the Covid-19 pandemic. The organisation is involved in the distribution of food packets across the city during the lockdown to the urban poor.What exactly is your role in this crisis?We are a youth group called Vande Mataram Sanghatana and since the lockdown began, we have been distributing food packets in coordination with other youth organisations. We have base kitchens in different parts of the city from where our volunteers collect the cooked food and then distribute it to students, beggars, workers and whoever need it. It is distributed in the morning and evening and necessary police permissions are taken for it. How does your day begin and roll out?My day starts with phone calls, which we get from various parts of the city requesting for help. We have also started giving raw food material in a kit to the labour camps, poor people and those who are stuck in the city because of the lockdown. Throughout the day, I receive hundreds of calls, then, I coordinate with our volunteers and go out on the field for distribution work. At night, we plan what areas we could target the next day. What precautions are you taking?All our volunteers are taking precautions prescribed by the government like using face masks, regularly washing hands, using hand sanitizer and maintaining social distance during the distribution work. What is your assessment of the Covid-19 crisis in Pune? How is it unfolding?The restrictions will help the city contain the spread of the Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 disease. We are seeing a lot of good work during the times of crisis, with people coming forward with donations and help. If all the precautionary measures given by the government are strictly followed by residents, then, I think we will definitely win this battle soon. What gaps do you see in healthcare and relief work?There are no gaps as such, but I think there is a need to improve the relief work. In some of the areas, help is given twice and there is no verification. We have seen that people who have already received help (food/other items), still demand for more help to stock up on the items. However, due to this, those who have been left out, do not receive any help.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/on-the-frontline-receive-calls-daily-asking-for-help-distribute-food-with-necessary-police-permissions/story-2IjIawog14ehmXQ7ScVwcJ.html
24-04-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Sec 27C, D sealed following adviser’s call||Following the call of Chandigarh adviser Manoj Parida to get councillors and residents to seal high-risk neighbourhoods, Sector 27-C and D were cordoned off due to their proximity with Sector 30B where four cases of novel coronavirus disease (Covid-19) were reported recently.Led by local area councillor Devinder Singh Babla, municipal commissioner KK Yadav, senior superintendent of police (SSP) Nilambari Jagadale, sub-divisional magistrate (SDM, east) Sudhanshu Gautam, deputy superintendent of police (DSP, east) Dilsher Singh Chandel and Sector 26 station house officer (SHO) Narinder Patial were also present for the sealing. Babla said the sealing initiative will be also be active during the curfew relaxation hours to keep a check on all outsiders, vendors, delivery boys with proper infrared thermal screening by residents who will wear proper masks and gloves, with police keeping a constant vigil.Babla had earlier sealed off Sector 30B following the example of Sector 40. He said he will speak to the residents of Sector 28 and discuss sealing of the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-sec-27c-d-sealed-following-adviser-s-call/story-Zb869HFgmkagWiUyV31dNP.html
24-04-2020||Pune||What’s next for local cricket? It is a wait-and-watch game, says PDCA||With all sports in the country hit hard by the coronavirus lockdown, cricket lovers and players, all following stay-at-home norms, are missing action at the local level. Their only question: when will cricket action resume in the city? Many would have been busy at summer camps and playing tournaments across the city if the pandemic restrictions were not in place.Pune District Cricket Association (PDCA) was all set for Sadhu Shinde T20 league for women and entries had started coming before the office faced lockdown from March 15. The popular women cricket tournament in the city that saw 16 teams last year stands suspended.“Before the lockdown, 10 teams had already registered for the tournament and we were expecting more teams this time,” said Bhushan Deshpande, chairman, PDCA.“We are waiting for directions from the government bodies as the league has to be rescheduled,” added Deshpande.After Sadhu Shinde T20 league, PDCA conducts the summer league which is a T20 tournament for open category (men).“Even if we assume that cricket action resumes in June, many factors have to be considered because of the monsoon season,” said Arvind Shivale, president, PDCA.“We cannot comment on anything now. When the restrictions will ease, we will have meeting and the sports calendar will be rescheduled. Most of the clubs in the city will have to bear the loss as two busy months have gone by without any activity,” Shivale said.Online fitness trainingFor Vengsarkar Cricket Academy, players are doing fitness drills at home. Physio Dr Vijay Patil provides them with fitness session every day over WhatsApp.“We cannot let children relax at home completely. They have to follow some exercise regimen. Along with fitness drill videos, I keep sharing various cricket book PDFs with the players,” said Patil.Tournaments conducted in April-MaySadhu Shinde League (for women)Summer League (for men)Venue: Depends on availability of groundU12, 14, u16, u19 Varroc CupWomen’s Varroc CupVenue: Vengsarkar Cricket Academy, ThergaonU12, 14, u16, u19 Damle TrophyVenue: Maharashtriya Mandal, Mukundnagar and Kodre Farms, Sinhgad road||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/what-s-next-for-local-cricket-it-is-a-wait-and-watch-game-says-pdca/story-YLYozKVohQvCK54rt1MZsO.html
24-04-2020||Pune||Pune’s Covid-19 battle focused on pockets within five wards||The 21-day national lockdown which began on March 25 and was further extended till May 3 by the Union government, has clearly helped in identifying and narrowing down of the localities that have been worst-hit by the Sars-Cov-2 virus in Pune.An analysis of 729 positive cases in Pune over the last 15 days has shown that the Covid-19 cases have been rising in specific pockets located within five wards in the central parts of the city.The remaining 10 wards, notably the western localities of Aundh, Baner, Kothrud, Bavdhan, Warje-Karvenagar and Sinhgad road, have not shown any significant rise in the number of cases. While the data was provided by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) which is among the few civic bodies releasing ward-level on a daily basis, the analysis was done by city-based analyst Sahil Deo who has been interacting closely with elected representatives and officials. Deo said in an interview that greater success could be achieved if public awareness is created about the specific pockets within the wards from where the positive cases were emerging.“If public awareness is created about these pockets by the Pune Municipal Corporation, the people in the affected areas would become alert and feel empowered to participate in the battle against the disease,” he said. Simultaneously, it would also bring relief in the unaffected areas in these wards and the rest of the city, he said. While Pune has seen 57 deaths of Covid-19 patients as of April 22, Bhavani peth continued to be the worst-affected ward with 171 positive cases as of April 22. It was followed by Kasba-Vishrambagwada with 111 positive cases and Dhole Patil road with 110.   As was the case last week, the “medium band” was occupied by Yerawada-Kalas-Dhanori with 82 positive cases and Shivajinagar-Ghole road with 77. Underprivileged and low income areas with higher population density were the common features of the high positive areas. “Data clearly indicates that the cases are not rising in 10 wards of the city. There is a clear differentiation between these 10 wards and the five wards where the cases are rising. Those five wards will have hotspots within them. It wold help if the civic administration creates public awareness about these hotspots,” he said.More granular data would mean identification of the hotspots within the wards, Deo said. “If the civic authorities decide to become more vocal about these micro-narratives, it would help people rationalise the situation and people would be more willing to help and cooperate,” he said.He pointed out that it would be unfair to say that the entire Shivajinagar-Ghole road area was facing a problem. “Most areas in that ward are not affected. It’s only three or four areas within that ward,” he noted. As we go forward, more granular data could help in dealing with the challenge, he said. The Pune strategy to bring Covid-19 under controlAbhay Khairnar According to Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad, “The first step we took was to declare areas with high positive cases as “containment zones”. The police then brought in heavy restrictions to prevent the unnecessary movement of people. We launched mobile clinics and check-up vans in these areas and we have been getting good response.” The health department has intensified house-to-house surveys in the containment zones and contact-tracing has been going on in these areas.All of this has been helping us identify many positive cases. Testing has also been increased to step up detection of positive cases in the early stages itself, added Gaikwad.Top 5 wards with positive cases* Bhavani peth: 171* Kasba-Vishrambaugwada: 111* Dhole Patil road: 110* Yerawada-Kalas-Dhanori: 82* Shivajinagar-Ghole road: 77Wards with least cases * Kothrud-Bavdhan: 01* Aundh-Baner: 02* Warje-Karvenagar: 09* Sinhgad road: 09* Kondhwa-Yewlewadi: 12||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-s-covid-19-battle-focused-on-pockets-within-five-wards/story-EXjYRxBlrQ03XhLV844V5L.html
24-04-2020||Mumbai||MCOCA can be invoked against gambling gangs: Bombay HC||The Bombay high court on Tuesday upheld invocation of stringent provisions of the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA), 1999, against a gang run by a local from Kolhapur.On April 8, 2019, a team of police personnel from Kolhapur’s Karvir police station raided the gambling den of Salim Mulla. When the police party was seizing the material and cash found at the den, Mulla’s wife Shama reached the den with some gang members and all of them assaulted the policemen.Police initially booked the accused persons under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code, Maharashtra Gambling Act, Maharashtra Police Act and Maharashtra Prohibition Act. Two days later police invoked stringent provisions of MCOCA against the gang, involving more than 40 members.Fourteen of them had moved high court challenging invocation of MCOCA against them. They argued that they were not present at the den when it was raided, and they did not have any association with Mulla or his alleged organised crime syndicate. They further argued that on the basis of the material collected by police, they can, at the most, be said to have committed the offences under the gambling act, and since maximum punishment for these offences is two years imprisonment, MCOCA could not have been invoked against them.A division bench of chief justice BP Dharmadhikari and justice NR Borkar, however, rejected the argument after noticing that the petitioners provided risk cover to the main accused Mulla and thus helped him run the gambling den.“If the case of the prosecution is accepted, the organised crime syndicate of the accused [Mulla] would not have succeeded in gambling activity or business in absence of the helping hand of the petitioners,” said the bench rejecting their argument.Gambling by itself may not be organised crime, but an organised crime syndicate may take recourse to it as one of its profit-making ventures. The bench added, “If the existence of an organised crime syndicate comes to the knowledge of the state for the first time while conducting the raid on a gambling establishment and the investigation shows previous two or more charge-sheets for cognisable offences punishable with imprisonment of three or more years, the police may take recourse to the MCOCA .”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mcoca-can-be-invoked-against-gambling-gangs-bombay-hc/story-hHACnQJTDL4IDdn4Sz0lAO.html
24-04-2020||Business||No pay cut for employees in April: Indigo CEO||IndiGo has announced that it will not reduce the salaries of their employees during the lockdown. The company has withdrawn its earlier announcement about pay cuts for April. IndiGo had earlier announced pay cuts up to 25% from April. According to the airlines, senior-level management airline officials were to take 20% pay cuts, pilots 15%, and others including cabin crew members 5% to 10%. Ronojoy Dutta, the chief executive officer (CEO) of IndiGo, in his email to its employees on Thursday stated, “In deference to our government’s wishes of not reducing pay during the lockdown, we have decided to not implement the previously announced pay cuts during the month of April. However, your Excom and SVPs have volunteered to take pay cuts this month. Everyone else can expect April salaries without any pay cuts.Aviation is one of the major industries that is severely affected due to pandemic. As a result of this, aircraft have been on ground since March 25 and all Indian carriers like SpiceJet, GoAir, Air India have announced pay cuts for its employees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/no-pay-cut-for-employees-in-april-indigo-ceo/story-U9uVy9o2bkVXRDJxZPHiWJ.html
24-04-2020||Chandigarh||Valley varsity develops low-cost frugal ventilator to tackle Covid-19||Amid a presumed shortage of ventilators, the innovators at Design Innovation Centre (DIC) of Islamic University of Science and Technology (IUST), Awantipora, have developed a prototype for a low-cost frugal ventilator.The prototype named ‘Ruhdaar’ is expected to be handed over to the medical experts in the SKIMS for evaluation purpose once the innovators are satisfied with its functioning in the laboratory.DIC coordinator Shahkar Ahmad Nehvi said, “We have been working on the project for the last three weeks and now we have successfully demonstrated the prototype of the ventilator in the laboratory. We will be soon handing it over to the medical experts for the evaluation purposes.”The prototype has three settings which include title volume, breath per minute, inspiration and expiration, Nehvi said.He said pressure monitoring is an important part and should be tracked continuously. “We have to keep a check on the pressure so that it does not exceed beyond the selected degrees and now we are also able to get its readings done,” said Nehvi who is also the faculty at the electronics and engineering department of the university.“The idea originally came from three former students to tackle the shortage of ventilators,” he said.Peerzada Shoaib, a faculty at the electronics and communication department of the university, who was also part of the project, said it was developed from the locally available components in the laboratory. “We have used stepper motor, actuator, Atmel microcontroller, bag-valve mask (BVM), switches and potentiometers, pressure sensor, and an LCD screen to display information to the user,” he said.“The ventilator will be priced at ₹15,000 only while those installed in the valley hospitals cost more than ₹70, 000,” he said.Kashmir with a population of around 8 million has merely 95 ventilators in different valley hospitals, with many of them lying defunct.Earlier this month, the DIC had developed a multi-channel splitter for ventilators at the Sher-I-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences (SKIMS) Soura so that multiple patients with different lung capacities can avail the lifesaving support, especially during the Covid-19 crisis.The university’s vice-chancellor Prof Mushtaq A Siddiqi said, “It is a proud moment that the team has achieved such task in a short span of time. Now, it depends on the medical experts to take a call.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/valley-varsity-develops-low-cost-frugal-ventilator-to-tackle-covid-19/story-kbhZadUoaCh04Mbezq6JRJ.html
24-04-2020||City||Sri Lanka operates special flight from Amritsar to airlift 101 students stranded in India||About 370 passengers, including 101 Lankan students, stranded here after the lockdown to check Covid-19 transmission, were airlifted by British Airways and SriLankan Airlines on Thursday from Amritsar’s Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport.Manoj Chansoria, airport director, said a special SriLankan aircraft with 101 passengers took off from the airport at 11.15 am after all of them were screened by health department teams at the airport terminal.British Airways, which has been carrying out regular evacuations, ferried 269 passengers in its sixth special flight.According to media reports, SriLankan Airlines is also operating special flights from India’s Coimbatore, Pakistan’s Karachi and Lahore, and Nepal’s Kathmandu to bring home Sri Lankan students stranded in these countries.These special flights are being operated as part of the Lankan government’s programme to bring back its students stranded in other countries and is being carried out in partnership with the Indian ministry of foreign affairs.1,578 UK citizens airliftedThe number of passengers airlifted from Amritsar by special British Airways charter flights so far is about 1,578.With Thursday’s flight, the number of passengers evacuated so far by the airlines is: 271 on April 16; 262 on April 17; 260 on April 18; 266 on April 19; 250 on April 21 and 269 on April 23.As per previous announcement of British High Commission to India, two more flights are scheduled for April 25 and 27. UK announces 8 more charter flights from Amritsar in view of long waiting listIn view of long waiting list of the UK citizens belonging to Punjab and surrounding areas, British government on Thursday evening announced eight more flights from Amritsar, revealed Jan Thompson, acting British high commissioner to India, in a tweet. She said in the tweet, “Brits stranded in India: more UK charter flights as promised. A further 14 next week, including 8 from Amritsar in response to demand”. As per the schedule she has announced, these flights will go on 28th, 29th and 30th April and 1st, 2nd, 3rd and 4th May. Two flights will take off on 2nd May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sri-lanka-operates-special-flight-from-amritsar-to-airlift-101-students-stranded-in-india/story-7KH8fFPQJnHFKMXyd1zSVN.html
24-04-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: No hiring under MGNREGA for 3 months in Punjab||The countrywide lockdown following the Covid-19 outbreak has hit rural employment under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) in Punjab.With no fresh hiring from the last three months the number of workers in the state holds steady at 5.05 lakh.The Punjab rural development and panchayats department official told Hindustan Times that he was not sure whether these workers would get the mandatory 100 days work in the current year.According to Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, minister in charge of the department, the state government made efforts to get approvals from the Centre to allow hiring of MGNREGA workers as labourers in farms during the wheat harvesting season and in mandis to help in procurement and lifting. “We were denied permission, so the agriculture and food and civil supplies department had to make alternative arrangements,” Bajwa said.Workers under MGNREGA are hired only for certain categories.“A large number of vendors, rickshaw pullers and autorickshaw drivers and construction labour were free due to the lockdown have been employed in the mandis,” said vijay Kalra, president of Punjab’s Arhtiya association. Wheat, rice allocation under NFSA doubled Meanwhile, after the Centre doubled allocation of wheat/rice under National Food Security Act (NFSA) on imposition of the countrywide lockdown in March, the Punjab government has stated distributing grain to 1.41 crore beneficiaries.Each beneficiary under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY) was given 5 kg wheat/rice at subsidised rates of Rs 2 to Rs 3 per kg a month. For three months in advance, they will also get the same amount of grain free of cost. “Over and above the Centre’s allocation, the state government has allocated Rs 69 crore for free ration to 10 lakh people who don’t fall in the ambit of foodgrain under NFSA,” said KAP Sinha, principal secretary, food and civil supplies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-hiring-under-mnrega-for-3-months-numbers-stagnant-at-5-05-lakh/story-HIltD51HeZoJz0mbaL0lGO.html
24-04-2020||Pune||It’s pray at home for Pune’s Muslims during Ramzan in lockdown||Ramzan, or Ramadan, the Muslim holy month of fasting from dawn to dusk, will begin on April 25.The observance is also a time of great interaction for the community, especially the breaking of the fast at sunset called the iftar, which happens after the evening prayer.However, the Covid-19 lockdown has left Muslims in the city facing a Ramzan like few have experienced before.For the Mulla family, the special namaaz held during the Ramzan is very important.“Every year there is a congregation of people praying at the mosque, there is a special namaaz (taravik), for the whole month, where people pray together; but, because of the lockdown, people will have to pray in their houses with the family,” said Irshad Mulla, who has two sons.The other aspect worrying her is the breaking of the fast. “Earlier, we used to have all kinds of fruits, snacks, milk and dates which are important to break the fast, but this year the availability of these items may not be easy. There will be limitations, within that, we have to control; which is also the purpose of Ramzan, to control oneself. Dates are very important for Ramzan and to get them is not easy this year during the lockdown,” says Mulla, who lives in Kondhwa. Mohsin Sheikh is a graphic artist living in Somwar peth. “During Ramzan, we try to restrict going out, as we are fasting. The only difference is that we won’t be able to pray five times at the mosque. We will be praying in the house, and follow prophetic tradition where the Prophet said “As Salaatu Fi Buyootikum” (pray in your homes).”He also added that he is very happy that this year, he along with his family will learn the actual wisdom behind the fasting, which teaches you self-control.In Nasir Dafdar’s home, his wife is trying to stock up on the groceries and necessary ingredients needed for Ramzan. “We went to the shops, but didn’t find a lot of items needed for the fast. Hence, we are going to make do with whatever is available, after all, sehri (last meal before dawn) and iftar are also important to follow. We will keep it simple this year.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/it-s-pray-at-home-for-pune-s-muslims-during-ramzan-in-lockdown/story-Y5Ve6CX4u6pdHsGIQNNCTL.html
24-04-2020||Delhi||People with disabilities suffer hardships||Abhishek Annica, a research scholar, who is suffering from scoliosis (abnormal curvature of the spinal cord), is now dependent on his friends for helping him for buying groceries, after his help and cook stopped coming to work due to the lockdown. Due to his condition, he finds it difficult even to pick up the milk packet from the main gate of his building.Since the lockdown was announced, people with disabilities have been facing an array of problems, as their helpers and caregivers stopped attending to them. While some are finding it difficult to manage the day-to-day chores, others are struggling to get the basic groceries from the store.Annica, who lives independently in east Delhi, says he has been facing problems even to get essential items from the market, a task, which, his help would have done. Due to scoliosis, Annica finds it difficult to carry heavy things and walk with them.Varun Khullar, a resident of Dwarka, who is disabled from the waist down due to a spinal cord injury, was suffering from bed sores and could not be taken care of for at least a day, till help from a clinic in the vicinity for a few days. He says that currently, the physiotherapist from the clinic has also stopped visiting while his mother is taking care of him.“I have been told by my doctor to take physiotherapy sessions every day, failing which my legs would become numb. However, due to the lockdown, he could not come. Even though we got a pass for him, he could not visit due to lack of public transport. Finally, I managed to get help from a local clinic,” Khullar, a DJ and music producer, said.Nipun Malhotra, a disability activist who stays in Gurugram, who suffers from arthrogryposis, said he is facing similar problems as his caretaker has stopped work due to the lockdown. Malhotra says that he had applied for a curfew pass twice, but his request was rejected both times.It was only after he wrote to the higher authorities that a curfew pass was allowed. The Delhi government had revised its initial list, on April 6, to include caretakers for issuing curfew passes. Malhotra says that he wrote to several authorities including the ministry of social justice and empowerment stating that how both his attendants, who live in Delhi, are not being able to travel to Gurgaon to his residence due to the curfew.“I had applied for passes at two instances but both the time it was rejected. I live in Gurugram and my caretaker lives in Delhi. It was only after I wrote a letter to the commissioner of Delhi Police and the Delhi government, did I get passes. Initially, the disabled category was not even included in the category for issuing passes,” he said.A senior government official said that at the onset of the lockdown, they were receiving 50-60 calls from persons with disabilities per day. However, after the caretakers were added to the list of allowed workers, the calls have become negligible. “Most of the calls that we got was for the caretakers and attendants. However, then on the directions of the authorities, the passes for caretakers was also added to the list, “ the official said, adding that they have been regularly addressing the concerns with the help of the Delhi Police and NGOs.After the initial hardships an initiative — #ProjectDelhi — was started in south Delhi by Malhotra and other volunteers, who are now helping the disabled procure essential items.“Through the initiative, the volunteers sign up online and deliver it to any disabled person in need of groceries at the MRP. We have had similar projects in other cities also, but in Delhi, we have started only in the south. We intend to start it in other parts of the city too,” Malhotra said.Annica says that this period is not just physically straining but also mentally exhausting for people with disabilities, as they try to juggle work and health. Malhotra says that the government should have thought about the persons with disabilities before imposing the lockdown.Khullar has now signed a petition on Change.org, a private initiative, demanding that the government make provisions for the disabled, if the lockdown is extended.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/people-with-disabilities-suffer-hardships/story-4tvpCPZmsLMrf4nJGHVwSN.html
24-04-2020||Chandigarh||PSEB postpones exams till curfew ends||Punjab education minister Vijay Inder Singla on Monday announced further postponement of classes 8, 10 and 12 examinations .Singla said that earlier the Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) had postponed these examinations till March 31, but some of the practical exams of Class 8 and theoretical exams of Class 12 were rescheduled for April 1. Besides this, some theoretical exams of Class 10 have also been deferred.The PSEB controller of examination announced that a fresh schedule for the examinations would be announced once the curfew is relaxed..Meanwhile, Singla issued instructions to education officers in the districts to open school premises for providing shelter to migrant labourers who have been stranded due to coronavirus and are expected to stay for wheat harvest and paddy transplantation. The cabinet minister said that local district administration would provide them food and other arrangements during their stay in schools.RECRUITMENT OF TEACHERS ON HOLDSingla also informed that the education department has put recruitment process of ETT teachers on a hold till April 15. According to him, the posts of Hindi, Punjabi, mathematics, social studies, English and science subject teachers under the border cadre category were to be filled under this process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pseb-postpones-exams-till-curfew-ends/story-wdVcF9ZIFjYZsrVn8EX5zN.html
