25-04-2020||Chandigarh||MHA order on opening shops brings no respite to Chandigarh||The latest order of the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on opening of non-essential shops and commercial establishments in the neighbourhood will not bring any respite to Chandigarh, a city declared as a coronavirus disease (Covid-19) containment zone. UT adviser Manoj Parida said the order does not allow such establishments to open in a containment zone, and hence, the exemptions available in other states could not be given to local residents here.The UT administration had declared the entire city a containment zone on April 19 on the ground that Covid positive cases and their contacts were scattered across the city, leaving no scope for area-wise containment.Parida said factories, plants or any e-commerce delivery of non-essential items along with sale and supply of liquor will continue to be banned till further orders. “The central government will review the situation on May 3 , the last day of the second phase of lockdown. The appropriate decisions regarding relaxations will be taken then,” he said.UT administrator VP Singh Badnore will also attend a video conference chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday, which, according to the sources, will bring further clarity on phasing out of the lockdown.AMEND CITY’S CONTAINMENT ZONE TAG: TRADERSOn the other hand, unhappy over MHA order, traders have sought that the city’s containment zone tag be amended. “The administration’s decision to declare the entire city a containment zone was wrong,” said chairman of Chandigarh Beopar Mandal, Charanjiv Singh. “The authorities should declare only a particular area, sector or village where multiple cases have come up as containment zone as they have done in the case of Sector 30,” he said. “The administration should talk to the ministry to bring the city out of the red zone as it is performing well in curing and controlling the disease. On Friday, UT had shared that their Covid recovery rate is third best in the country,” said Singh.“The city traders are suffering huge losses and it is important that some kind of commercial activity is revived,” said Singh, who is also a nominated councillor.The city had seven cases when the nationwide lockdown began on March 23. While the number of cases rose to 30 to date, that of active cases is 15.Pankaj Khanna, president of Industries Association of Chandigarh, said, “The administration is doing a great job of controlling the disease. However, we want financial support from the Centre which is getting delayed inordinately. Whatever major intervention is required has to be from the Centre only.” Meanwhile, in the daily review meeting held on Saturday, deputy commissioner (DC) Mandip Singh Brar said the daily supply of cooked food packets touched 1.57lakh. “To date, around 21.5 lakh food packets have been distributed among the needy,” Brar said. A new control and command centre has been opened at the municipal corporation (MC) office to supervise distribution of vegetable, fruits, milk, bread and sanitation work. “As many as 33,115 online home deliveries have been made to residents during the curfew period,” MC commissioner KK Yadav said.NO RELAXATION IN CURFEW: MOHALI DC Meanwhile, in the neighbouring Mohali district in Punjab, deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said there will be no relaxation in curfew as the stage of no new case for 14 days has not been reached. “The revised MHA guidelines do not apply to Mohali district as it has a large containment zone,” he said, adding that relaxation will only result in movement of people that was problematic in the fight against Covid-19.ONLY REGISTERED SHOPS CAN OPEN IN P’KULAIn Haryana’s Panchkula, which too shares border with Chandigarh, deputy commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja has said only those neighbourhood shops registered under the Punjab Shops and Commercial Establishments Act will be allowed to remain open in the district. “Shopkeepers who ensure compliance with the guidelines issued by MHA can apply for permission to open shops at www.saralharyana.in. If eligible, they will be granted permission within 24 hours,” said the DC.These outlets must ensure social distancing is maintained, only 50% staff is employed, and shop workers wear masks and gloves. E-commerce companies are allowed to sell only essential items, and shops located in areas declared as containment zones are not allowed to open, he said. Book shops and outlets selling fans and coolers are being given permission to operate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mha-order-on-opening-shops-brings-no-respite-to-chandigarh/story-Excv12Q6Ca6jH8dSW0MECI.html
25-04-2020||City||Flyover at University and near E Square would be history soon for Hinjwadi to ShivajingarMetro line corridor work||PUNE: The flyover located at Savitribai Phule University and near E square would become history very soon as guardian minister Ajit Pawar and officials given nod to demolish it for the purpose of Metro line in between Hinjwadi to Shivajinagar.The Tata Company on Saturday given presentation to guardian minister and top officials how it is needed to demolish the flyover and erect mulitlevel flyover along with metro corridor.Mayor Murlidhar Mohol said, “The Tata company had given presentation about proposed Hinjwadi to Shivajinagar Metro corridor and plan to demolish the flyover. I raised the doubt about proposed High Capacity Mass Transit Route which is elevated and passing thorugh same corridor. PMRDA officials and Tata officers confirmed that it is considered in their planning.”One of the top level official from Pune Metropolitian Region Development Authority said on anoymity that we are making a planning to demolish the flyover within the lock down period as there would be no issue of traffic movement. But for that there is need to take various permissions which PMRDA would need to carry. Once the scheduled is planned, it would be communicated as the ownership of both the flyovers is with Pune Municipal Corporation and metro line is executed by PMRDA.It is to remind that Ajit Pawar use to critisized this flyovers since they build as they planned only considering one way traffic and not helping to sort out traffic problem. When the PMRDA metro line approved, at that time only it is suggested to demolish both the flyovers at University Chowk and near E squre. The presentation for it happened on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/flyover-at-university-and-near-e-square-would-be-history-soon-for-hinjwadi-to-shivajingarmetro-line-corridor-work/story-lXTkxc4bedxRMrbqmkVeEP.html
25-04-2020||City||Volunteers assist police during lockdown||PUNE At least 170 residents of Aundh and Baner and 14 from Shivajinagar have registered to volunteer as ‘special police officers’ during lockdown which is in place to contain the spread of Sars-cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 (coronavirus) infection, according to police.The initiative was put into practice from April 15.This initiative has been undertaken to help assist the police in keeping a check on people who are on the streets without any valid reason. The idea was suggested by advocate Satya Muley, a resident of Balewadi and first implemented in the jurisdiction of Chatuhshrungi police station. This concept was created in accordance with the police commissioner and with the police inspectors under the Shivajinagar police station.“The idea of appointing ‘special police officers’ for a limited period (till the lockdown is implemented) was implemented to seek cooperation from residents and help the police fulfil their objective of maintaining a total lockdown,” said Muley.Some of the duties of the officers involve creating public awareness, accumulating information of suspects in the specific area, help in contact tracing among others.One of the special duty officers at Aundh, Rupesh Junwane, said, “The group in Aundh has been enforcing social distancing and increase public awareness for the same at public places of commerce of essential items, example shops and vegetable outlets.”“We also coordinate for assisting in making provisions of essential items and services to the general public in case of scarcity/difficulty,” said Junwane.Police inspector Anil Shewale, Chatuhshrungi police station, said, “We have circulated a letter stating that we are seeking volunteers from the societies in Aundh, Balewadi, Baner and Pashan areas. In Balewadi itself there are more than 300 societies and we can’t visit every society to check if all the directives laid down by the government are followed hence we request the chairperson/secretary of cooperative housing societies to nominate people or themselves for the role during this time of the pandemic.”“The persons should be above the age of 18 years and below 50 years. He should be willing to assist in supporting and implementing various directives of police and state,” said Shewale.“The volunteer appointed in the region should strictly enforce all directives related to lockdown, issued by all authorities including the police department, PMC among others. The volunteers are informed about the directives in advance,” said Shewale.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/volunteers-assist-police-during-lockdown/story-JnGCrqmbbEYiCWmawWOo5N.html
25-04-2020||Pune||Rain and thunder forecast for city: IMD||The city will witness some more thundery activity and chance of rain in the next few days. The coming week will also see temperatures rising despite rain and thunder warnings. According to India Meteorological Department (IMD), the cyclonic circulation and the trough wind discontinuity is near Vidarbha and its neighbourhood areas, while a fresh western disturbance as a cyclonic circulation is now over Afghanistan and neighbourhood and both systems are likely to move east- northeastwards causing likely rain and thunder activity in the days to come.“On Saturday, the city witnessed a maximum temperature of 37 degrees Celsius with minimum temperature at 22.8 degree Celsius with mainly clear sky. On April 26 the skies will remain clear with the maximum temperature at 38 degrees Celsius and minimum at 23 degrees Celsius. But, by April 27, there will be partly cloudy sky towards afternoon with gradual rise by 1 degree,” said an IMD official. He further added that the weather will change to generally cloudy sky with very light rain, and likely thundery activity on April 29 with the temperature at 40 degrees Celsius and minimum at 23 degrees Celsius, similarly on the April 30 too the skies will be cloudy with very light to light rain and likely thundery activity, with temperatures at maximum at 39 degrees Celsius and minimum at 24 degrees Celsius.Day temperatures were above normal in some parts of Konkan and Goa, central Maharashtra, Marathwada, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry & Karaikal, costal Karnataka with the highest maximum temperature of 42.9 degree Celsius was reported at Akola (Vidarbha ).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/rain-and-thunder-forecast-for-city-imd/story-QbGarqjSzkdFsRtw7Ut18L.html
25-04-2020||Pune||70 PMC-run schools turn into shelter homes||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has converted 70 civic-run schools into temporary shelter homes for residents living in slums and high density containment zone areas where the congestion is coming in the way of social distancing norms.PMC commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad on Saturday issued the order and made available 70 schools for residents living in slums Gaikwad said, “The houses in the slums are small and it is difficult for many people to stay together during the summers.Due to this social distance is not maintained. Hence, we have decided convert PMC schools into shelter homes so that people from the slums can stay here.”The PMC in its order clearly stated that those who wish to stay in schools need to make their own food and bedding arrangements. The PMC will only provide toilet facility and good quality drinking water in each school building. PMC has also decided to appoint the security guards in these schools. Divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar said, “People residing in slums and high density area can use the temporary shelter facility. If needed, the district collector will acquire private schools and hotels and convert them inro shelter homes too.Pune city’s central part, mainly the peth areas had become hotspots and maximum Covid-19 positive cases are coming from the areas where density is high. As it has become tough to keep social distancing in the crowed areas of the city, the administration decided to create temporary shelters in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/70-pmc-run-schools-turn-into-shelter-homes/story-moJZYjHunGQxi95p2GgWIO.html
25-04-2020||City||Five Rly officials feed labourers at Kalyan Stn||A group of five Central Railway officials, including the divisional commercial manager (DCM) and ticket-checkers (TCs) have been feeding labourers living near Kalyan railway station everyday. Around 150 food packets are distributed among these people, which are prepared at the homes of the officials. “The meal is prepared at our homes. The gurdwara at Rambaug donates food grains and we too contribute,” said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/five-rly-officials-feed-labourers-at-kalyan-stn/story-egPEjWWnBnTDCECeqC2tlK.html
25-04-2020||City||PMC commences pre-monsoon work; sets deadline of May 25||PUNE Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has started pre-monsoon work including cleaning of nullahs, stormwater drain and chambers in the city and set a deadline of May 25 for the same, according to civic officials.The work has started especially in Katraj, Padmawati and Sahakarnagar areas where Ambil odha (stream) had wreaked havoc last year due to flash flood. PMC has instructed its staff to clean the Ambil odha and repair its boundaries while installing new culverts. Sanjay More, public relation officer, PMC, said, “The civic body has already undertaken the pre-monsoon work in the city and municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad is monitoring it personally.”In 2019 the city witnessed flash floods flood mainly in the areas surrounded by Ambil odha on September 25, which killed 26 persons while vehicles worth 25 crore were damaged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pmc-commences-pre-monsoon-work-sets-deadline-of-may-25/story-NVit3UlpFZt7YF1S9XuH4K.html
25-04-2020||Lucknow||Agra lockdown to continue as corona positive cases increase||Due to rising number of corona positive cases, the Agra district administration has decided against any relaxation in lockdown which would continue till May 3. So far 358 people have tested positive for coronavirus in Agra including a chef who prepares food for 150 policemen at the police lines, a medicine whole seller, a junior doctor, a ward boy and a nurse at the SN Medical College. Two more deaths of corona positive cases took place, taking the tally of corona deaths to eight. Six of these deaths have been reported this month. No positive case was reported from Agra for most of Friday but late in the day 13 positive cases surfaced. Eight more positive cases were reported on Saturday taking the total number of positive cases in Agra to 358. “The lockdown would continue till May 3 and there won’t be any relaxation before that,” said Agra’s district magistrate Ptabhu N Singh. “Essential items however will be available as before,” he said. “The wholesale vegetable market has been decentralized with several small vegetable markets being set up in different parts of city and this will ensure supply to every part of Agra now onwards,” stated DM Agra.“Residents should avoid going out and should regularly sanitize themselves,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/agra-lockdown-to-continue-as-corona-positive-cases-increase/story-VtoNkaRf6Fef9zZzAlBunI.html
25-04-2020||Noida||Noida: NMRC runs round trips on Aqua Line daily to keep system functional||Though metro services remain in the district like the rest of the country suspended due to the nationwide lockdown, the Noida Metro Rail Corporation (NMRC) has been running round trips from Noida to Greater Noida every day to keep the system functional.The NMRC said that while some staff members have been told to work from home, sanitation workers and other staff engaged in maintenance of the depot, trains and stations have to report to their work stations. The NMRC said it has taken various safety measures as per good practices to ensure trains are ready to run once the lockdown is lifted. The corporation runs the Aqua Line metro which connects Noida to Greater Noida. Metro services are currently suspended till May 3, in view of the nationwide lockdown imposed to curb the spread of the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease. However, regular cleanliness and minimum maintenance is being done to ensure the train system remains in shape. Officials said the upkeep of the trains, stations and other systems associated with the smooth functioning of the metro are performed on a regular basis.Ritu Maheshwari, managing director, NMRC said, “Limited number of staff members have been deployed to take care of the upkeep, running requirement and cleaning operations.” She added that the trains make three round trips every day to ensure the network is healthy and is ready to ferry commuters once the lockdown is lifted.The corporation has also engaged its feeder buses for the distribution of food items to those in need of assistance from the community kitchens being run by the Noida Authority during the lockdown.The NMRC owns 19 sets of trains out of which 13 are used to ferry passengers, while six are kept on standby at the depot station on any given day during normal operations. The corporation said that one set of trains makes round trips during the morning, afternoon and evening. “Different sets of trains are picked up to ensure upkeep and health of all trains. The overhead transmission line is live 24×7 to prevent cable theft or tampering,” said an NMRC official, requesting not to be named. Each set of train has four coaches and while on the run, they may or may not stop at each station. If there is a need for taking security personnel and other staff from one place to another, the Aqua Line trains are used. In normal days, the metro service is available from 6am to 10.45pm with a frequency of 7 minutes, 30 seconds during peak hours and 10 minutes during non-peak hours. The corporation is also taking other precautionary measures for safety. All vehicles reaching the stations and the depot are disinfected and sanitised. “The security guards at the spot check the temperature of the visitors/employees before allowing their entry. No person without a mask is allowed inside the premises,” it said in a statement. It added that the metro stations are cleaned, especially the manned and frequently touched areas, on a daily basis. The metro employees live in the staff colony in Greater Noida and the NMRC regularly conducts sanitization exercises of the entire colony for safety. It also holds video conferencing with the employees at regular intervals.The NMRC has 650 permanent and contractual staff and a section of them are called on duty depending on the roster during the lockdown period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-nmrc-runs-round-trips-on-aqua-line-daily-to-keep-system-functional/story-ywOEOLGv8pX9Z5AeK5ILfK.html
25-04-2020||Noida||With people staying put at home, rickshaw pullers in Noida struggle to make ends meet||With most people staying home in light of the lockdown imposed to halt the spread of the coronavirus disease, rickshaw pullers in the city are struggling to earn a living and make ends meet. “Earlier people used to get down from metro stations and take rickshaws to reach their home and offices. As the Metro is shut, there are no commuters and there is no work for us,” said Rajinder Kumar, a rickshaw puller. Kumar is from Katihar, Bihar, and lives in a rented accommodation in Sector 17. He said his wife and four children are back at home and it is becoming increasingly difficult to send money to them. “I came to Noida ten years ago in search of work and started pulling the rickshaw. Before the lockdown, I used to earn Rs 200-300 per day and it was sufficient for my family. Now, it is difficult to even earn Rs 50 per day,” said Kumar.Kumar was one among the four rickshaw pullers taking a nap on their rickshaws after an endless wait for passengers near Botanical Garden Metro station on Saturday afternoon. Naresh (single name), another rickshaw puller, said the lockdown has left many like him completely jobless. “Noida has been a happening city, and a number of people commute for work and other purposes. I used to earn Rs 500 per day in normal days. But the outbreak of Covid-19 has forced people inside their home, and we have been rendered jobless,” said Naresh who had come to Noida from Munger in Bihar five years ago.Even though rickshaws are banned for plying amid the lockdown, rickshaw pullers said that they have no other option than to take the rickshaw out on the road and ferry whatever few commuters they might get in order to survive. Lakhan Singh, a rickshaw puller, said that he usually stays out near Botanical Garden Metro station search of commuters. “Sometimes shuttle buses come to drop medical staff outside the station. The nurses hire rickshaws to reach home. A few commuters also ask us to take them to hospital,” he said. Rajesh S, deputy commissioner of police (traffic) Noida said, “All modes of public transport are not allowed to ply on the roads during the lockdown and this rule applies on rickshaws too. However, we are letting rickshaws ferry people engaged in essential services or those in an emergency.”Many rickshaw pullers are concerned about their savings drying up amid the lockdown, and are worried about being left absolutely penniless if the lockdown is extended again. “ The administration is running some community kitchens, but usually is a long queue at these kitchens and it becomes difficult to have a meal there. We have some savings and we are using them for food for now. If the lockdown continues, it will be difficult for us to survive,” said Singh.Most rickshaw pullers are from states such as Bihar and Jharkhand and are anxious about getting home. Singh said the lockdown was announced suddenly, and he did not get time to return to return to his village. “I do not know when things will be normal, and I just want to go home. I am ready to even pull the rickshaw all they way from Noida to Bihar. But the police have put barricades and blocked all movement,” he said. “ If we manage to get some work back home, we will not return to Noida,” added Singh. “The police teams ask commuters to produce valid passes and if they do not have one they are asked to go back. The lockdown guideline is strictly enforced in the district,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/with-people-staying-put-at-home-rickshaw-pullers-in-noida-struggle-to-make-ends-meet/story-0DPw0WrvJCJpmAoDHl1qbK.html
25-04-2020||Noida||Three new Covid-19 cases in GB Nagar; district tally reaches 112||Three more cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) were identified in the Gautam Buddh Nagar district on Saturday. The total number of cases in the district has now reached 112. The new three patients include a 38-year-old man from Sector 80, who had attended the programme at the Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi; a 28-year-old employee of a Sector 18 hotel, which was used as a paid quarantine facility by the district health department, and a 20 year-old man from Sector 45, who works as a cook at a private hospital in Sector 19.Till now, three persons who had attended the Nizamuddin Markaz programme have been found positive for Covid-19 in the district. Recently, two more persons from Achheja village in Greater Noida were also found to be positive as they had indirect links with people who had attended the programme in Delhi.The 28-year-old hotel employee got infected through a family, which was under paid quarantine and was later found to be positive for the infection. The family is from Sector 50, and includes a 45-year-old man, his 41 year-old wife, his 19-year-old son and 11-year-old daughter. The 45-year-old man got infected from their mother, who is a senior citizen. The mother was found to be positive for Covid-19 at a private hospital in Okhla on April 8, after which other members of the family too tested positive.According to the officials, the 20-year-old cook got infected through a girl who was admitted at a Sector 19 hospital and was later found positive. The girl belongs to the PI 1 area of Greater Noida.“We have identified the source of infection of all the three new cases. Sector 45 and Sector 80 have been sealed as per the protocol. The trio has been admitted at Sharda Hospital in Greater Noida,” said a senior health official.In another development, two patients from sectors 8 and 93 were discharged from the Sharda hospital, while one patient was discharged from the Government Institute of Medical Sciences(GIMS).By Saturday night, the health department had notified 1,967 travellers. Officials collected a total of 2,903 samples. A total of 112 cases have come out positive while 59 patients have been discharged. Currently, there are 53 active Covid-19 cases in the district.Out of the 40 hotspots, 10 have completed their quarantine period as per the protocol to be eligible for the green zone as no new cases have been identified from these areas in the last 28 days. A total of 13 hotspots have entered the orange zone, as no new cases have been identified in these areas in the last 14 days, while 17 hotspots are still under the red zone as new cases have been reported in the last 14 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/three-new-covid-19-cases-in-gb-nagar-district-tally-reaches-112/story-UVWPqKCH57I1mVOcUVnw9N.html
25-04-2020||Mumbai||Online lottery for BMC’s CBSE , ICSE school on Apr 30||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will conduct an online lottery for admissions to its first CBSE school in Jogeshwari and the first ICSE school in Mahim on April 30. The civic body’s education department would send messages to students, who were selected and they would have to fill a google form to proceed further. Selected students can confirm their admissions to the two schools by May 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/online-lottery-for-bmc-s-cbse-icse-school-on-apr-30/story-QT2x5dSYsaYoZ51NXLXo3N.html
25-04-2020||Lucknow||Confusion over names led to discharge of two corona positive patients||BAREILLY The Moradabad health authorities mistakenly discharged two Covid-19 patients from a quarantine centre as their names were similar to two other persons, who tested negative, in the same ward. After realising the error, a medical team brought the two individuals back to the quarantine centre, on Friday.These Covid-19 patients were discharged from a quarantine centre in Moradabad on Thursday due to a mix up in names. However, they were brought back later to the quarantine centre.“On Thursday evening, as soon as the test reports arrived, doctors discharged the two men after confusion due to similar names. They were later brought back to the quarantine centre,” said Moradabad chief medical officer, MC Garg. An investigation into the incident is underway.District magistrate RK Singh, however, said that no action was initiated against the doctors as it was a ‘human error’.“Covid warriors are braving the odds tirelessly. Soon after the coronavirus patients were discharged by mistake, a team reached their houses and brought them back to the quarantine centre, the error was timely rectified,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/confusion-over-names-led-to-discharge-of-two-corona-positive-patients/story-CkOG1sW6XOrEmOGNUAWY8M.html
25-04-2020||Noida||Discom gives relaxation in power bill payments due to lockdown||Taking note of the problems faced by consumers owing to the nationwide lockdown to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the Pashchimanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited (PVVNL) has decided to change the parameters of ‘fixed charges’ in electricity bills.Aravind Mallappa Bangari, PVVNL managing director, said for consumers falling under LMV-1 (domestic light, fan and power for residential/domestic purpose, janata service connections, kutir jyoti connections, jhuggi/hutments, different places of worship) and LMV-5 (small power for private tube wells/pumping sets for irrigation purposes having a contracted load up to 25 BHP and for additional agricultural processes confined to chaff-cutter, thresher, cane crusher and rice huller) categories, it has been decided to calculate fixed charges on the basis of their average consumption over the last three months. “While for the consumers of ‘unmetered’ category, the fixed charges will be calculated on the stipulated tariff, for the remaining domestic consumers it will be charged as per their actual consumption,” he said. He further said even before the lockdown, the discom had started a process to concerns of inappropriate billing, raised by LMV-1 (domestic) consumers. “The process is called ‘trust’ billing and consumers can get their bills generated as per the records of meters taken by them. But during the lockdown, we are unable to do that. So, we are going with the method of average billing going by the bills of the last three months,” he said. The PVVNL MD also said in keeping with the Centre’s guidelines, the discom will resume hand-held billing system for commercial and industrial consumers from April 20. “Power bills of domestic consumers will be issued on basis of consumption over last three months. The last date of submission of electricity bills has been extended to April 30, 2020. There will be no surcharge levied on bills till the last date,” he said. Bangari also said for the LMV-2, HV-1 and HV-2 consumers, who are falling under commercial and industrial categories, during the lockdown, only two-thirds of their fixed charges will be collected. “It is a temporary arrangement to provide them relief in depositing bills amounts for March and April as waiving the fixed charges is not at the discretion of power distribution companies. The remaining one-third amount will be charged with their electricity bills for June,” he said. He said while LMV-2 category belongs to non-domestic light, fan and power for shops, hotels, restaurants, private students’ hostels, marriage halls and other commercial establishments like cinema and theatres, banks and private diagnostic centres including X-ray plants, MRI centres, CAT scan and pathologies, LMV-6 represents small and medium power for industrial units having a contracted load less than 100 HP (75 kW), power loom (load of 5 kW and above), floriculture, mushroom and other farming activities. “Similarly, HV-1 is for commercial loads with contracted load of 75 kW and above and getting supply at single point on 11 kV and above voltage levels and HV-2 is for large and heavy power for industrial units with contracted load of 75 kW (100 BHP) and above for industrial or processing purposes like arc/induction furnaces, rolling/re-rolling mills and mini-steel plants,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/discom-gives-relaxation-in-power-bill-payments-due-to-lockdown/story-g1taPz06ZuHnp0x2fAUDAI.html
25-04-2020||Noida||High-rise residents warned against derogatory social media posts||Five residents of a high-rise in Sector 78 were issued a warning notice by the city magistrate on the police’s recommendation after they were found to have shared derogatory messages on social media during the lockdown.The incident was reported from Hyde Park society, where Noida’s second Covid-19 case was reported from. Accordingly, the society was sealed on March 17 and reopened, following regular lockdown guidelines, after 28 days.However, according to residents, a few people had issues with how the society was functioning.“The situation was under control. We were only following the protocols laid down by the administration and police—whether it was social distancing or providing essential services. All these people could do was find fault with everything. They started circulating false messages on social media and even tweeted about it. They wanted car cleaners to come which was not allowed. If any security guard stopped them at the main gate, they argued unnecessarily and would threaten them,” said a member of the Apartment Owners Association on account of anonymity.Residents also said that the suspects clashed with cops and administration officials alike. “When the society was sealed these people issued their own virus bulletin for which they were pulled up by the administration. When cops came for announcements at night, they tweeted that police was not letting them sleep. They even went on to say that to roam in the society they would need a weapon,” said the resident.Another AOA member said that their messages and tweets were monitored by the cyber cell as there are firm guidelines in place to avoid online conflicts to not create panic in the ongoing crisis among public.The notice was given based on the local police’s recommendation.“They have made derogatory comments which created tension among the society residents. They have tried to disrupt the peace. Hence, action is being taken against them under relevant sections of the CrPC. They have to maintain discipline for the next six months and have to sign a bond for Rs 30,000 and would have to appear in court on May 4,” said the notice from the city magistrate office.Police officials said that in case of further violations, they would have to pay a fine equivalent to the bond value to the government.“They were warned earlier as well. They wanted vehicles to enter the society which was not allowed and had arguments with the guard and would create unnecessary ruckus after which the action was taken following proper investigation,” said Dharmendra Kumar Sharma, station house officer, sector 49 police station.The suspects have however, denied all accusations.“The society has not followed administration orders. Our newspaper vendor was asked not to deliver newspapers even though that is not what regulations say. We have only spoken against the malpractices and this is an attempt to silence the voice of dissent. They have implemented a citizen curfew in which residents can go out only between 8-11 am. After that guards misbehave unnecessarily. There was no investigation in the case and we were just sent the notices,” said one of the five residents who was booked.The incident is one of several resident-RWA conflicts happening in the district. In another case, residents of a highrise in sector 77 alleged that the AOA was not opening society gates. However, the AOA clarified that only one gate was closed while rest were open.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/high-rise-residents-warned-against-derogatory-social-media-posts/story-cLFURthfyRz17a62RZH10N.html
25-04-2020||Noida||Noida: School teacher falls to death from 17th floor of high-rise||A 37-year-old school teacher fell to her death from the 17th floor of a building, in a society located under the Sector 49 police jurisdiction, in the early hours of Saturday. Police officers said they suspect it to be a case of suicide, although no note was found at the spot.The incident came to light just after 4am when security guards of the society called up the police helpline after which a team was rushed to the spot.“The woman lives with her husband and two children in another building of the same society and is a teacher in Delhi. According to the family, the children were on a visit to their maternal grandmother’s house while the woman had gone to her brother’s place in a different sector in Noida. She then spoke to her husband at night about coming back. However, as it was late he asked her to stay there and come back the next day. The family had been up till 2am and they said everything seemed fine till that time,” said Dharmendra Kumar Sharma, station house officer, Sector 49 police station.Around 3am, the woman allegedly left her brother’s place without informing anyone, said the police.“She was seen coming inside the gate in her car at 3.15am, after which she parked her vehicle near a different building. She went up and allegedly jumped from the 17th floor. Hearing the thud, security guards rushed to the spot and informed us. She was later identified as a resident of a different building after which her husband was informed,” said the SHO.Police said according to her brother and husband, she was depressed for a while but an exact cause would be established only after investigation in the case is over.The woman’s body was sent for post mortem. Meanwhile, no complaint has been filed in the matter.Gautam Budh Nagar does not have a dedicated helpline to deal with such situations. A few major suicide prevention helpline numbers in India are +914066202000 from ‘Roshni’ (Hyderabad-based) and +914424640050 from Sneha India Foundation (Delhi-based).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-school-teacher-falls-to-death-from-17th-floor-of-high-rise/story-Y97yLoyYoudi7XelE3EeGM.html
25-04-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: 49 cops donate blood for cancer patients||A group of 49 police officers and constables from Navi Mumbai donated blood for cancer patients, who are undergoing treatment at Tata Memorial Centre in Kharghar, on Friday. According to a spokesperson of the hospital, the hospital authorities had approached the police for help due to a shortage of blood owing to the lockdown. On Friday, police officers donated blood while on duty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-49-cops-donate-blood-for-cancer-patients/story-ATCT4hEyFLIpScCzvofhoJ.html
25-04-2020||Noida||Noida launches ‘doctor on call’ service amid lockdown||As the out patient department (OPD) services at hospitals across the city are disrupted due to Covid-19 pandemic, the Noida authority on Saturday started ‘doctor on call’ service to provide expert medical advice over phone.Anyone in need can call at 0120-2422317 to seek advice from medical experts, including physician, paediatrician, ENT specialist, and ophthalmologist, among others. A total of eight doctors will be available for free between 10am and 6pm from April 25 onwards. “The operator available at this telephone number will connect the patient with the right doctor for a medical advice on phone. Residents staying at home can seek medical advice for free. And soon the authority will launch an app through which patients can video chat with a doctor and get advice,” said Shobha Kushwaha, manager with Noida authority.The service, which has been started with the help of Indian Medical Association, will continue until government and private hospitals resume their normal OPD services, officials said.The officials said that hospitals will take longer time in resuming OPD services even after the Covid-19 lockdown ends on May 3. According to the officials, the mobile application -- ‘telemedicine’ -- would be launched in a week’s time wherein anyone can directly connect with a doctor in need, video chat with him and take advice without visiting a clinic or hospital during this time of crisis. As the authority started the service, eight more doctors have come forward to provide help via telephone to residents for free during the lockdown period.“We hope that more doctors will join in and help the needy in this distressing time,” said another Noida authority official, requesting anonymity.Residents have welcome the authority’s new move. “We cannot visit a hospital as there is a fear of getting infected. Recently, my son needed a medical advice when he was having stomach pain. But we did not visit a nearby hospital due to Covid-19 fear. Now, we can seek help via telephone,” said Arun Singh, a Sector 34 resident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-launches-doctor-on-call-service-amid-lockdown/story-VZAIluoDbidNI6AVTea3vL.html
25-04-2020||Lucknow||One more JNMC resident doctor tests positive||One more resident doctor of the anesthesiology department of Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College (JNMC), Aligarh Muslim University (AMU), tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. “Two resident doctors, one from surgery and another from gynaecology departments, have already tested positive at JNMC,” said Shafey Kidwai, spokesperson, AMU.The doctor tested positive on Saturday lives in the same hostel from where the two residents were found infected with the virus. These three resident doctors were admitted in isolation ward of the JNMC, Kidwai said.Besides, the three resident doctors, another civilian has also tested positive in Aligarh, taking the total positive cases to nine. One of the Covid-19 cases tested positive has died during treatment while two of his family members have been tested positive and quarantined.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/one-more-jnmc-resident-doctor-tests-positive/story-MpEIyu79GIb3meS9FbLDSO.html
25-04-2020||City||Residents question partial and full sealing of high-rises in Ghaziabad||Residents of some of the high-rises sealed by the Ghaziabad district officials have raised questions regarding the manner in which partial and full-sealing of buildings have been carried out during the ongoing lockdown to control the spread of coronavirus disease(Covid-19). Officials, on the other hand, have said that although the sealing orders were given for entire high-rises or buildings, ground-level decisions were made “judiciously”, in order to cause “minimum inconvenience” to the residents.According to the officials, the Ghaziabad district at present has 16 hotspots, which also include various high-rises that have been either fully or partially sealed. The sealing has been carried out in areas from where one or more Covid-19 positive cases have been reported. “There was only a single case of a Covid-19 positive patient in our high-rise. He was discharged from the hospital after testing negative. However, the entire building was sealed, although we have 13 different towers. Even now that the patient has turned negative, our high-rise is still sealed. There are about 1,300 occupied flats in our high-rise, and the residents facing are inconvenience ever since the sealing put in place,” said Mukesh Kumar, a resident of Oxy Home near Sahibabad. The high-rise had just one case pertaining to a 33-year-old man, working at a hospital in Delhi, who tested positive for Covid-19 on April 5.“We want that since the patient has returned and there is no further case or any suspected cases, the rest of the towers, barring his own, should be de-sealed. But no one is listening to us,” he added.Similar cases have surfaced in other parts of the district as well. Girnar Apartments was sealed in Kaushambi. The high-rise was later removed from the list of hotspots after no positive cases were reported even after 28 days since the first one surfaced on March 22.“We have come to know that the written orders for the sealing of some high-rises mention the seizure of entire building. But at the ground-level only particular towers have been sealed. The officials must explain the criteria of sealing to residents. There cannot be any arbitrary or selective decisions, where in some cases, the entire building is sealed , while in others, selective towers are sealed,” said VK Mittal, president of the residents’ welfare association (RWA) of Kaushambi Apartments Recently, HT accessed the orders for sealing of two high-rises, namely Exotica Elegance and ATS Advantage, in Indirapuram, where entire buildings were mentioned to be seized. However, only selective towers/blocks in the two high-rises were actually sealed. A single positive case in each of the high-rises was reported. In another recent case, the officials sealed the entire Supertech Residency in Vaishali, Sector 5.HT approached Aditya Prajapati, the incident commander and the sub divisional magistrate, for his comments over the issue at least twice but he declined to comment. After HT approached district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey, he referred the matter to district malaria officer GK Mishra and authorised him to comment on the matter.“The decision to seal single tower or the entire high-rise is taken after judicious consideration, keeping in mind that there is minimum inconvenience to the residents. The incident commander is authorised to seal but our consent (the consent of health department) is taken to reach the final decision. The geography of the buildings is also taken in consideration before sealing. If there is strict adherence to guidelines, majority areas in Ghaziabad would go under sealing as Covid-19 positive cases are high and spreading throughout the district,” Mishra said.The officer said that decision to seal the entire high-rise of Savior Park, Mohan Nagar, was taken after a couple tested positive, who also had 93 possible contacts in different residential towers of the high-rise.He added that high-rises like Oxy Homes, Savior Park in Mohan Nagar, a part of residential area of Vasundhara Sector-2B, Skardi Green near NH-9 and SCC Sapphire, Raj Nagar Extension have no additional Covid-19 positive cases.“These high-rises will soon be put under the orange zone category as no further cases have been reported from them even after 14 days since the first positive case was reported. We will declare them under the orange zone soon and some relaxations will be allowed. But we have to checkt the guidelines to find out what relaxations can be given,” he added.The red zones as defined by the Union health ministry, are the ones having “highest caseloads”. They are also referred to as hotspots, while the orange zones are areas where no Covid-19 case has been reported in the past 14 days.The officials said that there should be no positive Covid-19 case in a hotspot for 28 days, after the last patient was tested positive for it to move out of the list of hotspots. Till Saturday night, a total of five high-rises or residential areas moved to Green zone from the list of 27 hotspots. “These include KDP Grand Savanna (Raj Nagar Extension), Girnar Apartment (Kaushambi), Shalimar Garden Extension 2, Vaishali Sector 6 and Savior Park, Mohan Nagar. No new case has been found in these areas in the last 28 days,” said CMO Dr NK Gupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/residents-question-partial-and-full-sealing-of-high-rises-in-ghaziabad/story-EZqgVrdRbwuuHgFBlgNPAL.html
25-04-2020||City||Cop who was denied admission by 4 civic hospitals in Mumbai tests positive for Covid-19||A 57-year-old head constable attached with the Kurla traffic division, who was denied admission by four civic hospitals on April 21 despite having symptoms of coronavirus, has been tested positive for the virus on Friday and is at undergoing treatment at the intensive care unit (ICU) of King Edward Memorial Hospital, Parel. A senior Mumbai Police officer has confirmed the development to HT.After the incident came to light, HT contacted Dr Daksha Shah, deputy heath officer, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), on the issue. She said, “His condition is stable. KEM Hospital dean will speak to his family to know more about the matter.”Meanwhile, a 35-year-old constable, also attached with the Kurla traffic division, has been infected with the virus, and has been admitted to Kaushalya Hospital in Thane. It is suspected that the 35-year-old contracted coronavirus from the head constable. The families of both the personnel have been quarantined, even as the authorities are tracing their close contacts.On April 20, the head constable, who lives in Kurla’s Kamani area, had developed fever. After consulting a physician, his son rushed him to Rajawadi Hospital the next day around 2pm.“My father had developed fever, cough and difficulty in breathing. The doctors at Rajawadi Hospital checked his temperature and conducted preliminary analysis, after which they recommended to keep him in isolation at home. But when I asked the authorities to admit him to the hospital’s isolation centre, they claimed there was no bed available and asked us to take him to Kasturba Hospital,” the head constable’s 25-year-old son told HT.He then rushed his father on his motorcycle to Kasturba Hospital. “Doctors there checked his temperature and gave him some oxygen. They said they do not have enough beds available and asked me to take him to Nair Hospital. They did not even bother to take my father’s swab for testing,” the 25-year-old alleged.At Nair Hospital, too, the authorities denied the constable admission stating that they had no beds available and that they do not test patients. “On the recommendation of Nair Hospital, I then took my father to KEM Hospital, where doctors initially refused to admit him. Then I contacted the police, following which some officers requested civic officials to admit him. My father was finally admitted to the hospital’s intensive care unit (ICU) at 11pm,” the constable’s son said.“My father has given 28 years to the police service. If anything goes wrong, the doctors are responsible,” the youth said.Another traffic cop tested positiveA traffic constable attached with the Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) traffic division has been admitted to Podar Hospital in Worli, after he was tested positive for Covid-19. The constable is suspected to have contracted the virus during the bandobast duty at the BKC ground where a vegetable market has been opened for locals, as all the other markets in the area are closed. The constable’s family has been quarantined and his close contacts are being traced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cop-who-was-denied-admission-by-4-civic-hospitals-in-mumbai-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-qgmgxosrRqYHEDNIdgMU3N.html
25-04-2020||Mumbai||57-year-old head constable becomes Mumbai Police’s 1st Covid casualty||A 57-year-old head constable undergoing treatment at BYL Nair Hospital for Covid-19 died on Saturday, Manjunath Singe, deputy commissioner of police, zone 8, said.Pranaya Ashok, deputy commissioner of police (operation), and spokesperson for Mumbai Police, said this is the first case of death among the city’s police personnel. Ashok also said that until Saturday, 40 police personnel in Mumbai have been tested positive for coronavirus and are undergoing treatment at various hospitals.According to the police, the head constable was attached to Vakola police station and was a resident of Prem Nagar Colony at Worli Naka. On April 22, he was admitted to Nair Hospital after he developed symptoms of coronavirus and began feeling uneasy. “He was tested positive for coronavirus based on a swab test and was undergoing treatment. His condition however, worsened over the days, after which he was put on ventilator. On Saturday at 3.30pm, he was declared dead by the hospital,” said an officer, who did not wished to be named.It has not yet been established how he had contracted the infection, the officer added. Another police constable who was a close contact of the 57-year-old head constable had also been tested positive for coronavirus some days ago and has been undergoing treatment at Jogeshwari’s Trauma Care Hospital. Kailash Avhad, senior inspector of Vakola police station said, “We have identified four more constables who were close contacts of the head constable and have asked them to remain in home quarantine.”The Mumbai Police has the highest number of cases of the total 96 cases reported in all the police departments in Maharashtra. Owing to the high number of cases, Mumbai Police has decided that police personnel with comorbidities and other health issues will not be posted at containment zones, where the chances of them getting infected by the virus are relatively higher.“We are avoiding the deployment of older and physically weak in front-line areas,” Ashok said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/57-year-old-head-constable-becomes-mumbai-police-s-1st-covid-casualty/story-ExK9xDhcQPgnJGZUkHud0O.html
25-04-2020||Lucknow||Police team quarantined in Bahraich||A police team which had taken a migrant man to a quarantine facility centre has been quarantined after the man tested positive for Covid-19, said the police.Superintendent of police Dr Vipin Mishra said that total 11 policemen have been quarantined. Ten policemen including an inspector have been quarantined at reserve police lines while another was isolated at his private room in Risia.Mishra told a police team led by inspector Samar Bahadur Singh was deployed at Donakka crossing under Dehat Kotwali area when a resident of Kushinagar was trying to enter the city on April 19. Knowing the travel history, the police called a medical team and took the man to a quarantine facility. His sample was sent to RML institute of medical science Lucknow where he was tested positive for Covid-19.Additional superintendent of police Ajay Pratap said that the police team has been quarantined precautionary. He said after completing the quarantine period all the policemen would be tested for the coronavirus and if found negative, they would be allowed to perform their duties.SHARIQ RAIS SIDDIQUI||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/police-team-quarantined-in-bahraich/story-8R6YVY9WXf3Ci1LRSNqMhK.html
25-04-2020||Mumbai||68 snakes rescued in Kalyan in a month||Snake catchers in Kalyan have rescued 68 snakes, including two pythons, between March 23 and April 23.On Friday, they rescued an 11-foot-long python, weighing around 20kg, from Chincholi village on Ambernath-Badlapur pipeline road.“The python was found inside a vehicle carrying chickens. The reptile was dehydrated and has been kept under observation at the Kalyan forest office,” said Suhar Pawar, secretary of Wild Animal and Reptile Rescue (WARR) Foundation, Kalyan.“Several snakes have started coming out as there is less movement of humans. Since it is hot, they come out in search of water. Most of them are dehydrated. It is for the first time we have rescued so many snakes within such a short span,” said Pawar. They rescued snakes include cobra, red sand boa, common krait and Indian rock python.On Friday, two cobras were rescued from a residential complex in Khadakpada and Lal Chowky area in Kalyan (West) by snake rescuer Hitesh Karanjaokar, 22.“Every day, there is a call from residents about snake found in their area,” said Karanjaokar.Santosh Dagale, range forest officer, Kalyan, said that they rescue them and take care of the snakes till they recover.“The forest department along with volunteers from NGO is on alert. We rescue snakes and release them in places where they can easily find water,” said Dagale.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/68-snakes-rescued-in-kalyan-in-a-month/story-NzlP3qfZqN2UfXSCZNPvlO.html
25-04-2020||Lucknow||‘Operation Chaturbhuj’ helping stranded villagers earn livelihood||After taking up cudgels for doctors, police, army and SSB who were fighting against dreaded Covid-19 pandemic by providing them quality personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, chief development officer (CDO) Arvind Singh has now launched ‘Operation Chaturbhuj’ to help unemployed rural folks find employment. He said ‘Op Chaturbhuj’ is a road construction project and aimed at fulfilling four objectives. “The project under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MNREGA) is aimed at providing livelihood to thousands of job-seekers, mitigate disputes after demarcations of roads, provide road connectivity after ‘chakbandi’ and boost environment through plantation on either side of roads,” Singh said. Singh said under this project, earthen-road construction (chak roads) work had been initiated in all those villages where ‘chakbandi’ or consolidation of landholding was completed within last decade but roads were not built.“Work started at Parsa village in Nakha block,” Singh said. “But soon after the lockdown, people from other districts and even states started coming to Kheri,’ he added.“After completing their quarantine these people are now in search of livelihood. Several of them possessed job cards too, though they were inactive,” he said. “We chalked out a plan to extend the road construction works in all the blocks of the district on the pattern of Parsa village and now 48,079 rural people are earning their livelihood under the project and over Rs one crore had been paid to them as remuneration,” he added. Singh said to generate more jobs under the project, ponds within 400 meters of canals were also being dug up. These ponds would be provided water through the canals, Singh said.Singh had earlier started ‘Operation Kavach’ under national rural livelihood mission (NRLM) to provide PPE-kits to frontline fighters against COVID-19. He had earned accolades from the centre and the state government for his effort. Deo Kant Pandey||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/operation-chaturbhuj-helping-stranded-villagers-earn-livelihood/story-tTvUhKxkfBzCCQOU99PD6N.html
25-04-2020||City||Lockdown: Gzb says no to reopening of shops selling non-essential goods||Ghaziabad: In the wake of the Centre’s latest guidelines that shops selling non-essential goods can reopen, the Ghaziabad administration said on Saturday that it has not allowed any such shops to resume their operations in the district. Officials said that they will maintain “status quo” in the lockdown enforcement. “The existing lockdown will continue and there will be status quo. Besides, no additional shops will be allowed to open up. We have not received any directions from the state government so far. The enforcement of the lockdown will continue till further orders,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate.Giving relaxation in the category of commercial and private establishments, the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) on late Friday night issued directions to all states and Union Territories (UTs) to allow opening of shops registered under the Shops and Establishment Act of respective states/UTs, including shops in residential complexes and neighbourhoods.The MHA’s directions also said that shops in single and multi-brand malls would not be allowed to open anywhere, an it would be mandatory for all permitted shops to open only with 50% strength of workers while ensuring compulsory wearing of masks and strict adherence to social distancing norms. The directions categorically mentioned that relaxations in lockdown would not be applicable in hot spot or containment zones.Pandey said, “The police are also keeping a tight watch and enforcing closure of vegetable, fruit and grocery shops as per the directions given on Friday.”In his directions on Friday, the district magistrate had directed for closure of vegetable and fruit shops by 2pm while the grocery shops were asked to down shutter by 4pm. However, medical shops were allowed to remain open.“There is no fresh order on lockdown relaxations. We have status quo,” UP’s chief secretary RK Tiwari said on Saturday evening.With 53 Covid-19 positive cases and 17 hot spot areas across Ghaziabad, official sources said that any relaxations in lockdown will not be coming soon in the district. In a similar decision on April 19 after video-conferencing with UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath, the district magistrate had decided not to go ahead with the opening of any commercial and industrial activities from April 20.Meanwhile, the MHA on Saturday morning issued a clarification and said that the Friday’s directions imply that in rural areas, all shops, except those in shopping malls, are allowed to open while in urban areas, all stand alone shops, neighbourhood shops and shops in residential complexes are allowed to open. Across the state of Uttar Pradesh, the officials said that tally of Covid-19 positive cases stood at 1,778 till Saturday evening, and the figure included 248 patients discharged from the hospitals and 26 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lockdown-gzb-says-no-to-reopening-of-shops-selling-non-essential-goods/story-W2wSLdKT2dHmll1cTlWcCN.html
25-04-2020||Lucknow||IMD issues ‘severe weather advisory’ for UP||State disaster management department on Saturday issued warning to all districts of thunderstorms, lightning, accompanied by strong winds in the next 48 hours.The warning was sounded by the state disaster department on the basis of severe weather advisory, issued by the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD).According to the IMD`s forecast, many parts of southern and eastern Uttar Pradesh along with some districts of central UP will experience thunderstorms and lightning for 48 hours (from 8:30 am on Saturday to Monday morning). The major districts, which are likely to be affected by the thunderstorms, are Prayagraj, Varanasi, Jaunpur, Azamgarh, Ballia, Sultanpur and Sonbhadra.“Considering the warning, we have alerted the state disaster management department to take necessary measures in order to avoid any damage to man or property,” said JP Gupta, director of state meteorological department. “We are also keeping an eye on the situation,” he added.All district magistrates have been informed about the situation, said an officer of the state disaster management department.District magistrate of Sonbhadra S Rajalingam said, “The district disaster relief committee has been put on alert in the wake of forecast. The committee is sounding alert at the village level. I have also advised officials concerned to provide relief to anyone, who is injured or suffer any loss due to natural calamities.”According to weather experts, an influx of warm currents from north and moist cold air from west causes lightning and thunderstorms in the northern plains.The lightning and thunderstorm cause heavy loss to man and property. Last year, over 50 people were killed and as many injured after they were struck by lightning, informed state disaster management department.Beside Uttar Pradesh, the IMD has issued similar forecast for Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand. Some southern states including some parts of Kerala and Tamil Nadu are also expected to receive rain showers in the next two days, according to the forecast.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/imd-issues-severe-weather-advisory-for-up/story-iydiZTFgXXqV2172aAwv5M.html
25-04-2020||Gurugram||19 buses to take 653 migrant workers to their hometowns from Gurugram||At least 653 migrant workers staying at different shelter homes in the city will be sent to their home states from Gurugram in 19 buses on Sunday. The district administration said these workers were stopped by the police when they were walking back to their homes in other states after the lockdown was announced. However, only those workers who are healthy and have no flu-like symptoms will be allowed to go, the administration added.According to officials, at least 634 workers hail from different parts of Uttar Pradesh while 14 are from Uttarakhand and five are from Punjab. Some of these workers were on their way to UP and were moving towards the Kundli–Manesar–Palwa Expressway when the borders were closed and they were stuck in the city. Officials said they worked in areas such as Chandigarh, Panipat, Sonipat, Jhajjar and adjoining regions. A Gurugram administration spokesperson said that as per the directions of the Haryana government, 19 buses of the state roadways corporation will be deployed for this. “Modalities for their transport have been worked out and all norms for social distancing would be followed during travel. Also, only those workers are being sent who are healthy. Their temperature and other parameters have also been checked by health teams,” the spokesperson said. Around 950 workers, including these 653, have been staying in shelter homes set up by administration in Gurugram. The remaining workers will continue to stay there as they have been living and working in the city for the past few years and went to the shelters only to seek food, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/19-buses-to-take-653-migrant-workers-to-their-hometowns-from-gurugram/story-YpbT5qn1QK9zKWcc0WOQ9K.html
25-04-2020||Chandigarh||Two minor girls raped in Jind, Rewari||Two rape cases involving minor girls were reported from Haryana’s Jind and Rewari districts. Both the incidents took place on Friday evening and came to light on Saturday.In the first case, a 14-year-old girl was allegedly raped by three youths in a Jind village, police said.A police spokesperson said that a 16-year-old boy lured the minor girl and took her to a school building near her home.“The boy had visited the girl’s house on Friday evening, where her maternal grandmother was also present. The accused then lured the minor and took her to a school building, where he and his two accomplices raped her,” the spokesperson added.Later, the girl narrated her ordeal to her family members and alleged that the trio had threatened her of dire consequences, if she disclosed the incident to anyone.Police have arrested the main accused under relevant provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and launched a manhunt to nab his accomplices.In a similar case, a 17-year-old girl was allegedly raped by her aunt’s neighbour in Rewari’s Kosli town on Friday evening. She told the police that she was at her aunt’s house with her 7-year-old cousin brother when her aunt’s neighbour barged in and raped her.The Kosli police have arrested the accused under the relevant sections of the POCSO Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-minor-girls-raped-in-jind-rewari/story-RZTJRyqFBIxkAXrTTljNfJ.html
25-04-2020||Gurugram||Two-year-old boy tests positive for Covid-19, youngest case in Gurugram||The youngest person to be infected by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Gurugram is a two-year-old boy who is believed to have contracted it from his 28-year-old mother, health department officials said on Saturday. The mother and the child were confirmed to be positive on Thursday and are currently being treated at a private medical college.The mother, a resident of Sector 39, was in contact with an infected person in the same locality. “Both the mother and child are doing well,” Dr Jaswant Singh Punia, chief medical officer, said.The two-year-old and his mother contracted the virus through a 38-year-old woman, also a resident of Sector 39, and the employee of a bank in Bhiwadi, Rajasthan. Dr Ram Prakash, an epidemiologist and a member of the rapid response team, said, “The 38-year-old bank employee contracted the virus from a male colleague. The man tested Covid-19 positivein the first week of April, after which all the employees of the branch were asked to remain in quarantine.”The woman started showing symptoms during the quarantine period and got tested earlier this week. “She was confirmed positive. We tracked down others who have had contact with the woman. Through this process of contact tracing, we collected the sample of the 28-year-old mother and her two-year-old son,” said Prakash. The bank employee is also being treated at a private hospital in the city. “The two-year-old boy is the youngest in the city to have tested positive,” Prakash said.During contact tracing, the district health team interviews people who have contracted the disease. Explaining the contact tracing process, Prakash said, “The 38-year-old bank employee contracted the virus from a colleague who was asymptomatic. The woman, however, showed symptoms though she contracted the virus from an asymptomatic man.”He said that people diagnosed with a contagious disease can be asymptomatic but can transfer the virus to others. “A virus transferred from an asymptomatic person can manifest symptoms in others,” Prakash said. “While we do contact tracing, we generally tell people about possible signs and symptoms and ask them to self-isolate for the safety of others,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/two-year-old-boy-tests-positive-for-covid-19-youngest-case-in-gurugram/story-2gjFxefoeEK3Kv5j0LVBTP.html
25-04-2020||Gurugram||Municipal Corporation of Gurugram issues tenders for cleaning storm water drains in city||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has started the tendering process for cleaning arterial storm water drains across the city, said officials on Saturday.According to MCG chief engineer Raman Sharma, all executive engineers, sub-divisional officers have been directed to start issuing e-tenders for the purpose in their respective jurisdictions. The development comes just two weeks after MCG officials and councillors on April 14 had decided that the e-tendering process should be restarted to ensure quick resumption of civic work whenever the nationwide lockdown is lifted.Sharma said MCG’s initial priority would be to clean and unclog points that are prone to waterlogging. He further said around a meeting with all contractors and officials concerned would be held around May 1 to take stock of the progress made with the tenders, and subsequently, allotment of work would be initiated. “We have initiated the tendering process, and are expecting to start on-ground work for cleaning stormwater drains within the next 10 days. We have a report on areas that are prone to waterlogging and hence will concentrate our resources on desilting them at the earliest,” said Sharma.According to MCG officials, arterial drains near Hero Honda Chowk, Subhash Chowk, Vatika Chowk, Atul Kataria Chowk, and Old Delhi-Gurgaon Road are some of the waterlogging-prone areas which the MCG would most likely desilt on a priority basis.Last year, due to the enforcement of the Model Code of Conduct for the 2019 general elections, MCG officials said that they had encountered a two-month delay in floating tenders for the desilting work which resulted in 109 kilometre, out of the total 350 kilometre, of stormwater drains not getting desilted when the monsoon arrived. With limited time left and a lot of cleaning work left to be done, the MCG had joined hands with the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) to clean the remaining stormwater drains.All arterial drains flowing within residential sectors are looked after by the MCG while master drains— drains which run parallel to main roads and often carry stormwater of two or more sectors— are managed by the GMDA in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/municipal-corporation-of-gurugram-issues-tenders-for-cleaning-storm-water-drains-in-city/story-0xusYAi4kf8BEZYn6ziyPO.html
25-04-2020||Lucknow||UP gears up for ‘longer fight’ against Covid-19||The Uttar Pradesh government is gearing up for a ‘longer fight’ against Covid-19 and has asked district officials not to allow any public gathering anywhere till June 30 even as it has launched an operation to bring back migrants from other states.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath gave directions in this regard to all the DMs and district police chiefs at a video conference with them on late Friday evening.“Yes, district magistrates and district police chiefs have been asked not to allow any public gathering anywhere till June 30. The world’s experience shows that the fight against Covid-19 will be a long one. So we need to get prepared for a longer fight,” chief secretary RK Tiwari said to Hindustan Times.The state government has already transported the first batch of 2,224 migrant workers from neighbouring Haryana on 82 buses to 16 districts in west UP.There is the possibility of about 5 to 10 lakh workers of UP returning to the state in the next two months and a plan has been prepared to make arrangements to quarantine them in various districts.The chief minister has asked district magistrates to ensure that no gathering is held anywhere during Ramzan. He has said religious leaders have requested the Muslim brethren to offer ‘namaz’ at home and not venture out or hold any gathering.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-gears-up-for-longer-fight-against-covid-19/story-n0Hpk17wka6LVSIjKFazqK.html
25-04-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Use of rapid test kits put on hold till further notice||The use of rapid testing kits (RTKs) has been further put on hold until the Indian Council of Medical Research issues its final advisory, the state health department said on Saturday. Officials said that the country’s apex health research body is still checking the efficacy of RTKs manufactured by international and domestic companies.Haryana, which has placed an order of 100,000 RTKs with a South Korean firm, has put it on hold after the government procured 25,000 kits from the company earlier this week, the officials said. On April 21, the ICMR had asked states to stop using the RTKs for next two days so that it could examine their accuracy in the backdrop of several complaints that they are faulty.“We are waiting for the advisory to be issued by the ICMR on the use of rapid testing kits. We have procured 25,000 antibody test kits from a South Korean firm with its plant in Manesar. The stock is enough even if we are asked to conduct antibody tests from next week,” Rajeev Arora, additional chief secretary, health department, told HT.The Haryana government, earlier this week, received 10,000 kits from China, which were distributed in the hot spot districts – Gurugram, Nuh and Hathin in Palwal to check suspected Covid-19 patients. In Gurugram, at least 66 people, including 30 journalists and six from the Sohna containment zone, were tested for coronavirus with the help of RTKs after they showed symptoms of cough and fever. All the samples tested negative. On Wednesday, state health minister Anil Vij said that the Chinese kits were overpriced. “A kit from China costs Rs 780, while the RTK manufactured by the South Korean firm in Manesar costs Rs 380, almost half the price,” Vij had said. Indian ambassador to South Korea Sripriya Ranganathan had visited the manufacturing facility of SD Biosensor in that country on April 21. The Indian embassy in its tweet wrote: SD Biosensor has just started production from its Manesar facility with a capacity of 500,000 rapid test kits per week. This will be further enhanced in the coming weeks to meet the growing demand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-use-of-rapid-test-kits-put-on-hold-till-further-notice/story-iUEmvLEiUd7a6Otj0WsdoO.html
25-04-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Four health workers test positive; admin says they weren’t handling Covid-19 cases||Four health workers of a private hospital tested positive for the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease on Saturday, taking the district tally to 51. Health officials said the patients are residents of sectors 31 and 39.“The patients are in their 20s and are employed as health staff at a private hospital -- three junior nurses and a man who transports patients. They all are asymptomatic,” said a senior health official of the district’s rapid response team. Officials familiar with the matter said these health workers were not involved in the treatment of Sars-Cov-2 patients.“We have been directed to increase surveillance and testing in Sector 39 and villages around the hospital as cases are being reported from the sector and the adjoining Jharsa village more frequently. A van given to the health department by an online pharmacy company will be stationed at Jharsa from Sunday to increase sampling in the area,” said the official, wishing not to be named.In the past week, at least seven cases have been reported from Sector 39 and Jharsa. A large number of health workers stay in the high population density area. At least cases were reported from Jharsa village this week. On April 10, Sector 39 was declared a containment zone after three positive cases surfaced. More than 10,000 people live in Jharsa while about 50,000 live in Sector 39.Of the 51 Covid-19 cases reported in the city, 35 have recovered while 16 are undergoing treatment. More than 10,000 people have been put on surveillance to date, of which more than 7,400 have finished their quarantine period of 14 days while 226 have been quarantined at government health facilities. The health team on Saturday collected 273 samples from the civil hospital and different containment zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-four-health-workers-test-positive-admin-says-they-weren-t-handling-covid-19-cases/story-0bRBHqTV3EkGOE0JdylwlM.html
25-04-2020||Mumbai||Housing societies cannot object to reopening of private clinics in premises||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), in a circular released on Saturday, said that housing societies cannot object to reopening of private clinics inside the premises. Societies objecting to reopening of clinics are to be booked under provisions of the Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020, issued by the Centre. In addition, the civic body has also asked private practitioners to give medical advice through telephone if possible.Earlier this week, BMC had announced that private clinics should remain open to treat non Covid-19 patients. However, few private practitioners had alleged they were not unable to do the same as the housing societies where their clinics are located have been objecting. In view of this, the civic body issued the circular said objecting health workers from discharging their duties is punishable under the Epidemic Disease (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020 wherein one can be punished for a minimum of five months and maximum of five years along with a fine ranging between ₹50,000 and ₹2 lakh.BMC officials said in case societies object, the doctors can approach the Mumbai Police.In addition, the civic body issued guidelines for private clinic owners for treating non-Covid-19 patients. The five-point guideline reads, “Patients can be screened with non-contact thermometer, if having temperature above 98.6F, should be referred to BMC. Any suspected cases should also be referred to BMC. Wherever required, give advice through telephone.”The guideline further reads, “While attending patients, social-distancing norms, usage of masks, hand hygiene, respiratory etiquettes and other precautionary measures should be followed.”A BMC official said, “If private clinics are shut, citizens will resort to self-medication for treating symptoms of Covid-19. However, if private clinics remain open, doctors can advise people to get tested.”He added, “We have started drive-through testing facilities at 17 parking lots across the city, however, the response has been poor. We have asked private labs to test only those carrying prescription from medical professionals. And in the absence of private clinics, testing gets delayed. Due to this, tests for symptomatic patients may get delayed which risks possible spread of the virus.”Hence private clinic owners are expected to open their clinics immediately, the civic body said in the circular.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/housing-societies-cannot-object-to-reopening-of-private-clinics-in-premises/story-oV1HbfTQr3tpI8BosUUGHN.html
25-04-2020||Gurugram||Robot ‘nurses’ to serve food, medicines to Covid-19 patients in Gurugram soon||Some hospitals in the city have started using robots to disinfect their premises without human intervention. Soon, the robots will also be used to serve food and other essential items like medicines to Covid-19 patients. The move is aimed at reducing the risk of infection for medical and sanitation staff at the hospitals. On Friday, the Civil Hospital in Sector 10 deployed a robot to disinfect the floor in and around the isolation ward and sample collection lab. Called Novus Care, the robot has been created by a Gurugram-based company and provided to the hospital jointly by the district administration and the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG).“We have tested how the robot cleans floors in the isolation ward and the sample collection lab, disinfecting the entire area. It is also designed in a way to give food and other essential items like medicines to Covid-19 patients,” said Dr Jaswant Singh Punia, chief medical officer, who was present at the Civil Hospital on Friday to check the robot’s functioning. Initially, the robot will be used for disinfection purposes, and then for serving food and medicines to patients, Punia said.Novus Care has been developed by The High-Tech Robotics Systemz Ltd (THRSL). Anil Saharan, product owner of THRSL, said that the robot has been designed to help doctors, nurses and staff to reduce contact with suspected/confirmed Covid-19 patients. “The whole purpose of these robots is to disinfect the hospital premises and ensure that they give food and other essential items like medicines to Covid-19 patients. It will lower any chance of contracting infection by the patient, and medical and support staff at sensitive areas within the hospital.”The four-foot tall robot can clean a 10x10 room in 25 minutes. It is equipped with six sensors which help in navigation and mapping, and detect any obstacle during the movement.“The robot can be remotely accessed. It moves with a maximum speed of 1 metre/second and can be controlled through a laptop or a tablet. The robot has an internal wi-fi mechanism through which it can be directly connected with the laptop or the tablet,” said Saharan.It took Saharan and his team four days to modify the basic robots for Covid purposes during the lockdown. “We had to modify the basic robots as per the Covid-19 requirements, like adding trolley, spraying and fogging mechanism. The challenge was to get raw material during the lockdown. We approached Munish Sharma, additional labour commissioner, for permission to visit our unit and start the modification work. We were allowed to approach vendors, who provided us the material and we finalised the robot in four days.”Fortis hospital in the city has also started using a robot for disinfection purposes. On Friday, Milagrow Robots provided ‘Indoor Disinfection Robot’ to the hospital. Dr Ritu Garg, zonal director, Fortis hospital, said, “The robot will help minimize the exposure to patients and health care workers’ contact with possible spores. This is a big step in our commitment to ensure the safety for all our patients and staff.” The hospital authorities, however, said that they are currently not using the robot for the Corona ward.Rajeev Karwal, founder chairman, Milagrow Robots, said that building a modified robot especially in the Covid-19 situation was challenging. “The district administration allowed us three curfew passes to work on our robots. We worked 72 hours non-stop at our unit to add features that could cater to hospital requirements at the time of the pandemic,” said Karwal.The Gurugram-based company built the 11-cm robot with 25 different types of sensors which is fully independent in terms of navigation, but can be controlled through a mobile application.Karwal’s team also modified the water tank in the robot that sprays 1% sodium hypochlorite solution, which allows the killed bacteria and viruses to settle on the ground and to be easily cleaned by mopping.“The robot can disinfect and sanitise the floor of the hospital without any human intervention. The robot moves around autonomously without falling, avoiding obstruction while planning its own path. It is guided by LIDAR and advanced SLAM technology,” said Karwal.He has patented the technology used in building the robot. “It is ‘Real Time Terrain Recognition’ technology (RT2RT) that scans at 360 degrees, six times per second to make a floor map in real time,” said Karwal.Karwal’s team has also developed a robot -- Humanoid ELF -- that enables doctors to monitor and interact with patients remotely with no person-to-person contact, thereby significantly reducing the transmission risk. According to him, patients in isolation wards can also interact with their relatives through this robot. The Humanoid ELF can navigate around the ward independently and record the activities in high definition video and audio.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/robot-nurses-to-serve-food-medicines-to-covid-19-patients-in-gurugram-soon/story-iGNhle5xrWwTtTU9HabkOM.html
25-04-2020||Lucknow||UP: Dedicated teams to check infection in hospitals||The UP government on Saturday decided to constitute dedicated teams in all districts to check infection in government and private hospitals. The decision was taken in view of chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s directive in this regard, additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi and principal secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said at a press conference on Saturday.Prasad said the teams will monitor whether the hospital authorities were implementing the infection prevention protocol. In several districts, infection spread from hospitals, he said. District level teams will be headed by an officer of additional chief medical officer (ACMO) rank. Office bearers of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), field staff of World Health Organisation (WHO), UNICEF and district level officials of the state pollution control board will be team members. The pollution control board played an important role in management of biological waste, he said.All government and private hospitals will also constitute teams to ensure the infection prevention protocol was implemented, Prasad said.As the state government has ordered government and private hospitals to start emergency services, the health department has started training doctors, nurses and paramedical staff posted in hospitals. After training government hospital staff, the health department decided to hold classroom training for private hospital staff as well, he said. The health department will also carry out a audit in all hospitals to ensure that the infection prevention protocol was followed, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-dedicated-teams-to-check-infection-in-hospitals/story-VFao42beZPqrwAqqmMAWJM.html
25-04-2020||Mumbai||Pre-monsoon prep on hold, fear of dengue, leptospirosis outbreak lurks in Mumbai||With the pre-monsoon preparation to curb the outbreak of dengue, malaria and leptospirosis taking a back seat amid the fight against Covid-19, cases of water-borne diseases are likely to rise during the rains, warn experts.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the onset of southwest monsoon in Mumbai is likely on June 10. But unlike every year, the insecticide department hasn’t started door-to-door inspections, fogging, spraying disinfectants, identifying breeding grounds and killing rodents, among others. All 600 employees of the insecticide department of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) have been assigned fumigation work to contain the spread of the coronavirus. In June 2019, the city saw eight cases of dengue, 15 cases of malaria and five of leptospirosis. For the first time in a decade, Mumbai didn’t record a malaria death last year.“Every year, the pre-monsoon preparations begin by March. This year we are so busy with Covid that we haven’t gotten the time for it,” said an officer from the insecticide department. “As we have the fumigation machines, we have been assigned duties in societies and hospitals for Covid care. The BMC is planning to frame a policy and we hope that the solid waste management, which is currently functioning on 50% strength, will come forward to help us.”Medical experts are, however, concerned. “Recently, it started to rain in Bangalore. If it happens in Mumbai, it will be a big problem for the health team to deal with. Although the priority for now is Covid, focus should also be paid to seasonal diseases as the monsoon is not very far,” said Dr Vikrant Shah, infection specialist from Zen Hospital, Chembur.A patients’ rights activist has filed a complaint with the National Human Rights Commission, Delhi seeking intervention from the health department to bring the pandemic under control before the monsoon. “Already, the slums in Dharavi, Govandi and Worli have turned into Covid hotspots. In the monsoon, it will be tougher to maintain social distance and keep a tab on slum dwellers,” said Dr Yogesh Dube, president of Bhartiya Vikas Sansthan. Due to the pandemic, blood donation, too, has dropped by 70%, with most blood banks running out of blood and platelets. “A healthy person has a platelet count between 150,000 and 250,000 per microlitres of blood. In dengue patients, the count deteriorates to 20,000, making platelet transfusion essential. With no blood donation, we won’t have enough platelets to save them,” said a blood officer from a civic-run hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pre-monsoon-prep-on-hold-fear-of-dengue-leptospirosis-outbreak-lurks-in-mumbai/story-EZCVqgcmjtzXwrgMRyTgJO.html
25-04-2020||Mumbai||This Ramzan, hear Quranic sermons online||After the chief qazi of the city instructed members of the Muslim community to conduct prayers from home during the holy month of Ramzan, a community group has started online Quranic sermons.The sermons are being organised and uploaded by Jamaat-e-Islami Hind (JIH), Maharashtra, and Students Islamic Organisation of India (SIO). Sessions for women started three days ago and the first Hindi sermon was uploaded on Friday. Rizwan-ur-Rahman Khan, president of JIH, said on Friday night, the sermon had more than 15,000 views from all over the world. “We are reaching out to people through social media and informing them of these sermons. People are watching these sermons on various online platforms,” said Khan.The online sermons are by three religious, Islamic scholars. In addition to Hindi, Marathi sermons will start from May 1. They will be uploaded on social media daily. The organisers arranged special talks for women, which began three days ago and will continue throughout Ramzan.“Ramzan draws its importance from the Quran, as the divine book was revealed to prophet Muhammad in this very month. A special prayer called taraweeh is held every night throughout the month, where one of the 30 parts Quran is recited. While the recitation is in Arabic, usually these verses are explained in local languages in many mosques,” said Islamic scholar Naushad Usman, who will deliver the Marathi sermons. Due to the lockdown, community members have been discouraged from visiting mosques.Some members of the community have argued that putting sermons online is against religious practices.Last week, chief qazi of Mumbai Mufti Mehmood Akhtar Qadri had requested community members to observe the restrictions imposed by the lockdown during Ramzan. “Because of lockdown, a lot of people have expressed concerns about how can they have taraweeh namaz at home and that everyone needs to gather in a mosque, but even if a limited number of people offer namaz from mosque, it is acceptable. Others can pray from home,” Qadri had said, adding an appeal to help poor families by providing them food.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/this-ramzan-hear-quranic-sermons-online/story-VhkSU5JhYozpKOLeQcKUgN.html
25-04-2020||City||Kalyan death case: Kin allege deceased was attacked for coughing||Following the suspicious death of a 40-year-old resident of Bunderpada in Kalyan, his family has refused to take possession of the body, claiming that the man was attacked by a mob which suspected him of being infected with the coronavirus. The body of the deceased has been sent to Sir JJ Hospital for a second post-mortem, and police said they will take action based on the report.The deceased, Ganesh Gupta, a tea seller, was found lying injured in a gutter on Wednesday morning. He was taken to a nearby hospital but died during treatment.Anju Gupta, 30, wife of the deceased, refused to claim her husband’s body till the police take any action in his death. “On Wednesday around 6.30am, my husband left home to meet his boss in Ambernath to pick up some rations. Around 10.30am, some neighbours told me that he had fallen in a nullah,” she said, adding that some people helped pull him out and take him to the hospital. “He kept repeating that some people beat him up and bashed a chair against his head. We took him to Rukmini Hospital and he was declared dead within 10 minutes,” she said.The deceased’s relatives found Gupta’s bicycle lying by the side of the road along with the rations he had picked up. “Some children and women told us that after my husband started coughing, some men suspected him of being a Covid-19 patient and attacked him. When he tried to run away he fell into the gutter,” Anju said.Khadakpada police are investigating the case and told HT that they found CCTV footage of a man running alone. The footage does not show anyone attacking him.Seema Patri, 42, Gupta’s neighbor, said that they had collected the names of the people responsible for the attack. “We gave the name of the people who beat him up to the police but they told us that we do not have any evidence that these people were responsible.”Deputy commissioner of police, V Pansare said, “We have received the [first] post-mortem report which says the death was due to spinal injuries and that could have happened when Gupta fell into the nullah. We have filed an accidental death case and sent the body for another post-mortem to JJ Hospital.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kalyan-death-case-kin-allege-deceased-was-attacked-for-coughing/story-hVX4ygG1DG75qT7zcMKv1O.html
25-04-2020||City||Doctor, cop’s wife die of Covid-19 in Thane||A doctor and a wife of a policeman, who had tested positive for Covid-19, died in Thane, taking the death toll to eight.Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner of TMC said, “The doctor, 80, had tested positive on April 22 and was admitted in Vedant Hospital. He died on Friday night. He also had various comorbidities including hypertension. The second death is of a 49-year-old woman, a resident of Lokmanya Nagar. Her husband, a police officer in Navi Mumbai had tested positive, following which the woman was infected. The woman died in Kalwa hospital on Saturday.The city saw eleven new cases on Saturday, majority of whom are contact cases of a 44-year-old resident of Lokmanya Nagar who tested positive posthumously. Eight out of 11 cases are from Kisannagar, Lokmanya Nagar area, where the funeral had taken place. Malvi informed that these people were among the 72 persons quarantined after the funeral.182 quarantined in Lokmanya Nagar In the last four days, since the funeral of the Lokmanya Nagar resident, 182 people have been quarantined. Out of these 72 were quarantined after they attended the funeral, 60 Kalwa hospital staff are quarantined after a nurse tested positive, while another 50 people were quarantined on Saturday, after a family tested positive in CP Talao area of Wagale Estate. The family came in contact with over 50 people in the last two to three weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/doctor-cop-s-wife-die-of-covid-19-in-thane/story-OO2oMJDGfOXhItuIiLgKbI.html
25-04-2020||Mumbai||Temporary quarantine centres, strict screening plan at Mumbai airport post-lockdown||Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) on Saturday formulated standard operating procedures (SOP) for post-lockdown, as safety measures amid the Covid-19 outbreak, for the passengers. These include social distancing, stringent thermal screening and positioning temporary quarantine centres. It has also assured to continue to sanitise and disinfect the airport to ensure the safety and well-being of the passengers, once operations resume.Mumbai International Airport Ltd (MIAL) spokesperson said, “In the initial phase of resuming operations, the airport will be functioning with 50% staff strength, as per the directives from the government. The airport maintenance staff have been provided with cleaning equipment to sanitise and disinfect the terminal building, including the vital areas such as elevator buttons, escalators, immigration counters etc.”To enable safety precautions at the airport, as CSMIA plans to follow social distancing through distinctive markings at both the terminals; 1.5 meters distance will be maintained between each passenger. MIAL said special markings for this purpose will be the entry gate, check-in counters, self-check-in kiosks, security checkpoints, food courts, lounge area and the boarding area. MIAL has reshuffled seating arrangements at the food court as well as in the terminal building to encourage social distancing. CSMIA has also created quarantine centres at both the terminals of the airport in case any passenger shows symptoms of Covid-19 during the screening, which will be conducted before entering the terminal building.The airport authority has not only appealed to the passengers to wear masks and gloves during their entire travel but also to check-in online and use cashless payment mode at the food joints and retail stores at the airports.The operator is also conducting meetings of the airport stakeholders and is conducting specialised training sessions for all airport personnel. “MIAL will be keeping a close watch on the new way of functionalities of passengers and operations and will improvise on the observations made, once services resume,” added the spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/temporary-quarantine-centres-strict-screening-plan-at-mumbai-airport-post-lockdown/story-GQp7w1E2zN22cxXhNcvOVN.html
25-04-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s Covid-19 cases cross 5-K mark||The city crossed the 5,000 mark on Saturday, as it recorded the highest number of cases in a single day – 602. While the case count stood at 5,049, the toll was 191 with 13 deaths in the past 24 hours, according to data from the state health department. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), excluding Mumbai, saw 912 cases, with 717 cases in Thane (15 deaths), 139 in Palghar (4 deaths) and 56 in Raigad (1 death).With its thrust on aggressive testing and contact tracing, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has identified 98,859 people who came in touch with 4,447 positive patients (count till Friday evening), of which 15,359 are at high risk and 83,500 at low risk. All high-risk contacts may not be necessarily infected, said a senior official from the civic health department. Of the total cases, 1,795 cases were detected in contact tracing, containment zone and fever clinic measures, said the BMC. BMC commissioner Praveen Pardeshi said, “Because of our aggressive contact tracing strategy, we have identified over 15,000 high-risk contacts of patients. Of these, at least 6,123 people have been shifted to institutional quarantine facilities. Such large-scale contact tracing helped avoid a larger outbreak of coronavirus.”The BMC officials sealed 43 new areas from central Mumbai as of Saturday. The number of containment zones in Mumbai climbed to 1,036 as of Saturday, according to data from the BMC. Also, the BMC removed 231 containment zones from its list, as these areas have completed their 14-day quarantine period and showed no new cases. The BMC categorises containment zones into blue, orange and red, with buildings which are formal housing clusters placed in the first category, congested pockets that are deemed manageable areas placed in the second, and congested pockets which need a tight lockdown placed in the third category. As of now, there are 476 zones in the blue category, 186 under orange and 374 under red.According to the BMC’s estimates, the number of Covid-19 positive cases could reach 75,000 by May. Of them, symptomatic cases could be 12,000, while asymptomatic cases could reach 63,000.The civic officials, along with the police department, have kept ready all staffers for surveillance during Ramazan, which began on Saturday. The BMC will use drone cameras to monitor the situation in areas such as Bandra East’s Behrampada, Bharat Nagar, Dnyaneshwar Nagar and Patthar Nagar. This area has recorded 184 coronavirus confirmed cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-covid-19-cases-cross-5-k-mark/story-Gkxg5yrfKwSewFO3syDVwJ.html
25-04-2020||City||Infected Doraha BDPO’s husband also found Covid positive||A day after the Doraha block development panchayat officer (BDPO), Navdeep Kaur, tested positive for Covid-19, her husband Prabhjot Singh, a food supply official, was also confirmed to have contracted the infection, health officials confirmed on Saturday. The BDPO’s husband is the eighth government employee to have contracted the disease in Ludhiana where the total number of cases have now climbed to 21.Firstly BDPO’s mother, district mandi officer (DMO) Jasbir Kaur, 57, had tested positive on April 16, following which her primary contacts, the BPDO, 35, and her husband, 39, have also been found infected. Reports of 20 more contacts, including the BDPO’s domestic help and driver, are awaited.All three patients are admitted at the Ludhiana civil hospital.Deputy commissioner (DC) Pradeep Agrawal said till Saturday, 1,559 samples had been collected in the district, of which 21 were found positive, 1,292 were negative and reports of 245 were pending. Among the positive patients, 18 are from Ludhiana and three from other districts.The disease has claimed five lives in the district. Besides, six patients (five from Ludhiana and one from Jalandhar) have recovered, leaving 10 active cases.25-YEAR-OLD ARRESTED FOR SNATCHING RECOVERSSaurav Sehgal, 25, who was arrested for snatching on April 5, has become the sixth patient in the district to recover from Covid-19. He was admitted at the civil hospital.Sehgal’s infection was detected after a doctor posted at the Ludhiana Central Jail noticed his symptoms when he was taken there for judicial custody post his arrest. He has now been granted bail by court. Sehgal had tested positive on April 9. His symptoms were cough and fever.Meanwhile, his accomplice Navjot Singh, who had escaped from police custody, was nabbed on Saturday. He has been isolated in the isolation ward of the civil hospital.Following detection of Sehgal’s infection, 17 policemen were placed under quarantine, including Focal Point SHO and in-charge of the Jeevan Nagar police post.From inspectors to constables, the accused was handled by police personnel encompassing various ranks following his arrest.FIRST BATCH OF PILGRIMS STRANDED IN NANDED TO REACH CITYThe deputy commissioner said the Punjab government had sent buses to bring back pilgrims stranded at Nanded in Maharashtra. Among them were 174 residents of Ludhiana district. The first batch of 54 pilgrims will reach the district by Sunday.Upon their arrival, they will be screened by the health department, which will be followed by home quarantine for 14 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/infected-doraha-bdpo-s-husband-also-found-covid-positive/story-Hg9JoCffTFpsKR0UcHy2oO.html
25-04-2020||City||111 new cases of Covid-19 in Delhi, total 2,625||New DelhiDelhi recorded 111 new cases of Covid-19 on Saturday, taking the total number of cases to 2,625. So far, 54 people have died with the infection in the city, including one person whose death was recorded on Saturday in the daily data shared by the Delhi government. Of the 111 new cases, 24 were among samples that were collected by healthcare workers from the containment zones. So far 257 people from these areas have tested positive.Almost 66% of those infected are below the age of 50 years, according to the data. Less than 18% cases are recorded among those above the age of 60. However, almost 54% deaths are in those 60 years or older.Of the 1702 active cases – those who still have the infection – 481 are admitted in nine designated hospitals across the city. Forty-one people are in the intensive care units and eight are on ventilators.Around 910 others with mild symptoms have been admitted to seven Covid Care Centres in the city. And 90 others with moderate symptoms have been admitted to the Covid Health Centres in two AYUSH hospitals.On Saturday, 1,847 samples were collected across the city, with reports of 3,709 samples being pending with laboratories.Among those who tested positive on Saturday, were 30 healthcare workers from Babu Jagjivan Ram hospital in Jahangirpuri. A total of 44 hospital staff has tested positive for the infection so far. With at least 132 healthcare workers from across the city testing positive for the infection, hospitals across the city have been denying care to many non-Covid-19 patients. ‘The Delhi government on Saturday reiterated that no private or government hospital should refuse serious as well as routine patients. The hospitals have also been asked to not refer all suspected cases to the dedicate Covid-19 hospitals to prevent them from being flooded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/111-new-cases-of-covid-19-in-delhi-total-2-625/story-QFrPl5f6aVUB7icqk5ISRK.html
25-04-2020||Delhi||Case registered against cop for violating quarantine||The Delhi Police on Saturday registered a case against one of their own—a woman head constable—for allegedly violating home-quarantine norms after the technical analysis of her cellphone showed that she had been regularly stepping out of her home. Senior police officers said that the action against the policewoman would send a message among other police personnel, who are in quarantine after coming in contact with people infected with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Deputy commissioner of police (outer) A Koan said that the woman head constable is posted to the west district but resides in Peeragarhi area, which is under the jurisdiction of Paschim Vihar police station. On April 10, the DCP said they had received information that the woman head constable has been quarantined at home as per the doctor’s advice. “Recently, an inspection was carried out and she was not found at home. Hence, a case has been registered at the Paschim Vihar police station for the home-quarantine violation,” DCP Koan added. A police officer associated with the case said that three visits were made at her home between April 16 and 19 but she was found absent on all three days. Her cellphone location was found to be Gurugram. According to deputy commissioner of police (west) Deepak Purohit, the woman head constable had complained of cough and fever and had sought permission to quarantine herself at home. “She was allowed to quarantine herself at home. However, the visits to her home and the analysis of her cellphone locations suggests that she had been regularly stepping out. Accordingly, a case was registered against her,” Purohit said. The case has been registered under Section 3 of the Epidemic Disease Act, section 15 of Disaster Management Act and the Indian Penal Code’s sections 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), and 271 (Disobedience to quarantine rule). “This action against our own staff is a message to other personnel that nobody is above the law. Everyone has to abide by the rules. Be it a public person or those who are the custodians of the law,” Purohit added. Till Saturday, 31 police personnel tested positive for the virus while as many as 500 personnel who came in contact with them are in isolation to prevent the spread of the virus. The 500 police personnel are quarantined in their homes or the different hotels booked by the Delhi Police. The police have registered at least 350 FIRs against different persons across the city for breaking home-quarantine rules.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/case-registered-against-cop-for-violating-quarantine/story-yIQtN5f4gSkJq7krO2evWP.html
25-04-2020||Mumbai||IITs conduct online classes, to hold exams in batches||Even as an expert committee formed by the Centre has suggested that universities could hold exams in July and start the next academic year by September, the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) are drawing out different plans. At present, IITs are conducting online classes and are likely to finish the curriculum in a couple of weeks. Plans are afoot to thereafter conduct examinations in batches to ensure students maintain social distancing and also complete the academic session.At IIT-Madras, the institute has drawn an extensive plan to conduct exams, provided the current travel restrictions are eased. “Starting with final year students, we will invite students in batches to appear for exams and ensure only one student sits per room. All rooms will be disinfected and fumigated before the next batch arrives,” said Prof V Jagadeesh Kumar, Dean (academics), IIT-Madras. He added that the institute plans to finish online classes by May 1 and exams will only start over travel for students is possible. “In case government allows travel within states, we might look at calling students to the closest IIT to where they reside and appear for exams, but this plan is still on paper,” added Kumar.IIT-Roorkee too plans to invite students on campus in batches, starting with BTech students. “Final year students need to clear exams first, either to report for jobs or higher education courses, so they will form the first batch. We have announced a semester completion plan and dates for the semester-end examinations. The exam duration has been reduced from three to two hours,” said Prof Ajit K Chaturvedi, director of IIT-Roorkee. He added that for the ongoing virtual classes, the institute is also reimbursing up to ₹500 to students availing fee-waiver in IIT-Roorkee.While plans are on paper already, officials at the Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay (IIT-B) are still to take a final call on their decision. “Virtual classes are on and we are calling a senate meet soon to take a collective decision on the examination session,” said Prof Subhasis Chaudhuri, director of the institute. Similarly, IIT-Delhi too has shared a course plan with their students while a decision on exams are still on hold until there’s clarity on easing of the lockdown, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/iits-conduct-online-classes-to-hold-exams-in-batches/story-mA9CAzFd5HihT3m7DLX1XN.html
25-04-2020||City||NMMC orders code of conduct for essential services firms||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has ordered a code of conduct for operations to be followed by industries and establishments offering essential services. The decision was taken after 21 employees of an IT company tested positive. Navi Mumbai municipal commissioner Annasaheb Misal said, “Entire premises of such firms should be disinfected thrice a day. Gloves, at least three masks and hand sanitisers should be provided to the staff as safety measures.” The entry of vehicles supplying raw materials should be restricted and should be allowed inside the work premises only after disinfection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nmmc-orders-code-of-conduct-for-essential-services-firms/story-2KIneWjIZzK9CDN7Ny6x0M.html
25-04-2020||City||Three new containment zones in Delhi, total now 95||The Delhi government on Saturday announced three new containment zones in the city, taking total to 95. The newly-added containment zones are Gali number-3 and street number-9 in Shalimar Village in northwest district, and Gali number 1 to 3 in Brahmapuri area in northeast district.Containment zones comprise apartment blocks, gated communities, slums and streets. They may even cover entire neighbourhoods. They are a completely quarantined zone and no one is allowed to step out even to buy essential goods such as milk, vegetables, fruits, etc. All entry and exit points and even the internal lanes are barricaded in containment zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-new-containment-zones-in-delhi-total-now-95/story-IbyYL1RVThUgsFLps4HCIM.html
25-04-2020||City||5,500-litre of chemicals used in making alcohol seized, one arrested in Khanna||Two days after the raid at an illegal liquor distillation plant at Bahomajra village of Khanna, the police on Friday recovered 3,740 litres of spirit and 1,760 litres of other chemicals used in making liquor and arrested one more member of the bootleggers’ gang.The arrest came on the information provided by Harvinder Singh, alias Manga Chaddha, one of the five accused arrested earlier during the raid.The accused arrested on Friday has been identified as Jasvir Singh, alias Jassi, of Samrala. The police recovered two cartons of liquor from his possession. During questioning, the accused told the police that he had sold 600 cartons of illicit liquor in Khanna.Khanna senior superintendent of police (SSP) Harpreet Singh said the raids were conducted following the information provided by accused Manga. He told the police that he used to procure spirit from Bhupinder Singh, alias Bhinda, of Rajpura and sell liquor through Jassi and others. Bhinda managed to escape when the police raided his house, however, the police recovered spirit and other chemicals from the house, he said.The SSP added that the police had also booked Lavan Kumar of Patiala; Chirag of Delhi; Sumit Kumar of Delhi; Vivek Kumar of Chandigarh; AdityaTyagi of Saharanpur in Uttar Pradesh; Bhupinder Singh and Jasvir Singh in the case on information provided by Manga.Manga is already facing trial in 12 cases registered in Rajasthan, Sangrur, Patiala, Mohali and Shri Fatehgarh Sahib.In a major crackdown against liquor smugglers on Wednesday, Khanna police had raided a liquor distillation plant being illegally run in Bahomajra village and seized 1,857 cartons of illicit liquor, 3,800 litres of spirit, along with machines, vehicles and ₹5.82 lakh in cash.Police had arrested five persons — Harvinder Singh, alias Manga Chaddha; Chander Prakash, alias Vicky Middha; Jatinder Kumar, Jatinderpal Singh and Maninder Singh — in this connection.A case under Sections 420 (cheating), 465 (forgery), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using as genuine a forged document) and 267 (making or selling false weight or measure) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC); Sections 61/1/14 of the Excise Act and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act was registered against the accused at the Sadar police station in Khanna.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/5-500-litre-of-chemicals-used-in-making-alcohol-seized-one-arrested-in-khanna/story-5hR92efOT7Pt2RJjGVB36L.html
25-04-2020||City||Covid-19: Central team visits Thane||With almost 10 lakh people residing in slums in Thane city, the five-member inter-ministerial central team (IMCT) has asked the Thane Municipal Corporation to ensure the coronavirus does not spread through the slums. The team which visited Thane on Saturday also asked the corporation to intensify the survey of people to identify those with symptoms.The IMCT team was supposed to assess five cities in the country, including Thane, which are hotspots. The team visited the Thane Municipal Corporation where representatives of police, district collector, and officials from Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation, Mira Bhayandar Municipal Corporation and Kalyan Dombivali Municipal Corporation were present.An officer from TMC said, “Around 9.80 lakh people reside in slums in Thane and spread of coronavirus in slums will be difficult to contain. The team from the Centre has asked us to prevent the spread in slums. It is easy to isolate people if a case is detected in a building, people are also literate in societies, however, social distancing in slums is difficult .”The IMCT also asked the corporations to ensure that the poor have enough food to sustain during the lockdown. The team visited Kaushalya Hospital, Thane Civil Hospital, Horizon Hospital and areas of Kalwa, Parsik Nagar, Amrut Nagar and Kausa in Mumbra.The team also asked ifferent authorities such as police and corporation to district to ensure the rules of lockdown are strictly followed.Manoj Joshi, additional secretary of central ministry, said, “It is essential to carry out more testing across the districts of suspected patients. Proper safety precautions should be taken at the fever clinics set up in the district. The institutional quarantine should also increase so high- and low-risk contacts can be quarantined to prevent the further spread.”He added that crowded area, community toilets and slums should be the focus to stop the spread. He added, “All corporations should ensure that help reaches the poor. Senior citizens in the city should be paid special attention to.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-central-team-visits-thane/story-uEFxAVAMXPESDAiN4fTMLJ.html
25-04-2020||Delhi||HC gives 2 weeks to 5 DSGMC schools to clear teachers’ dues||The Delhi high court has granted two weeks’ time to five schools run by the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) to pay salary arrears to its teachers, some of whom have not been paid since December last year.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Sangita Dhingra Sehgal said “there can be no justification for non-payment of salaries” when fees were being charged from the students.The schools had contended that the salaries could not be paid as fee arrears from students had accumulated.The bench rejected the contention and granted the schools two weeks’ time to “positively clear and pay all the arrears” to the affected teachers.With the direction, the court listed the matter for May 11, when the schools will have to show that they have complied with the order.The order came on appeals filed by the teachers of the five schools located at Fateh Nagar, Tilak Nagar, Nanak Piao, Hargobind Enclave and India Gate here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/hc-gives-2-weeks-to-5-dsgmc-schools-to-clear-teachers-dues/story-MREhKQhMxVI31wSWY9yMrJ.html
25-04-2020||City||3 new cases in Kalyan-Dombivli; case tally is 117||Three new cases of Covid-19 were reported from Kalyan and Dombivli on Saturday, taking the city’s toll to 117. A total of 39 patients have been discharged after treatment.Among the three cases is a 32-year-old nurse and a 33-year-old police personnel from Kalyan (East).Kalyan-Dombivli municipal commissioner Vijay Suryavanshi has strictly asked residents to not come out to buy essentials but get them delivered at home.“We have appealed to shop owners to ensure essentials are delivered to residents’ homes. The ward officers have been asked to help shop keepers with volunteers for home delivery,” said Suryavanshi.“We have decided to tighten security as people are still seen outside and cases are increasing in Kalyan-Dombivli,” said an officer from Mahatma Phule police station. Ambernath has four Covid positive cases till now; no case was reported on Saturday. “Although there is no active case in Ambernath, three test reports are awaited,” said a civic official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-new-cases-in-kalyan-dombivli-case-tally-is-117/story-cjXK7qKz1N2pF8OHhOKM3I.html
25-04-2020||Chandigarh||No Covid-19 case reported from Panchkula district in five days||No fresh coronavirus disease (Covid-19) case has been reported from Panchkula district in the last five days. The district count currently stands at 18. The last case was reported on April 20, when a 20-year-old Tablighi Jamaat attendee tested Covid-19 positive. So far, three patients have been discharged.The district health department took second samples from seven family members of Panchkula’s Sector 15 woman, and four jamaat men, whose first test results came back negative on Friday. District Covid-19 nodal officer, Dr Rajiv Narwal said, “As per protocol, second samples of all 11 persons were sent for testing on Saturday, and reports are awaited. If they come back negative again, the process related to discharge will be reviewed.”The seven family members of the 44-year-old Sector 15 woman tested positive on April 16, two days after her, followed by her husband. The four jamaat men are among the six who are currently admitted to the civil hospital.On Saturday, eight students from Kota, Rajasthan, were brought back to Panchkula. They are residents of different sectors and their samples were taken for testing by district health teams.Panchkula deputy commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said samples of 1,354 people have so far been taken of which, 18 tested positive and 1,176 negative. He said reports of at least 133 samples are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-covid-19-case-reported-from-panchkula-district-in-five-days/story-ghXzLe5MmfRpHMNkzA9zGK.html
25-04-2020||Chandigarh||Give bonus on wheat MSP: SAD to states, Centre||The core committee of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Saturday urged the Centre to give bonus on the Minimum Support Price (MSP) of wheat, besides sending a team to inquire into the misappropriation and embezzlement of food material dispatched to the state.In its meeting held here through video conferencing that party president Sukhbir Singh Badal chaired, the core committee also asked the government to remove the glut in ‘mandis’ by lifting wheat and helping those in crisis through direct cash transfers and waiver of electricity bills. Party patron and former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal also attended. The core committee expressed its concern that the inclement weather, coupled with restrictions on sale of wheat, had resulted in hardship to farmers. It said a bonus was needed to offset the losses being suffered by farmers even as it asked the Centre to give directions to FCI to relax moisture norms and procure shrivelled and discoloured wheat. The committee also asked the Punjab government to take immediate steps to work out a bonus on wheat.“Most Mandis have become clogged due to lack of lifting which could translate into a health hazard soon if not cleared,” said Sukhbir.The committee asked the government to revise its strategy to counter covid-19, as the death rate was among the highest in Punjab. The members also resolved to demand from the state a judicial inquiry into the death and the subsequent controversy over the cremation of Padma Shri Bhai Nirmal Singh. The committee also paid condolences to Bhai Nirmal Singh, ACP Anil Kohli and all other victims of covid-19 in the state. Advise Capt to release DA of state employees: Majithia to RahulIn a separate statement, SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia also asked Congress MP Rahul Gandhi to advise chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh to release Dearness Allowance (DA) and arrears of Rs 5,000 crore to Punjab government employees, due since 2018 if he was really concerned about employee welfare. “The Centre has taken the unprecedented step to freeze the hike in DA, but the Punjab government has not been giving arrears to its employees for three years. Isn’t this really inhuman and cruel? Should you not practise what you preach and get what you are advising the Union government implemented in Punjab first?” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/give-bonus-on-wheat-msp-sad-to-states-centre/story-wn03BZf8lMdgkdXjjb0suO.html
25-04-2020||Chandigarh||Two brothers held for misbehaving with woman sub-inspector in Ludhiana||Two brothers were held for allegedly misbehaving with woman sub-inspector (SI) and violating curfew norms near Matharoo Chowk in Dugri on Friday. Police said the accused, identified as Kamalpreet Singh and his brother Ravinder Singh of LIG flats at Phase-3 in Dugri, were found roaming around without permission in their Hyundai i20 car. When they were issued a challan for the violation, they misbehaved with SI Beena Rani, they added.An FIR was lodged on the complaint of the SI. She said, “On Friday, while I was deputed on lockdown duty near Matharoo Chowk, I saw the accused crossing the area in their car. I stopped them for checking and asked them to produce curfew pass, which they did not have. When I issued them a challan, the duo started abusing me and even pushed me.” Later, the SI called other police personnel from Dugri police station and arrested the accused.Station house officer (SHO) at Dugri police station, inspector Surinder Chopra, said a case under Sections 353, 186, 269, 336, 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act had been registered against the accused. 21 ARRESTED FOR CURFEW VIOLATIONSOn Friday, 21 people were arrested in 12 separate cases of curfew violations in the city. Among them, 13 were arrested for roaming around without any permission.Those arrested include two hair dressers, identified as Javed of Mayapuri and Salim Salmani of Tibba Road, who were also operating their salons without permission. They were arrested by Tibba police. In another case, Haibowal police arrested a liquor vend salesman for selling liquor during the curfew. The police also booked the vend’s manager and owner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-brothers-held-for-misbehaving-with-woman-sub-inspector-in-ludhiana/story-BVfKnyIJeZjcOMoI88OTXK.html
25-04-2020||City||Delhi govt launches online mathematics learning for class 9 students||New Delhi: The Delhi government on Saturday announced an online mathematics learning programme for nearly 3 lakh class 9 students, one of the several digital initiatives that the AAP dispensation has launched to help students continue their studies during the ongoing national lockdown to stop the spread of Covid-19.Delhi education Minister Manish Sisodia announced the initiative during his weekly session of “parenting in the time of Corona”. “The lockdown has no doubt affected us all. It has hampered the studies of our students and so, our education department has been trying to introduce new ways (like online classes) to reduce this impact on the studies of the students and help them cope with the loss in academic activities,” he said. Schools across the city are have been shut for more than a month.To be run in collaboration with a non-profit organisation, Khan Academy, students would be sent links to mathematics lessons designed by Khan Academy though SMS from Monday. The links will have videos of lessons as well as activities for the students based on the topics mentioned in the lessons.The government is already running online classes for class 12 students and activities and e-lessons for those enrolled in classes nursery to 8 in its schools to ensure continued learning during the lockdown.Explaining the reason behind launching a mathematics programme for class 9 students, Shailendra Sharma, senior advisor to education minister, said mathematics has always been a major challenge for government school students. “Last year, when we examined the class 10 board exam results we found that while the overall pass percentage was 97%, only 71% students had passed in mathematics. Similarly, the pass percentage was 57% in mathematics in class 9. Keeping that in mind we decided to collaborate with Khan Academy that will produce online study material for our students.”Sandeep Bapna, managing director of Khan Academy India, said it will be a 10-week-long programme. “Starting Monday, the parents will receive an SMS with a link to that day’s micro lesson. It will have two or three videos and a couple of exercises. These lessons will be sent to parents/students for 10 weeks . The purpose of the programme is to revise the syllabus of the last year and to prepare the students for the new academic year,” he said.Khan Academy will also train 1,000 Delhi government teachers for the programme through five webinars in the coming weeks, he added. “The videos produced by Khan academy will not require high speed internet so that everyone can access it,” Bapna said.Sisodia also took feedback of ongoing online classes from teachers, parents and students. “ I am glad to see that 1,33,193 students of Class 12 (the students of class 11 who are awaiting their results) have been registered for the online classes. Around 6 lakh students currently studying in classes nursery to 8, are also connected with us through SMS and IVR. They receive a daily exercise/assignment on their parents’ mobile phones everyday, We have also garnered a great response for the Happiness Class that is being streamed online for entire family everyday at 4 pm.” he said. Sharing her experience of online classes, Harita Arora, a history teacher said, “We were initially apprehensive about going from real classrooms to virtual ones but the transition has been smooth. Students are fearlessly asking questions in chat boxes during online class, more than they would do in real classrooms.”Sisodia also spoke to some parents of younger kids over phone to take feedback about the daily activities. Harvinder Kaur, a mother of a Class 5 Delhi government student said, “The daily activities are making my child aware of a lot of general issues like water conservation. Today we got an exercise asking if we had 15 litres of water then how would we manage our household. So, I taught my child to use minimum and made him aware about how to conserve water,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-launches-online-mathematics-learning-for-class-9-students/story-uK2JuPVG8VHZkWB5iAN3DK.html
25-04-2020||Chandigarh||PU to hold entrance tests from May 16||Panjab University (PU) on Saturday announced the entrance tests dates for admission to various postgraduate and undergraduate courses in the varsity. The entrance tests will begin from May 16 and continue till June.The entrance tests for various MBA programmes at University Institute of Applied Management Sciences (UIAMS) — retail management, banking and insurance management, capital markets, IT and telecommunication management, infrastructural management, pharmaceutical management and hospital management — are scheduled on May 23.For courses such as BPharma and BSc honours in anthropology, biochemistry, biophysics, biotechnology, botany, chemistry, geology, microbiology, physics (and specialisation in electronics), zoology and mathematics, the entrance tests will be held on May 16.The tests for five-year integrated courses BA LLB and BCom LLB will be held on May 24.The official spokesperson of PU, Renuka Salwan, said that the dates are tentative and the final scenario will depend on prevailing situations amid the coronavirus outbreak. Meanwhile, the page on the PU website also mentions that the information is tentative and is subject to change. It also suggests interested students to check respective websites of the courses. The varsity has also given three enquiry numbers 1800-180-2065, +91 172 2534818, 2534866 wherein students can contact in case of any doubt regarding the admission schedule. The numbers will be active from 9:30 am to 1:00 pm and 2:30 pm to 5:00pm on the working days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pu-to-hold-entrance-tests-from-may-16/story-iCDE8vkCGaYe56UN7vsjCJ.html
25-04-2020||Chandigarh||71% Tablighis, contacts in Haryana cured, likely to be sent home from quarantine by mid-May||Of the total 147 Tablighis and their contacts who were found to be positive for Covid-19 in the state since March 31, as many as 105 have been cured and shifted from hospitals to quarantine facilities, senior doctors said. They are likely to be sent home by mid-May, after the mandatory 14-day observation .“After the first negative report of a person, the second sample has to be taken within 72 hours and if it is found to be negative again, it is mandatory to keep the person in 14-day self-quarantine or a similar facility. Since most of them are from other states, they are kept here in observation,” a senior doctor said.On March 31, the state government had launched a massive exercise to identify persons with Tablighi Jamaat links and quarantined about 1,600 of them in their respective areas, mainly in Nuh, Palwal, Gurugram and Faridabad. Of these, 147 were later found positive and these four districts were marked as red zones (or hot spots). Stating that 105 of them have now been cured, doctors said that only about 40 persons with Tablighi link are among the active cases. Nuh has so far had 57 positive cases, Gurugram, 51, Faridabad and Palwal, 29 each, some of whom, especially in Gurugram, are not Tablighis or their contacts, and had foreign travel history.Stating that some Tablighis and their contacts had been cured, health minister Anil Vij, said that they were in quarantine and observation as per the standard operating procedure in the context. “We do not see the caste or creed of a person as our job is to cure a patient. They too would be discharged after mandatory observation period,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/71-tablighis-contacts-in-haryana-cured-likely-to-be-sent-home-from-quarantine-by-mid-may/story-VZ8yvSPCFDDXFum6DIUVBM.html
25-04-2020||Delhi||Woman murdered inside Madipur containment zone, police arrest husband||A 35-year-old man was arrested by Delhi Police on Saturday morning from outside a containment zone in west Delhi’s Madipur, near Punjabi Bagh, for allegedly murdering his wife.The murder, the first such incident reported from inside a Covid-19 containment zone in the city, was reported around 3.56am when the suspect called up the police control room and confessed to the killing. The city has around 90 containment zones, such as Nizamuddin, Chandni Mahal, Nabi Karim, which have come up to limit the spread of Covid-19. Police officers privy to the investigation said that because this was the first case of murder within a containment zone , they had to look at standard operating procedures for such cases and act accordingly. “There were many firsts in this case. Usually our officers immediately visit the crime scene, but in this case, we called the suspect (husband) and asked him to come outside the containment zone. We waited for him to step out. He was then arrested and sent into isolation,” a police officer said. Police said that it took them about eight hours to clear the crime scene — the road that lead to the house was first sanitised and investigating officers then waited for delivery of personal protective equipment (PPE) kits before carrying out a detailed inspection of the room. A forensics team was called to the spot. Senior officers said even though the woman hadn’t died of Covid-19, her body was wrapped in multiple body layers. The hearse van used to take the body from the house was also sanitised twice.The police said that the suspect — identified as Rahisul Azam — called the control room around 3.56 am and reported that he had attacked his wife following a heated argument at their house. The woman had supposedly died on the spot. “A police team from Punjabi Bagh police station rushed to the address given by the man, arrived at the scene =, but found that the house was inside a containment zone. In order to adhere to guidelines, the sub divisional magistrate, district magistrate and civic agencies concerned were also informed of the case. The Delhi Jal Board was roped in to sanitise the area,” said a senior police officer.The policemen then called up Azam and asked him to walk out of the containment zone and surrender. Before he was arrested, his body temperature was checked and the suspect was asked if he had symptoms of the disease. “Azam has so far told us that he sells footwear in Jahangirpuri and had got married three years ago. It was the second marriage for both Azam and his wife. While Azam had three children from his first marriage, the woman had six. He said they often fought over the future of their children and during one such argument on Saturday, things turned ugly. He hit the woman with a stuck on her head and she fell unconscious. He said when he checked on her, she was already dead,” the police officer said. Deputy commissioner of police (west) Deepak Purohit said the disaster management teams and Covid helplines were also alerted. “Azam has been arrested as per guidelines issued in view of Covid-19. All preventive and precautionary steps are being taken while investigating the above case so as to adhere to the containment zone guidelines and at the same time to conduct an efficient investigation,” Purohit said.Until late Saturday evening, the investigating officers said they were checking with health and district authorities about proceedings related to the autopsy and the disposal of the body. Police said they are checking if the body could be handed back to the family, because the woman was not Covid-19 positive but was a resident of a containment zone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/woman-murdered-inside-madipur-containment-zone-police-arrest-husband/story-qI0QQ2XI78E7svz9o7drRK.html
25-04-2020||Delhi||Grateful for new clothes, migrants help clean shelter||At a school-turned-shelter home for migrant workers in Delhi’s Rohini Sector 3, a group of teachers and school employees collected money to buy new clothes for the workers staying on the school premises during the lockdown. Grateful to the school authorities, the migrant workers have started cleaning the school premises. Tens of thousands of migrant workers who were leaving the national Capital last month in the first week of the nationwide lockdown were stopped at the city borders and taken to different shelter homes across the city. Several government schools in the city have also been turned into temporary shelter homes to house the migrant workers and their families. They are being fed and looked after by the government and the police. At many shelter homes across the city, the government is organising yoga classes for adults and activities for their children to help cope with the lockdown. When 28-year-old Arvind Kumar, a migrant labourer from Bihar, was brought to a shelter home set up at a Delhi government school in Rohini Sector 3 last month, he had no money, food or clothes. For the next few weeks, he wore the same pair of jeans and a shirt. But as the days turned hotter, and the mercury reached close to the 40 degree Celsius mark, it became difficult for him to survive without another set of clothing. There were several people at the shelter home facing the same problem as Kumar. To bring relief to Kumar and other inmates at the shelter home, the school staff pooled in money and bought new clothes for all the 141 migrant labourers residing there. “It’s such a relief for us all. I could not have imagined buying clothes in this situation. All my stuff is locked in a factory I used to work at in Rohini. Now it’s become easier to survive the summer,” he said.School principal Arun Bhatia said that many of those who were shifted to his school earlier this month had tried to run away from other shelter homes. “We wanted to make them feel at home here. Although the government is providing food, medication and even organising yoga classes for them, we found that a majority of them were finding it difficult to survive since they did not have clothes. The school staff decided to collect money and get clothes for them,” he said.To show their appreciation, the migrant workers at the shelter have started helping out around the premises.OP Meena, a teacher at the school sai, that the inmates now help them clean the garden area, water trees and plants and also help distribute of food and tea every day. “They trim the grass in the garden and also water plants. Some of them helping in the door-to-door distribution of food and tea while maintaining the rules of social distancing. Those who used to work at construction sites also helped us shift unnecessary furniture from rooms and make space to store food,” he said. Getting new clothes was not an easy task for the school staff amid the lockdown. “We spoke to a businessman in Patel Nagar who deals in readymade garments. They had a stock of kurta pyjamas in their godown and they were ready to sell them to us. Then we discussed the matter with the police and requested them for a pass to go and collect the stock. The inmates were really happy when we distributed the new pair of clothes among them,” Bhatia said.A 20-year-old migrant worker from Bihar, who worked as a waiter until the lockdown, said, “I got a new pair of clothes for the first time in years. I’m used to wearing hand-me-down shirts and pants belonging to my hotel owner’s son.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/grateful-for-new-clothes-migrants-help-clean-shelter/story-G0nslcvEIg93UdpPXASDDP.html
25-04-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-infected hospital staffer booked on Chandigarh administrator’s directions, had hosted party for 123 people||Chandigarh Police on Saturday registered a case against a 30-year-old Covid-19 positive man working at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, who hosted a party on April 17, which was attended by 123 people.A resident of Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26, he had tested positive on Friday. Meanwhile, two of his contacts, including his father, were found infected on Saturday, taking the city’s tally to 30. The other person is also a GMCH employee, who works as an operation theatre attendant and lives in Mauli Jagran.The case was registered after UT administrator VP Singh Badnore directed director general of police (DIG) Sanjay Baniwal to initiate criminal proceedings against him for violating curfew orders and not observing social distance norms. The FIR includes Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection disease dangerous to life) of Indian Penal Code (IPC). Meanwhile, Bapu Dham Colony has been declared an “affected pocket”, with just one entry and exit point and police deployment. Movement will be strictly prohibited. Only authorised essential service providers wearing protective gear with valid ID and pass will be allowed. Even as Dr BS Chavan, director principal, GMCH, said the employee’s source of infection was from outside the hospital, and that 123 people had attended the party, Badnore expressed deep concern over the city’s 28th Covid-19 case as Bapu Dham “area is quite congested,” mentioned the administration’s official statement.The administrator directed the principal secretary (health) to ensure that all contacts of the patients were traced and quarantined. The DIG was asked to initiate criminal proceedings against the patient for reportedly hosting a celebratory party for his wedding anniversary at home, which was attended by 123 people, thereby violating both curfew orders and social distancing norms, read the statement.Calling it “highly irresponsible behaviour,” a senior administrator said, “he has not only jeopardised his health but has put many other lives at risk. He has violated curfew and action must be taken.”Municipal corporation contact tracing teams also quarantined 130 of man’s acquaintances. About 14 households are under quarantine of which 12 are in Bapu Dham Colony, one in Mauli Jagran, and one in Sector 52, Chandigarh.“A total of 130 community contacts have been quarantined so far. Sanitisation has been carried out in the affected as well as adjacent houses,” the official statement mentioned.Apart from this, 27 workplace contacts of a case from Nayagaon in Mohali, who was diagnosed positive on April 23, tested negative. They included 19 persons from Chandigarh and seven from Punjab..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/infected-gmch-staffer-booked-on-badnore-s-directions-had-hosted-party-for-123-people/story-TeZROHbcwkkTTBE741KJHN.html
25-04-2020||Chandigarh||Only one hostel to be vacated in Panjab University: Parida||After 350 students visited Panjab University to get their belongings on Saturday, UT adviser Manoj Parida said only one hostel will be converted into an isolation facility for Covid-19 patients for the time being. In a tweet, Parida said, “PU students, relax. We will convert only the international students’ hostel into an isolation facility for now. The other two will not be vacated immediately. They will be used as a last resort, only if there is a huge outbreak.” He added that no student needs to travel to pick up their belongings right now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/only-one-hostel-to-be-vacated-in-panjab-university-parida/story-Woj4uxR3BP0x3KFVtpRB0O.html
25-04-2020||Chandigarh||Light rain likely in Punjab, Haryana today: IMD||Light rain due to moisture influx from the Arabian sea and low-level easterly winds will remain likely in both Punjab and Haryana till Tuesday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said. Officials added chances of rain will be the most on Sunday in both Punjab and Haryana with 50-75% of the stations in these states likely to witness the opening up of the skies. They added that rain is likely at 25-50% stations on Monday and at isolated places (less than 25%) on Tuesday. Dry weather can be expected in the region after that. Light rain up to 30mm, along with gusty winds up to 40km/h, can be expected with thunder lightning and even hail at isolated stations during this duration. Light rain is likely in Chandigarh as well till Monday.Due to the formation of clouds, temperature dipped on Tuesday. In Punjab, maximum temperature of Amritsar, Ludhiana and Patiala went from 36°C on Friday to 33°C on Saturday; 36.8°C on Friday to 32.2°C on Saturday and 36.3°C on Friday to 34.6°C on Saturday, respectively. Fall in temperature wasn’t seen in Haryana and in Chandigarh, however a fall of 3-4°C in temperature is likely throughout the region on Sunday.STRAP/BLURBRain is predicted in the region till Tuesday; dry weather forecast after that||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/light-rain-likely-in-punjab-haryana-today-imd/story-ARRni3wi4k9sJeaX213LRJ.html
25-04-2020||Chandigarh||Screen patients before referring them to PGIMER in Chandigarh: Badnore to neighbouring states||UT administrator VP Singh Badnore has directed the principal secretary (health) to ask neighbouring states to have their patients screened for Covid-19 before they visit the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) in Chandigarh. The development followed PGIMER director Dr Jagat Ram’s complaint to Badnore that patients from outside the city were sent to the institute without prior screening for the virus.Badnore “expressed the apprehension that if the major hospitals of Chandigarh become a hub for infection, then the entire health management system will get crippled.” He appealed to all the citizens of Chandigarh to cooperate with the medical teams going for door-to-door survey and not to hide any information from them regarding their illness or travel etc, the official statement of the administration mentioned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/screen-patients-before-referring-them-to-pgimer-in-chandigarh-badnore-to-neighbouring-states/story-rmrdBicC57FnCeaWsZ2UhP.html
25-04-2020||City||Mohali admn wants its 400 locals working in PGIMER to stay in Chandigarh||The district administration has written to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) to retain around 400 of its employees, who are all residents of Mohali, in Chandigarh for at least the next 15 days.A letter was shot off by deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan to the director of PGIMER, Dr Jagat Ram, suggesting the step “in order to prevent the spread of Covid-19 in Nayagaon”— a potential hotspot and presently a containment zone of Mohali, besides Jawaharpur village.To date, eight positive cases have been reported in Nayagaon, of which seven are either employees of PGIMER or their primary contacts. The district authorities have pinpointed in the letter that the “exposure” of the PGI employees to the virus was evident in the Nayagaon cases.Mohali has reported 63 positive cases so far, of which 47 are active and 14 have been cured, besides two deaths. The district has the second highest count of positive cases in the state, and highest in the tricity area. MOVE TO PREVENT SPREAD IN DENSE NAYAGAON“It would be advisable that the employees of PGIMER who are residing in Nayagaon stayed in the institute or at an alternate accommodation in Chandigarh at least for the next 15 days, so that others in the dense habitation are not exposed,” the letter said.The district health authorities in a door-to-door survey had identified around 400 employees of PGIMER staying in Nayagaon, who are now in the process of being tested to rule out any possibility of infection. “To keep the employees in PGI itself shall be in the best interest of the employees and their families, who are at the greatest risk of exposure. It is critical to ensure timely and adequate safeguards are taken in this area to contain the spread of Covid-19,” said Dayalan in the letter.Already a 30-year-old hospital attendant working with the PGIMER, his 26-year-old wife, a two-month-old baby, 20-year-old brother-in-law and 60-year-old mother, along with a 30-year-old colleague and a 25-year-old who stays in the same building in Adarsh Nagar of Nayagaon have tested positive. Earlier, a 65-year-old man of Nayagaon’s Dashmesh Nagar had died of the disease on March 31, and his son suspects that he had caught the infection at the hospital.Nayagaon is a thickly populated area with largely working class, low income groups residing there. The 27 families staying in the same building as the PGI attendant are under home quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-admn-wants-its-400-locals-working-in-pgimer-to-stay-in-chandigarh/story-Gg9gPeoLv1r65VvSWz4JWI.html
25-04-2020||City||‘Biased’ ration distribution in Ludhiana: Sikh body threatens to launch hunger strike||After opposition parties raised a hue and cry over the pick-and-choose policy being allegedly adopted by the Congress leadership in the distribution of ration amid the lockdown, the Sikh Danga Peedit Action Society on Saturday threatened to launch a hunger strike if the administration and councillors failed to provide ration to the needy families in 72 hours. President of the society Surjit Singh alleged, “Councillors of wards 43, 44 and 45 have failed to provide ration to the needy 1984 riots-hit families and others.”Surjit said, “Councillors Reet Kaur and Barjinder Kaur of wards 43 and 45, respectively, have failed to provide ration to even a single family. Ward 44 councillor Harkarandeep Vaid distributed around 100 kits, but many families in his area are struggling to get ration. The councillors are adopting pick-and-choose policy while distributing ration and there are around 2,500 families who have no food. We are arranging meals for these families with the help of gurdwaras and NGOs.”He added, “If the administration and the Congress leadership fail to streamline the distribution of ration in 72 hours, members of the society will sit on a hunger strike.”Councillor Barjinder Kaur, however, refuted the allegations, stating that ration was being distributed among the needy families regularly and without any discrimination. She added, “Surjit, who does not even reside in her ward, is levelling baseless allegations just to defame me.”On her part, councillor Reet Kaur said, “No pick-and-choose policy has been adopted in the distribution of ration. The councillors are receiving around 200 kits of ration in a day and we have to distribute these among residents living in different areas of the ward. Limited kits are being distributed in every area as per need, but no one will be left out. Kits will reach every needy person in the coming days.” Despite several attempts, councillor Harkarandeep Vaid could not be contacted for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/biased-ration-distribution-in-ludhiana-sikh-body-threatens-to-launch-hunger-strike/story-57addPWNUoxYGwOWdyyqQL.html
25-04-2020||City||2 health-care workers, 1 sanitation worker among 5 new cases in Panvel||Panvel reported five new cases on Saturday, taking the total number of cases to 49.Four of the five who tested positive on Saturday are from Kamothe.A 53-year-old police personnel, who is suffering from cancer, has tested positive. A resident of Kamothe, he travelled to CST by bus. The other Covid positive cases are a 44-year-old woman, resident of Kamothe, who works as a sanitation worker at V N Desai general hospital in Santacruz ; a 29-year-old resident of Kamothe, who works as a pharmacist at Trombay municipal dispensary in Mumbai; a 37-year-old resident of Kamothe, who works with the electronic media in Mumbai, has tested positive; a 27-year-old resident of New Panvel, who works as a staff nurse at Sion hospital in Mumbai has tested positive. The number of Covid positive cases in Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) area has touched 108 with five new cases being reported on Saturday.Two cases were reported from Kopar Khairane and one each from Vashi, Turbhe and Ghansoli.Among the new cases is a 63-year-old man from Kopar Khairane, who sells onion and potato. A 37-year-old resident of Vashi, who works as a private nurse in Mumbai, has tested positive. She developed symptoms on April 22, following which she was tested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-health-care-workers-1-sanitation-worker-among-5-new-cases-in-panvel/story-lzP1isrJEgRmmLB24HRYgP.html
25-04-2020||City||Mohali ramps up sample collection, no curfew relaxation||Issuing instructions pertaining to RT-PCR (reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) testing strategy for Covid-19, Mohali district magistrate Girish Dayalan has ordered that samples be collected at all flu corners of sub division hospitals in the district from April 26, in addition to the district hospital.The district’s civil surgeon will identify community as well as primary health centres with high OPD footfall to screen patients for symptoms of influenza-like illness (ILI) and depute RT-PCR teams to collect samples.He further ordered that rapid response teams will conduct surveillance for ILI cases and take samples for RT-PCR from hotspots, slums and brick-kilns. Portable closed chambers (kiosks) will be used to collect samples and migrants must be screened, he said.Pregnant women, who are living in clusters or containment or in large migration gatherings or evacuee centres at hotspot districts, presently in labour or likely to deliver in the next five days, must be tested even if asymptomatic. “They should be tested at health facilities where they are expected to deliver. Besides, samples must be collected randomly to check possibility of community transmission,” Dayalan said.“Samples must be sent to designated labs that very day and no delay should occur in transport of these samples at any cost. All private hospitals in the district are to inform the district epidemiologist about it,” said Dayalan. No relaxation in district as of now: DC “There will be no relaxation in curfew in Mohali as it has not reached the stage of no new cases in 14 days,” said Mohali DC Girish Dayalan. He also said revised guidelines issued by Union ministry of home affairs do not apply to Mohali as it has a large containment zone. At this critical stage, relaxation could result further outbreak.Contact tracing, sampling drive to continue “A comprehensive contact tracing and sampling drive will carry on in Mohali to help in real time assessment of cases allowing for formulating a strategy to combat the endemic,” Dayalan said. As of now, 1,240 samples have been taken, of which 1,096 tested negative while 63 tested positive, he said. The results of 81 samples are awaited. About the status of quarantined persons, the DC said “As of today, the quarantine period of 2,343 people is over, while 486 are still in isolation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-ramps-up-sample-collection-no-curfew-relaxation/story-vIvfTRCBjij0VHaUgc31aJ.html
25-04-2020||Chandigarh||Cancer patient succumbs to illness at Jammu hospital before seeing his family in UP||A terminally-ill Uttar Pradesh resident’s wish to see his family remained unfulfilled as he died at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) here late on Friday.Narinder Singh (50), a migrant labourer from Mirzapur Bela in UP’s Bijnore district, was hospitalised at GMCH in Jammu on April 18 after being diagnosed with last-stage cancer.Singh’s distraught attendants had been shuttling from pillar to post to get the administration’s permission for arranging his travel to his village in an ambulance for he could see his family one last time.“Immersed in protocols, legal formalities and documentation process, the cancer patient finally breathed his last at the hospital late on Friday. The administration ignored his clinical condition and kept seeking documents like residence proof, vehicle and recommendation of the hospital authorities. It was quite unfortunate that he couldn’t see his family before dying,” said Vishal Bharti, a senior journalist, who toiled hard to help the man.The administrative inertia has come under sharp criticism of the scribes here.“The government officers need to be a little more sensitive and listen to the reasons rather than burying their wisdom under the niceties of the law. Laws should be enabling instruments, not obstructions,” said another senior journalist Zafar Choudhary.However, the administration did intervene after the poor man died.As per a GMCH official, the administration arranged an ambulance to shift the body to his village on Saturday. “Two attendants with some cash, ration and eatables accompanied the deceased to his native village on Saturday,” he said.It may be recalled that a prominent hotelier along with a very influential person had made a total mockery of the lockdown on April 12 when they escaped from a red zone in Jammu and travelled 270 km in an official car to reach Srinagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cancer-patient-succumbs-to-illness-at-jammu-hospital-before-seeing-his-family-in-up/story-1vhPJcvN6fglassYZ8xlWN.html
25-04-2020||City||Coronavirus lockdown: Ludhiana MC provides specially designed jackets to sanitisation staff||With municipal corporation (MC) workers complaining of having discomfort in their spines while carrying backpack machines used to spray disinfectants in the city, the civic body on Saturday provided them specially designed fluffy jackets to save them from the problem. The jackets were handed over to the staff by mayor Balkar Sandhu and commissioner Kanwalpreet Kaur Brar. CLASS 4 EMPLOYEES TO GET ₹500 FOR RATION Meanwhile, MC has also decided that it will transfer Rs 500 in the bank accounts of each Class 4 employee to help them purchase ration, mayor Sandhu said. Officials said around 8,000 Class 4 employees worked in MC.Municipal Employees Sangharsh Committee president Ashwani Sahota said, “A few days back, after the MC staff took up the matter with mayor Balkar Sandhu, it was decided that specially designed fluffy jackets will be provided to the workers so that they do not face any trouble while on duty.” He also said a total of 400 jackets will be distributed to the staff deployed for spraying disinfectants in all 95 wards of the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-lockdown-ludhiana-mc-provides-specially-designed-jackets-to-sanitisation-staff/story-9FeJtepiRXVhmXIrfKw8QJ.html
25-04-2020||Chandigarh||687 migrant labourers living at shelter homes in Ambala district sent back to native places in UP||A month after the Ambala district administration housed thousands of migrant labourers at shelter homes amid the Covid-19 lockdown, 687 of them were sent back to their native places in Uttar Pradesh, in 23 roadways buses, on Saturday. Deputy commissioner Ashok Kumar Sharma said, “As per instructions of the state government, the process of sending all migrant labourers back to their native states has been initiated. Municipal commissioner Partha Gupta has been entrusted with the task. A police officer and government official have also been sent along with the bus driver and conductor. The administration has also checked conducted a health check-up on the travelers.”The district administration has provided them masks, sanitisers, food packets, biscuits, fruits and water bottles, so they don’t face any inconvenience during their journey, he added.MC commissioner Partha Gupta said the batch includes 22 migrant labourers from Agra, 52 from Aligarh, 12 from Amroha, one for Bhagpat, 147 from Badaun; 36 from Bulandshahar, 27 from Firozabad, 8 from Shamli, 12 from Hatharas, 45 from Kasganj, 21 from Mathura, 49 from Meerut, 63 from Moradabad, 67 from Rampur and 125 from Saharanpur.As many as 3,600 migrant labourers are living in 21 shelter homes at various religious places, schools and community centres in the district. The administration provides them with three meals a day and tea, with the help of several social organisations.Along with conducting health check-ups regularly, the administration is also holding yoga sessions and has installed LED projector screens for their entertainment.Workers painting school building in Kakar Majra village At a shelter home at Government Senior Secondary School in Kakar Majra village of Naraingarh block, where 113 workers are staying, some of them are beautifying the school building.Naraingarh sub-divisional magistrate Aditi said, “While some of the migrant labourers are voluntarily painting the school building, others are clearing the empty space and planting fruits, vegetables and flowers. The flower pots of the school are also being painted. This effort is commendable.”“I asked officials concerned to motivate them to make masks, engage them in grain market for wheat procurement and paint the walls of the shelter homes. I asked to beautify the place where they were living for the last one month,” DC Sharma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/687-migrant-labourers-living-at-shelter-homes-in-ambala-district-sent-back-to-native-places-in-up/story-WqCf88Ul9tBPy7liJ8NutM.html
25-04-2020||City||Two empty wagons derail near Mumbai, no one injured||Two empty wagons with locomotive of a container goods train, derailed between Airoli and Rabale railway stations at 2pm on Saturday. No one was injured and the two wagons have been re-railed. AK Jain, senior public relations officer, Central Railway, said, “Two empty wagons with a container goods train, derailed between Airoli and Rabale. No one was injured. Two wagons have been re-railed. The cause of the derailment is being investigated,’ said Jain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-empty-wagons-derail-near-mumbai-no-one-injured/story-DMykgJABXZO9bz77a46PDL.html
25-04-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh cyber crime cell blocks 8 fake FB pages promising home delivery of liquor||Chandigarh’s cyber crime cell has blocked at least eight Facebook pages promising free home delivery of alcohol to city residents, amid the Covid-19 outbreak and prohibitory orders.Police said that recently a person named Biju alleged that there was a mail link on Facebook, whereby people were being duped on the pretext of home delivery of alcohol. The page also shared several numbers for placing an order. Following a complaint, investigating officials began to track their sources. Since March 23, the administration and Centre have banned the sale and purchase of liquor across India in the wake of the epidemic. This gave swindlers an opportunity to dupe people on pretext of delivering liqour at their doorsteps. “As people are not getting liquor because of the ban, con men are exploiting public sentiment and duping them. We are trying to ascertain the identity of those behind the fraud,” said Rashmi Sharma Yadav, deputy superintendent of police (DSP) cyber crime. She said some numbers have been traced to Assam and Tamil Nadu. “In one instance, the caller identified himself as a manager of a liquor vend in Sector 22. He claimed he would deliver liquor within 40 minutes of the order being placed,” said a police official privy to the matter, requesting anonymity. According to police, these swindlers want 50 percent of the payment to be made online and the rest after delivery. However, customers are left in the lurch, as there is no delivery even after payment. Cyber experts say that amid the endemic, people are being hoodwinked by several fake online messages, and that people should refrain from clicking on these links.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-cyber-crime-cell-blocks-8-fake-fb-pages-promising-home-delivery-of-liquor/story-RdnEqeAbO3ODqodIixKlbK.html
25-04-2020||City||After month’s wait, migrants in Haryana finally on way home||Hundreds of migrant labourers staying in shelter homes in Haryana can finally heave a sigh of relief as the state government has made arrangements to send them to their native places in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. As per information, around 1,000 migrant labourers are camping in shelter homes in Yamunanagar, Karnal and Panipat districts since March 28, when the state sealed its borders amid the nationwide lockdown to curb the spread of Covid-19.On Saturday, around 400 migrants were sent home from Yamunanagar in 20 Haryana Roadways buses. “We have been given five locations in Uttar Pradesh-- Baghpat, Saharanpur, Shamli, Mathura and Bulandshahr--- where these labourers are to be dropped. From these places, the Uttar Pradesh government will make arrangements to drop them home,” said Yamunanagar district revenue officer Asbhishek Kumar.From Karnal, as many as 262 migrants were sent to home in 10 roadways buses, as per Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Yadav. He said 550 labourers are now left, and they too will be sent home soon.Panipat DC Hema Sharma said, “Some labourers have already been sent and we are making arrangements to others too as per the government’s directions.”The officials said that special care was taken to ensure social distancing and only 30 migrants were taken on the 52-seater buses. Further, all of them were medically examined fore departure and they will also be quarantined for 14 days after they reach home.As per information, there are around 15,200 migrant labourers in shelter homes across the state and most of them hail from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. They were stopped by the state police when they were trying to cross the border and sent to these shelter homes. The government had arranged food and shelter for them and even asked the administrations to allow them to work as labourers if they want to, but most of them refused and urged the government to send them home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/after-month-s-wait-migrants-in-haryana-finally-on-way-home/story-9bTUKp88i8lBg3omlpS5VK.html
25-04-2020||City||Less chaos in Mumbra market after timing for shops change||After Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) changed the market timing on Friday, Mumbra market saw a thinner crowd on Saturday but many failed to keep social distancing. Mumbra, a red zone, has the highest cases in Thane at 40.“Although people continued to throng Mumbra market on Saturday till 12 noon, it was less chaotic. During Ramzan, most residents get up early in the morning to eat before sunrise. The initial days of Ramzan will see a crowd,” said Salma Qureshi, 42, who has stocked up enough supplies of meat, dry fruits and fruits for the next fortnight for her family.Shops selling fruits, vegetables, groceries, dairy and meat have permission to remain open from 3am to 12noon. “This is to ensure that people do not loiter around on the streets without a reason,” said Mahesh Aher, assistant municipal commissioner, TMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/less-chaos-in-mumbra-market-after-timing-for-shops-change/story-j2rspjnrCuPlPReNLFX25H.html
25-04-2020||City||32 PRTC buses to bring back pilgrims from Nanded||The Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC) on Saturday dispatched 32 buses to bring back the Punjab pilgrims stranded at Takht Sri Hazur Sahib at Nanded, Maharashtra, due to the countrywide lockdown imposed over a month ago in the wake of coronavirus outbreak.PRTC chairman KK Sharma said these buses will be part of the state fleet of 80 buses, which will ply from the nodal district of Bathinda towards Sri Hazur Sahib.“All the 32 buses have already been sanitised and two sub-inspectors will accompany the fleet. The travellers will be provided with masks, sanitisers and gloves along with medicines, food items etc. Additional drivers and mechanical staff have also been sent for assistance,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/32-prtc-buses-to-bring-back-pilgrims-from-nanded/story-OUZFt1D6jgeWmRjjioFIUJ.html
25-04-2020||City||Farmers protest ‘non-issuance’ of passes in Tarn Taran grain market||TARN TARAN Around 100 farmers on Saturday protested outside the Tarn Taran city’s grain market over the issue of “non-issuance” of passes to them to bring their produce for procurement. They also raised slogans against the state government for making “inadequate” arrangements for hassle-free procurement. The protest began at around 11 am after a dozen farmers were stopped by the police from entering the grain market without passes. Some farmers tried to enter the market forcefully by breaking the barricade, but police didn’t allow them to do so. Some farmer leaders also reached the spot later and staged a protest outside the grain market.“The system of issuing passes to the farmers through the commission agents has failed. During the past 10 days, only half of the total 133 commission agents of the market were issued five passes each. Due to the tardy process, farmers are being harassed,” said Satnam Singh Pannu, president of Kisan Sangarsh Committee (KSC), Punjab.Additional deputy commissioner (ADC) Surinderpal Singh later assured the farmers that they will be allowed to enter the grain market as per the space and requirement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-protest-non-issuance-of-passes-in-tarn-taran-grain-market/story-2aKLOFi21PZNd9sCSmeMyJ.html
25-04-2020||City||A stitch in time: Girl students of Punjab’s ITIs making masks for Covid warriors||Doing their bit to arrest the spread of coronavirus, over 2,000 girl students of various Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs) in Punjab are stitching free masks for the frontline warriors battling the pandemic.In the past two weeks, the students have made 2.23 lakh four-layer, washable masks from home. The Punjab State Board of Technical Education and Industrial Training is arranging for the raw material either through the administration or through contributions by the ITI staff, residents and NGOs.The stitched masks are further provided to the district administrations, healthcare institutes, police and panchayats for their use. In Ludhiana, masks have been given to health workers, staff at grain market, police officials and residents of various villages, including Malakpur Bet, Kila Raipur, Gujjarwal and Jassowal.Each student is stitching about 25 masks daily under the guidance of principals of 77 ITIs in Punjab. Made of cloth, the masks are washable for reuse. Amandeep Kaur, 22, who is pursuing a dress-making course at Government ITI (Women), Rajpura, Patiala, said, “I have a sewing machine at home, so I make masks for four hours daily and spend an equal amount of time studying online.” She added that she was provided raw material by the sarpanch of Faridpur Jatta village, so she prepared masks for the villagers as well.Sandeep Kaur, a student of Government ITI (Women), Ludhiana, said, “I make sure to use sanitiser, wear a mask and maintain social distancing. I stitch 12 masks in two hours and about 30 masks daily. Our principal provides us the fabric.”“ITI staff from Ludhiana visited our village a week ago and gave us about 1,000 masks for free. We have distributed these masks in the slum areas. As masks are unavailable in the market, the ITI initiative helped us a great deal,” said Charanjit Kaur, member of Malakpur Bet panchayat, Ludhiana.The fabric supply was not an issue as individuals and NGOs had been providing the material, said Baljinder Singh, principal of Government ITI, Gill Road, adding that 217 students in the district had prepared 22,988 masks. “They will prepare another 10,900 masks in the coming week,” he said.“This will hone the skills of students and also enable them to contribute towards a social cause. The district administration, Amritsar, requires 1 lakh masks and students of nine ITIs in Amritsar are stitching these masks. Besides, the Mohali district administration requires 20,000 masks; that of Rajpura requires 10,000 masks, and the Samrala administration needs 1,000 masks,” said Anurag Verma, principal secretary, technical education and industrial training, Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/a-stitch-in-time-girl-students-of-punjab-s-itis-making-masks-for-covid-warriors/story-sFmNyVkc6fhEJCnNJMMA3I.html
25-04-2020||City||Witerati: Munch ado about flattening the curve||There’s a one million-dollar question in the time of death and dying that’s troubling the globe as much as gluttons, the latter being the species that has less to do with dying and more to do with being die-hard, practitioners of Lockdown’s leisurely art of gluttony, that is.“Will the curve flatten?” ... “Is the curve flattening? ... “Can the curve flatten by May 16?” regurgitate the gabs of Pashas of Primetime Arnab, Rajdeep & Co, choking with a “Nation Wants To Know” kind of emergency and inadvertently poking India Reclining (in postures peculiar to Quarantined Couch Potatoes) with a ‘burning’ kind of urgency. For, “flattening of the curve” – the hottest new rhetoricism injected into the Covid19 narrative – is not only about pontificating on burning issues, but could also broadly translate into ‘burning’ of calories, from the Bloated Bellies of #BigtimeQuarantine. Of middles anatomies & middle classThis season of “Flattening the Curve” is flaunting its fallout Left, Right and Centre – payslips look squashed like migrants’ faces ‘n’ fortunes as if Baahubali just squatted on the pay packets, GDP is shrinking faster than Rajnikanth or Rohit Shetty’s hairline, Sensex looks to be legging a Zumba with the Bears, and what to talk of Bollywood babes, even oil prices are boasting a Size Zero. Practically everything is shrinking, except the quarantined middle anatomies of Middle Class India. Lockdown’s ‘Flatten the Curve’ hyperbolism, having fruitfully flirted with the elitism of the Famous and Fashionables’ “flattened” midriff narratives, seems to be doing a detour away from the piling potbellies of Middle Class India, just as a chit of a chihuahua contemplates skirting a meaty pile too tough to tackle.From Quarantined Couch Potatoes who are showing partiality to only one form of exercise – exercising zero restraint when it comes to chomping on calorie-packed packaged crispies whilst feasting on a visual diet of “Khichdi”, “Ramayan” & Co reruns – to many of the #wfh multitudes sporting zero-exercise lifestyles, much of Middle Class India is not gambolling towards treadmills, but instead treading towards another thing that’s getting fatter and fatter (from Lockdown’s stockpiling), the reluctant refrigerator.Just as well, that in lockdown poor Swiggy & Co weren’t on the go, else they would have got much of the blame for Middle Class India’s middle anatomies not “flattening their curve! For, in the time of the #OldNormal, Swiggy, Zomato & Co have been to much of Middle Class India what a Ramu or Shamu were to days of yore – faithfuls ferrying from nukkad shops samosas, pakoras or pizzas galore. Just as well this may be a blessing in disguise that a pizza delivery boy tested Corona positive, else Quarantine’s Couch Potatoes chumbling on home-delivered pizzas would have done for their “flattening of the curve” what Tablighi Jamaat did for Corona’s curve.The curious case of “Honey, I Didn’t Shrink the Cals!”Of falling flat, not flatteningEven as there are slim chances of flattening the curve mapping the middle regions of Middle Class India, there are other things bearing the brunt of flattening.True to misgivings voiced before, too many cooks seem to be spoiling the quarantine broth. This fallout is felt when bearers of the Bloated Bellies of #BigtimeQuarantine start treading, not on the treadmill, but on the toes of the women of the house manning Lockdown’s kitchens.In trying to be counted among the “too many cooks”, some treading toes send pots ‘n’ pans flying hither thither, like the fabled Flying Saucers. One of the things bearing the brunt of flattening thus is precious bone china – in a shattering rendition of the “bull/s in a china shop” script.Or, as in a certain case, when a neighborhood scurried to the balconies upon hearing a blast – nah, not the blast of a musical performance like the bards on the balconies of Europe –the sound and fury emanated from the flattening of a pressure cooker.This ubiquitous utensil, wielded by “too many cooks” of Quarantine, echoed the “flatten curve” narrative when its voluminous curves breathed their last flattened into a warm embrace with the kitchen ceiling.The curious case of “Honey, I Shrunk the Cooker!”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/witerati-munch-ado-about-flattening-the-curve/story-juhTSDCdKroKkK5w7Ew3rN.html
25-04-2020||City||Roundabout: Just do it while you can!||When school starts, students are likely to get the following assignments, it is being said. English language teacher: Write an essay on coronavirus. Math: If Covid is equal to 1 then find the 9. Moral Instructions: How many of you participated in beating the pans and lighting the lamps? Art teacher: Draw coronavirus. The list is endless and funny even though no one knows when schools reopen.Never mind, till schools reopen for real or ‘virtually’ given how technology dominates our lives, parents are doing all these exercises and more to hold onto laughter if nothing else in the most uncertain of times where everyone is held hostage indoors by this ugly little virus doing the scary act.If fact, it has not stopped even when our homegrown temptress Rakhi Sawant, in a horror show get-up has warned the virus that she’s more explosive than it is, abusing it in no uncertain terms, crying out ‘go corona go’, heaving heavily all the while.In fact, hyperactivity has become a universal phenomenon in this ‘viral’ age, with artists fervently painting messages, writers literally in a hurry to tell the sad tale of their times as uniquely perceived by them and poets giving the message of hope against hope if not for these times at least for the times to come when the person at the helm of affairs of the superpower will not call for sanitisers to be injected into patients. If the virus can be eliminated by sanitising hands then why not make it run through the veins and then sing “Que sera sera, whatever will be will be?” Art of staying at homeLoss of life and complete uncertainty about who will get infected next have taken their toll on the human mind, but practically it is the lockdown that is the greatest challenge because most of us had forgotten the art of staying at home.Long hours at work and some for socialising left little time for home and even children were kept busy going from school to extra-curricular activity to tuitions to playground and then home to supper and bed. Breaking this routine for over a month was a challenge and people did it and in this context US-based poet Kitty O’Meara’s poem that went viral ‘And the people stayed at home’, first wrongly attributed to an Irish poet in the nineteenth century, touched the very nerve of the housebound. The poem speaks of people spending their time at home meditating, exercising, writing, painting and dancing as a way of healing, which in turn heals the world.Closer home, the hugely popular poet, none other than Gulzar, from whom people expect words of wisdom about things that bother them, has just come out with a poem for the times we are living in. It calls out to everyone to exercise restraint. The message is: Don’t swarm about like ants/Stand apart, away from each other/And let the sunshine in!Of course, the joke here in Punjab is that they have never heard of this ‘Social Distance Singh’ or for that matter ‘Kaurantine’! Young sculptor Gurjit Singh, who uses cloth as his medium and the technique of soft toys, has come out with several descriptions of the personification of coronavirus. However, what is most soothing is the heartwarming sculpture of an old man and woman sitting amidst nature surrounded by gentle love.What does the virus say?In the middle of all of this, what does Covid-19 have to say in its defence? Fiction writer Kamla Dutt sends a letter home from Atlanta, Gerogia, titled ‘Corona tells its tale.’ And thus we listen to the other side of the story in first person in defense of nature: “I am Coronavirus, a very small creature, probably living quietly in bats in caves. You snatched my caves, my jungles, my waterfalls. You think you will keep destroying me and I will silent, voiceless. No I will not…”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/roundabout-just-do-it-while-you-can/story-viQ1zwtRAUwYJkfOC7TLLK.html
25-04-2020||Delhi||Man stabbed to death near Hazrat Nizamuddin; three, including two minors, nabbed||A 32-year-old man was stabbed to death allegedly by three persons, including two minors, after an altercation in south Delhi’s Khusro Nagar area near Hazrat Nizamuddin, police said on Saturday. The body of the man, identified as Hasin Chiggu, was recovered with multiple stab wounds from near a drain below the Barapullah elevated road on Saturday morning. Police said Chiggu was murdered late on Friday night. All three suspects had been apprehended by Saturday afternoon and the knife used to kill Chiggu recovered from them,deputy commissioner of police (southeast) RP Meena said. DCP Meena said the incident came to light at around 9am on Saturday, when Chiggu’s wife, Kajal, informed the police that her husband was missing. “Chiggu was a history sheeter and was involved in as many as 17 cases,” Meena said, adding that a murder case has been registered at the Hazrat Nizamuddin police station and investigations taken up. During the probe, the DCP said, police learnt that Chiggu was last seen with three-four boys of his neighbourhood on Friday night. He is said to have had a heated argument with the mother of one of the boys two days ago about placing a vegetable pushcart. “We located the suspects and confronted them. They confessed to killing Chiggu to take revenge for his behaviour with the mother of one of them,” an investigator said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/man-stabbed-to-death-near-hazrat-nizamuddin-three-including-two-minors-nabbed/story-sv53BnIJE3ZGIlkRJIlUkM.html
25-04-2020||Mumbai||Industrial effluents pollute Waldhuni river despite lockdown, CPCB takes cognisance||The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) has asked Maharashtra to conduct an investigation on industrial effluents polluting the Waldhuni river in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) during the lockdown.Vanshakti, an environment group had appealed the Supreme Court (SC) about pollution in the Waldhuni and Ulhas rivers. The group informed the CPCB that despite the lockdown being enforced, industrial discharge from units in Ambernath is polluting the river. “Industries have always abused the pollution abatement laws, and despite lockdown orders, they continue to discharge chemical effluents into Waldhuni. Even though the matter is being heard by the SC, these industries are getting a free run,” said Stalin D, director, Vanshakti.A CPCB official in-charge of water quality, requesting anonymity, said, “We have received photographic and video evidence by the SC petitioner of increasing air and water pollution at Waldhuni river due to various industries at Ambernath Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) zone. We have asked the state to investigate and submit a compliance report to us at the earliest.” The official shared a letter with HT, which was issued to the member secretary, Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) with the said directions.MPCB’s regional officer SL Waghmare confirmed that violations were underway. “We are aware of rising water pollution in this zone. However, MPCB is not listed under ‘essential services’, and thus we have not been able to investigate the matter. Following CPCB directions, a team of officials will inspect which industries were functioning during the nationwide lockdown, and necessary action will be taken against them,” he said.MIDC superintendent engineer for MMR Kalidas Bandekar said, “All industries as directed under essential services such as sanitiser production etc. were functioning through the lockdown and a few other pharmaceutical industries as well. Some of them may have discharged effluents post activities but only MPCB can tell whether there was any violation.”Local residents said chemical effluent discharge at northern portions of the river had turned black. “We have taken several videos between March 23 and April 20 of trucks moving from these industries and dumping chemical waste into the river. We will provide any assistance needed to MPCB for their investigation,” said Satyajit Burman, a social activist from Ambernath. In April 2019, the bench had pulled up the Maharashtra government for its lackadaisical attitude on the condition of the rivers and directed the state’s principal secretary (environment) to oversee an improvement in water quality. During the last hearing in February, the SC bench had noted that the Ambernath civic body had completed 97% of river restoration work in the form of sewage treatment from domestic households. “The industries, however, have taken the advantage of the lockdown and polluted the river again,” said Stalin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/industrial-effluents-pollute-waldhuni-river-despite-lockdown-cpcb-takes-cognisance/story-YhRFsrGa64zrsDJNFcurxJ.html
25-04-2020||City||Mohali admn launches helpline for citizens studying, working abroad and wishing to return home||The Mohali district administration has launched a helpline number for those studying or working abroad and wanting to return home amid the Covid-19 outbreak.“The Punjab government has sought information as to whether residents of the district working or studying overseas wish to return to India. All such persons can contact the district administration with relevant details,” said Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan.He said that such people need to upload details on the Google form on the link: https://forms.gle/LwRaHE8BN6tk972b6They can also email their details, such as name, phone number, current address, passport number, email id, number of people wishing to return to India (family members) and nearest airport in Punjab, to dwosas@gmail.comApart from this, they can also call on 0172-2219505 and 2219506 for registration of information. The details are to be forwarded latest by April 29, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-admn-launches-helpline-for-citizens-studying-working-abroad-and-wishing-to-return-home/story-zEeUDOwxzz6aM24SxXk2DO.html
25-04-2020||Education||West Bengal school show-caused for giving additional food items under midday meal scheme||The West Bengal government has issued a show cause notice to the authorities of a primary school in South 24 Parganas district for giving additional food items and soap bars along with rice and potatoes to guardians of students under the midday meal scheme amid the lockdown, a notification said.The sub-inspector of schools, Bishnupur circle, had on Friday issued the show cause notice to Amgachhia Lal Bahadur Free Primary School, accusing it of violating the government order of providing only 3 kg each of rice and potatoes to guardians of the students from April 20 to 30, it said.In addition to the fixed quota, the school authorities had also distributed a packet of flattened rice, biscuits and a bar of soap to each of the beneficiaries on April 23, the notification said.The state government has asked the school authorities to give its explanation within three days of receipt of the notice, it said.The administration sought to know who had given the school the right to decide on distributing the additional commodities by violating the standard practice, the notification said.“You are instructed to give an explanation about such distribution from your school and whether you had taken any permission from the higher authority to do such distribution.“An explanation should be given from your end within three days from receiving this letter,” the notice, a copy of which was forwarded to the block development officer, said.The school authorities, when contacted, refused to comment on the issue.Rice and potatoes are being given to the beneficiaries across the state from April 20 under the midday meal scheme.“Such instances of going beyond the brief of the government will not be allowed. This is a government project and there can be serious ramifications if we choose to ignore such instances,” an official of the School Education Department said.The distribution is going on smoothly in other parts of the state, he said.Education minister Partha Chatterjee had earlier said any violation of government order -- ranging from not taking safety precautions to prevent the spread of novel coronavirus to altering menu -- will invite serious action.Chatterjee, however, was not available for comment on the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/west-bengal-school-show-caused-for-giving-additional-food-items-under-midday-meal-scheme/story-Pgn38ubVr2mL8ZFnfocQFK.html
25-04-2020||City||Mohali DC fixes rates for hiring private ambulances||In order to ensure prompt medical assistance to the people amid the curfew, district magistrate-cum-deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan has issued an order fixing the rates at which ambulances of the private sector can be requisitioned.The rate of BLS (basic life support) ambulance has been fixed at ₹2,500 per day for 24 hours, while the per kilometre rate is ₹10. The BLS ambulance (2000cc and above) can be requisitioned at ₹3,000 per day with ₹12 being the per kilometre rate. Similarly, the rate of ALS (advanced life support) ambulance has been fixed at ₹4,500 per day for 24 hours and the per kilometre rate is ₹15.The fare has to be paid by the person hiring the vehicle from the spot of hiring till the dropping point. The driver/union/company will be responsible for dropping the patient at the decided spot, the DC said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-dc-fixes-rates-for-hiring-private-ambulances/story-WA18kNrMOoaUxIL9xzNhxN.html
25-04-2020||Mumbai||Free cab service benefits 100 people between Bandra, Dahisar||At least 100 people residing between Bandra and Dahisar have benefitted from the free cab service started by Mumbai Police in partnership with Mahindra Logistics Ltd Alyte. These cabs pick up those facing emergency during the lockdown and drop them home as well. The free cab service is only being provided for senior citizens, specially-abled individuals, expecting mothers etc, who are unable to secure transport for essential services. One can book this service by calling police control room on 022-28840566, 022-26457900 and 9867097665.Currently, the service is restricted to the area between Bandra and Dahisar, and police are looking for options to increase the free cab service to remaining parts of the city.A senior citizen from Kandivali was given a cab to go to a hospital in Bandra for a medical check-up that could not have been avoided. In another case, the cab service took a man from Malad (West) to Kandivali (West) to get medicines for his 94-year-old mother because the medicine was available exclusively at one chemist shop. The cab service also helped six other cancer patients to reach hospitals. Pranaya Ashok, deputy commissioner of police (operations) and Mumbai Police spokesperson said, “We will take a review. We are also looking for more options to increase the free service. If need be we may also extend it to rest parts of the city.” The service is also being extended to doctors, nurses and others involved in providing essential services.Vibhu Manya, head of enterprise mobility, Mahindra Logistics Ltd (MLL), said, “We have been receiving 250-300 calls per day on our helpline numbers. More than 100 people have availed the services in 10 days since the launch of the services in the city on April 14.” The helpline, however, does not deal with medical emergencies where an ambulance is needed. In such cases, the police intervene and try to get an ambulance. Manya confirmed that they are getting calls from other parts of Mumbai. “We are awaiting permissions from the authorities to operate in these regions. However, in serious cases like cancer or dialysis or pregnancy checkups, we work with Mumbai police to make exceptions also,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/free-cab-service-benefits-100-people-between-bandra-dahisar/story-yqdHdgUOZFENOon0afI9jN.html
25-04-2020||City||Wildbuzz: Why leopards sniff cities and change their spots||Leopard incursions into cities and villages tempt people and media to entertain erroneous notions. They believe the big cats have either got “lost and strayed” or harbour evil intentions as wolfish child lifters. But a scientific assessment of the 16 leopards rescued since 2010 in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh by the Chhatbir Zoo team led by senior veterinary officer, Dr MP Singh, throws up a pattern. Of the 16 leopards, only two were females, and that, too, sub-adults. The rest were sub-adult males, barring one large, adult specimen rescued from a cable pipe running under an Indian Air Force runway outside Chandigarh in 2012. “Sub-adults are those that have either not reached breeding age or are verging on sexual maturity. Their canines are sharp-tipped whereas adults tend to exhibit blunted canines due to extensive grappling with prey meat and bones. Sub-adults tend to move out of established domains of bigger leopards and find new territory for prey and females. It may be said that a kind of youthful ‘josh’ leads sub-adults to wander into risky zones such as human settlements for the twin purposes,” Dr Singh told this writer.I also sought a perspective from Vidya Athreya, India’s leading authority on leopard-human conflict, official consultant to state/Central governments and an exemplary field biologist. “For biological reasons, such as to avoid inbreeding, sub-adult male leopards travel very far to establish new domains. Just as within a village, marriages are prohibited to avoid inbreeding, sub-adult leopard males, too, leave their birth places and venture out as it averts breeding with their parents etc. That way, by moving outwards from the jungle’s heart towards the peripheries, they also avoid conflict with dominant leopard males and even tigers,” Athreya told this writer. A POETESS OF COVID IRONYPhotographs and videos of animals roaming the curfewed streets of Covid-19 have gone viral on social media and spurred the besieged human imagination. It has also led the more articulate to express, in art and verses, their euphoria at Nature getting a reprieve from their fellow humanity’s onslaught, however, fleeting that honeymoon may be. Young Aishwarya Sridhar (23) from Navi Mumbai is a winner of national and international awards for her documentaries, photographs and work to promote wildlife conservation and environmental awareness. Mum and Dad, Rani and Sridhar Ranganathan, are nature lovers and the family only ventures to jungles for holidays! Aishwarya is a compulsive storyteller and a wandering bard who has penned 200 poems fragrant with Nature’s wonder.Her latest poem to commemorate Earth Day (April 22) is seeped in empathy and a delicious sense of irony: “Thick Iron bars once caged me, But luckily I managed to get free, How awesome it feels to breathe fresh air, I am finally free from all despair. I cautiously placed my paws on the ground, But surprisingly the humans were not around, Till yesterday they were outside my cage, Peering...jeering...and mocking my rage. Suddenly now not even one was there, The streets were empty and totally bare, Finally I spotted them peering at me, Behind high grills like the sad monkey...Whatever the reason that traps them in, It’s a reward for their crimes and their sin, Hope at least now they will realise, That they must never torture other lives.” vjswild1@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/wildbuzz-why-leopards-sniff-cities-and-change-their-spots/story-jqlwdkDpW5PUnVJcV8D8PK.html
25-04-2020||City||Allow business in mixed land use areas, Ludhiana industrialists urge Punjab govt||With the government allowing industrial activity in rural areas, designated industrial estates and focal points, the small-scale industry has also sought permission to operate factories situated in mixed land use areas, where these are often situated in houses.Thousands of units are located in 72 mixed land use areas in the city, including Janta Nagar, Shimlapuri, Chet Nagar, Ram Nagar, Dashmesh Nagar, Partap Nagar and New Janta Nagar, where owners run the units without employing any workers.“As these units are situated in houses, the owners do not need to move out. What could be safer than that?” asked Jaswinder Thukral, president of the Janta Nagar Small Scale Manufacturers Association (JNSSMA).Thukral said, “The government is permitting industrialists to ferry labourers in dedicated vehicles, but even then there are chances that the virus might spread. However, it is totally safe if small industrialists run the unit situated in their own house.”He said, “Around 70% of the units registered with the JNSSMA only modified the products supplied to them by large industrial units and are paid for the job. The large industry can transport the material in and out through dedicated vehicles.”“Allowing these units to operate will help revive the small-scale industry, which is reeling under losses due to the lockdown,” said Thukral.Association seneral secretary Shavinder Singh Hunjan and senior vice-president Rajinder Singh Kalsi said, “The government should also allow small industries to function without prior permission, as obtaining it will be a tedious process.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/allow-business-in-mixed-land-use-areas-ludhiana-industrialists-urge-punjab-govt/story-IXywLC1FC1HiSlH7udF92J.html
25-04-2020||Mumbai||Attempts made to break open donation box at Bhikha Behram Well, plaint lodged||Trustees of the Bhikha Behram Well, a heritage structure at Churchgate, have filed an online complaint with Azad Maidan police alleging someone tried to break open their donation box on Friday night.“Due to the lockdown the well remains closed, but in the morning when our caretaker entered he saw that someone had attempted to break open the donation box fitted in the wall using stones and drilling a hole in the wall, thus damaging and trespassing into trust property,” the trustees said in the complaint.Viraf Kapadia, a trustee, said they were not aware whether there had been any kind theft, and were awaiting details from the police station.An officer from Azad Maidan police station confirmed the complaint, and said they would be visiting the site to investigate the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/attempts-made-to-break-open-donation-box-at-bhikha-behram-well-plaint-lodged/story-CISecDNxaVjUbw65JjigXK.html
25-04-2020||City||Tricity buzz: HT Chandigarh reporters’ tracker on all those making, or faking, news amid coronavirus lockdown||DOES MESSAGE ON THE ROAD DRIVE HOME THE POINT?The Chandigarh Municipal Corporation’s latest move to paint the city roads with corona messages has left Chandigarhians divided. After mayor Raj Bala Malik shared one such photo on Twitter, a user, Sandeep Kumar, applauded the initiative and added that similar marking should be done on inner roads of sectors. Another user, Balvinder Singh, termed it “a useless publicity stunt” and waste of public money, particularly when there was no one on the roads during the lockdown. The MC’s aim was to appeal to people to stay safe indoors. IN CORONA TIMES, MOHALI COUNCILLORS BID ADIEU ONLINE There were no hugs and camaraderie when the term of the Mohali municipal corporation ended. Councillors complained that Covid-19 had even robbed them of the chance to bid a proper adieu as the meet was held via video-conference on Saturday. City mayor Kulwant Singh admitted, “We never imagined our five-year term will get over like this. Anyway, we hope to win again and return to the House.” WHEN SOCIAL DISTANCING WENT FOR A TOSS AT PARIDA’S MEETUT adviser Manoj Parida was invited to inaugurate the residents’ initiative to seal Sector 40 the other day, but social distancing went for a toss as soon as he arrived. The residents were keen to interact with the adviser and the police had a tough time trying to control the situation. Media personnel also milled around, clicking pictures. Safety anyone?COPS, MEDIA FORGET TO KEEP THE DISTANCEOld habits die hard. Social distancing is forgotten every time the media and police come together for a press conference, even in these challenging times. Chandigarh director general of police (DGP) Sanjay Baniwal and SSP Nilambari Jagadale were at Jama Masjid in Sector 20 on Friday to distribute small carpets (mausala) and dates on the eve of the holy month of Ramzan. The senior police officers and journalists were seen interacting with each other without keeping the preventive measures in mind. ‘APNA TIME AAEGA’: MESSAGE ON THE MASKWe are dealing with a health emergency that has shaken the world. Countries are under lockdown and everyone is grappling to control the spread of coronavirus. Masks, which help control the spread of the virus, have become a part of our attire. While different kinds of face masks have flooded the market, home-made ones are preferred. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and UT administrator VP Singh Badnore have advised people to wear home-made masks. Some people are going a step ahead by decorating their newest accessory by painting it and affixing colourful laces. A youngster at a local dispensary the other day, stole the thunder with his mask that read: “Apna time aaega (Our time will come)”. WHEN PGIMER ADMINISTRATION HEAVED A SIGH OF RELIEFThe authorities at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, heaved a sigh of relief after 54 healthcare workers, including 18 doctors, tested negative for Covid-19. The medics were posted at the intensive care unit of the institute’s advanced paediatric centre where a pre-operative test on six-month-old girl for Covid-19 turned out positive. The institute had earlier drawn flak from the employees’ union for ‘negligence’ after two healthcare workers in the suspected patients ward tested positive. UT adviser Manoj Parida also tweeted in support of the PGIMER administration, stating that the institute’s top brass is hurt by the criticism. However, in a reply to a tweet asking him to take charge of the autonomous institute under the Disaster Management Act, he replied that he will do so if things do not improve. Inputs by Hillary Victor, Vivek Gupta, Tanbir Dhaliwal, Rajanbir Singh, Shub Karman Dhaliwal, and Amanjeet Singh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tricity-buzz-ht-reporters-tracker-on-all-those-making-or-faking-news-chandigarh-mohali-and-panchkula-amid-coronavirus-lockdown/story-UtiXYltbbbb4MyzlQfvWCM.html
25-04-2020||Chandigarh||HelpMe app to the aid of Haryana residents||The Haryana government has developed a mobile app, ‘HelpMe’, for rendering assistance to citizens in distress during the lockdown. The mobile application, which works on Android OS will be available on Android Playstore from Sunday.Officials say the app is compatible with any android-based smartphone. To begin with, the app enables residents to request for dry ration, cooked food, LPG cylinders, ambulance, doctor, movement pass and bank appointments. The mobile application sends the citizen’s request to the district officer concerned. When the officer concerned has completed the task, the citizen is informed. The app also provides farmers with an option to sell their crop in the mandi by booking a gate pass. Citizens seeking financial aid can check the eligibility and status of their application in real time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/helpme-app-to-the-aid-of-haryana-residents/story-dDPCNPUsSht9hyWc7PO0MI.html
25-04-2020||City||Share how you’re beating lockdown blues, Ludhiana police ask residents||Amid the ongoing coronavirus pandemic, residents of Ludhiana are beating their lockdown blues by sharing their experiences and creativity with the district police. The residents’ response followed soon after the district police wrote a Facebook post, inviting people to share how they spend their time at home during the lockdown. In the post, the residents have been asked to send the videos and pictures of their activities to cpludhianacovid@gmail.com and the same are being shared by the district police in their comments section. “Would you like us to share your videos, photos or articles that could motivate other people to relieve stress during corona times. They may be regarding lifestyle tips during corona, immunity building tips, happiness in lockdown, usefulness of home medicines and anything to spread happiness,” the post read.Not only this, the cops are even responding to the comments written by the residents. While some have shared their videos of yoga, exercise, others are showcasing their creative side by recording or penning down songs, poems and literary items.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/share-how-you-re-beating-lockdown-blues-ludhiana-police-ask-residents/story-RnaPehhJ8W79JRs1It8lhK.html
25-04-2020||Chandigarh||HT Chandigarh debate: Containment of selected areas in city can be the way forward||Should Chandigarh administration’s April 20 move to notify the entire city as a containment zone to control the Covid-19 outbreak be reconsidered as only certain clusters have been infected?The Union health ministry had declared Chandigarh a Covid-19 hotspot (red zone) on April 15, leaving the administration to specify the geographical area of the containment zone in the city. Later, after the move was criticised by residents under lockdown for a month, services of plumbers, electricians and airconditioner repair/servicemen were allowed.The UT’s containment order states that curfew imposed from March 24 will continue and industries as well as the IT sector will remain closed up to May 3 even though they are facing heavy losses with layoffs as the curfew extends into the second month.UT authorities say sealing of select spots as done by other states, including Haryana, is not feasible as cases are scattered around the city.Construction of roads, irrigation, building and industrial projects including those of MSMEs in rural areas; restarting work in construction projects within municipal corporation limits could have been allowed if the entire city had not been declared a containment zone.Selected sealing of certain areas could have been one way out as the city’s economy is expected to suffer the consequences more severely now should businesses remain closed up to May 3 or even further.Another major impact will be that people needing medical care from neighbouring areas too will not be able to enter the city during medical emergencies.Technically, a containment zone is spread around three kilometers with a buffer zone of five and seven kilometers for urban and rural areas, respectively. “But, in case of Chandigarh it was not possible as the cases of outbreak of Covid-19 are scattered, non-contiguous and sporadic,” Manoj Kumar Parida, UT adviser, has said.Is this a wise move? What should be done to kick start the economy in the city even though Covid-19 remains a real threat? What role can local citizens play?LOCKED OUTIs it prudent to declare the entire Chandigarh a containment zone?What should be done to start services and businesses in the city even though Covid-19 remains a real threat? What role can local citizens play? Send your responses to Chandigarh@hindustantimes.com by May 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ht-chandigarh-debate-containment-of-selected-areas-in-city-can-be-the-way-forward/story-0PpOOqhDQnjIg9LA2EyraN.html
25-04-2020||Mumbai||Elghar Parishad case: Dr Anand Teltumbde denied interim bail, sent to judicial custody||The special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court on Saturday remanded activist Dr Anand Teltumbde to judicial custody till May 8 and rejected his plea for interim bail.Teltumbde was arrested by NIA on April 14 after he surrendered before the agency in Mumbai and was in NIA custody since then. On Saturday he was produced before the special court, where he was remanded to judicial custody.Soon after he was remanded in judicial custody, Teltumbde’s lawyers moved an application for interim bail on the grounds that there is a risk of him getting infected with Covid-19. The lawyers submitted that Teltumbde was suffering from respiratory problems and there was a risk of him contracting the coronavirus in jail. The plea was objected by the NIA.The NIA has contended that the activist of Kabir Kala Manch gave “provocative presentation” and speeches on December 31, 2017, during an event at Shaniwarwada, Pune, which led to violence resulting in the loss of life and statewide agitation.Further, the agency has claimed that Teltumbde was the convener of the program, and his call data records established that he was in touch with the other arrested accused who were present at the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/elghar-parishad-case-dr-anand-teltumbde-denied-interim-bail-sent-to-judicial-custody/story-P49ehctnjv6kccQT0OL3vK.html
25-04-2020||City||Cybercriminal poses as bank official, cheats woman of ₹28,000||A scamster cheated a 25-year-old Panvel software engineer of ₹28,000 last week, claiming to offer money under a Central scheme. The accused made 10 online transactions through a money transfer application to cheat her.On April 18, Savita Rai received a call from an unknown number. The caller, claiming to be from Punjab National Bank, asked her if she used ‘Phonepe’ application.“He told her that under the PMCares, she would receive ₹1,000. He earned her trust and then sent her a link to complete the transaction. When the woman clicked on it, thinking she would receive the money,” said an officer from Khandeshwar police station.When the woman told him that money was debited from her account, he blamed it on a technical issue and sent her a link again to refund the money. In this manner, he siphoned off ₹8,000 in eight attempts and another ₹20,000 in two attempts.The Khandeshwar police have registered a case of cheating under sections of Indian Penal Code and Information Technology Act against an unknown person.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cybercriminal-poses-as-bank-official-cheats-woman-of-28-000/story-LmJcvMQwVoC07rpKXKKDIL.html
25-04-2020||City||Amid curfew duty, police continue hitting drug smugglers hard in Tarn Taran||Besides ensuring strict enforcement of the curfew amid the coronavirus outbreak, the Tarn Taran police are also doing its best to “break the backbone” of the drug smugglers in the district, which is among the worst drug-hit districts of Punjab.The border district’s police have freezed the assets of 16 drug smugglers, worth ₹8.6 crore, in the last one month. Besides, the police have prepared eight new cases for freezing property worth ₹16 crore belonging to various drug smugglers, including those from Havelian village, which is situated at a stone’s throw distance from India Pakistan border.The property of the smugglers is being seized on the order of the competent authority (CA) — A statutory authority under the Smugglers and Foreign Exchange Manipulators (Forfeiture of Property) Act, 1976 — and under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985.On Tuesday, the police seized the property of two “major drug smugglers”—Narinder Singh of Chinna Bidhi Chand village and Jagtar Singh of Dall village (both border villages). Jagtar was arrested in 2012 with 21-kg heroin while Narinder was arrested in 2015 with 5-kg heroin. Their agricultural land measuring around 5-acre each, residential houses, a tractor were among the assets seized by the police.“Though we have been engaged in enforcing curfew and ensuring the delivery of daily meal and ration to the poor people, but we are also considering the drug menace in the district as another big challenge. We don’t want to give any chance to the drug paddlers and breaking their back bone is our prime motive,” said senior superintendent of police (SSP) Dhruv Dahiya.He said, “In total, till now, we have seized the property of 51 drug smugglers, worth ₹54.46 crore. Our teams are working hard to identify many more cases of the drug smugglers. We are thinking that this is the best way to break the supply chain not only in the border area but also in Punjab.”Sources said among the new prepared cases, one is of a notorious smuggler belonging to Havelian village. “We have identified the property of the Havelian village’s smuggler in Jalandhar and Mohali, which is worth over ₹4 crore. His name will be disclosed once we get the order to freeze his property from New Delhi,” said another senior police official.Superintendent of police (SP-headquarters), Jagjit Singh Walia, said, “We are ensuring the seizure of those all drug peddlers who are caught with commercial quantity of heroin.”Earlier in March, the police had seized around six marriage palaces after finding their owners involvement in drug peddling.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amid-curfew-duty-police-continue-hitting-drug-smugglers-hard-in-tarn-taran/story-Zb4a0wsmEyf3ZIvH0nFpLI.html
25-04-2020||City||Random Forays: The battle between cynics and realists||It is not only at this point in history, when we have been accosted by a pandemic which hitherto existed only in the darkest of nightmares, that cynicism has reared its loathsome head. Cynics have always gone to town bandying about the gravest of information and the most sinister of portents. They heed no whiff of optimism or glad tidings. They shrug off, as foolhardy day dreaming, any attempt to convince them that the wheel of mankind’s fortune will turn once more.At times like these, when everyone is ultra-panicky and on tenterhooks anyway, cynics would do well to consider drawing upon whatever reserves of humaneness they have left within them. But they continue to occupy themselves solely with forecasts of gloom and doom; forever fanning the fire of pessimism and predicting disaster. A WhatsApp forward which portrays the worst case scenario finds their favour easily and they shoot it off like trigger happy snipers. Any social media message which is more balanced and better analysed might not find their favour at all.Cynics keep veering towards bad news perhaps because their own insecurities are too hot for them to handle. The goodness of mankind is rarely evident in society, but new heroes do come forth to serve others passionately when the going gets tough. Cynics do not recognise even them, alas! Belittling others comes easily to them. As Oscar Wilde said, “A cynic is a man who knows the price of everything, but the value of nothing”.The damage that such people cause to society in times of global or national crisis, is unimaginable. Already, hordes of people have succumbed to paranoia and depression, during the present situation. When they read, hear or watch news which further enhances their gloominess, they sink even lower into their negative mind pools. And a cynic at home or one who is only a call away will shatter whatever will power and resolve they have left within them.A recent study of social media posts, supported by the University of South Carolina, indicates clearly that severe depression and proclivity towards substance abuse are increasing during the present pandemic. Only counselling and conversations with psychologists, and with well meaning volunteers, will enable such people to buck the trend.Realists, on the other hand, speak with conviction based on information which is authentic. They will not eschew stark facts but will buttress their analyses with statistics which provide counter balancing arguments. Every scenario has two sides to it. There is never a night so dark that the morning sun cannot dispel. Shades of grey exist in every human situation. The realist will fear the worst too, at times, but will always bank upon possible breakthroughs to give him and his ilk the strength that is needed.Mindless bravado and forced optimism will not do either, when a practical approach is required. The current situation and many others in life require in-depth awareness to decide on a course of action. Governments, for instance, cannot afford to put a foot wrong at all, and must proceed with caution above everything else. However, a true administrator will spot dangers as well as silver linings while preparing himself or herself and strategise the way forward accordingly.Tackling a human problem at a mass scale requires leadership of vision and fortitude, pragmatism and foresight. Even when the enemy is unseen and treacherous, leaders have to surge forward with whatever resources they have at their command. They must appear to be calm even at the worst of times and even if they themselves have a sinking feeling within. Heads of families cannot, similarly, let their guard down and cause their kinsfolk to slump into sadness. They have to be largely cheerful and at least appear to be unshakable in their conviction that all will be well. Only then will their flock endeavour to see the glimmer of light that inevitably will shine one day.The battle between the cynics and the realists will continue beyond pandemics and pandemonium. It does take all kinds to make the world, after all. Humanity will survive, and flourish once more. And the sun will continue to shine brightly, even upon the cynics.vivek.atray@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/random-forays-the-battle-between-cynics-and-realists/story-17hoHmMXS6aZTDk0njDBdO.html
25-04-2020||Chandigarh||Congress demands to bring back stranded Himachalis||Congress has demanded that the state government should bring back all its residents stuck in cities like Delhi and Chandigarh.In a statement issued here, All India Congress Committee (AICC) secretary and former urban development minister Sudhir Sharma said that hundreds of Himachal residents were stuck in Delhi, Chandigarh and other cities due to the lockdown imposed in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic.Most of these are either students, Sharma said adding that these people come from humble backgrounds and were facing difficulties due to lack of resources.“It was quite strange that instead of evacuating these people, the state government gave priority to students stranded in Kota of Rajasthan,” said Sharma.“Congress is not against bringing back students from Kota but the government should also have taken initiative to evacuate other stranded residents,” he added.The former minister said that the government was lacking in communicating with the public. He also slammed education minister Suresh Bhardwaj for being indecisive.He said that amid lockdown, private schools are charging fees from students which shows that state government has no control over private schools. He said that education minister earlier had stated that private schools will not charge any fee but later he stated that private schools will take a decision at their own level on this issue as the government cannot force them.He said that the minister’s changing statements have caused problems for the parents. The Congress leader said that while some schools have voluntarily waived off fees for at least three months, others have been demanding a fee in the name of online education.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/congress-demands-to-bring-back-stranded-himachalis/story-lJIC3prP0SGkEkwVNdjJ6J.html
25-04-2020||Lucknow||UP govt defers six allowances, freezes DA||The Uttar Pradesh government has put on hold for one year as many as six allowances payable to different categories of officers and employees in the current financial year, an official said. It also decided to follow the Centre’s decision to freeze the dearness allowance (DA) up to June 30, 2021. These steps were prompted by a decline in the state government’s revenue following the Covid-19 lockdown and the need for funds to fight the pandemic. The measures will lead to a saving of about Rs 12,000 crore till June-end next year, officials said.The six categories of allowances that have been deferred from April 1, 2020 to March 31, 2021 include city compensatory allowance, secretariat allowance, special allowance given to CB-CID, anti-corruption organisation, economic offences wing, vigilance establishment, security and special investigation wing, the special allowance paid to junior engineers, research allowance, orderly allowance and design allowance paid in the public works department, along with investigation and planning and orderly allowance paid to officers and employees working with the irrigation department. None of these allowances are paid to central government employees.“A sum of about Rs 1500 crore will be saved in 2020-2021 by the decision to defer payment of six categories of allowances. A sum of about Rs 7500 crore is likely to be saved in 2020-2021 on payment of DA (if calculated on the basis of 4% increase). If the same rate of DA increase is calculated for the remaining months of 2021-2022 (up to June 30, 2021), the total saving is likely to cross the Rs 12,000 crore mark following the decision to freeze DA,” said a senior officer.In an order dated April 24, 2020, additional chief secretary, finance, Sanjiv Mittal, said: “The Uttar Pradesh government’s revenue has come down following the Covid-19 lockdown. At the same time in view of the decision to make funds available to carry out works to check spread of the Covid-19 pandemic, I have been directed to say the governor is pleased to defer the following allowances approved by any previous government order for employees of the state government, teaching and non-teaching employees of the basic education board and aided educational institutions and those working with autonomous bodies.” In another order with regard to payment of DA to state government employees and dearness relief to pensioners, Mittal said no additional instalment of DA and dearness relief will be paid from January 1, 2020, July 1, 2020 and January 1, 2021. No arrear of DA or dearness relief will be paid from January 1, 2020 to June 30, 2021, he said, referring to the declining revenue of the state government following lockdown due to Covid-19. Meanwhile, UP State Employees’ Joint Council has opposed the state government’s move. Employees’ council chairman JN Tiwari said the decision would affect about 20 lakh state government employees. He urged the chief minister to cut a day’s salary every month for UP Covid Care Fund, instead of deferring the payment of allowances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-govt-defers-six-allowances-freezes-da/story-Pum9tOQy1dVwqwbDkVUX7J.html
25-04-2020||City||Duty comes first for Ludhiana police battling Covid-19 on the frontline||Pawan Kumar,53, an assistant sub inspector (ASI) in Ludhiana’s traffic police department, has been living separately in a room at his house and eats food alone to ensure his wife and two daughters stay safe.Another ASI Indraj, 55, has not visited his family in Rajasthan for months. He sleeps in the police post and reaches out to his family only through phone calls.Like them, life is not easy for around 4,000 police personnel working day and night to fight the Covid-19 pandemic in the city. From ensuring implementation of the curfew, apprehending curfew violators, ensuring social distancing at the vegetable and grain markets and maintaining the daily law and order, they do it all without a frown.Kumar is deployed at the check point near BRS Nagar crossing on Ferozepur Road. Works starts at 6am and continues till 6pm. “When I enter the house, I put my uniform in a separate bucket. I wash my hands and face and then go straight to my room, where I have been isolating myself since the Covid-19 outbreak. These are hard steps but bring some degree of peace of mind,” he says.We do take all precautions at work, he says, but we interact with several people daily and also check their documents. “So, the risk of infection always looms large,” he adds.ASI Indraj, who is at work for 15 hours daily from 5am to 8pm on Barewal Road, says he hails from Sri Ganganagar in Rajasthan. “I live here alone. My wife is in Sri Ganganagar and son in Delhi. So, I contact them through phone. I eat the two meals in the day at the check post and dinner at the police post where I also sleep,” he says, adding that he gets one day off every week, which is not enough to travel back home.My son encourages me, keeps a tab on whether I am taking precautions and keeps me updated about latest news, he says.Additional station house officer (SHO) Simranjeet Kaur of Shimlapuri police station says her father takes pride in her work. “He comes out with the disinfectant spray and sanitises my vehicle every time I reach home from work. I wash my uniform daily and also sanitise my shoes, belt and badges,” she says.Head constable Sohan Dass, 50, who works in the PCR team, sometimes works for 24 hours at a stretch before he can rest for the next 24 hours. “Back home in Dakha village, my neighbours appreciate my work. I create awareness among them about coronavirus and urge them to take all precautions,” he says. To ensure his wife and daughters are safe, he eats alone, he says, adding there’s nothing to feel bad about, as it was better to take precautions now than feel regretful later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/policing-gets-tougher-during-the-pandemic/story-fEhTtBlwHLVhRacAj1lMqK.html
25-04-2020||Chandigarh||Doctors at Pathankot Military Hospital perform rare surgery on newborn||Doctors at Pathankot Military Hospital in Punjab had to treat a one-day-old baby with rare congenital anomaly of intestines without a pediatrician as they could not arrange one due to the lockdown.The baby, born out of a caesarian section last week, was suspected to have Hirschsprung’s Disease, which had consequently developed intestinal block leading to a septic infection.“ A prompt diagnosis was made but the condition of the baby was critical and he was not fit for transfer to the nearest pediatric surgery centre of the Armed Forces, Chandimandir, due to the coronavirus lockdown. There was no pediatric surgeon available in the civil hospitals of Pathankot as well,” said defence spokesperson Lt Col Devender Anand.“Surgical specialist of the military hospital Major Adil Abdul Kalam performed the intricate and challenging operation of opening up the abdomen of the newborn baby who was on a ventilator. This is for the first time in the Armed Forces Medical Services wherein such an intricate operation on a newborn was performed at a zonal hospital with no pediatric surgeon, pediatric anesthesiologist or neonatologist,” said Col Anand.The operation was performed in an emergency which even if delayed by a few minutes could have resulted in exacerbation of multi-organ failure, leading to death.The doctor said that it was an extremely challenging and stressful task to manage the case successfully despite the absence of super-specialty facilities.“Performing the intricate surgery in the intestines of the newborn with associated generalised septic infection was technically arduous and grueling but the team of doctors and nurses had effectively carried out the surgery last week and now the baby is out of ventilator, tolerating breastfeeds and is on the way to a healthy recovery,” the spokesperson quoted Dr Kalam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/doctors-at-pathankot-military-hospital-perform-rare-surgery-on-newborn/story-dxcrMnePg1cVst4JPXYZNI.html
25-04-2020||City||Haryana brings back 44 students stuck in Kota||The Haryana government brought back as many as 44 students who were stuck in Rajasthan’s Kota, the coaching hub of the country, due to the nationwide lockdown.The students reached Hisar on Saturday morning from where they were sent to quarantine homes at Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology (GJU&ST) and Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University (CCSHAU).“The health department has taken swab samples and once their test reports are received, they will be sent home,” a government spokesperson said.The Haryana government has sent as many as 31 buses to bring back 858 students from the state who are stuck in Kota, where they were receiving coaching for competitive exams such as IIT-JEE and NEET etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-brings-back-44-students-stuck-in-kota/story-5JHGARXaWQwN0NuILTb7aN.html
25-04-2020||Chandigarh||Make travel arrangements for stranded residents: CPI(M) to HP govt||Communist Party of India (Marxist) has demanded the state government to make the necessary travel arrangements for residents stranded within and outside the state so that they can return home.CPI(M) also demanded to start transportation and other activities in green zone districts so that people can earn their livelihood.CPI(M) leader Sanjay Chauhan said that a month has passed since the lockdown was imposed in the state and many labourers, daily wagers, and others remain stranded within and outside the state. These people have appealed to the government to allow them to return home. Due to the lack of proper food and stay arrangements, the situation is deteriorating day by day. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Jai Ram Thakur have been appealing the people to abide by the lockdown and curfew orders and urged them to stay indoors. However, some bureaucrats and influential people are misusing their powers by violating the lockdown orders, said Chauhan.He said that this could result in a massive tragedy if the state government fails to take the necessary steps on time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/make-travel-arrangements-for-stranded-residents-cpi-m-to-hp-govt/story-fEPqZr1XbRB9MNNbwjVBeN.html
25-04-2020||Chandigarh||Essentials dispatched to snow-covered Gurez Valley in Kashmir||Days after the residents of the snow-covered Gurez valley in north Kashmir’s Bandipora district complained of shortage of essential commodities, the district administration on Saturday ordered that essential items be supplied to the area.Bandipora deputy commissioner (DC) Shahbaz Ahmad Mirza, in an order issued on Saturday, constituted a two-member committee to oversee the process and coordinate the movement of vehicles carrying essential goods to Gurez.“Bandipora handloom assistant director Shariq Iqbal and district floriculture officer Tariq Habib will coordinate and make arrangements,” read the order. Gurez sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Mudasir Ahmad said the supply of essential commodities began from Saturday. “We sent two vehicles with liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) and four vehicles with diesel,” he said.“We will be supplying vegetables, fruits, ration and other essential items among the residents on Sunday,” he said, adding that 20 vehicles will be dispatched for the same.The order also specifies that the officers should ensure that no Covid-19 carrier enters the valley as no Covid-19 case has been reported from the valley. “Our teams have been screening drivers bearing essential commodities for the residents,” the SDM said. The SDM said the tehsil has been facing an acute shortage of essential commodities due to closure of the road between Gurez and Bandipora. “The administration is making all efforts to mitigate their suffering,” he said.The DC has also asked deputed officers to make arrangements for evacuating locals stranded outside Gurez valley. The 86-km Bandipora-Gurez Road reopened to traffic on April 17 after remaining closed for four months due to accumulation of snow at Razdan Pass, at an altitude of 11,672 ft. The pass recorded snow accumulation up to 35 feet. Gurez Valley, with a population of around 40,000 people, remains cut off from the rest of Kashmir for around six months every year, causing shortage of medical and essential supplies .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/essentials-dispatched-to-snow-covered-gurez-valley-in-kashmir/story-xTOi6nBsTLqu2OzKyvj3DK.html
25-04-2020||Pune||Pune’s Sassoon hospital to soon start clinical trials for plasma therapy||Pune’s Sassoon General Hospital will start plasma therapy for critically ill Covid-19 patients after the central health ministry approved the procedure.Dr T P Lahane, who heads the Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER), which also manages Sassoon General Hospital, said, “Plasma therapy has shown promising results in many countries, including America, Germany and Poland, and also in Kerala. Although it does have its own shortcomings, like the recipient could have a reaction to the donor’s plasma, or plasma fusion could not be effective as a treatment.“ Right now only critical patients will receive this treatment and only at Sasson Hospital in Pune. We are trying to expand this to other hospitals too, the approval is awaited,” he said.A senior doctor from Sassoon, requesting anonymity, said, “The blood is checked for serum protein which has to be more than a particular anti-body, the rapid anti-bodies and neutralizing anti-body tighters have to be detected. We usually go for healthy and young patients who do not have any other health ailments.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-s-sassoon-hospital-to-soon-start-clinical-trials-for-plasma-therapy/story-wvwf52NwZSqCbmRq8GtYtL.html
25-04-2020||Pune||More positive cases emerge as testing is stepped up in Pune district, say officials||From 200 tests in the first week of April to 889 tests as of Thursday, the Pune district administration has attributed the high rise in the number of positive cases to more testing of suspected people in high risk areas.Currently Pune’s testing rate stands at 979 tests per million for the district. The city saw 104 positive cases on Thursday, the highest in one day.According to the district health office, 189 tests were done in 24 hours as of April 9. The testing rate in the city went up as the number of positive cases went up with more contact tracing. As of April 24, 889 tests were done in 24 hours. As of Thursday, a total of 9,204 tests were done in the district since the outbreak of the virus.About the 104 positive cases detected on a single day, District collector Naval Kishore Ram said that more cases only means that more testing is going on and there is no need to panic. He said there was a rise in the number of women being infected of Covid-19 which is why people must take more care.“Do not venture out of the house repeatedly even for essential items, stock them. Social distancing should be followed and any symptoms of flu--be it mild or negligible-- should be reported immediately to the flu clinics set by the civic body,” he said. With pool testing approved for the state, the test rate in the state is expected to go higher. State health minister Rajesh Tope tweeted on Friday that the central health ministry has approved pool testing for the state.The Indian council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) advisory on feasibility of using pooled samples for molecular testing of Covid-19 states that ‘a pooled testing algorithm involves the Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) screening of a specimen pool comprising multiple individual patient specimens, followed by individual testing (pool deconvolution) only if a pool screens positive. As all individual samples in a negative pool are regarded as negative, it results in substantial cost savings when a large proportion of pools tests negative.’The advisory suggests that pooling of more than five samples is not recommended to avoid the effect of dilution leading to false negatives, especially in areas or population with positivity rates of more than 5% for Covid-19, considering higher possibility of missing positive samples with low viral load, except in research mode.Currently testing labs in PuneGovernment labs testing samples in Pune· National Institute of Virology, Pune· Armed Forces Medical College, Pune· BJ Medical College, PuneNational AIDS Research Institute, Pune National Centre for Cell Sciences, Pune Private labs approved by ICMR· A.G. Diagnostics Pvt Ltd· Sahyadri Speciality Labs· Ruby Hall Clinic· Metropolis Healthcare LimitedAditya Birla Memorial Hospital Genepath Diagnostics India Pvt Ltd||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/more-positive-cases-emerge-as-testing-is-stepped-up-in-pune-district-say-officials/story-L61XMOhLeYQELXkatujibK.html
25-04-2020||City||25-year-old tests positive for Covid-19 in SBS Nagar||A 25-year-old resident of Boothgarh village, Balachaur, tested positive for novel coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Saturday, said Balachaur sub-divisional magistrate Jasbir Singh.Health officials said the patient, a truck driver, had returned to his village from Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) on April 23. The patient reported to the flu-corner of the hospital with influenza-like symptoms and a tell-tale cough. His samples were collected on the same day, which came out to be positive.As part of the containment drill, the district administration has sealed Boothgarh village while the parents of the patient have been quarantined in their house. Their samples are yet to be collected.This is the first case to be reported from SBS Nagar in a month. On April 22, the administration had announced that there were no active cases in the district. Twenty positive cases have been reported from the district so far, of which 18 people have recovered and one person succumbed to the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/25-year-old-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-sbs-nagar/story-5V7NstgiWxo5GvwekdOodL.html
25-04-2020||Latest||Miscreants attempt to rob stumper Saha’s Siliguri home, says relative||A relative of Wriddhiman Saha has alleged that a few miscreants tried to break into the India Test wicketkeeper’s ancestral home in Siliguri, North Bengal, on Friday in a bungled attempt to rob the place.Saha, 35, lives in South Kolkata with his wife and children. The experienced stumper’s parents, who live in their Ward No.31 Shaktigarh area house in Siliguri, are at present staying with their son in Kolkata.“We live next to them. In the wee hours of Friday, my son heard a noise and alerted me. It was around 2-2:30 a.m. in the night. We immediately rushed out and turned on the light. They fled hearing us. They had a car, we could not see the car clearly,” Saha’s uncle, Malay, told IANS on Saturday.“We informed the police and they were quick to the spot. They even came yesterday (Friday afternoon) to check on us. A similar incident had happened few days back also. We did not pay heed then,” he added.They are yet to lodge an FIR. “We will lodge the FIR on Sunday. The police commissioner said he will be at the NJP police station so we will do it then,” Malay said.Saha’s parents had come to visit him and wife Romi before the lockdown was announced last month, and could not go back to Siliguri due to the situation.The seasoned wicketkeeper, rated as one of the finest in the world, was back in the Indian Test team after nursing a finger injury which he picked up during the pink-ball Test against Bangladesh last November. Saha, who has played 37 Tests for India, was not part of the first XI for the two Tests in New Zealand with Rishabh Pant getting the nod ahead of him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cricket/miscreants-attempt-to-rob-stumper-saha-s-siliguri-home-says-relative/story-tRusZSKZV1FBBTmYrEWIlO.html
25-04-2020||Chandigarh||168 Kashmiris sent home from Shimla||As many as 168 Kashmiri migrants stranded in the Jama Masjid due to the lockdown have been sent home.The migrants, who work as porters, were sent home in private buses from Shimla’s old bus stand. The arrangements for their return were made after CPI(M) legislator Rakesh Singha staged a sit-in outside the sub-divisional magistrate’s office.Kashmiri porters working in Shimla are also known as the ‘camel of the hills’ for their strength and energy. ‘Khans’ have been lugging the state’s economy since the British era by delivering heavy loads to localities that are inaccessible by road. There are nearly 8,000 Kashmir Khans registered with the police. Deputy commissioner Amit Kashyap made arrangement with the lieutenant governors in Kashmir.The government has also made arrangements for transporting 5,000 farmers from Lahaul-Spiti who had migrated from Lahaul and Spiti during ahead of the closure of the Rohtang Pass due to snowfall on November 15. The pass remains closed for six months a year and is thrown open to traffic in mid-May. The farmers are keen to return to their native villages as they fear that agricultural activities will suffer in their absence. The farmers will travel in busses till Raninullah and walk for three kilometers after that,” said agriculture minister Ram Lal Markanda, a legislator from Lahaul-Spiti. The first batch of 138 farmers left Manali this morning. Farmers will walk up to 10km from Rani Nullah to reach Rohtang.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/168-kashmiris-sent-home-from-shimla/story-mcViiwxxf8Xnh1llq8AcNM.html
25-04-2020||Noida||Covid-19: Gautam Buddh Nagar to allow doctors, paramedics travel between sealed Delhi and Noida||Authorities in Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Buddh Nagar have said doctors and paramedical health workers can move across the Delhi-Noida border after sealing off the district earlier this month. Gautam Buddh Nagar’s district magistrate (DM) Suhas Lalinakere Yathiraj posted a clarification on Twitter late on Friday night.“It is clarified that movement of following medical personnel is allowed between Delhi n Noida as per exemption provision number 1 in the border closure order 21/4/2020We salute the corona warriors for their continuous effort, and request you to Stay Home Stay Safe,” the official tweeted.Also read: 28-year-old Covid-19 patient surrenders at the Delhi-Noida borderAccording to the clarification, doctors and paramedics who have been issued Covid-19 duty passes by the Centre, the Delhi government or Uttar Pradesh governments will be allowed through the Delhi-Noida border.If a vehicle has a Covid-19 pass issued by the Centre and Delhi or Uttar Pradesh governments, then ID card issued by the concerned hospital or government organisation shall be sufficient to allow access for such workers. Also Read: Commuters screened at Delhi-Noida borders, media persons to be issued passes“Those working in Government of India medical Institutions like AIIMS, Safdarganj, RML, Military Hospital are also allowed under this exemption provision,” the clarification said.Also read: On average, 104 people arrested daily in GB NagarThe Delhi-Noida border was completely sealed on April 21 and only people with special passes were being allowed to move across the border. A spike in Covid-19 cases was cited as the reason for the decision to seal the border.The administration had said most patients, who had tested positive for Covid-19, had some connections with Delhi.The number of infected with Sars-Cov-2, the virus which causes the coronavirus disease, in Noida and Greater Noida has crossed over 100 with as many as 28 hotspots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/covid-19-gautam-buddh-nagar-to-allow-doctors-paramedics-travel-between-sealed-delhi-and-noida/story-GcFgDEY5eDqW55TagsBdpN.html
25-04-2020||Mumbai||Sena takes dig at Raj Thackeray over his demand to reopen wine shops||The Shiv Sena on Saturday took a dig at MNS president Raj Thackeray over his demand to restart wine shops in Maharashtra to boost revenues, and sought to know whether he was really concerned about the state’s treasury.It said that Raj Thackeray should know that due to the lockdown not just the wine shops, but even the liquor factories are shut.“You don’t get revenue just by starting the shops. The government gets revenue in the form of excise andsales tax when a distributor purchases the product from the factories.In order to start these units, workers are required. Besides, if the shops re-open, no social distancing will be followed,” the party said in an editorial in its mouthpiece ‘Saamana’.Raj Thackeray, in a letter to the Chief Minister’s Officer (CMO) on Thursday, had said that allowing wine shops to remain open does not mean trying to cater to the needs of alcohol consumers, but to ensure revenue inflow during difficult times.He had also called for allowing hotels and kitchens providing affordable foods to run saying that as a big chunk of Maharashtras population is dependent on them.The Uddhav Thackeray-led party, however, mocked the MNS chief for demanding reopening of liquor shops and eateries together.“Through his demand, he has pointed it out to the government that like food, alcohol is an essential commodity.He has given invaluable information that as a rice plate is important for people,they are also dependent on ‘quarter’ and ‘peg’,” it said.It sought to know whether he has made the demand out of the concern for the state’s revenues or on behalf of the tipplers.“The opposition leaders should advise the government on how to improve the economic situation in times of crisis, but the leader of opposition hasn’t been able to do so,” the ruling party said without naming Devendra Fadnavis.“Raj Thackeray has put forward the plight of the poor and the less privileged people and a section of the society will bless him for that. But the government will have to take a decision considering the overall situation,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sena-takes-dig-at-raj-thackeray-over-his-demand-to-reopen-wine-shops/story-LogXxFunLPPNvYrZMMVEOI.html
25-04-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal to honour teachers for developing academic content for home-based teaching||The Himachal Pradesh government will honour teachers for developing academic content for home-based teaching during the lockdown period, said chief minister Jai Ram Thakur while reviewing the progress of the education department.The Himachal government has launched a ‘har ghar pathshala’ programme to provide home-based teaching facility to students. Under this programme, multiple programmes will be used to ensure maximum reach to students.A three-hour slot per day on Doordarshan, Shimla, will focus on Classes 10 and 12. Online classes are also being conducted through WhatsApp and a centralised website. Efforts are on to start a teaching module through All India Radio to ensure maximum coverage.During a video-conference, the chief minister asked education department officials to focus on providing quality content to students on important subjects besides ensuring the syllabus of all classes from one to twelve are covered.The education department is providing home-based education to 90 % high schools though WhatsApp, while 60% elementary schools are being taught through WhatsApp.Education minister Suresh Bhardwaj said, “We are making every effort to compensate loss of studies by rescheduling the academic and sports calendar for schools and colleges. The school education board will take necessary steps for evaluating answer sheets in time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-to-honour-teachers-for-developing-academic-content-for-home-based-teaching/story-MXjLilrWJiYnk5rQNHpdXN.html
25-04-2020||Lucknow||BJP MP announces reward for info on people with foreign travel history, Tablighi Jamaat members||BJP MP Ravindra Kushawaha said on Saturday that he would give a cash reward of Rs 11,000 to anyone providing specific information about people, including Tablighi Jamaat members, who hid information about their travels and avoided screening for COVID-19. The MP from Salempur constituency claimed in a statement that several people, who had been to Tablighi Jamaat congregations or any foreign country, did not report to the authorities and “are living without proper testing”.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicSuch people need to inform the administration about their travel history and undergo test for the novel coronavirus, he said, adding that anyone providing specific information about such people would be rewarded.Click here for the latest updates from the coronavirus outbreakA Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi last month emerged as a major coronavirus hotspot after many of its participants carried the infection to several parts of the country. Soon after the Delhi congregation came into news, the district police had asked those who had attended it to report to the authorities, but no one turned up. The district has not reported any COVID-19 case so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/bjp-mp-announces-reward-for-info-on-people-with-foreign-travel-history-tablighi-jamaat-members/story-F9451uwzVy9KGUO1Bq6GII.html
25-04-2020||Education||Students facing problem in online learning without textbooks||While most of the schools here have switched to digital platforms during the coronavirus lockdown, non-availability of textbooks is still a major challenge for students and teachers in carrying out routine classes.Earlier the district administration had issued an order stating that vehicle passes for home delivery of books would be issued but it did not materialise yet.Patna district education officer Jyoti Kumar issued an order on Wednesday stating clearly that reopening of book shops and schools for selling of books would be treated as breach of lockdown and the department can take strict action against them. He said, “All schools and book distributors are instructed to wait till the district administration issue an advisory and chalks out plan for sale and distribution of books.”Meanwhile, Private Schools and Children Welfare Association (PSCWA) wrote a letter to chief minister Nitish Kumar on Thursday seeking permission to open schools for distribution of books.National president of PSCWA Shamael Ahmad, said, “Schools have drastically shifted to online teaching but children are not habituated to study online. E-study material cannot subdue the importance of textbooks and prolong use of mobile and computer is impacting the health of children. Reopening of educational institutes is still uncertain. In the given condition, availability of textbooks would help the students learn better and utilise their time efficiently at home. ‘‘“We request the state government to give relaxation to schools for reopening for a short period for books distribution purpose. Schools will strictly follow sanitisation and social distancing norm”, added Ahmad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/students-facing-problem-in-online-learning-without-textbooks/story-kJWIsyam31p6Sr6NJs0VJL.html
25-04-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan’s Covid-19 cases rise to 2,059; state gears up for plasma therapy trials||Rajasthan’s coronavirus infections count rose to 2,059 on Saturday with 25 new cases being reported. The state had breached the 2,000- mark on Friday.The border state has so far reported 32 deaths due to Covid-19. Capital city Jaipur, with 18 fatalities, accounts for the maximum virus deaths.“As many as 25 fresh cases have been reported in six districts of the state. However, the growth rate curve of coronavirus cases in state has flattened,” Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Rohit Kumar Singh said on Saturday, reports news agency PTI.Of the 25 fresh cases, eight were reported from Ajmer, five each from Jodhpur and Jhalawar, four from Kota, two in Dholpur, and one in Dungarpur, said Singh.Rajasthan’s Covid-19 related mortality rate is 1.43 which ranks the state at 15th spot at the national level, according to state health minister Raghu Sharma.The minister said that the state is introducing aggressive testing. “We’re purchasing Cobos 8800 machines, which will increase the daily testing capacity of both Jaipur and Jodhpur to 3,000,” he said.Till date, 691 patients have recovered from coronavirus infection in the state, of whom 198 have been discharged from hospitals.Meanwhile, the state is gearing up to introduce convalescent plasma therapy to critical Covid-19 patients at Jaipur’s SMS hospital and has sought permission from the ICMR to begin trials.The convalescent plasma therapy aims at using antibodies from the blood of a recovered Covid-19 patient to treat those infected. The therapy can also be used to immunise those at a high risk of contracting the virus such as health workers, families of patients and other high-risk contracts.“In absence of any vaccine or antiviral agents to treat coronavirus, plasma therapy could prove beneficial in critical patients and reduce the mortality, said Dr Sunita Bundas, blood bank incharge at the SMS hospital in Jaipur.She said doctors at the hospital who have recovered from the infection can become donors for COVID-19 patients.“The process has not yet begun. We are hopeful of getting ICMR approval. Then when we have a needy, critical patient, we will start the therapy.”Delhi, Karnataka and Kerala have already started plasma therapy trials while Maharashtra is awaiting ICMR’s nod to initiate the process.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-s-covid-19-cases-rise-to-2-059-state-gears-up-for-plasma-therapy-trials/story-qk8mRtgoehjAPejJzl45GL.html
25-04-2020||Delhi||Critical patients on plasma therapy ‘almost recovered’: Delhi health minister||Delhi’s health minister Satyendar Jain said on Saturday four patients of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), who were treated with plasma therapy, have almost recovered, news agency ANI reported.Convalescent plasma therapy uses a blood component called plasma, which contains the virus-fighting antibodies, from people who have recovered from the infection to treat those who are severely ill with Covid-19. Plasma is the almost-clear liquid left behind after red and white blood cells and platelets are removed from the blood.“We have administered plasma therapy to six patients in Delhi, so far. Four patients were given the therapy four days back,” Satyendar Jain was quoted as saying by ANI.“Those who were administered four days back have almost recovered. All of them were critical patients and results are very encouraging,” he said.Also read: Maharashtra to soon start clinical trials for plasma therapy, pool testingBefore this, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had urged people who have recovered from Covid-19 in the city to donate plasma to treat people in hospital with severe forms of the infection. “The initial results are very promising and I would request those who have recovered from corona infection to come and donate their plasma,” Kejriwal said during a press conference through video conference on Friday.Also read: Tablighi Jamaat chief asks members to donate blood plasma to fight Covid-19Lok Nayak Hospital is the first Delhi government hospital to administer the therapy. Plasma therapy trials are also being conducted by the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) and Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences in Delhi.Privately-run Max Hospital in Saket also administered the therapy to a Covid-19 patient on ventilator support on compassionate grounds, who was later weaned off ventilator support and is improving.Among other centres, the trials are underway at the Department of Biotechnology’s Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology in Kerala, which was the first to start them, and King George Medical University, Lucknow, where they started on Friday.Karnataka health minister B Sriramulu on Saturday initiated Phase I of the clinical trials to use plasma therapy for Covid-19 patients at Bengaluru-based BMC Victoria Hospital.So far, 2514 people have been infected with Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes the coronavirus disease, 857 people have been cured and 50 have died in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-critical-patients-on-plasma-therapy-almost-recovered-delhi-health-minister/story-uoPxydefMTp4USoNM628TK.html
25-04-2020||Education||Schools in Patna gearing up for textbooks distribution||Students and parents heaved a sigh of relief after the Patna district administration ordered reopening of book shops and school counters for selling books till April 30.According to an order issued by district magistrate Kumar Ravi on Thursday evening, book shops and school book counters will remain open from 6 am to 6pm to sell mandatory study materials from class LKG to class 12. He also instructed the schools to prepare class-wise and section-wise schedule for the parents to collect books. The order stated that the social distancing norms would be followed. “Only one guardian per student can visit book counter along with student’s identity card to collect books. Not more than 25 parents can be dealt in one hour. Strictly following sanitation and social distancing norm is mandatory for both buyers and sellers,” said Ravi.In light of the order, majority of schools remained engaged on Friday in chalking out plan for books distribution.Notre Dame Academy will start books’ distribution from Saturday.A school official said, “We have planned to distribute textbooks to higher classes first. A 3-day schedule for distribution of books and notebooks has been prepared. Three counters are being set up. On Saturday, textbooks for class 12 to 9 will be available in two shifts. Parents have been informed for the same.”Principal of DY Patil School Radhika Kizhakkumkara said that the schedule has been prepared. “We will take five days to complete book distribution. We will call parents of two classes each day in two shifts. Prior message to respective class guardians will be sent.”Bishop Scott group of schools have also come up with similar plan. “Books will be available at school counters from 9 am to 6 pm. Day wise schedule has been uploaded on CampusCare app where parents can access routine.”However, majority of book shops remained close on Friday.Raj Kumar, a book seller near Aashiyana said, “This locality comes under Covid hotspot zone, so I was unable to open my shop despite getting relaxation.”M K Sinha, manager of a private book depot at Boring Road, said, “We have not opened counters for customers as there is shortage of manpower. Initially, we will deliver books to schools. In March, we received order and booklists from several schools but consignments were not delivered due to lockdown.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/schools-in-patna-gearing-up-for-textbooks-distribution/story-xZxqwKID5kCERD7qTygeDJ.html
25-04-2020||Chandigarh||Two Covid-19 patients recover in Himachal; active cases come down to 15||With the discharge of two recovered Covid-19 patients on Saturday, the active cases in Himachal have come down to 15.Additional chief secretary RD Dhiman said, “The patients tested negative in two consecutive tests on Friday evening.”Both former patients were primary contacts of Jamaat workers and hailed from Amb sub-division of Una district.They were undergoing treatment at Employee State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) Model Hospital, Katha, in Baddi, Solan.“They will be quarantined at an institutional facility for the next 14 days and will be sent home if they test negative at the end of the period,” said Dhiman.Six patients have recovered in the hill state in last week and only one new case has been reported.Till date, Himachal has reported a total of 40 Covid-19 cases.Una is the worst hit district with 16 cases, followed by Solan with nine cases. Six cases were reported from Chamba, five from Kangra and two each from Hamirpur and Sirmaur.Of the 16 cases from Una, 10 have recovered and six are active.A total of 20 patients have recovered from the deadly infection so far.As many as 4,226 tests have been conducted in the state. A total of 8,985 people were kept under surveillance, of which 5,684 have completed the observation period and 3,301 are still under home or institutional quarantine.CM ASKS FOR MORE VENTILATORS In a meeting held with the union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Friday through video-conferencing, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur urged him to provide more ventilators to the state to tackle any exigency.The hill-state only has 60 ventilators in its health institutions for a population of around 74 lakh.The chief minister also requested the union health minister to provide more N-95 masks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-covid-19-patients-recover-in-himachal-active-cases-come-down-to-15/story-Gkznad1hVol2Htw1iEgv7N.html
25-04-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka Health Minister initiates plasma therapy trial at BMC Victoria Hospital||Karnataka Health Minister B Sriramulu on Saturday initiated Phase I clinical trials to use plasma therapy for COVID-19 patients at city-based BMC Victoria Hospital.Sriramulu was accompanied by Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar.Karnataka has taken a lead role as we initiate Phase I clinical trials to use Convalescent Plasma Therapy for severe Covid 19 infected patients. BMC Victoria hospital took the first step today. We are determined to vanquish this enemy of mankind. (1/2) pic.twitter.com/XU1BfXqGgj“Karnataka has taken a lead role as we initiate Phase I clinical trials to use Convalescent Plasma Therapy for severe COVID-19 infected patients. BMC Victoria hospital took the first step today. We are determined to vanquish this enemy of mankind,” Sriramulu said in a tweet.“I wish our team of doctors at BMC Victoria hospital and team led by Dr US Vishal Rao a great success. This will be a torchbearer in our fight against Corona,” he said in another tweet.According to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, the state has so far reported 474 confirmed cases of COVID-19 which include 152 discharged or cured patients and 18 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/covid-19-karnataka-health-minister-initiates-plasma-therapy-trial-at-bmc-victoria-hospital/story-1PBFaPee8CaqY1heioSeAL.html
25-04-2020||Chandigarh||Private hospital doctor tests positive for Covid-19 in Pathankot||A lady doctor serving at a private hospital in Pathankot has tested positive for Covid-19, civil surgeon Dr Vinod Sareen said.Her test reports confirmed the infection on Friday night, Punjab special chief secretary KBS Sidhu tweeted on Saturday.In a press release, the Pathankot district administration said that a health team is conducting the contact tracing of the doctor, who served at the local Amandeep Hospital, which is a branch of the hospital by the same name in Amritsar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/private-hospital-doctor-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-pathankot/story-LStxQpaY4l31g6BXg1aGhI.html
25-04-2020||Delhi||No ban on Azaan, but must adhere to lockdown norms, say Baijal, Sisodia||With Ramzan starting Saturday, Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia and the police on Friday said there is no ban on Azaan (a call to prayer) from mosques in the city.This comes a day after a video of two Delhi Police constables purportedly warning the caretaker of a mosque in Rohini did the rounds on social media. In the video, the constables can be heard telling the caretaker and a local resident that “Azaan ke liye bhi mana kar diya hai LG saab ne (The Lieutenant Governor has banned Azaan as well)”.Delhi L-G Anil Baijal, in a tweet on Friday, said Ramzan should be observed while following the lockdown norms, and made a reference to Delhi Police instructions for the same.About an hour before Baijal’s statement, the Delhi Police had tweeted: “Azaan may be carried out in accordance with NGT [National Green Tribunal] guidelines,” along with other rules. By the evening, though, the L-G tweeted that disciplinary action had been initiated against the erring police personnel. “Disciplinary action is being taken against the erring police officials. Appeal to observe the holy month of Ramzan as per the advisory given below to stay safe and follow lockdown in your, and public interest. Stay home, stay safe,” he added.Sisodia tweeted, “There is no restriction on Azaan. In a lockdown, there is a complete ban on the gathering of people for prayers in mosques or for worship etc. at any religious place.”According to deputy commissioner of police (Rohini) Pramod Kumar Mishra, the constables in the video were confused between the meaning of “Azaan” and “Namaaz”. “We have removed the two policemen from the beat. There is no ban on Azaan. However, the gathering of people in any religious establishment for prayers is banned to maintain social distancing,” Mishra said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/no-ban-on-azaan-but-must-adhere-to-lockdown-norms-say-baijal-sisodia/story-c1K6YprQdTzTa81y0kJTfJ.html
25-04-2020||Delhi||Initial plasma therapy results promising: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday urged people who have recovered from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the city to donate plasma to treat people hospitalised with severe forms of the infection. Plasma therapy has been administered to four Covid-19 patients admitted in a city hospital whose condition seems to be improving, Kejriwal said.“The initial results are very promising and I would request those who have recovered from corona infection to come and donate their plasma,” Kejriwal told reporters via video conference. He added: “Many of you must have donated blood for dengue; for that too we do not take the blood, only the platelets are taken out and the rest of the blood goes back to your body. This is the same thing, we will just take out the plasma. You can save the life of a patient. We will call you for donation, we will arrange transport, and we will ensure that you are not harmed in any way.” Convalescent plasma therapy uses a blood component called plasma -- which contains the virus-fighting antibodies – from people who have recovered from the infection to treat those who are severely ill with Covid-19.Lok Nayak Hospital is the first Delhi government hospital to administer the therapy. Plasma therapy trials are also being conducted by the All India Institute of Medical Sciences and Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences in Delhi. Max Hospital in Saket also administered the therapy to a Covid-19 patient on ventilator on compassionate grounds, who was later weaned off ventilator support and is improving. Among other centres, the trials are under way at the Department of Biotechnology’s Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology in Kerala, which was the first to start them, and King George Medical University, Lucknow, where they started on Friday.So far, 2,376 people have been infected and 50 have died of the coronavirus infection in Delhi.Lok Nayak Hospital, Delhi’s biggest Covid-19 facility, in collaboration with the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences received permission to conduct a randomised control trial from the Indian Council of Medical Research and the drug regulatory body Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) last week.“This therapy is not new, it has been used for several other diseases before. We are conducting a trial for the effectiveness of this treatment in Covid-19 cases. The trial will include ten patients who receive the therapy and should be completed within the next 10 or 15 days,” said Dr SK Sarin, director, Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, which chooses the donors and conducts the plasmapheresis process to derive the blood plasma for treatment.The processThe first patient to receive the therapy was a 60-year-old man admitted to the intensive care unit of the hospital. He was not on ventilator, but had low oxygen saturation of 85%, a condition that indicates his organs were not receiving an adequate amount of oxygen. The normal oxygen saturation for healthy individuals is between 95% and 100%.His respiratory rate was also high at 30 per minute – meaning he was breathing rapidly. The normal respiratory rate is 12 to 20 breaths per minute in adults. He was administered plasma therapy on Tuesday.“His respiratory rate has come down to 20 per minute and the oxygen saturation has improved to 98%. The patient is likely to be moved out of the ICU today. And, there have been similar improvements in the condition of the other patients who received the therapy as well. This is promising,” said Kejriwal.The doctors are performing a randomised control trial of 20 patients, where half of them will get the plasma and the other half will get a placebo (devoid of any therapeutic value).“We do not know who among these four patients received the plasma and who received the placebo. Only after the trial is complete we will be able to analyse the results. The first two patients have been taken off oxygen support and are now able to ingest food. They will likely be shifted out of the ICU tomorrow. We are observing the other two patients who received the therapy yesterday,” said Dr Suresh Kumar, principal investigator and head of the plasma therapy project at Lok Nayak hospital.The patients are given two plasma transfusions of about 250 ml each over two days. Another patient who was to receive plasma therapy on Tuesday died before it could be administered. Two other recipients have been identified by the hospital. So far, seven plasma donations have been done and eight to 10 other donors being screened.The CM said Delhi would apply for wider use of the therapy in all severe patients admitted in Delhi hospitals. “For now, we have the permission from the central government to perform a limited trial only on serious patients in Lok Nayak hospital. They had asked us for the results of the limited trial to grant permission for the use of the therapy in others. Next week, we will apply for plasma therapy for all serious patients in Delhi,” said Kejriwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/initial-plasma-therapy-results-promising-delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal/story-u49Xrec7lxLeGzpnstWnoI.html
25-04-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC sets up command centre for Covid-19 management||munieshwer.sagar@htlive.comFor improved coordination, monitoring and implementation of the Covid-19 management plan, a new integrated control and command centre has been set up at the Chandigarh municipal corporation office in Sector 17.The centre aims to bring under one roof the civic body, police officials and the UT health department, among various other departments involved in the containment of Covid-19 in the city.MC commissioner KK Yadav said the centre had been set up at the MC office to regulate all anti-covid operations in the city. “In these difficult times when there is no certainty about the period of the pandemic and consequent restrictions, a more coordinated approach is needed, which is why MC has set up the centre on a transition basis,” he added.The new centre will use a more coordinated approach to monitoring, data analysis and response to the Covid-19 pandemic issues for better real-time decisions. MC commissioner said the information generated through different applications downloaded by people during quarantine and information on vendor movement generated through GPS application given to them will be collated and analysed. “Similarly, all calls made to 112 and MC helpline numbers will be processed and mapped as per area and problems. This will allow us to prepare better strategy in dealing with people’s problems,” he said, adding that the live feed from CCTV cameras installed across the city will be also be monitored at the centre.Yadav further said the formats for information submission had been shared with the health and police departments. “Information related to the Covid-19 management provided by these departments will be also be geographically mapped and analysed at the centre,” he added.TIMINGS FOR HOME DELIVERYFor opening of shops strictly for home delivery of essential commodities by the shopkeepers and other online delivery agencies such as Zomato and Swiggy, the timings for grocery/kiryana, meat and fish, fruit and vegetable will be from 9am to 9pm. For shops providing milk and eggs, the timings will be 5am to 9pm. These timings are only for shopkeepers and other online agencies and not for general public. For general public, the timing are from 10am to 2pm.SPECIAL DRIVE FOR MODEL JAILThe administration started a special drive for examining prisoners for coronavirus disease at Model Jail, Burail, on Friday.In the daily review meeting, UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida said, “A special drive is being conducted for examining the inmates at Burail Jail to contain the spread of Covid-19 on the jail premises.”There are 1,007 inmates against the sanctioned strength of 1,120 in the prison. Visitors were banned entry in the jail in March in view of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-sets-up-new-centre-for-covid-19-management/story-EfL2z31FANt21WmAR5dtTN.html
25-04-2020||City||26-year-old labourer found hanging in Mohali’s Gharuan village||A 26-year-old labourer was found hanging from the ceiling at his house in Garangan village, Gharuan, police said on Friday.Victim’s brother told the police that after having dinner on Thursday night, his brother had gone to sleep. In the morning, when he did not respond to repeated calls, his brothers forced open the door and found him hanging from the ceiling, police said, adding that as per the family, the deceased was mentally disturbed.No suicide note was found. The police have initiated inquest proceedings on the statement of the victim’s brother, who said that he did not suspect any foul play.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/26-year-old-labourer-found-hanging-in-mohali-s-gharuan-village/story-7SpPFPBddKEAo0ktUxnSiL.html
25-04-2020||Chandigarh||Authorised Covid-19 volunteers to assist police in Chandigarh||The UT administration will be using the services of “authorised Covid-19 volunteers” (ACV) to enforce compliance with regards to the curfew restrictions and social distancing norms in Chandigarh.A standard operating procedure to appoint the ACVs for selection and placement was laid down on Friday, which stipulates mandatory screening by the health department and registration.In the daily review meeting on Thursday, Punjab governor and UT administrator VPS Badnore directed the administration to involve representatives and volunteers to enforce social distancing and to maintain the sealing of various colonies and areas in the city.“Individual volunteers, non-governmental organisations (NGOs), resident welfare associations (RWAs), or any other association willing to work as an ACV to motivate the citizens to comply with the guidelines issued by the administration shall get themselves registered with the sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) concerned by means of an application and send it to the email IDs of SDM central, south and east,” read the standard operating procedure (SOP).“These ACVs will only assist the police and administration. They will not be allowed to perform any official duty. None of these registered ACVs will be allowed to seal the main road (entry or exit points) by barricades at their own level. These ACVs will work only under the supervision of the local police and the administration and strictly as per the approved plan and duty chart,” the SOP stated.“In case, the conduct of any ACV is found improper, he or she shall be removed immediately. The work done by these ACVs will be treated as only voluntary for all means and purposes,” it stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/authorised-covid-19-volunteers-to-assist-police-in-chandigarh/story-JtbLXaXq6EJCPhQJzGlxNO.html
25-04-2020||City||Man out to distribute ration amid curfew manhandled in Dera Bassi||A man working as a volunteer was allegedly roughed up by people while distributing ration at Mirpur village in Dera Bassi on Friday. In his complaint, Suraj said, “I had gone out to distribute ration in the village, when suddenly people started pushing me. My mobile phone was also snatched by someone.”He lodged a complaint at the Mubarikpur police post. “Though there are no visible marks of assault or manhandling, we are verifying the allegations,” said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-out-to-distribute-ration-amid-curfew-manhandled-in-dera-bassi/story-JFTT8e48Xa3f0BxoZJhLNL.html
25-04-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh administration prepares list of works to be completed on priority post lockdown||After losing the first month of the new financial year 2020-2021 to the curfew, the UT administration is now prioritising works it must focus on once the restrictions imposed for containing the spread of coronavirus are lifted.Implementation of the smart grid project and road recarpeting will be on the administration’s priority list after the curfew ends. Projects that were approved last year, and for which the tendering process had already started, will be given priority post lockdown.At present, a skeleton staff is attending office, while most are working from home. Many new projects slated to begin this financial year had to be put on hold.UT finance secretary Ajoy Kumar Sinha said, “Implementation of the smart grid system, city-wide installation of smart meters, and the completion of road recarpeting work will be taken up immediately after restrictions are relaxed or removed.”The ₹200-crore smart grid project envisages a power supply management that utilises information technology-based methods to reduce transmission and distribution losses. The new grid will also allow consumers to track their power consumption online. The administration has set up a SCADA (supervisory control and data acquisition) centre in Sector 18. The UT electricity department will also install smart meters in around 30,000 houses in the city.ROAD RE-CARPETING ALSO PRIORITYThe UT engineering department had come under severe criticism for the bad conditions of roads under its jurisdiction. Even though it started the recarpeting work in late February, it had to suspend because of unseasonal rains and later, due to the pandemic.“Tendering to allot the recarpeting work was completed, but the allotment was postponed because of the lockdown. Departments are working on tender documents for other projects as well, even as most of the staff work from home. These will be floated after the lockdown ends,” said Sinha.Stating that the time lost because of the lockdown could be easily made up for in the coming months, Sinha added, “The administration is working on a plan to ensure that all pending projects can be put back on track.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-prepares-list-of-works-to-be-completed-on-priority-post-lockdown/story-9dACoyUB8YjZBwWw05oVvI.html
25-04-2020||City||50-year-old Mohali cop accidentally shoots himself in the head, dies||A 50-year-old sub-inspector of Punjab Police, Bhupinder Kumar, posted in Mohali police lines was killed after he accidentally shot himself at his house in Phase 8 here.Bhupinder was rushed to a private hospital in Phase 8 where he succumbed to injury in the head, police said. Police claim that Bhupinder got injured while he was trying to uncork his official weapon that accidentally went off. He is survived by his wife and two children. His wife underwent a surgery for tumour only 15 days back; his daughter is married to an army major; and his son is presently in Canada.Bhupinder was earlier posted as in-charge of Majat police post, but had voluntarily taken a transfer to take care of his wife. “He was very good at his work but was disturbed owing to his wife’s illness,” said Kuldeep Singh Chahal, senior superintendent of police, Mohali.Inquest proceedings have been initiated. Bhupinder was on duty in the Nayagaon area amid the curfew. His body has been kept in the mortuary and the police have impounded the weapon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/50-year-old-mohali-cop-accidentally-shoots-himself-in-the-head-dies/story-XMpOcObwVvPTG930lGylVM.html
25-04-2020||Chandigarh||Spurt and slowdown, Chandigarh tricity area’s coronavirus tally saw it all||In the first month of the lockdown since March 23, the number of Covid-19 cases in the tricity towns of Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula grew from 13 to 109, an eightfold increase.The country’s tally, on the other hand, was 500, which has now gone up to 24,434 cases, a whopping spike of 48 times.While the first three weeks saw an exponential increase in the cases across the tricity as well, the cases slowed down in the fourth week, especially in Chandigarh.Mohali now has the maximum number of cases at 63, followed by Chandigarh at 28 and Panchkula at 18.Tricity’s first case was reported in Chandigarh on March 18 when a 23-year-old woman, who had returned from England, tested positive. When Punjab announced the curfew on March 23, Mohali had reported five cases. Chandigarh announced the curfew a day later on March 24 when the number of cases was seven. Panchkula’s lockdown kicked in the same day, with just one case, making the tricity count 13 at that point.Thereon, the first week of the lockdown till March 30 saw the three cities reporting eight more cases. But the increase in patients doubled in the next week till April 6, with 18 more cases, taking the tally to 39. As of April 13, three weeks into the lockdown, the number doubled even further, climbing to 80. This trend of increase in cases in the second and third week was seen nationally as well.However, the spike eased thereafter, with 26 new cases till April 20, and three more cases as of April 24, making the tricity count 109. “As the air traffic has been shut down, new sources of infection have been blocked from entering the tricity, which eventually helped in bringing down new cases. The lockdown has also played a major role in controlling widespread transmission,” said PVM Lakshmi, senior epidemiologist at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research.Hospital director Jagat Ram gave credit to extensive contact tracing and testing. “Fewer new cases was possible due to extensive contact tracing and their testing. It appears the rate will slow down further,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/spurt-and-slowdown-chandigarh-tricity-area-s-coronavirus-tally-saw-it-all/story-XgxXPJJKPt7kJ26gD7hb8J.html
25-04-2020||Chandigarh||Wrong number: Women, child helpline in Chandigarh gets requests for curfew passes, ration and pension queries||It’s meant for a select group, but ever since the lockdown following the Covid-19 pandemic, the women and child helpline, 181, has been flooded with queries related to ration, curfew passes, pensions and other requests.More worryingly, three calls related to Protection of Children from Sexual Offences(POCSO) Act and six to domestic violence, slightly more than the average, were among 1,612 calls received during the lockdown.On regular days the helpline receives up to 1,200 calls a month of which 50% are related to children requiring counselling or other help and 40% to women in distress. About 10% calls are made by senior citizens, said Vikram Jeet Godwani, state helpline manager in Chandigarh.SURGE AFTER LOCKDOWN AND APRIL EXTENSIONDuring a month of lockdown, from March 23 to April 23, 1,612 calls were received, of which a majority (749) were made in the first nine days (till March 31) by people asking for ration and cooked meals and enquiring about shelter homes and curfew passes.“People said they hadn’t received ration for four days. The details were shared with the director, social welfare department, who then got a list made and details of 300 such cases were shared with sub-divisional magistrates of the areas concerned,” said Godwani.ABOUT 580 CALLS WERE FROM PUNJABIn April, again, 863 calls were received with a surge reported after the April 14 lockdown extension, when people started making requests for passes. “We got 150 calls related to passes, 100 after April 14,” he added.On Thursday night the police called to say a woman whose husband had died at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) was insisting on returning to her hometown after her husband had passed away. “But by the time we contacted her and arranged for help she had hired an ambulance and left,” Godwani said.DOMESTIC VIOLENCE AND POCSO CASESOn the cases related to domestic violence, the helpline manager said they got four to five calls on average, but six calls were made during the lockdown. One complaint was made by an IT company employee who accused her parents of torturing her, “so we informed the Mohali police about it through the district legal services authorities,” he added.The cases were reported from Khuda Ali Sher, Manimajra, Khuda Lahora, PGI Complex, Sector 47, and Mohali’s Phase 11.Three calls related to POCSO were also made and the helpline workers were keeping a close watch on 90 cases of marital dispute registered with it. However, conclusive number can’t be drawn from this figure with regards to domestic violence cases, as they are mainly reported to the police or courts.2019: Marital disputes, child abuseOf the 1,123 calls received by the women’s helpline from October 2015 to December 2019, a majority of complaints (377) were related to marital dispute, 136 to domestic violence and 104 to harassment. About 861 calls related to children were received of which the highest number (151) was related to POCSO. About 122 required counsellingWhat changed during the lockdownCalls made: 1,612Need ration/food - 286Movement pass - 150Pension queries- 100Follow up of previous cases - 140Women related issues query- 220Senior citizen related facilitation - 50Calls from Punjab - 580Others - 86||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/wrong-number-women-child-helpline-gets-requests-for-curfew-passes-ration-and-pension-queries/story-fWiB84RiRha3q1852BmiEI.html
25-04-2020||Chandigarh||Relieving hunger, warming hearts: Covid volunteers show the way||Thursday was not a good day for a group of volunteers running community kitchens for migrant rickshaw pullers and labourers stranded in the city without any means of income because of the lockdown to prevent transmission of Covid-19. The reason for the gloom was that they were not allowed to use one of their kitchen spaces and so could not serve food to about 500 homeless people.However, much to everyone’s relief, with an alternate space provided the next day, the kitchen was functional again, providing breakfast and afternoon meals to the workers.“After the lockdown we started with 200 to 250 people but the numbers rose to 500 plus as more workers started coming to the distribution areas in Sectors 34 and 44. Then we started feeding construction labourers too who were stranded in different sites in the city and workers who slept in a city petrol pump,” says inspector Ram Dayal of the Chandigarh police, who is working in his personal capacity with civilian friends.“We made it a point to start with a morning meal as very few were doing it and then started distributing soaps to them for washing hands,” he adds.Another anonymous group is also doing its bit to help labourers not just in the tricity but several other towns too. Started by a writer-filmmaker who wishes to remain anonymous, the group was able to raise Rs 10 lakh and disperse it among workers in dire straits.Speaking on the behalf of the group which includes writers, academics, journalists, hoteliers, doctors, academics, shopkeepers and students, Harish Jain, a tricity publisher says: “We were able to provide a 32-kg ration kit worth Rs 1,400 each to 600 workers and cash relief of Rs 2,500 each to 800 others we could not reach due to the lockdown.” Besides dry rations, the kit included washing-bathing soaps and sanitary pads.The group also thoughtfully provided dates to a group of Muslim labourers to break their Ramzan fast.The volunteers are now collecting donations for the month of May.People are doing what they can in their own way. Some of them running tiffin services, including Nirmal Varma in Sector 35 and Aaakriti Sachdev in Panchkula, now provide meals to labourers with their neighbours chipping in with dry rations, biscuits and savouries.Karkirat Singh, a businessman volunteering with the Serve Humanity Serve God NGO, is busy supervising packaging of ration kits in the Sector 15 gurdwara to be distributed to labourers in Mohali and Kharar. “We have been helping disadvantaged families for many years and our volunteers are now reaching out with monthly supplies to some 250 labourers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/love-in-the-times-of-covid-19-relieving-hunger-warming-hearts/story-BzWAGBCBVVG77zMUhJ3OaK.html
25-04-2020||Mumbai||Why Mumbai is recording most number of cases||Mumbai reported 522 Covid-19 cases on Thursday, the highest single-day jump for any Indian city since the first coronavirus patient was detected in Kerala on January 30. Mumbai is also the Indian city worst hit by Covid-19, with 4,447 cases recorded until Friday night. Since April 13 (242 cases in 24 hours), Mumbai has consistently recorded the highest one-day increase among Indian cities, with a single exception: April 17, when it reported 12 cases. Even the exception was because of the exclusion of private lab results and not an actual dip.Here are Mumbai’s numbers for the last 10 days — April 14: 216; April 15: 140; April 16: 177; April 17: 12; April 18: 183; April 19: 456; April 20: 308; April 21: 419; April 22: 232; April 23: 522; and April 24: 242What explains the financial capital’s high Covid-19 numbers?Intensive contact tracing, testing and quarantining of high-risk individuals has contributed to the consistently high numbers, according to the health department officials of Maharashtra and Mumbai. “Between 40% and 45% of our total cases are [the result of] efforts at contact tracing and fever camps in containment zones,” said Dr Daksha Shah, deputy health officer of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). According to BMC data on April 24, at least 400,000 people have been screened across 813 containment zones in the city (the number of containment zones increased to 930 on April 23, but the screening data for the new containment zones was not updated on April 24), and at the airport since the Covid-19 outbreak. Simultaneously, Maharashtra’s health department has screened 2.726 million people across the affected districts. Nearly 2 million of these are in Mumbai.A senior BMC officer who asked not to be named said: “We have to consider the remaining 55% as well. These are coming from the untraced population, but the good thing is that many of them are coming voluntarily [for testing] and it is only later that our health officers realise that they are contacts of existing positive patients.” According to data analysis of positive patients by the Maharashtra Medical Education and Drugs Department (MEDD), 81% of the state’s patients are asymptomatic. Mumbai’s numbers are similar (80%). Notably, although the cases are rising, the mortality rate in Maharashtra is dipping. On April 12, the city’s mortality rate was 7.41%. This reduced to 4.42% on April 24. On April 12, of the 1,996 patients detected, 148 had succumbed to the infection. Until Friday night, Maharashtra recorded 6,817 cases with 301 deaths.Mumbai’s mortality rate has fallen too. On April 12, it was 7.09% (92 deaths and 1298 positives). This came down to 4% on April 24 (178 deaths and 4447 positives).“Identification and quarantining of high-risk contacts has been helpful in keeping Mumbai’s numbers realistic. We will see high figures, but there is no reason to panic because these are expected results of the intensive contact tracing and isolation programme in Maharashtra,” a state government health official said. “Besides, we are aggressively testing a large number of high-risk contacts.”As of April 23, Maharashtra had conducted 96,369 tests, of which 55,000 (or 57.07%) were in Mumbai alone, according to Praveen Pardeshi, Mumbai’s municipal commissioner. Maharashtra has recorded 89,561 negative samples. The remainder are repeat tests. On April 24, the number of tests in Maharashtra went up to 102,189, but Mumbai’s numbers were not immediately available.According to data available with states on per million tests till April 22, Andhra Pradesh leads Indian states with 830 tests per million (41,512 total tests till that day), followed by Tamil Nadu (781 per million, 53,045 total tests) and Maharashtra (665 tests per million). Gujarat is on the fourth spot with 604 tests per million (36,829 total tests).As of April 23, 11pm, the number of home-quarantined people in the state touched 114,398, while 8,702 were in institutional quarantine, according to data provided by the state health department. Data released by BMC on April 24 suggests that in Mumbai, a total of 98,000 people are in government-enforced quarantine — 92,000 at home (in containment zones and hot spots) and 6,000 in institutional quarantine facilities (hospital isolation wards, stadiums, sports complexes and hotels).Pardeshi said: “A significant proportion of Mumbai’s cases are of people that have already been quarantined and those that are under observation. The ones that are testing positive, BMC had already anticipated in some measure that they may have the virus.”“On any given day, between 70-80% of the city’s active cases are asymptomatic,” BMC deputy health officer Shah said on Thursday night, soon after the city’s highest one-day jump was announced.Pardeshi added: “It is a good thing that so many positive patients are asymptomatic, because they don’t easily spread the disease. They don’t cough or sneeze, and transmit it to someone else. In fact, these patients are adding to our collective immunity. It is the symptomatic ones we have to pay attention to. Not only because they spread it, but because they need medical attention, we need to treat their symptoms before they aget worse and change into more complex conditions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/why-mumbai-is-recording-most-number-of-cases/story-yU4Y2zvxyHYZHPxxsdhwSO.html
25-04-2020||Mumbai||Counselling of migrant labourers showing positive results: Maharashtra health minister||So far the Maharashtra health department has counselled 47,000 migrant labourers at relief camps. Around 5.5 lakh migrant labourers have been housed at 944 relief camps across the state.Every district has two to three teams of counsellors, mental health experts, and nurses who go to these relief camps and tell the migrants about Covid-19 safety measures. There are 30 counsellors, 28 mental health experts, and 36 nurses who have been entrusted with the task. Health minister Rajesh Tope, in a statement, said that the counsellors have helped the migrants understand the current situation and that it is showing results.The state government had earlier said that it was getting difficult to manage the migrants as at times they grew aggressive. The authorities feared that it would lead to a law and order situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/counselling-of-migrant-labourers-showing-positive-results-maharashtra-health-minister/story-oJ3yrMHfw9YiYvc9qoIRAL.html
25-04-2020||City||PG counselling at BFUHS: Aspirants flag issues with online counselling||Aspiring students of postgraduate courses at Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS), Faridkot, have written a letter to varsity registrar Dr GC Ahir, claiming that there were issues with the online counselling being carried out this time. The counselling started on Friday and students are supposed to submit their choice of specialty till April 26. “There are issues in filing choices on the online portal and the process must be reviewed,” the letter says, adding that seats were not categorised separately as Institutional Preference (IP) or management, while filing choices.“Minority seats are not categorised separately, while filing choice on the portal. There is no seat of pulmonary medicine for general category in government medical college at Amritsar, but this is being reflected in the menu for filling the choice,” the letter specifically states. “There is no criteria on allotment of the EWS or SC or BC quota seats to that of IP seats,” the candidates have claimed. They explained this by saying that if a person from these categories was to take a MD (radiology) seat, government medical college through the institutional preference, there are no guidelines on whether the candidate will be allotted a seat in general category or through his/her respective category. They also claimed that there was no information on upgrade or free exit pertaining to the first round of online counselling.BFUHS vice-chancellor Dr Raj Bahadur said, “The first round of online counselling for postgraduate courses is under process as per guidelines issued by the department of medical education. The university will look into valid issues that the candidates are raising. The All- India counselling was conducted following a similar pattern. No issues were raised at the time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pg-counselling-at-bfuhs-aspirants-flag-issues-with-online-counselling/story-4feB6jm3bymTtu7kq2HjmL.html
25-04-2020||Mumbai||Maha coronavirus case tally goes up to 6,817; death toll 301||After 32 days of the lockdown imposed to arrest the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), Maharashtra’s case count reached 6,817 with the addition of 394 infections on Friday. The state’s toll went up to 301 with 18 deaths registered on FridayThe lockdown was imposed in the state on the midnight of March 23 and was lifted partially after 27 days on Monday (April 20). The relaxation was revoked the next day, owing to multiple violations of norms.Friday was also the 21st consecutive day the state saw a three-digit spike in fresh cases. This is the reason most of the cases — 6,519 — were registered in April alone.Of the new cases, 5,279 are in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). In Mumbai, the tally went up to 4,447 as 242 new cases were registered. After the first case on March 9, Maharashtra took 30 days to cross 1,000 cases on April 7, and crossed the 2,000 mark in six days on April 13. From 2,000 to 4,000 cases, it took six days. But from 4,000 to 6,000 cases, it took only four days.Although the numbers are high, senior officials said the state is yet to reach community transmission stage — when the source of the infection is not known — as there is no exponential growth in Covid-19 cases. “The two 14-day cycles of incubation period of infection are completed on April 20. It had begun from March 22, when international traffic was stopped. We will have to wait for another seven days to see the trend. If the rise continues and if the number of fresh cases are rising by more than 50% (over the previous day) on a daily basis, then it can be called as exponential growth and only then we can say that the stage of community transmission has arrived,” said Dr TP Lahane, director, Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER). He clarified that exponential growth is also of two types: one is 50% rise in daily cases and another is doubling of cases —100% rise in daily cases. “If exponential growth continues, then the state government will also have to extend the lockdown period for another three weeks till May 24 to break the incubation cycle,” Dr Lahane said.. Of them, 11 are in Mumbai, five in Pune and two in Malegaon. The total number of casualties in Mumbai increased to 178.Of the 18 deaths, 12 patients had co-morbidity conditions, said health officials.The mortality rate of the state has significantly dropped to 4.40% (283 cases till Thursday) from 7.41% (148 cases) since last Monday (April 13). However, it continued to be higher than the national mortality rate of 3.11% till Thursday, stated the data of the state medical education department.As the cases are rising, the pandemic is also spreading to more areas of the state. One more district — Nanded — was hit by the virus after one case was found on April 22. With this, only three districts — Wardha, Bhandara, Gadchiroli — are reported to have no cases.The state health department has conducted 1,02,189 tests at various public and private facilities. Of them, 94,485 people tested negative. State currently has 512 active containment zones. Around 7,702 survey teams, comprising doctors and assisting staff, have screened more than 28.88 lakh people. Around 957 patients have been discharged from hospitals after their recovery from infection.It has also kept 8,814 suspected patients at government quarantine facilities, while 1,19,161 are home quarantined, stated health officials.The Maharashtra government is also ready to start clinical trials of plasma therapy in the coming days as Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has given the much awaited permission. In the beginning, it will be started at Sassoon Hospital in Pune as permissions for other three hospitals in Mumbai, Nagpur and Solapur are still awaited. The state has also got permission for pool testing for Covid-19.State health minister Rajesh Tope on Friday said that Maharashtra has got the nod from the Centre to start pool testing and convalescent plasma therapy. Tope announced it after a meeting with Union health minister Harsh Vardhan. The state would now commence pooled tests, where up to five samples are used in a single test. So far, one sample is being tested at a time.Once clinical trials are successful, the state can start plasma therapy as treatment for Covid-19 patients. “We have received permission from the Centre for conducting clinical trials of plasma therapy in the state. Once cleared by the ethics committee of the state, it is going to be started in the next 3-4 days at Sassoon Hospital, Pune. It will also be started at JJ Hospital in Mumbai, Indira Gandhi Medical College in Nagpur and Solapur Medical College in Solapur once permissions are in place,” said Dr Tatyarao Lahane, director, Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER).The plasma therapy uses antibodies from the plasma of a recovered Covid-19 patient to treat those patients who are affected. The concept behind the therapy is that the plasma of a patient recovered from Covid-19 contains antibodies with the specific ability to fight the coronavirus. These antibodies will then target and fight the virus in the body of the infected person.Maharashtra holds the top spot in the country with the number of coronavirus tests conducted. With pool testing, the state will get a boost in figures. State health department officials said that with the new form of testing, the state’s capacity would increase 10 times. The pool testing could help with the clusters or hotspots faster, officials added. The testing method involves putting multiple swab samples together and testing them in a single real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test. If a batch tests positive, then everyone whose samples were a part of that batch would have to be tested separately. Conversely, if a batch tests negative, then all the samples are negative.Tope said that the state has also suggested use of portable pulse oximeter and chest X-ray test to help diagnose coronavirus patients and to subsequently decrease the mortality rate. A statement from the state health department said that it was suggested that the PPE kits should be disinfected and used again; this suggestion was appreciated in the meeting by the Union health minister and health ministers of all the states. The minister also said that the Centre is positive about allowing new testing facilities at six medical colleges in Maharashtra.So far, the state government has also done counselling of over 47,000 migrant workers that wants to go back to their native villages. This is being done with the help of psychiatrists and health staff, said the health minister. More than 6 lakh migrant workers are staying in over 944 shelter homes prepared by the state government.(With inputs from Swapnil Rawal)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-coronavirus-case-tally-goes-up-to-6-817-death-toll-301/story-8TFoCr8MfMGvuZzCvAwMlI.html
25-04-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra fisheries department bans sale of fish at roadside markets||The Maharashtra fisheries department has issued restrictions on the fishing trade, including a ban on retail sale at roadside markets, even as restrictions are being slowly lifted. Earlier this week, the department published a 43-point standard operating procedure (SOP) to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic.Among major directions, wholesalers can sell their catch while maintaining social distancing norms but retail fish sale by vendors across markets has been banned until further notice, to avoid crowds.“Safety of citizens is of utmost importance. The decision is mainly focused on fishers who set up stalls at sections of the market, landing sites or main roads, to avoid overcrowding and chances of community transmission,” said Rajendra Jadhav, joint commissioner, state fisheries department. “It comes as a difficult decision as lots of fisherwomen are employed in such activities across the Konkan but we were left with no option following overcrowding incidents being brought to our notice by the police,” he said.Fishermen have opposed the restrictions. “Fisherwomen across 350 such sites in the Mumbai region will be directly affected due to this decision. No such decision has been taken for vendors selling agricultural produce. We demand that the fisheries department withdraws this SOP,” said Damodar Tandel, president of a fishing group in Mumbai.While the department has banned retail fish vendors, it has approved door-to-door supply of fish while maintaining social distancing norms.Other restrictions include medical screening of fishing boat staff and monitoring of boat movements. A committee, chaired by the district collector with fisheries department members, will issue permits based on valid identity proof, health documents, and information of family members, submitted through the Aarogya Setu mobile app. “This is being done across 91 fish landing sites and three major harbors [two in Mumbai and one in Ratnagiri] functioning currently,” said Jadhav. “A proposal for mandatory thermal testing is in its final stage of approval from the state, and will also commence soon.”Other rules include ‘social distancing during fishing at sea’. “Not more than three people as crew will be allowed for smaller boats or vessels. If any crew member has reported sick or developed any flu-like symptoms, fishing activities need to abandoned and the boat will return to the jetty immediately,” said Jadhav, adding that the fish caught should not be consumed or touched. The catch will be disposed of as per bio-medical waste disposal norms after ‘arrival at landing centres’.“If any crew member tests positive, the entire crew will undergo mandatory isolation for a minimum of 14 days,” said Jadhav. “Overall sanitation, disinfection of boats, wearing masks and gloves under all four scenarios is mandatory,” he said.According to the National Purse Seine Fishermen Welfare Association (NPSFWA), Maharashtra fishers have incurred losses over ₹800 crore over a month and had dumped 15,000 tonnes of fresh catch into the sea during the first two weeks of the lockdown. “The present guidelines are confusing and developed haphazardly. The state needs to first support the market by designing a supply-chain of how fish will be sold before drafting guidelines for fishing. By banning retail vendors, a source of income has been destroyed,” said Ganesh Nakhawa, chairman, NPSFWA, who is developing a supply-chain model for door-to-door delivery for vendors.The Centre has also announced that there will be no relaxation for the annual fishing ban along the west coast from June 1 to July 31 – during the breeding season – for the conservation of fisheries resources.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-fisheries-department-bans-sale-of-fish-at-roadside-markets/story-AbMNsuBhu9KIwM4yK7yyVL.html
25-04-2020||Mumbai||Psychiatrists, NGOs in Mumbai flooded with calls from addicts during coronavirus lockdown||City psychiatrists say they are flooded with calls from people with addictions who are suffering from withdrawal symptoms. With the lockdown cutting off people’s access to a wide variety of products, including addictive substances like alcohol, cigarettes, drugs and chewing tobacco, addicts are reporting a range of symptoms including headache, anxiety, stomach cramps, hallucinations, insomnia and others.According to experts, in severe addicts, withdrawal symptoms manifest after 24 to 72 hours of not being able to consume the addictive substance. Some police stations have reported alcoholics calling them, begging for alcohol. Most of these callers belonged to the 50 years-and-above age group, said a deputy commissioner of police, requesting anonymity. Psychiatrists say that in most cases, they have been contacted by the addicts themselves and many patients have been admitted to civic-run and private facilities.Dr Ajita Nayak, head of the psychiatry department and the de-addiction centre at KEM Hospital, said, “Every day we receive at least two calls from people experiencing withdrawal symptoms. Most calls are from people dependent on alcohol and experiencing sleeplessness, tremors, hallucinations among other symptoms. We administer anti-withdrawal, anti-craving medication, among others medicines to stabilise them.”Dr Nilesh Shah, head of the psychiatry department at Sion Hospital, said, “We have admitted five to six alcoholics who had serious withdrawal symptoms and treated them.”Psychiatrist Yusuf Matcheswala said that over 100 addicts have called him to complain of withdrawal symptoms. “Most were alcohol addicts while the other were related to drugs and tobacco,” said Matcheswala. Psychiatrist Dr Sagar Mundada said he had received around 20 calls related to addiction. “The problem is that addicts approach doctors with an intention to fix their withdrawal symptoms, and not with an aim to quit addiction,” said Dr Mundada.Varsha Vilas, general secretary of Maharashtra De-addiction Council, said, “From the conversations with individuals who have contacted us, I fear that these people would go a step ahead in terms of consuming more alcohol once the lockdown is lifted.”HelplineThe HITGUJ helpline, 022-24131212, is a 24-hour, telephonic counselling service run by the Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai. The helpline comes under the department of psychiatry at KEM Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/psychiatrists-ngos-in-mumbai-flooded-with-calls-from-addicts-during-coronavirus-lockdown/story-8HpgGvUCrWQqNLqKh5VNiK.html
25-04-2020||City||500 recovered Covid-19 patients to be discharged today in Mumbai||More than 500 Covid-19 patients from different Covid care centres in the city, who tested negative in two consecutive swab tests, will be discharged on Saturday. This is the first time that such a large number of recovered patients will be discharged on the same day. On Friday, 122 cured patients were discharged in Mumbai. So far, 595 recovered patients have been discharged since January 25. All these symptomatic and asymptomatic patients were sent to isolation facilities in Covid care centres, health care and dedicated hospitals. Most of them were asymptomatic and were detected through contact tracing at containment zones. “As they were isolated around the same time with a difference of one or two days, they have completed their incubation period together. As their swab tests have come negative, we have decided to discharge them by Saturday,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner (health), Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).The BMC on April 12 changed its testing policy, focusing mainly on symptomatic patients, instead of asymptomatic ones, which was widely criticised by health experts who demanded more tests on asymptomatic patients who could be spreading the infection. The civic body has observed that more than 70% of the asymptomatic patients are turning negative in their two consecutive swab tests without developing any symptoms during their incubation period. “We have observed that many asymptomatic patients are living normally in isolation wards without developing any symptoms. As they don’t cough or sneeze, the chance of the spread of infection among asymptomatic patients is less,” said Kakani.The World Health Organization (WHO) stated that to date there has been no documented asymptomatic transmission. Indirectly, asymptomatic patients could be leading to development of community immunity or herd immunity, said experts. This happens when the spread of the infection stops naturally due to the development of antibodies among 80% of the population, after getting infected with the virus or by vaccination. “Firstly, asymptomatic patients are safer than symptomatic patients. Secondly, once their immune system develops antibodies, the virus can’t infect them again. So, without even infecting people, they are turning into a shield in the fight against the spread of the virus,” said Dr Om Srivastava, an epidemiologist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/500-recovered-covid-19-patients-to-be-discharged-today-in-mumbai/story-I1pTi1AuGd3wBzM70OC0AJ.html
25-04-2020||City||Headshoulder attack on ASI: HC puts Punjab on notice on plea from wife of Nihang||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday put the Punjab government on notice on a plea from Balwinder Kaur, wife of Nihang Balwinder Singh, the main accused in the attack on a Patiala assistant sub-inspector (ASI), seeking entry into Dera Khichri Sahib. Kaur had pleaded that she be permitted to enter the dera and perform sewa and to look after the livestock. Another appeal she had made was about threat to her life or her implication in a false case, which was withdrawn during the hearing. The HC bench of justice Suvir Sehgal has sought response from the government by May 12.On April 12, the ASI’s hand was chopped off and six other police officials were injured when a group of people attacked them in Patiala during the curfew. Balwinder was arrested from the dera after a commando operation.During the hearing, the Punjab government told the court that it had formed a committee of local panchayat members to take care of the gurdwara, which was taken over from the Nihang. A granthi had been appointed and the Parkash Ceremony and the Path were being performed with full ‘Maryada’, the court was told, adding that the livestock had been sent to a gaushala/stable and was being taken care of.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/headshoulder-attack-on-asi-hc-puts-punjab-on-notice-on-plea-from-wife-of-nihang/story-a0UlNkJi5g6SUL5y52ZlqL.html
25-04-2020||City||Close shave for 50 as LPG cylinder catches fire in Nanak Nagar||Around 50 labourers, residing a double-storey building in Nanak Nagar near Karabara Chowk, had a close shave after a liquid petroleum gas (LPG) cylinder exploded in one of the quarters on Friday. The owner of the building, Ramesh Kumar, 57, who had reached the spot on receiving information, died of probable cardiac arrest later in the evening.As per information, the cylinder caught fire while a family was cooking food in one of the quarters. On hearing their cries for help, the other labourers helped them and informed the fire brigade. Two fire tenders were immediately rushed to the spot. A major tragedy was averted as the firefighters pulled 14 more gas cylinders out of the other quarters of the structure. A family member, Shivani, said, “We changed the gas cylinder and when we ignited the gas stove, the cylinder caught fire due to leakage in the pipe. I raised alarm following which the labourers, residing in other rooms, came there and managed to rescue my mother and younger sister.”Sukhraj Singh, who informed the fire brigade, said around 50 labourers were present inside the eight rooms of the double-storey building when the fire broke out.Fire station officer (FSO) SN Sharma said, “We received an alert at 5:35 pm and two fire tenders were rushed to the spot. No casualty was reported from the spot.” The firefighters doused the flames in an hour, added the FSO. In April 2018, an LPG cylinder had exploded in a house in Samrat Colony of Giaspura and 34 people were injured, 14 of whom died later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/close-shave-for-50-as-lpg-cylinder-catches-fire-in-nanak-nagar/story-WaaK9ngibpEe3mYSxUGUNL.html
25-04-2020||City||SGPC forms sub-committee to probe honour to Umranangal||A day after transferring two Golden Temple managers for felicitating suspended Punjab Police IG Paramraj Singh Umranangal, the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) has formed a sub-committee to inquire into the matter. The committee comprises SGPC senior vice-president Rajinder Singh Mehta, executive member Amarjit Singh Bhalaipur, member Mohan Singh Bandi and assistant secretary (flying) Sakattar Singh, as per the inquiry order, a copy of which is with HT. “The act has hurt the sentiments of sangat (community),” reads the order.Umranangal, an accused in the 2015 Kotkapura police firing case at anti-sacrilege Sikh protesters, was honoured during his visit to the Golden Temple on April 19. Additional manager Gura Singh and langar (community kitchen) manager Manjinder Singh Mand have been transferred for their role in the felicitation. SGPC member Bhagwant Singh Sialka, who felicitated the cop along with the SGPC staffers, had tendered a written apology to the Akal Takht on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sgpc-forms-sub-committee-to-probe-honour-to-umranangal/story-e89MbwugQUU4cStOcXTKdM.html
25-04-2020||Noida||28-year-old Covid-19 patient surrenders at the Delhi-Noida border||A 28-year-old man was admitted to Sharda Hospital in Greater Noida for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) treatment after he surrendered to the police, who stopped him at the Delhi-Noida border. The man had earlier got himself checked at a private hospital in Delhi’s Patparganj area.According to the officials, the man works as a driver at the Patparganj hospital, where he was tested positive for the infection. He had informed the nodal officer at the Sharda Hospital that he was tested after he sneezed in the vehicle while dropping a member of the hospital staff.He was informed that he is COVID-19 positive by the private hospital on Saturday morning. The man then left from the hospital in a car and was entering Noida, when he was stopped by the police. He informed the police that he is a Covid-19 positive patient and showed his report.“The surveillance team had informed about the man but we didn’t have to do anything as he himself stopped and told us that he is Covid-19 positive. We had his vehicle number but he knew that there was police presence. So he came to us willingly. He was stopped at around 4pm on Friday. We don’t know where he was coming from and when he received his reports. He showed us his reports, after which an ambulance was called to take him to Sharda Hospital,” said Arun Singh, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), Gautam Buddh Nagar.The hospital has started the treatment of the man. “The patient has told us that he wanted to get himself treated in Gautam Buddh Nagar. He is a native of Bhadau, Uttar Pradesh and lives in Sector 45 of Noida. He works as a driver at the Patparganj hospital, where he picks up and drops off hospital staff. The hospital authorities gave him his reports on Saturday morning,” said Dr Abhishek Tripathi, nodal officer from the district health department at Sharda Hospital.“We have started his treatment and he is fully cooperating. We don’t know what happened at the border. We do not know why the Delhi hospital allowed him to leave without following the protocol,” added Tripathi.Officials said that the man has reported the names of a few people, who had come in direct contact with him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/28-year-old-covid-19-patient-surrenders-at-the-delhi-noida-border/story-EVAc3kXL6QnxoPQXSRy5FP.html
25-04-2020||Chandigarh||Struggling for survival, trans community dips into savings to feed others too||Sarita (name changed), a 23-year-old trans woman, was left with Rs 2,000 when the city was locked down to prevent the spread of Covid-19 in the city on March 23.Within a few days, her savings depleted, she was forced to move in with other members of her community.“I was starving, people from my community rescued me and I started living in their dera (camp),” she says.Like Sarita, city’s other trans-people have been rendered homeless and jobless due to the lockdown.But even though no one has reached out to them, the trans people have started pooling in their resources not for survival but to help other underprivileged people too.Last week, Kajal Mangalmukhi of Chandigarh, donated 110 packets of food to the needy which cost her ₹50,000, while Sonakshi Mahant of the Kinnar Samaj donated Rs 21,000 and ration to the Sector 8 Shiv Mandir.Rupali (name changed) says, “Before lockdown, most of us would earn Rs 500 to Rs 1,200 per day by attending auspicious ceremonies. Some of us were also into prostitution. Nowadays, no customer comes to us.”Due to curfew, all marriages and other celebrations have been put on hold, leaving the trans community without any means of earning a livelihood.Kajal Magalmukhi says, “In absence of money, we are unable to buy food. I had some savings and I donated most of them. Whatever was left, I gave to the poor in villages.”The Mangalmukhi Dera has helped over 50 trans people get an allowance of Rs 1,500 each through the National Institute of Social Defence to sustain.“Kajal guru gave us a link to fill in our details, including bank account number and IFSC code. After that, the money was transferred to us. I hope they transfer this money for the next two-three months too so that we can survive,” says a dera memberFour trans-people based in Chandigarh, Rachna, Grace, Bittu and Meera, wrote to the Union ministry of social justice seeking financial assistance and support for their community.Chandigarh has a population of over 2,000 trans-people and many also live in the satellite cities of Mohali and Panchkula.Yashpal Garg, secretary of social welfare department, Chandigarh administration, says, “There are no specific provisions for trans-people. They are being helped whenever they are in need.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/struggling-for-survival-trans-community-dips-into-savings-to-feed-others-too/story-E3JLvwyjz3MFhJAUbIn2hM.html
25-04-2020||Delhi||Three more sanitation workers in Delhi test Covid +ve; total count at six||Three more municipal sanitation workers tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday, taking the total number of such infected workers to six. One of them has died. A 55-year-old sanitation worker with the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC), who lives in DDA flats East of Kailash and cleaned roads and picked up garbage in Bhogal, was admitted at AIIMS in a serious condition.“My uncle is on ventilator support at AIIMS Trauma Centre. He is just five years short of retirement age and has liver-related problems. The corporation, considering his age, should have allowed him to stay at home. He should not have been summoned to work. He has a wife and three children to look after. If something happens to him, will the south municipality bear the financial burden of the family,” asked the nephew of the 55-year-old man.Another sanitation worker with the south civic body, a 45-year-old woman, was admitted to Lok Nayak Hospital after testing positive for the virus. SDMC spokesman, Radha Krishan said, “Her husband, also a sanitation worker with us in the same ward of Tagore garden, tested negative for the virus on Thursday. However, after she tetsed positive, he has been called in for a test again. Their nine co-workers have been asked to go in home-quarantine. The man is a resident of Mangolpuri.”Meanwhile, a sanitation inspector with the North Delhi Municipal Corporation, who is also 55-year-old but doesn’t have any known pre-existing medical condition, has also tested Covid-19 positive. Around 40 people, who worked under him, were sent on home quarantine on Friday.“On April 16 he developed a fever and cough and we immediately advised him to go on leave,” said one of his co-workers over the phone. They all worked in Rohini Sector 16 and 17 areas. Both the municipal bodies said that the patients were not engaged in any disinfection or garbage collection activities in containment zones. “We are still trying to ascertain how he got the virus,” north body commissioner, Varsha Joshi, said.However, leaders of safai karmchari unions said that the corporations are risking their lives. Delhi Safai Karamchari Association president, Sanjay Gahlot, said, “It is shocking that we are still being made to mark our attendance physically with a pen on a register or by thumb impression. Imagine if one person has the virus, he will end up infecting everyone who signs that register.”The north body commissioner, Joshi, said, “It’s a Standard Operating Procedure (SOP), we have asked all of them to wash their hands with soap before and after signing the register.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/three-more-sanitation-workers-test-covid-ve-total-count-six/story-MXfJCvCrx1my15e3Pm2xQO.html
25-04-2020||Delhi||Covid-infected Mehrauli vegetable vendor didn’t get space in shifted market, ‘got lucky’, distt admin says||The south Delhi district administration may have averted a Covid-19 outbreak in Mehrauli by ordering the neighbourhood vegetable market be shifted to a DTC bus terminal in the area on April 11.It turns out that a vegetable vendor from Mehrauli, who on Thursday tested positive for Covid-19, did not come in contact with many people because he failed to get a designated vending space in the relocated market. The market had been ordered to shift to allow social distancing, which would not have been possible in the original space.As many as 2,514 have contracted the contagious disease in the national capital. It has claimed 53 lives, while 857 have recovered. As on Friday, Delhi’s south district alone had at least 106 Covid-19 cases and 13 containment zones.“The infected person was a regular vendor at the main Mehrauli market. But he was among 100-odd vendors who did not get space at the bus terminal because we could accommodate just over 50 traders there due to social distancing norms. So, they went to their homes and sold goods only occasionally, by going from block to block,” said Aarti Singh, Mehrauli councillor. The vegetable vendor lives in Mehrauli’s ward number 3. Officials said all the residents of the area are being thermally screened, and those who display symptoms will be tested. However, as of Friday evening, officials said nobody screened needed a test.The area’s sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Sonalika Jiwani, who had issued the order to shift the wholesale vegetable market from the main Mehrauli market, corroborated Singh’s statement.“The patient’s son told us this. He also told us how his father started developing symptoms last week and mostly stayed indoors since then. So, the number of people he came in touch with are limited so far. Now that we think of it, the decision to shift the market was taken just in time. If he had gotten a space at the terminal, then the spread would have been massive. We got lucky,” Jiwani said. Originally, the wholesale vegetable market used to operate from a small, tightly-packed area. Under the temporary arrangement at the bus terminal, vendors have been 10 square-feet stalls, each space two metres apart.“To ensure people in the market are not infected by the virus, and to prevent its spread, each person who enters is thermally scanned and asked to sanitise their hands. We have also made only one entry and one exit point to ensure strict compliance to these norms,” she said. While the vendor is undergoing treatment in a hospital, his wife and children have been quarantined, and their tests results are awaited. District magistrate (south), BM Mishra said the administration is considering this as an “isolation case” as of now because they have been unable to trace the source of his infection.District officials on Friday started intensive door-to-door screening of people living in and around the main Mehrauli market. “Since contact tracing in this particular case is extremely limited, we are conducting thermal screening in every household in the area. As on Friday, areas in the main market and Ward Number 3 of Mehrauli, which was also the place of residence of the infected vendor, were covered. More will be covered over the weekend,” said Mishra. District official and civil defence volunteers were seen patrolling neighbourhoods and making announcements on loudspeakers to alert residents of the situation, and reminding them to remain indoors.“We are urging people to report to us or call the Covid-19 helpline if anyone shows symptoms or feels he/she could have come in contact with the vendor or any other infected person,” Mishra said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-infected-mehrauli-vegetable-vendor-didn-t-get-space-in-shifted-market-got-lucky-distt-admin-says/story-aCr8ZRzxgFdKH0hFe5LYMM.html
25-04-2020||Chandigarh||High court disposes of PIL seeking FIR against Lovely Professional University||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday disposed of a public interest litigation (PIL) seeking FIR against Lovely Professional University, Phagwara, for alleged violation of government orders with regard to Covid-19 outbreak and curfew.The high court bench of chief justices RS Jha and Arun Palli passed the order as judges were satisfied with the Punjab government’s response that 162 students have been tested, and found negative and preventive measures have been taken after a student was found Covid-19 positive on April 10.All the students and faculty members have been screened for Covid-19, state’s advocate general Atul Nanda told the court and further stated that a show-cause notice has been issued to the varsity.Nanda was responding to a public interest litigation by one Sahil Kumar, son of former union minister Vijay Sampla, who had filed a public interest litigation (PIL) seeking action against the varsity, alleging that despite the lockdown and curfew, LPU kept 3,000 students on campus without following norms of the social distancing.The PIL had demanded that an FIR be registered against the varsity officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/won-t-hesitate-in-taking-action-against-lpu-punjab-govt-to-hc/story-YF1Y5rYRWmD1DQ4nh9bA9L.html
25-04-2020||Noida||UP-Rera to rank builders, housing projects, invites suggestions from developers on grading system||The Uttar Pradesh Real Estate Regulatory Authority (UP-Rera) has invited suggestions from developers for a draft of the framework developed by the authority to rank builders and housing projects. UP-Rera said the annual rankings would help homebuyers and investors make an informed choice.The regulatory authority in November 2018 had decided to rank builders and housing projects for the first time. However, until now the authority could not execute the plan as, officials said, it took time to finalise the framework draft and other modalities.Taking things forwards, the authority on April 23 put a copy of the framework’s draft on its portal— www.up-rera.in for interested stakeholders, including homebuyers, to go through the same and make suggestions. The authority said all suggestions can be made on the portal by May 13, 2020. UP-Rera also plans to hold an interaction with the developers on the framework that will most likely be held on Monday via video conferencing.The framework to rank builders and projects was prepared after consultations with the Noida, Greater Noida authorities, Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida), and other authorities in the national capital region. There are at least 600 under-construction realty projects in Noida, Greater Noida, and along the Yamuna Expressway. Officials said ranking housing projects will help the buyers immensely.“The rankings will primarily help buyers to make a rational choice before buying any property. We will be the first in the county to have such a ranking system,” said Balvinder Kumar member, UP-Rera.The regulatory authority will rank developers and housing projects on the basis of organizational structure, certifications, track record, adherence to rules and regulations, and feedback from old customers. The authority will also evaluate the promoter’s track record in executing projects as per schedules and will analyse the organizational, legal, and financial risks associated with housing projects, said officials.The projects registered with UP-Rera will be given grades from 1 to 5. The promoters will have to submit details of their housing projects on the authority’s portal. Subsequently, the regulator will evaluate the projects and publish the grades on the portal for feedback before finalising the grads. All projects would be ranked annually.“By grading projects and promoters, homebuyers will have more a transparent system to access developers. Buyer can take quick decisions while buying properties, and we hope that demand will increase because buyers will have more trust in the system,” said RK Arora president, Uttar Pradesh chapter of National Real Estate Development Council (NAREDCO) , a builders’ group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/up-rera-to-rank-builders-housing-projects-invites-suggestions-from-developers-on-grading-system/story-7yP40rPbqo0j53gV2kysjK.html
25-04-2020||Gurugram||Blood banks dry up in city as lockdown cuts down on donation camps, donors||Hridesh Khurana, 20, suffers from thalassemia and requires blood transfusion every two weeks. Since the lockdown on March 25, Hridesh has struggled to get blood.“We would usually go to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi,” said his father Mahesh Khurana. The family resides in Subhash Nagar. “The next transfusion in AIIMS was scheduled for March 30, which had to be postponed due to the lockdown. At that time, my son’s haemoglobin level (Hb) level was 8.30 grams/decilitre.”Thalassemia is a genetic disorder that causes low haemoglobin -- a protein that carries oxygen and gives blood its red colour -- level. The minimum required level is 9 grams/decilitre. On top of that, Hridesh also has the rare B+ blood group.“By April 10, this had dropped to 7.5 grams/decilitre. If it dropped to six, he would have gone into critical condition,” said Mahesh. With Gurugram blood banks facing shortage of blood in the absence of donors who could not donate in the wake of the lockdown, he had to struggle to arrange the three units of blood. A unit contains 300 to 350 millilitres of haemoglobin.“Blood banks told us they were running out of units. We visited other hospitals too that cited similar problems. At last, a hospital agreed to give two units in place of a donor giving an equal quantity. A relative donated two units of blood and we got the transfusion done at the Rotary blood bank,” said Khurana. He does not have a plan on what to do on April 25, the next transfusion date.“After the lockdown, more than 25 families who used to take their children to Delhi have approached us. Earlier we were providing free blood units to 45 patients,” said Dr. Mahavir Jain, project director, Rotary Thalassemic Care, Gurugram. “For any family to spend ₹8000-10,000 after every 15 days is not easy. Therefore, as per the government rule, patients who require regular blood transfusion have to be given blood free of cost. Lockdown and coronavirus scare among donors has added to the plight of these families.” Dr. Rahul Bhargava, director, Institute of blood disorder and Bone Marrow transplant, Fortis Medical Research Institute said, “Every month we need at least 100 units of blood for thalassemia patients but since lockdown we could manage to get 30-40 units through voluntary blood donation.” According to him, the reasons for the gap are two-fold: Most hospitals are not operating at full capacity and blood donors area hesitant to break lockdown curbs. “People are not coming for voluntary donation although the administration has allowed curfew passes. Donors are scared of visiting clinics or hospitals due to Covid-19,” he said.Dr. Neha Singh, a consultant paediatrician and hemato-oncologist at the Paras Hospital said that at the present levels, they are giving blood to those who need it the most such as critical patients -- a procedure called blood triaging. “An adult thalassemia patient requires three units of blood every 15-20 days. If it is not given then the patient may die of oxygen starvation followed by multi-organ failure. It is, therefore, crucial to address those patients whose Hb level are on constant decline,” she said.“The ideal hemoglobin level for a thalassemia patient is 9 but we are allowing it to drop till 7. When the level reaches 6, an emergency arises. In the current scenario we can address only those patients who can be prevented from going into critical health condition,” said Bhargava.To address the crisis that is now reported from across the country, Union minister of health and family welfare Harsh Vardhan on Tuesday said that he has written to all states to ensure adequate availability of blood in blood banks and in particular,for those suffering from blood disorders such as thalassemia, sickle sell anemia, and haemophilia, among others.In Gurugram, according to Dr. Jain, patients who need blood transfusion are either dependent upon Delhi-based government hospitals or private hospitals in the city. He said, “In December 2019, Rotary started providing free blood units to thalassemia patients. Since then we have been holding blood camps, providing consultations and free transfusion of thalassemia major or minor patients. We were also providing blood to private hospitals as per their requirement knowing the stipulated life span of blood packs.”They were able to suffice the need by organising blood camps before the lockdown. “Though the government and administration has allowed to hold these camps even today, it is difficult. People are scared, suspecting that they might get Covid-19. Today, we don’t have a single blood unit left,” said Dr Jain.Doctors said they have been facilitating ambulance service to bring donors to the blood bank for donation. Others have asked blood recipients like Khurana to bring donors along with them.Fortis also conducted blood camps in two condominiums to shore up their stock. “We could collect only 25 units of blood,” said Bhargava. “We followed all the parameters like checking the travel history of the donor and other health conditions. Still, didn’t get close to what we needed.” But he is hopeful. “As people adapt to the pandemic situation, we would see more people coming out for donation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/blood-banks-dry-up-in-city-as-lockdown-cuts-down-on-donation-camps-donors/story-ApzfZeA3M2vg0rDtqvTUGJ.html
25-04-2020||Noida||Gautam Budh Nagar administration appoints nodal NGO to monitor relief work||The district administration has roped in an NGO to monitor and facilitate all relief work currently underway in Gautam Budh Nagar to help people whose lives have been affected due to the nationwide lockdown, as well as to highlight issues being faced by the public.The administration has appointed FXB India Suraksha as the nodal NGO, which has begun working on managing the child helpline of the district.“We had requested for the appointment on April 16 in light of the Niti Ayog’s call for NGOs to actively participate to help the government in the ongoing crisis,” said Satya Prakash, programme manager.The Niti Ayog had earlier this month advised to designate a district-level nodal officer to coordinate with local NGOs who would maintain a list of all credible organisations. It had also suggested the appointment of a nodal or ‘mother’ NGO.Following this directive, the chief development officer (CDO) of Gautam Budh Nagar, in an order on April 22, appointed FXB Suraksha India as the nodal NGO for the district.“Their responsibility will include preparing an area-wise database of all NGOs, civil society groups, organisations or individuals working to provide help in the district and to identify the Covid-19-related problems of the people. They will also coordinate with the appointed organisations for specific services, bring them to the people and help them with specific issues,” said the order from the CDO office.The CDO also appointed the district probation officer as the additional nodal officer.“The NGO will form a complete database to coordinate all relief work taking place in the district, including that of the administration, the police department and social organisations. They will also come up with a mobile application for the same soon,” said CDO Anil Kumar Singh.The NGO has so far come up with a list of 25 social organisations engaged in relief work but the number will likely go up as more and more organisations are identified, said officials.“We will put up a link on the administration’s website where various organisations, residential bodies, youth groups and individuals alike can register. They can add their contributions there. Once all information is there, we can map it area-wise. That way, people will know whom to contact in a particular locality. The contribution of authorities, the administration and the police will also be monitored and facilitated,” said Prakash.He said that in addition to food or ration necessities, they will also monitor other issues that are highlighted, including landlord-tenant conflicts, domestic violence cases, chronic diseases, etc.“We will keep a holistic stock of the situation and with the help of all organisations engaged in relief work, we will prepare a database of the people who are in need of assistance. So far, we have details of 5,000 families but it’s a work in progress as we want to cover all urban and rural belts. We will also release a household questionnaire for impoverished families so that each and every person is accounted for,” said Prakash.The NGO is working with a third party IT firm to prepare a mobile application which they hope to roll out in the next few days. Officials believe the system will also help prevent duplicity in terms of help being provided.On Friday, another NGO, MAARG, provided 150 face masks, 25 PPE kits, 250 face masks, 100 gloves, eight tea/coffee vending machines, 16 kg coffee and tea premix each, and 3,000 disposable cups to the Noida police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-administration-appoints-nodal-ngo-to-monitor-relief-work/story-cpI4ypk2RuoMzcozy5ahrJ.html
25-04-2020||Mumbai||Hospital didn’t have bed, ambulance refused oxygen facility: Family’s ordeal after doctor succumbs to Covid-19||The family of a 36-year-old general physician from Shivaji Nagar who contracted Covid-19 struggled for 24 hours to get him admitted to a hospital. Many hospitals refused to admit him due to unavailability of beds or lack of treatment facilities for the novel coronavirus. Even ambulances refused to ferry the physician. After the ordeal, the doctor succumbed to his infection on Thursday night after undergoing treatment at Raheja Hospital. This is the second death of a doctor in the city due to Covid-19. This comes at a time when already over 250 medical staffers have contracted the virus through cross-transmission in hospitals. Unlike hundreds of other private practitioners, he didn’t close down his clinic and attended to his patients daily at Shivajinagar. But on April 14, he developed diarrhoea. He didn’t have any coronavirus symptoms like fever, cold or dry cough. He self-medicated but as his condition deteriorated, the family called the civic-run Kasturba Gandhi Hospital which refused to admit him due to lack of beds. They were on their way to Sir JJ hospital when the physician, in a semi-conscious state, asked to give him oxygen immediately. Soon, they diverted the ambulance and shifted him to Lokmanya Tilak Municipal General Hospital, Sion.“They admitted my brother but the hospital didn’t have any designated bed in the Intensive Care Unit for Covid-19 patients. Then we called Kohinoor Hospital which also didn’t have a Covid facility. Finally KJ Somaiya Hospital agreed to admit him,” said his 30-year-old brother, who is also a general physician. At Somaiya hospital, the physician was immediately admitted to a Covid-specific ICU. But soon, his creatinine level increased to 7 and needed immediate dialysis as his kidneys were getting affected. The hospital, however, didn’t have dialysis facility for coronavirus patients.Dr VA Sabnis, dean of KJ Somaiya hospital confirmed that the hospital doesn’t have dialysis facility for covid patients. He said, “I am not aware of this case.”It was around 11pm on April 15, when they were referred to Raheja Hospital. But even after waiting for six hours, they couldn’t find a cardiac ambulance to ferry the patient. “I called the 108 ambulance service which said that the driver will take 85 minutes to reach Sion from CST. Then with the help of other doctors, we managed to get a private ambulance for Rs 3,000 but it refused to give CPAP (an oxygen supplying procedure with air pressure),” said the brother. Ultimately, they had to take the patient in a general ambulance on normal oxygen support. Dr Dnyaneshwar Shelke, the chief operating officer of ‘MEMS- Dial 108’, said that he will inquire into the matter. “We have 30 ambulances for Covid-19 patients. I will have to inquire into the matter and see who was on duty on that night,” he said. They reached Raheja Hospital around 5.30 am on April 16. The hospital started his dialysis but he developed Acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) and succumbed. “He didn’t have any comorbid issues and wore safety kits sincerely while treating patients. I had asked him to close down the clinic but for the well being of his patients, he didn’t,” said his brother. “Despite coming from a doctor’s family, we had to struggle so much to get him admitted. I wonder about the condition of other patients,” he added.Dr Ramesh Bharmal, director of major hospitals (KEM, Sion, Nair and Cooper), said, “We are already working on formulating rules to avoid such harassment of patients. I am unaware of this incident and won’t be able to comment.” Sion hospital took two days to give his swab report to the family. It was only the second day of admission at Raheja Hospital, they received his report which confirmed he was Covid-19 positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hospital-didn-t-have-bed-ambulance-refused-oxygen-facility-ordeal-of-a-doctor-s-family-who-succumbed-to-covid-19/story-kDp3I3cyMp5qX034CAySGP.html
25-04-2020||City||Govt colleges in rural areas low on several parameters, says NAAC report||Gurugram: According to a National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) report that analysed government colleges in rural areas across state and central universities, colleges scored poorly on parameters such as physical infrastructure, e-learning, and alumni engagement. In addition, a majority of the government colleges in rural areas assessed did not maintain adequate physical infrastructure or academic support facilities, the report says.The report is based on NAAC data from 27 state universities, five central universities, 142 post-graduate colleges, 135 undergraduate colleges and 30 autonomous colleges. It identifies the number of rural government colleges with a score of less than 2.0 in the cumulative grade point average (CGPA) and suggests an action plan that could be used to improve the performance of these colleges.Going by the report, around 8% of the undergraduate colleges and 15% of postgraduate colleges scored less than 2.0 CGPA in the physical infrastructure category. Out of the colleges assessed, more than 98% of the undergraduate colleges and 84 % of postgraduate colleges scored less than 2.0 CGPA in terms of having a library as a learning resource. More than 47% of the undergraduate colleges and 50% of postgraduate colleges scored less than 2 CGPA in IT Infrastructure, while more than 24% of the undergraduate colleges and 26% of postgraduate colleges scored less than 2 CGPA in the maintenance of campus infrastructure.The report was prepared in February this year. After the lockdown is over, it will be shared with the internal quality assurance cells of colleges through state governments for review of performance, following which the varsities are expected to take steps for improvement, said SC Sharma, director of NAAC.The NAAC assesses and accredits higher education institutions (HEIs) in the country. In 2017, the NAAC had introduced the Revised Accreditation Framework that combines qualitative metrics (70%) and quantitative metrics (30%) as grading criteria.Sharma said that there had been a shift from qualitative peer judgment to data-based quantitative indicator evaluation with increased objectivity and transparency in the past two-three years. He added that the report outlines the NAAC’s findings of the loopholes that plague government colleges in rural areas.“The NAAC report is a diagnostic tool. For the first time, we have come up with recommendations for governmental colleges in rural areas. Multiple factors are associated with rural colleges not getting A+ or A++ ratings. It is possible that colleges are not well-trained in sharing the data they have with NAAC. We are conducting awareness programs through webinars and training them in information and communication technology (ICT),” said Sharma.According to the report’s recommendation, the number of teachers using ICT for effective teaching needs to be increased. Other recommendations mentioned in the report seek the introduction of certificate and diploma programme in colleges, along with courses in gender, environment and sustainability.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/govt-colleges-in-rural-areas-in-haryana-low-on-several-parameters-says-naac-report/story-ETZKoHVZsN0cGmVvKlHEjI.html
25-04-2020||Chandigarh||Faulty RTK comes under scanner, 3 positive patients found negative of Covid-19 in RT-PCR test||The authenticity and accuracy of the rapid testing kits (RTK) has yet again come under the scanner after three persons, who tested positive during the rapid test, were found negative of the coronavirus in the reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test.“Three persons, who were found positive during the rapid test on Tuesday, have tested negative in the RT-PCR test,” said civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga.After conducting 350 tests, the Ludhiana administration had suspended the much-hyped rapid testing kits project following the government directions on April 22.The Union government had recently ordered to stop the tests after efficacy of RTKs’ brought from China were showing variation in results in the tests conducted across the country.Confirming the development, Ludhiana deputy commissioner (DC) Pradeep Agrawal said the kits were procured from the health department in Chandigarh.Recently, as many as 1,000 RTKs had arrived in Ludhiana and the administration was using these to conduct tests at the sazbi mandi, which is currently being considered as the epicentre of the virus in the city.On Tuesday night, the health department in Ludhiana had gone in a tizzy after three persons tested positive during the rapid test, prompting the entire state heath machinery to swing into action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/faulty-rtk-comes-under-scanner-3-positive-patients-found-negative-of-covid-19-in-rt-pcr-test/story-Fz5O4TCTI6QMkDfDLllJKL.html
25-04-2020||Delhi||Delhi Zoo’s oldest tiger dies of renal failure, tests negative for Covid-19||A 14-year-old Royal Bengal tigress died in the Delhi zoo on Wednesday due to kidney failure and not due to the coronavirus Sars-CoV-2 that causes Covid-19, zoo officials said on Friday. Activists and experts, however, alleged lapses in testing and disposing of the carcass. Delhi Zoo officials said that Kalpana, who was the oldest tigress there, fell ill on Tuesday and had stopped eating. She was shifted to an isolation cage for examination, but she died on Wednesday at 6.30 pm. The autopsy report confirmed renal failure, said its director Suneesh Buxy.On April 5, a Malayan tiger had tested positive for the virus in New York’s Bronx Zoo. On April 22, the Wildlife Conservation Society (WCS) that runs the zoo reported that four more tigers and three lions had also tested positive. In that case, the animals are believed to have caught the disease from a zoo employee. One tiger was also asymptomatic, it had reported.India is home to 2,967 tigers, the most in the world. While zoos have been shut since the lockdown began, the New York incident prompted them to be on high alert.“The carcass was cremated on Thursday following directions to minimise human-animal interface,” a Delhi zoo official confirmed on Friday. “Initial findings revealed high creatinine, which indicates that the filtration rate of her kidneys was inadequate.” Officials said her samples were sent to Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI) in Bareilly to rule out any possibility of the coronavirus infection. “The central zoo authority (CZA) has taken a proactive step to check if there was a Covid-19 connection,” said Soumitro Dasgupta, inspector general of forests.By Friday evening, the results came back negative. “As such there were no symptoms or external conditions to suspect that her death is due to Covid-19. However, as per CZA advisory issued in this regard, samples had been collected after ensuring all bio-security measures and were sent to IVRI. Later, IVRI has confirmed that tigress Kalpana was negative for Covid-19,” read a government press release.Experts, however, suspect lapses. CZA data shows that the mortality rate of animals in the Delhi Zoo in the year 2018-19 was 15.21%, highest among all zoos in India.Dr. D N Singh, former member secretary of CZA and former director of the zoo, said that protocol was not followed after the death of the animal. He alleged that the carcass of the animal was disposed of without the supervision of a senior official, which is a violation of the Recognition of Zoo Rules, 2009. “Perhaps officers were scared of Covid-19 in view of infection reports in seven animals in the Bronx Zoo (in New York). That is why they did not go near the tigress when she was reported sick or even when the carcass was disposed of on April 23,” Singh said. Animal rights activist Sangeeta Dogra alleged that only blood samples of the animal were sent for testing. WCS said they had tested the faecal samples of the animals.“The body was disposed of in a hurry. The CZA has not sent Kalpana’s nasopharyngeal (connected to the nasal cavity) or oreopharyngeal (mouth and pharynx) swab samples that are required to test for Covid-19. They have eliminated the carcass to suppress facts of her death,” Dogra said. IVRI did not clarify details of the samples sent to them. Responding to the allegations, Delhi Zoo director Buxy said that all procedures were followed. “Senior vets were consulted over video conferencing and three vets were attending to her 24x7. The IVRI report clearly mentioned that the death was caused due to old age and renal failure. She was the oldest cat of the zoo,” Buxy said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-zoo-s-oldest-tiger-dies-of-renal-failure-tests-negative-for-covid-19/story-Qb0J3oOwKQSmmHXdZPWJRJ.html
25-04-2020||Delhi||233 from the containment zones test positive, Delhi govt data shows||Of 5,360 samples, collected from people with flu-like symptoms in Delhi’s 92 containment zones, 233 have tested positive, according to the data shared by the Delhi government. To understand the spread of the infection, the government had decided to conduct 20,000 RT-PCR tests in the community.“This is clearly community transmission. These people were not the contacts of positive cases but those with symptoms living in the area. Now, the government needs to determine the number of positive cases in the community — by randomly picking a representative sample including those without any symptoms. Containing the infection by quarantining those suspected to have it will not be enough and such a test will help in determining further actions,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung Hospital.On Friday, Delhi reported 138 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), taking the tally to 2,514. Of these, 857 people have recovered from the infection. Three more deaths were reported in the Capital, taking the total to 53.Four people with severe Covid-19 infection were administered plasma therapy as part of a trial in the Delhi government’s Lok Nayak Hospital. Two of them have shown recovery and are likely to be shifted out of the intensive care units.Of the 481 people still admitted to the hospitals, 29 are in ICUs, while nine continue to be on the ventilators. Another 880 persons with mild symptoms are admitted to the Covid Care Centres and 75 with moderate symptoms have been admitted to the two Covid-19 health centres.Three doctors of the Safdarjung Hospital also tested positive for the virus on Thursday, according to officials..One healthcare worker from Lok Nayak Hospital tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday, two days after a dietician from the hospital had tested positive, leading to the kitchens being closed. A nurse from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences tested positive for the infection, following which around 40 doctors, nurses and other staff of the gastroenterology department were asked to go into quarantine.At least 14 healthcare workers from Babu Jagjivan Ram Hospital have tested positive for the infection so far.Another doctor from Lady Hardinge Medical College tested positive, after 11 of the paediatric ICU of the hospital had tested positive for the infection. Two babies — a 45-day old and a 10-month-old — in the ICU had also tested positive. The ICU was shut for sanitisation.A doctor from Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital also tested positive after accidentally coming in contact with a positive patient. The resident doctors from the hospital asked the administration to put in place a protocol to ensure that accidental exposures do not take place.The government on Friday directed all hospitals to refer their Covid-19 positive patients in need of dialysis to Lok Nayak Hospital. A committee constituted by the government to look into the security protocol to protect doctors from violence also held a meeting for the first time. The government also ordered that medical facilities be provided at the shelter homes for screening of Covid-19. Guru Teg Bahadur hospital and Baba Saheb Ambedkar hospitals were directed to mobilise teams for Covid-19 Care Centres.Media persons negativeAll 160 media personnel whose samples were collected have tested negative for Covid-19. This was the first batch of media persons who were tested on April 22, after chief minister Arvind Kejriwal made the announcement of testing journalists. The next batch of media persons is likely to be tested on Sunday or Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/233-from-the-containment-zones-test-positive-delhi-govt-data-shows/story-Idtgloa9dhUsmjiWBTzh4J.html
25-04-2020||Delhi||Delhi comes to terms with lockdown as police, govt rush to residents’ aid||Since a national lockdown was imposed from March 25 to contain the spread of coronavirus (Covid-19), residents of Delhi have turned to the police, making over 28,000 calls to its helpline, for issues ranging from procuring essentials to traffic restrictions.As per the data, most of the calls — 18,299 of the 28,472 over the last 30 days — were to inquire about curfew passes and movement restrictions. Distress calls, reporting of hunger, non-availability of vegetables, and calls by elderly citizens, who said they were alone and helpless, constituted a majority of the rest.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThere were some unusual calls too, such as one from west Delhi, wherein the caller claimed to have found a cure for Covid-19. The caller, a man, said the disease could be cured by consuming pulp from a tree outside his house. In another call, a resident from north-east Delhi had reported that a nilgai (blue-bull) had entered a field behind his house in Uttar Pradesh and he needed a curfew pass to chase it away.The helpline — 011-23469526 — is run round-the-clock by a team of police personnel from the third floor of the Delhi Police headquarters. While the police received over 150 calls pertaining to hunger and non-availability of food items during the initial days of the lockdown, the number of such distress calls has reduced to around 10-15 over the last few days. On Thursday, police received only two hunger-related distress calls.Also read| Covid-19 lockdown: Finance panel calls for extra support to small businessesAfter the voluntary people’s curfew ended at 9pm on March 22, the Delhi Police imposed prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the CrPC, banning movement of more than five persons in the city. The borders were subsequently sealed and vehicular movement was suspended, barring those used in essential services.Delhi has been in lockdown since March 24, as chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had made an announcement for the capital a day before Prime Minister Narendra Modi ordered a nationwide lockdown from March 25.“Most calls to the helpline were related to passes and movement of vehicles. We get more than 500 such calls every day. The volume of such calls touched a high of 778 on April 14, which was the end of the 21-day lockdown. People called from across the city wanting to know if they would be allowed to drive after April 14. The calls again increased on April 20 (749), when other states called relaxed norms,” a police officer said.Also read| CMs’ wishlist: Interstate transport options, fundsBesides the police helpline, the Delhi government’s dedicated Covid-19 helplines — 22391014, 2301028, 22302441, 22307133, 22304568, 22307745, 22307135, 22307145, 22300012, 22300036 — also received similar calls, senior government officials said.“The 10 lines are receiving 900 calls on an average, every day. Some call to report cases, others do so to get themselves tested. We also get a large number of queries with regard​ to ration, shelters and cooked meals. In that case, we connect their calls to the lines concerned,” a senior government official said, on the condition of anonymity.While many states have relaxed norms by allowing industries, highway hotels and self-employed plumbers, electricians, and mechanics to resume work, the Delhi government has not given any relaxation because of the increase in the number of Covid-19 hot spots. Until Friday evening, Delhi had 90 containment zones, 2,514 positive cases, and 53 deaths.In the first week of the lockdown, the helpline received over 150 calls related to hunger or non-availability of food. The volume of such calls peaked on March 29 (188 calls), when migrant workers from across the city started walking to their homes in Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Rajasthan and Bihar. The workers were leaving the city after their factories shut. On the afternoon of March 29, the police stopped the migrant workers from leaving and took them to shelter homes across the city where food was provided by the Delhi government and the city police.Asif Mohd Ali, a deputy commissioner of police, who is managing the helpline, said, “Across the city, we have tied up with NGOs and Good Samaritans to feed the needy. The number of hunger calls is gradually decreasing. We will ensure that no one sleeps hungry in Delhi. The moment we get a distress call, we immediately assign it to the police station and the NGO concerned. So far, Delhi has delivered around six million food packets to the needy. We will continue this.”So far, the Delhi government has set up at 2,083 hunger relief centres across the city to provide free cooked lunch and dinner. Last week, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, in an address through a video call, had said his government is providing free cooked meals to at least one million people per day.The government is also giving five kilograms of free dry ration to about four million residents, who do not have ration cards, besides the 7.5kg ration being given to 7.1 million cardholders, for free.The helpline received 60 calls from elderly citizens, who lived alone and wanted help from the police to get essential items or requiring medical assistance. In one such call, a 78-year-old man, who lived alone in Rohini, called the helpline informing that he was a diabetic patient and was in pain, because his stock of medicines was over. A police constable duly delivered the medicines to him.In March-end, the helpline was also flooded with calls from citizens who wanted to be united with their families living in other parts of the city. After recording around 100 such calls in the first few days, the volume of such calls has decreased. “We advised such callers to stay at home, as it is a safer option. They understood it,” Ali said.Sanjay Kumar, a professor and the director of the Centre for Study of Developing Studies, said that Delhi residents have responded well to the lockdown and followed the government directives. “If 500 people have called the helpline for passes, I have no reason to doubt their genuineness. Delhi is a large city. People are bound to have their compulsions to step out of their homes. I can say that people took the lockdown in good spirit also because of the fear. People realised how developed countries failed in their response. The fear factor was high among the middle class.”However, Kumar says that a decrease in the number of hunger-related calls may not reveal the entire story. “I saw reports of police cutting cake for elderly residents in lockdown and other similar reports or feeding the needy. This may be just 10% of the actual cases. Police are also not to blame because they have other primary stuff, such as law and order and managing containment zones, to handle. On the government’s role, the response is better than other places. But it may also be because Delhi is smaller than other states. Leaving aside the data on hunger, from the reports we have read or seen, it is clear that the police and government did their best.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-comes-to-terms-with-lockdown-as-police-govt-rush-to-residents-aid/story-GGUnG1rccnEpXR6jt74JDP.html
25-04-2020||Mumbai||Saffronart will hold 24-hr online Covid-19 fundraiser next week||The Mumbai-based auction house, Saffronart, will conduct a 24-hour online Covid-19 fundraiser event on April 29 and 30.Proceeds from the auction of 52 pieces of South Asian modern and contemporary art will go to organisations and initiatives working to support migrant workers and other vulnerable communities amid the ongoing health and economic crisis.The auction will be led by a 2018 metal installation by Bangladeshi artist Tayeba Begum Lipi. Krishen Khanna’s charcoal work Who Has Touched Me, a 2019 untitled work by Thota Vaikuntam and an untitled Ram Kumar from 1991 are also on the block, and expected to fetch between Rs 6 lakh and Rs 8 lakh each.The works, which have been donated collectors, gallerists and artists, include works on paper by modern masters MF Husain and FN Souza.Proceeds will go to grassroots NGOs Goonj, Youth for Unity and Voluntary Action (YUVA) and Stree Mukti Sanghatana (SMS), which are working to provide food, provisions and rehabilitation to those rendered homeless or jobless by the lockdown.“Art has the power to drive positive change. As we do our bit to support organisations doing this important work, we hope to see the community rally for the cause and help those most affected by the crisis, to rebuild their lives,” co-founders Minal and Dinesh Vazirani said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/saffronart-will-hold-24-hr-online-covid-19-fundraiser-next-week/story-iMMZicwCtpR3ziG0rrHu5M.html
25-04-2020||Mumbai||Six new coronavirus cases in Dharavi||Six new coronavirus patients were detected in Mumbai’s Dharavi on Friday, taking the tally of cases in this sprawling slum-dominated area to 220.One of these patients succumbed during the day, taking the death toll due to the pandemic in the area to 14, said a senior Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officer.New cases were found in Gopinath Nagar, Kalyanwadi, Janta Nagar, Banwari compound and Maulana Azad Nagar localities, he said.The number of new cases in Dharavi has come down compared to the last few days. On Thursday, the area had reported 25 new cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/six-new-coronavirus-cases-in-dharavi/story-7WZkQHS5ewf25kkxKJLiJJ.html
25-04-2020||Pune||104 fresh Covid-19 cases in Pune, with four deaths||Four Covid-19 related deaths were recorded in Pune on Friday, taking the total number of deaths in the district to 68. The city also recorded 104 fresh Covid-19 cases, the second day in a row, 100+ cases have been recorded. On Thursday, Pune had also recorded 104 Covid-19 cases.The current Covid-19 progressive positive count for Pune district stands 1,061 cases, with 980 in Pune and 81 in PCMC. All the four deaths were recorded on late on Thursday night.Among the fatalities is a 40-year-old female from Bhavani peth at KEM hospital, who was admitted on Wednesday. Cause of death is cardio respiratory arrest and Covid-19.The second fatality is that of a 52-year-old female from Savarkar chowk, Dhankawadi. The death was reported at the Deenanth Mangeshkar Hospital. The patient was admitted on April 12 and died due to acute respiratory failure with lower respiratory tract infection due to Covid-19.The third case is that of a 40-year-male from Shikarapur, Shirur, reported from Sassoon Hospital. The patient was admitted on Thursday. The patient suffered acute respiratory failure due to B/L pneumonitis with hepatic encephlopathy with acute kidney injury, and Covid-19.The fourth case was also reported from Sassoon Hospital, of a 51-year-old female from Parvati darshan, who was admitted on April 19. The patient died due to multiple organ dysfunction syndrome, and respiratory failure with acute kidney injury; and myocarditis due to severe acute respiratory distress syndrome due to B/L extensive pneumonitis with Covid-19.As of Thursday 146 patients have been discharged after a full recovery from the virus. There are 41 critical patients currently in various hospitals in Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/104-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-pune-with-four-deaths/story-K4oNGBw4JyddLXN2BWpfjK.html
25-04-2020||Pune||No Aundh, Baner, Pashan resident at Balewadi quarantine centre, says PMC||Not a single person from Aundh, Baner, Balewadi and Pashan has tested positive at the quarantined centre created at the National Institute of Construction Management and Research (Nicmar), Balewadi, Pune municipal corporation’s Assistant commissioner, Jaideep Pawar said.Residents of prabhag (ward sub-division) 8 (Aundh-Bopodi), 9 (Baner, Balewadi, Pashan) anxiously texted and sought information when a message from corporator Jyoti Kalamkar to her prabhag residents said 300 residents had been quarantined at Nicmar out of which 24 had tested positive and shifted to a Covid hospital for treatment. She urged people from the area to take extreme precaution and not step out unnecessarily.When asked for a clarification on the situation, Pawar said, Nicmar is an institutional quarantine centre which in the future will be a Covid-19 care centre. With a total capacity of 1,200 beds, it was acquired by the district collector and handed over to the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) to be converted into a quarantine zone.“There are more than 300 patients brought here from all parts of the affected areas of city, after swab testing. Once the tests comes positive, then the patients are shifted to Corona Virus Treatment hospitals like Naidu. If the patient’s test is negative, then he is quarantined within Nicmar for the stipulated period. There is not a single person from Prabhag 8 and 9 which constitutes Aundh, Baner, Balewadi and Pashan. The patients are well cared for with 25 medical staff of doctors and nurses and 50 support staff working in shifts 24/7. So, there is no need to panic or worry,” said Pawar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-one-from-aundh-baner-pashan-at-balewadi-quarantine-centre-pmc/story-OcLhth9Hx42mZQRSTS4NlL.html
25-04-2020||Pune||Political leaders in Pune issue joint statement: Stay home, stay safe during Ramzan||Against the backdrop of Covid-19 (coronavirus) pandemic, political party leaders and members from the Muslim community on Friday have jointly issued a statement and appealed to members of the Muslim community to observe fasting and prayer during Ramzan or Ramadan at homes.The holy month will begin from April 25.Bharatiya Janta Party’s (BJP’s) state unit president Chandrakant Patil, MP Girish Bapat, MP Vandana Chavan, mayor Murlidhar Mohol, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Ankush Kakade, Congress city unit president Ramesh Bagwe, Mohan Joshi, Symbiosis Institute’s founder S B Mujumdar, educationalist PA Inamdar, BJP city unit president Jagdish Mulik, and Shiv Sena leader Shashikant Sutar, along with other party leaders have issued the joint statement.This year the scenario is different during Ramzan as compared to other years due to the pandemic. The community members should be safe and stay inside and take care of their family members during this holy month observance, read the statement.Bapat said, “Every year, Ramzan is celebrated enthusiastically in the city and people from other religions also participate in the festivities. However, this year is different as residents won’t be able to visit mosques due to the lockdown. Hence, for own, society and country’s safety we need to celebrate this festival from within our homes.”NCP spokesperson Ankush Kakade added, “Leaders from all political parties have appealed to the residents to stay at home during the festival. Be keeping social distance and celebrating Ramzan at home we can defeat the virus.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/city-s-leaders-issue-joint-statement-stay-home-stay-safe-during-ramzan/story-knrZD01ETE1hOOa6wD4ByK.html
25-04-2020||Pune||Hinjewadi IT firms unable to reopen without travel permits, says association||IT companies located in the massive Rajiv Gandhi Infotech Park at Hinjewadi are unable to function from their premises in spite of a partial relaxation announced by Pune divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar on Thursday.Mhaisekar, on Thursday, had allowed the IT industries to function provided their employees resided temporarily within the IT Park premises at Hinjewadi. He had specified that no movement of employees would be allowed from the containment zones in the city and the companies would have to make on-campus arrangements for the stay of their essential staff.The IT Park at Hinjewadi employs nearly two lakh people who reside mostly in the Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad civic areas and accounts for an annual software exports of $5 billion (Rs 10,000 crore), according to the Hinjewadi Industries Association.The lockdown in the whole of Pune has been enforced firmly by the district administration with a view to contain the spread of the Covid-19 disease. So far nearly 60 people have died of the disease in Pune as of April 23 with five wards, primarily in central Pune, being worst affected.Reacting to the announcement, the Hinjewadi Industries Association (HIA), the umbrella body of software technology companies, said that it was difficult for IT firms to operate under the set conditions. has said that that the administration and the police directives on starting the software companies was not in unison which was making it difficult to restart the shutdown sector.HIA’s Chief Operating Officer (COO), Col ( retd ) Charanjeet Bhogal said, the police was not issuing travel permits to the staff even though the district administration had earlier said that IT firms would be exempted from the lockdown under essential services.He said since employees could not travel from the containment zones in the city, the entire process of running operations was at a standstill. “The final call can be taken only after May 3 after taking into account the on the ground situation ,” Bhogal said.MIDC’s Pune general manager Ajit Deshmukh also maintained that IT employees cannot travel outside their containment zones under the present circumstances. Things could normalise only after May 3 which is the last day of extended lockdown, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hinjewadi-it-firms-unable-to-function-without-travel-permits-says-association/story-8NIv4NQnat6DajGG1byp9J.html
25-04-2020||Pune||On the frontline: Social distancing will help curb this crisis, says Kiran Desai, Tourist bus operator||Kiran Desai (43) a prominent tour operator in the city performed the task of transporting busloads of Germans and South Koreans from Pune to the international airport in Mumbai for their flights back home. This was done at the request of the embassies of the respective nations and special permits were issued for his staff and buses to undertake this responsibility. He spoke of this experience.What exactly is your role in this pandemic?I had the responsibility of transporting all the South Korean and German nationals from Pune to Mumbai international airport as they were asked to leave India by their employers. The embassies had made the necessary flight arrangements to take them back to their countries. My buses and staff were given special passes and permits to pick up the foreigners from different parts of Pune. So far we have helped in the transportation of around 500 expats from Pune to Mumbai airport.How does your day begin and roll out?My day begins with some basic exercises and physio. As the situation demands, I plan for the trips to Mumbai international airport and when at home, I follow all the rules of isolation and lockdown.What precautions are you taking?Keeping social distance is the most important precaution which I am currently taking, especially as I am supposed to go out for my critical duties. Whenever I return home, I ensure that I am completely sanitised. I also use the mask for as a basic precaution.What is your view of the situation in Pune?In the early part of the lockdown people just didn’t seem to understand the idea of staying at home. I wish everyone followed this rule as it would help the Pune Municipal Corporation in a big way to do their work. In fact, people can use this time to do the things they want to do and stay healthy at home. Social distancing is what is going to help curb this crisis.What gaps do you see in health and relief work?The biggest gap that I saw in the early weeks of the lockdown was the non-adherence to social distancing. We are very proud that Pune is a centre of education so it is assumed that all educated people are staying back at home following the orders issued by local government. However, this was violated, at least in the initial weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/social-distancing-is-what-is-going-to-help-curb-this-crisis/story-Ahj4eEhivJ3SLvaDPjwjBP.html
25-04-2020||Chandigarh||15th Covid-19 patient recovers in Chandigarh||A 49-year-old man from Sector 35 is the 15th patient to recover from coronavirus disease in Chandigarh, reducing the number of active cases to 12. He had contracted the virus from his nephews, who had returned from Dubai and Singapore.Dr Jagat Ram, director, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, said, “This marks the successful recovery of the seventh Covid-19 positive patient at PGIMER. We hope to soon send the other patients back home too.”The patient was admitted to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH) in Sector 16 on March 30, where he was tested positive for Covid-19. Later, he was shifted to PGIMER on April 3.The first case was diagnosed on March 18 and since then, 28 cases have been reported in the city. Also, nine contacts of the patient from Nayagaon, who had been tested at the GMSH, have reported negative for Covid-19, read the official bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/15th-covid-19-patient-recovers-in-chandigarh/story-UtcBrwmluJ0vpsfKpATRWI.html
25-04-2020||Chandigarh||PGIMER chalking out plan to test all incoming patients for Covid||The management of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), the region’s biggest public-funded tertiary healthcare centre, is chalking out a detailed strategy to start testing all incoming patients for coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Dr Ashok Kumar, official spokesperson, said the decision for screening and testing patients had been taken, but the institute was doing its homework before taking the huge step. “The process is being finalised and operational modalities are being developed. The process will be completed by Monday,” he said.The decision comes in the wake of the death of a six-month-old girl who was tested positive for Covid-19 in a routine pre-operative test for a cardiac ailment, following which 54 healthcare workers were tested. They were later found negative. The faculty association of the institute, which represents nearly 600 doctors in 45 departments, had also requested the management to take the decision for the protection of healthcare workers.CHALLENGE AWAITS OPDsThe premier health institute provides super-specialty healthcare services, mostly for the cardiac, paediatrics and ophthalmology departments which are normally visited by around 10,000 patients daily. Several patients are from far-off places like Jammu and Kashmir, Uttar Pradesh as well as from neighbouring Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh.Therefore, the institute faces a real challenge after the out-patient department (OPD) services, shut after the Covid outbreak in the city since March 19, are restored.The institute also has 1,948 beds where the average occupancy remains 107%. Dr JS Thakur, president of the faculty association, said, “Social distancing is not possible in the cramped space of the OPD building. So, there is a need for restoring the referral status of the institute where only patients who actually need advanced care are registered. Such system needs to be developed otherwise social distancing will go for a toss.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pgimer-chalks-out-plan-to-test-all-patients-for-covid/story-I7gBiUWXGGcZyqvVrqHckJ.html
25-04-2020||Chandigarh||In a first, clerics ask Muslims of Chandigarh to offer namaz from home this Ramadan||The heads of the major mosques in the city on Friday announced that this Ramadan or Ramzan, which began on Thursday, all Muslims will offer namaz prayers at home as the places of worship will remain closed amid the Covid-19 curfew.Senior officials of the Chandigarh Police, including director general of police (DGP) Sanjay Baniwal, deputy inspector general (DIG) Omvir Singh Bishnoi and senior superintendent of police (SSP) Nilambari Jagadale, were present while the clerics made the announcement at Jama Masjid in Sector 20.Heads of major mosques in Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 45 and Manimajra were also present. Maulana Ajmal Khan said Muslims were peace-loving members of society. He prayed that the spread of Covid be contained soon.Sector 45 mosque head Kari Shamsher said this was the first time after Independence that Muslims won’t be coming to the mosque to offer namaz during Ramadan, which showed their dedication towards preventing the spread of the deadly disease. He added that clerics of all mosques will also give a message during the call to prayer to all members of the Muslim community to offer prayers at home.In a show of respect, the police presented the clerics with 1,000 prayer mats and 2,000 packets of dates. The religious leaders in return presented the police officials with perfumed oil||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/in-a-first-clerics-ask-muslims-of-chandigarh-to-offer-namaz-from-home-this-ramzan/story-nwrE8L9oPACFjqSVz3J3vN.html
25-04-2020||Pune||Shooter Rahi Sarnobat has set her target on more Olympics after Tokyo 2021||The coronavirus lockdown restrictions have left shooter Rahi Sarnobat to follow dry fire practice and focus on physical and mental training at her home in Kolhapur.The Tokyo Olympics qualifier, now scheduled in 2021, is confident of delivering her best in the international event.“I have a different way to look at the current scenario. It is a good time to rest and get back to shooting in the latter half of the year. Most of the shooters were practising continuously since 2018 so this break will help us to get recharged and deliver a strong performance,” said Sarnobat, who won gold at the Shooting World Cup in Munich, Germany, in the 25 metre pistol event in May 2019 to secure her Olympics berth.“Why should I get nervous of the Olympics postponement? The event will not be my last one as I aim to represent India in at least 5-6 more Olympics. Shooting has an advantage over other sports because age is not a factor here,” said the 29-year-old shooter who trains at Shiv Chhatrapati Sports Complex range in Balewadi. She left for her Kolhapur home on March 20 after the Shooting World Cup in Delhi was postponed to May and later cancelled.“All the international tournaments have been cancelled for the year and we don’t have any domestic tournaments till September. The situation is uncertain and we cannot do anything about it,” said Sarnobat.“I can set up a 25 metre range at home, but it is not allowed in my residential area. It is better to focus on other aspects of the game like improving body balance, physical techniques and overcome the challenges that I used to face while competing in the past,” she said.Since 2017, Sarnobat was training under the German-Mongolian coach Munkhbayar Dorjsuren and her contract was to end in 2020 after the Olympics, but with the event postponed by a year, she is yet to decide on whether to extend the contract or not.“I always wanted a coach for a specific period of time to work on a few aspects of my game which has now improved. So, let’s see how everything works out,” said Sarnobat, who is spending so much time at home for the first time after 2006.“Parents are happy. We have a joint family of nine members and three of them are of my age so I am having a good time playing board games or cricket inside home. A lot of fun activities await when I am done with my training session every day,” Sarnobat said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sarnobat-has-set-her-target-on-more-olympics-after-tokyo-2021/story-ewH775uEk2XpFP9repMQPM.html
25-04-2020||Chandigarh||Shortage of narcotics forces 1,500 to join de-addiction centres in Jalandhar in one month||The strict curfew imposed in the district has hampered the supply of narcotics in the district, which has lead to a spurt in the number of addicts in government-run de-addiction centres.In the last four weeks, around 1,500 new patients have registered themselves in the 10 outpatient-opiod-assisted treatment (OOAT) centres of the district.“Earlier, the centres received an average of 30 to 60 admissions per month but now the numbers have shot up to 200 due to the non-availability of drugs,” said de-addiction centre psychiatrist Dr Aman Sood.The Shekehe centre has registered around 250 new drug addicts this month against 110 patients registered in March, Adampur Community Health Centre registered 100 new patients this month against 35 in March, and Kala Bakra CHC registered 222 patients this month against 63 in March. In Nakodar, around 300 patients registered themselves with the community health centre this month against 10 patients in March.Similarly, the Shahkot OOAT centre registered 50 patients this month against 17 last month and Phillaur registered 150 patients against 40 last month.Due to increasing footfall of drug addicts, the staff is concerned about their safety in the absence of security staff and PPE kits.“Staff members have not been provided PPE kits though Jalandhar is one of the hotspots. It is a risky job as we have to collect new patients samples to check them for HIV,” said a worker, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/amid-shortage-of-narcotics-1-500-patients-join-de-addiction-centres-in-jalandhar-in-one-month/story-o5lxlk1SlwCMTD4w5j8HgP.html
25-04-2020||Gurugram||18 more areas added to Gurugram’s list of containment zones||The district administration on Thursday added 18 more areas to the list of containment zones in Gurugram district taking the total number from six to 24. The decision to increase the number of containment zones was taken after the total tally of persons infected with Sars-CoV-2 virus ( the virus that causes Covid-19) reached 47 in Gurugram on Thursday.There are now 11 containment zones in Sohna block, 10 in Gurugram block and three in Pataudi which will be sealed to halt the spread of the coronavirus disease(Covid-19) in the district.In Gurugram block, the containment zones are—Fazilpur in Jharsa village, Jharsa village, Sector 39, Sector 47, Devi Lal Colony, Sun City Sector 54, Sarhaul Village, Tyagiwara Badshahpur, Meghdoot Apartment Sector 10 A, and Om Nagar.In Sohna, areas identified as containment zones are—Gehlot Vihar, Javed Colony, Pahar Colony, Nut Colony, ITI Colony, Mohalla Bhood Para, Mohalla Thakurwara, Tripat Colony, Shiv Kund, Bhagat Wada, and Raipur village. Ward 11, ward 14, and Ganpat Vatika are the containment zones in Pataudi block.Of the four blocks in the district —Sohna, Pataudi, Gurugram and Farukkhnagar—coronavirus cases have been reported from all blocks except for Farukknagar. At least 15 cases have been reported from Sohna, seven from Pataudi and over 25 cases from Gurugram city. Of the 47 cases, 35 have recovered and 12 are undergoing treatment.Earlier, the district had only six containment zones— Devi Lal Colony, Sun City Sector 54, Sector 39, village Fazilpur Jharsa, ward no 11 in Pataudi, and Village Raipur in Sohna. This week, more than 10 Covid-19 cases have been reported from these zones along with other areas listed now as the containment zones.Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner, Gurgram, in a statement said that the new containment zones will be sealed by the Gurugram police which restricting the entry and exit points to the areas with barricades . The sub-divisional magistrates of the blocks have been appointed as the supervising officers to monitor the containment efforts in their respective areas. The status of the containment zones will be reviewed after five days.The district administration said that intensive screening and testing drives will be carried out in all containment zones, while Municipal Corporation of Gurugram staff will sanitise the localities in the city. Police personnel will man the points of entry and exit in the containment areas. According to the health department guidelines, a containment zone spans over a radius of 3-kilometre and the adjoining buffer zone covers an area within a 7-kilometre radius. Health officials said the perimeter of the containment zone depends on the risk assessment of the area. “ The boundaries can be revised based on the epidemiological investigation. In every containment zone, it must be ensured there is no unchecked movement of people except for those engaged in essential services and or in facing medical emergencies,” said Dr Jaswant Singh Punia, chief medical officer, Gurugram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/18-more-areas-added-to-gurugram-s-list-of-containment-zones/story-OmUWbyfkYh1UjtzfGvTSwL.html
