27-04-2020||Mumbai||Covid positive cop who was turned away by 4 civic hospitals dies||The 57-year-old head constable, who was denied admission in four civic hospitals, died of Covid-19 on Monday while undergoing treatment at King Edward Memorial Hospital, Parel. The constable, attached with the Kurla traffic division, is the third Mumbai police personnel to lose his life in 2 days. Over 50 Mumbai Police personnel have tested positive so far and are undergoing treatment at various hospitals.A police officer confirmed the development to HT. Mumbai Police also confirmed the news in a Twitter post on Monday evening.The head constable tested positive on Friday and was admitted at the intensive care unit (ICU) of KEM Hospital. He had medical history of blood pressure, informed a senior police officer.However, on April 21 he was allegedly denied admission by four civic hospitals despite having symptoms of Covid-19. His 25-year-old son took him to Rajawadi Hospital after he had developed fever, but the doctors allegedly conducted preliminary analysis and recommended home quarantine. “When I asked them to admit him, they claimed there was no bed available and asked me to take him to Kasturba Gandhi Hospital,” the son had told HT earlier. He then took his father to Kasturba Hospital, where doctors supplied oxygen and asked him to take the personnel to BYL Nair Hospital. At Nair Hospital, too, the authorities denied admitting him saying they had no beds and that they do not test patients. “On their recommendation, I took my father to KEM Hospital, where doctors refused to admit him at first. It was only after I contacted the police that my father was admitted at the ICU at 11pm,” the youth said.The deceased personnel’s brother is also a policeman attached with the Mumbai Police’s crime branch. The constable is survived by his wife, two sons and two daughters. His elder son works as CCTV operator at Mantralaya for a private firm on a contract basis.A 35-year-old constable, also attached with the Kurla traffic division, has tested positive and is admitted at Thane’s Kaushalya Hospital. It is suspected that he contracted the virus from the head constable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-positive-cop-who-was-turned-away-by-4-civic-hospitals-dies/story-J4xEqs1l4MbDDBV3ib8W0O.html
27-04-2020||City||Truck carrying over 950 cartons of illicit liquor seized amid lockdown||Gurugram: The police on Sunday confiscated a truck carrying 959 cartons of illicit liquor near Sohna-Damdama border area. The truck was on its way to the city to smuggle the liquor amid the ongoing lockdown, the police said, adding that two persons standing next to the truck noticed the police vehicle and managed to escape on foot. The incident was reported around 6pm when the police received a tip-off that two bootleggers were allegedly smuggling liquor in village Khaika, Sohna, officials said. A team of policemen from City Sohna police station rushed to the village and spotted a truck parked on an isolated stretch of the road.Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), said that the two people managed to escape after noticing the police vehicle.“The truck was covered with tarpaulin and the cartons of liquor had been covered with at least 12 sacks of onions to evade suspicion. Preliminary probe suggests that the truck was headed to the city to supply liquor to bootleggers and consumers. The details of the supply chain and nexus would be known once the suspects are arrested,” said Sangwan, adding that the bootleggers had been struggling to move liquor in the city due to the lockdown imposed to contain the Covid-19 spread.He said that the seizure, which included 703 cartons of countrymade liquor and 256 cartons of Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL), was the single highest seizure from one location since the lockdown was imposed in the city, and subsequently, liquor vends across the state were shut down.Excise officials had earlier said that some bootleggers had also cheated several people by offering to sell liquor online during the lockdown. A police official privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said that the truck’s registration number was of Chhattisgarh and the police had reached out to regional transport authority officials to trace its owner. “It is not certain if the truck had been stolen. It is possible that it managed to infiltrate from a neighbouring state in the garb of transporting essential items as its periphery of boot space was covered with onions,” said the police official.A case was registered against the suspects under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Excise Act at Sohna City police station on Sunday, said the police.In another incident, the crime branch of Sector 39 arrested a man, identified by first name as Bijender, from Ghata village in Sector 56 for allegedly smuggling six cartons of illicit liquor on Sunday night. On Saturday, the police had arrested one Rajesh from Pataudi for allegedly transporting 222 liquor bottles, including 144 bottles of countrymade liquor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/truck-carrying-over-950-cartons-of-illicit-liquor-seized-amid-lockdown/story-FQb6qzzK4qNoltgPw1ySDK.html
27-04-2020||City||IMT industries’ body launches online signature campaign for financial help as workers threaten to start protest||Gurugram: An online signature campaign has been launched by IMT Industrial Association, Manesar, to seek a financial relief package from the state government to be able to pay salaries to their workers who have threatened to start a protest if not paid.Industry owners across the Gurugram district said that their income has taken a hit due to the lockdown and they needed the government’s support to bail them out. Pawan Yadav, president of IMT Industrial Association, Manesar, said, “More than 3,000 owners have signed the petition in three days of launching.”The Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) on March 29 issued a notification under the Disaster Management Act 2005, making it mandatory for industry owners to pay the wages to its workers during the lockdown. After the MHA notification, the state government issued directions to all district heads to implement the order in letter and spirit.“There is panic among industry owners. If we do not pay wages to workers in first week of May, the administration will take action as per the MHA notification. Earlier, we gave representations to the local administration and state government, but did not get any response. As our last resort, we decided to launch an online petition, get it signed by at least 5,000 owners and send it to state government by April end. If the government does not respond and we are forced to pay, then we will move court,” said Yadav. He further said that there is a massive resentment among industry owners who paid March salaries to workers.Meanwhile, workers said that they would protest if they do not get salaries of April from their employers. “On April 21, some industry owners met the district administration officials and submitted a memorandum showing their poor financial condition. We condemn such approach of industry owners. We have also written to the administration and state government. Industry owners and workers work like family members, and in this crisis time owners cannot desert workers to die without money,” said a leader of workers’ union in Manesar.There are 10 industrial associations in Gurugram and all of them have been collectively raising their voice with the local administration and state government in this regard. Representatives of the associations had met the deputy commissioner a week ago and submitted a memorandum. The IMT Industrial Association has taken a lead this time with the launching of an online signature campaign for the petition. Rakesh Batra, general secretary of Industrial Development Association Sector 37 Gurugram, said, “We have no money to pay wages to workers. We have signed the online petition. If we do not get relief from government, we will move court.” The petition says that the MHA is passing financial burden on small businesses/MSMEs despite they have been depositing money in social security funds like labour welfare fund, employees state insurance, labour cess, etc for the past many years for their employees and it is high time the government should utilise these funds for industries’ support.When asked about the issue, Kesni Anand Arora, state chief secretary, said, “I have no directions from the government for industry in this regard. However, industries’ grievances are in the knowledge of the government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/imt-industries-body-launches-online-signature-campaign-for-financial-help-as-workers-threaten-to-start-protest/story-10lUsoEWeqB9Y9vyKiCHRK.html
27-04-2020||City||Ggm fire department turns to ULB for new equipment||Gurugram: The Gurugram fire department, which has been waiting to augment its infrastructure for several years, has now turned to the directorate of Urban Local Bodies (ULB) for new equipment, said officials on Monday. As per IS Kashyap, assistant divisional fire safety officer, the department last week sent a letter to the ULB, asking for a 101-metre and a 70-metre hydraulic ladders, two 55-metre turntable ladders, and 29 new fire tenders which comprise eight water bowsers, 10 water tenders, one rescue tender, five foam tenders, three water mist tenders, and two quick response fire tender vehicles.The move comes almost a month after the ULB’s letter to the fire department, asking the latter to list the items it requires to upgrade its machinery, fire department officials said, adding that it is for the first time that the ULB has asked it about the procurement of such items. Otherwise, such demands were usually raised with the directorate of fire services Haryana. Kashyap further said that their demands have remained on paper since 2015. “We analysed the existing stock of equipment to combat and initiate rescue operations during a fire, and have accordingly placed our demand with the ULB. The city has expanded and we need to upgrade our machinery to meet its requirements,” said Kashyap.The fire department in the district is quite ill-equipped. It has a solitary 42-metre hydraulic ladder capable of reaching till the 14th floor of a building, even though the city has more than 1,100 high-rises. Besides, the department only has a stock of 20 fire tenders spread across its five fire brigades at different localities that include Sector 29, Udyog Vihar, Bhim Nagar, and Sector 37.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ggm-fire-department-turns-to-ulb-for-new-equipment/story-ZIWy3mGXgWpQDmdVG9jOyN.html
27-04-2020||Gurugram||Well-being of elderly, safety of staff main concerns of Hex-Tax Commune in Sec 43||At Hex-Tax Commune in Sector 43, the well-being of senior citizens and supply of essential items to them have been the priorities during the current lockdown. Located just 100 metres from Sector 42-43 Rapid Metro station, the welfare housing society is a relatively smaller condominium, of roughly 450 residents.“Senior citizens have been told that they can call us any time for delivery of ration, medicine or essential goods. After they give us their requirements, we make sure that those are delivered at their doorstep so that they do not have to step out,” said Raj Jha, estate manager of the property.The society has a grocery store on its premises, which provides residents with all the essentials. Since the lockdown started, strict protocols, such as wearing masks, social distancing and staggered visit timings, are being maintained.“The grocery store is ensuring that residents get a fresh supply of vegetables and fruits. We have set out a few tables outside the store for residents to pick up their order from. They have to wear masks and maintain distance. Because we are a small society, it is easier for us to not have crowds because not everyone comes down at the same time to the shop,” said JS Dhankar, president of the residents’ welfare association (RWA).All doorstep deliveries from the outside have been suspended. Deliveries of newspapers, food and essential items are deposited at the main gate, from where residents are expected to pick up their packages.Support staff and residents entering the society have to compulsorily undergo thermal screening and use sanitisers or wash hands at the newly installed washbasin. The society is currently functioning with reduced staff, most of who reside in the vicinity of the condominium.“We are ensuring that housekeeping staff are screened at the gate. They also work on a no-contact basis,” said Dhankar. He added that many domestic helps are currently residing with families having young children and infants since the lockdown began.The society has a resident electrician and plumber, who are accommodated in dedicated quarters. However, all service requests in apartments have been put on hold currently. “Even before the lockdown, the electrician and plumber were provided with their permanent residences inside the society,” Jha.The society also has a composting pit, where biodegradable waste is turned into manure. Staff who work here have been provided personal protective equipment (PPE), for their safety during the processes involved, including stirring of the mulch.“We made sure that these workers who stir the compost have protection suits so that their safety is ensured. This step was even vetted by a health expert, who declared it a ‘good step’,” said Jha.Jha said that besides weekly fogging exercised by the district administration, they are also conducting fogging daily, with the help of a third party.The society is currently maintaining a no-walk policy. Residents have, instead, turned to exercise at home.“Due to the lockdown, we had to forego our morning and evening walks. So now, I am just doing my yoga, exercises and stretches at home, and maybe take a small stroll in my backyard, but that’s about it,” said MS Hooda, a senior citizen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/well-being-of-elderly-safety-of-staff-main-concerns-of-hex-tax-commune-in-sec-43/story-xmnoQITy0IDbpkOPUJPDLJ.html
27-04-2020||City||Couple gets married in a flat amid lockdown; families join ceremony virtually||28-year-old Mansi Purwar and 29-year old Shubham Gupta had got engaged in November last year and were scheduled to get married on April 25. The couple had elaborate plans for their wedding. Their families had booked a banquet hall for the wedding, hired confectioner for all the marriage functions in their home towns, and sent out invitation cards to their friends and relatives, but with the nationwide lockdown in place, the couples had to put on hold all preparations made for their big day.When the lockdown was extended till May 3, their families consulted a priest for the next auspicious date (shubh muhurat) to conduct the marriage. When the couple was told that if they could not get married on April 25, then they will have to wait till at least till December 25, they decided to drop their grand plans for the wedding and decided to get married at a relative’s flat in Gaur City in Greater Noida (West) on Saturday. With a handful of relatives by their side, the bride and the groom tied the nuptial know without much fanfare and received blessings from their parents through video conference.Shubham works in a private company as a sales manager and lives in Greater Noida West. Purwar works in an IT firm in Gurugram and lives there at PG (paying guest) facility before shifting to her uncle’s flat in Gaur City right before the lockdown came into force. “Our families had started the preparations for the marriage in November itself, but unexpectedly a 15-day lockdown was first enforced in the country. We were hopeful that the lockdown will end before April 25 and the wedding would take place as decided before, but the lockdown was extended till May 3,” he said.“The two families then consulted a priest who informed us that the next ‘shubh muhurat’ would be in December 2020 or in February 2021. Mansi and I then decided to get married in a simple way in Greater Noida, since we both were here,” he said. Gupta’s sister Priyanka and brother-in-law Ashish, who lives in Greater Noida (West) as well accompanied him to Purwar’s flat on the wedding day.Vinay Purwar, Mansi’s cousin, said since all shops, markets, and malls were shut due to the lockdown, the two families could not even shop for the wedding and buy new wedding attire for the couple. “The groom was dressed in a casual blue shirt and grey trousers. Mansi had to wear the wedding dress my wife had worn when we got married. We called a priest from the society who performed the marriage rituals. My father performed the ‘kanyadan’ ceremony on behalf of Mansi’s father” he said.Mansi’s family is based in Jalaun and Gupta’s family is from Etawah. The two families joined the ceremony through video conferencing.Shriprakash Purwar, Mansi’s father, said that the family was happy with the wedding. “The lockdown had stopped all the preparations, and both the families decided to organize the wedding in a simple way. We virtually joined the ceremony from Jalaun for two hours on video conferencing through a mobile app,” he said.“I am happy that we married in a simple way. We have planned to host a reception once the lockdown restrictions are lifted,” Mansi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/couple-gets-married-in-a-flat-amid-lockdown-families-join-ceremony-virtually/story-h2rIuG7smxNZixpcArts0M.html
27-04-2020||Noida||Mercury set to rise from Tuesday||While the maximum and minimum temperatures recorded on Monday were lesser than the season’s average temperatures, the weather department has warned of a rise in mercury levels from Tuesday.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), with western disturbances subsiding—a phenomenon that causes rains and thundery development in the Delhi and NCR—the mercury is set to rise and reach up to 40 degree Celsius by the weekend.Monday’s maximum temperature was recorded at 33.8 degrees Celsius, five notches below the season’s average,similar to that of Sunday. The minimum temperature on Monday was recorded at 18.9 degrees Celsius, five notches below the season’s average, against 23.8 degrees Celsius on Sunday. The Met department also recorded 0.4 mm rainfall over past 24 hours in different regions of the city.On Tuesday, the maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to increase to 36 degrees Celsius and 20 degrees Celsius, respectively.“The mercury is set to rise from now on. With onset of May, the maximum temperatures may rise to 40 degrees in the first week and 45 degrees by the second week with occasional heatwaves. The weather activities like western disturbances will subside now,” said Mahesh Palawat, director, private weather forecast agency, Skymet.He added that there is another western disturbance on Thursday (April 30) which could bring a slight relief from the rising heat, however, it would not have much impact on the maximum temperatures the following day.Meanwhile, the weather analysts said due to the back-to-back western disturbances, March and April so far have been cooler by at least a degree compared to the mean temperature of the past 30 days.“Till date, the average mean temperature for April 2020 is 35.3 degrees Celsius, while for the past 30 years mean average was 36.3 degrees. For March 2020 as well, the average maximum was 28.4 degrees Celsius, while the mean temperature for March for past 30 years was 29.6 degrees Celsius. The maximum temperatures have been cooler than a degree and the reason is back-to-back western disturbances. The rains had been patchy, but they helped control the overall temperatures of the entire region,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecast centre, IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/mercury-set-to-rise-from-tuesday/story-LH7rPGK50Wc7gzCEgeazNI.html
27-04-2020||Mumbai||Reopen Bandra cemetery for burial of Covid victims: HC to BMC||The Bombay high court (HC) on Monday directed the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to remove the locks on the gates of Navpada Kokani Muslim Kabrastan at Bandra (West), and make the cemetery, which was closed by locals opposing burial of bodies of Covid-19 patients at the ground, available for burial.Justice BP Colabawalla on Monday refused to interfere with the April 9 order of BMC that identified the private Muslim burial ground as one of the sites for burial of Covid-19 patients. Four local residents had filed a petition challenging the civic order.The directive came after advocate Pratap Nimbalkar, representing Navpada Masjid and Santacruz Golibar Dargah Trust which manages the cemetery, pointed out some local residents had put up locks on the gate of the cemetery.Nimbalkar pointed out that on April 13 some locals created a ruckus over the civic body’s order when a body of a 63-year-old person, who died due to Covid-19 infection, was brought for burial at the ground. Some police officers tried to intervene, but failed to pacify locals, and eventually the body was required to be buried somewhere else.Nimbalkar added despite the trust had taken all precautions and identified isolated and secluded spots for burial of Covid-19 patients, locals were not allowing burial, and urged the court to direct BMC to reopen the burial ground. Justice Colabawalla accordingly directed the civic body to reopen the cemetery and granted it liberty to take help of local police if necessary.The four petitioners said there are three interconnected Muslim cemeteries at the site and all of them are at the heart of Bandra (West) and are surrounded by thickly populated residential areas.The petitioners said BMC had, on March 30, decided to cremate bodies Covid-19 patients at the nearest crematorium irrespective of their religion. “The said decision was taken as the burial grounds in Mumbai are in highly dense localities with high chances of contamination,” said their petition.They added the April 9 order was in contrary to the March 30 decision and therefore prayed for an order restraining the civic body from burying Covid-19 bodies at the three cemeteries.Justice Colabawalla, however, refused to interfere with the latest civic order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/reopen-bandra-cemetery-for-burial-of-covid-victims-hc-to-bmc/story-Zmg4h0gNMklVmmirqyorQP.html
27-04-2020||Noida||Govt doctor booked for cruelty against pet dog||A female doctor, who works with a government institute in Greater Noida, was booked by the Phase-2 police on Sunday for allegedly mistreating her pet Labrador dog. No arrests have been made and the dog has not been rescued either.The incident was reported from Parsvnath Prestige society in Sector 93A where the doctor resides. The complaint was filed by a woman who lives in the neighbourhood society of ATS Village.“For the last few days, I could see the dog being kept in the balcony in the day time for hours under the hot sun. My balcony faces theirs and the anguish of the dog was quite visible. I asked around and found out that the dog was being mistreated by the family for a while,” said Pearl Verma, the complainant who works as a flight captain with Air India.She said that the dog was often beaten and kept next to the air conditioning unit in the balcony, which when switched on, would throw hot air, exposing the dog to additional heat.“Even the security guards of their society confirmed that the dog is ill-treated and not taken for walks or exercise. She is inadequately fed and kept in a confined space,” said Verma in her complaint.She also said that the suspect’s sister told people that they are keeping the dog away to avoid the transmission of coronavirus, which is nearly impossible.“Members of the RWA and other residents have also intervened but to no avail. The family even threatened my mother to back off from the case and refused to cooperate when we went to rescue the dog,” said Verma.The doctor was booked under Section 428 (mischief by killing or maiming animal) of the Indian Penal Code(IPC) and relevant sections of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960.“An investigation in the case is underway. We will question the family and take necessary legal action,” said Farmood Ali Pundir, station house officer(SHO), Phase-2 police station.When contacted, the doctor said, “This is harassment. While I was busy attending to cases of Covid-19 and my children were alone at home, these people came to my house and tried to take away my dog. They probably want to take her for breeding. We treat our dog well. She even has her own cooler. When I am at work for hours, it sometimes becomes difficult for my children to handle her on their own. As such, they keep her in the balcony in the evenings , but never during the daytime when it is hotter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/govt-doctor-booked-for-cruelty-against-pet-dog/story-L3py9U9tEnxFbR5uFgSwVM.html
27-04-2020||Mumbai||Seven Hills Hospital carries out plasma transfusion on Covid-19 patient||A day after a coronavirus patient received the first convalescent plasma transfusion at Lilavati Hospital, the Seven Hills Hospital in Marol became the first civic-run to run the clinical trial on its patient on Sunday. The civic-run hospital conducted the convalescent plasma transfusion on an admitted patient after getting the extracted plasma from Nair Hospital. At present, BYL Nair hospital is the only hospital which has got the approval from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for the extractions of the component from donated blood.“The patient is critical and it is too early to comment on the health of the patient as he needs observation. Depending on the condition of the patient, we will decide if he needs a further dosage of plasma,” said Dr Mohan Joshi, in-charge of Seven Hills Hospital. The therapy involves transfusing plasma – a component of the blood – from a recovered patient into a patient fighting the infection, to act as reinforcement for the latter’s immune system. Antibodies produced in the blood of cured patients can fight infections if injected into infected individuals.Meanwhile, the 53-year-old patient who received the first 200ml of plasma on Saturday at Lilavati Hospital is still critical and on ventilator though his oxygen intake has improved slightly. He has developed a blood infection and is kept on a high dosage of antibiotics. Thus, the hospital had to postpone the other two dosages for a day.“We have held the next two dosages for a day. If his condition improves tomorrow, we will transfuse the remaining 400ml of plasma together,” said an official from Lilavati Hospital.Kerala was the first state to start convalescent plasma therapy with the approval from the ICMR. Meanwhile, to stop any possible spread of Covid-19, Seven Hills Hospital has installed Ozone Disinfection Chamber. “All the people who are coming into the hospital will have to work through the channel. These chambers have disinfectants which spray chemicals that are enough to kill the virus on the cloths and the upper layer of the body,” said Dr Joshi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/seven-hills-hospital-carries-out-plasma-transfusion-on-covid-19-patient/story-FWe2IRY2G5HbLm9WotrtGK.html
27-04-2020||City||Ghaziabad: Man creates fake profile to seek money in top cop’s name, FIR lodged||An unidentified man on Monday allegedly created a fake profile of superintendent of police (crime), Ghaziabad on a social media platform, and has been asking for money from various people linked to the original social media account of the senior police officer.The police said that they have shut the fake social media account and lodged an FIR into the incident at Sihani Gate police station.“On Monday, I received a number of calls from people who are attached to my profile. All of them asked me whether I needed help and wanted ₹20,000. I was shocked to hear this and denied knowing anything about making such requests. Then I came to know that some unidentified person had created a fake social media account in my name, and was demanding ₹ 20,000 each from different persons in my name and was telling them that I needed money,” said Prakash Kumar, SP (crime).Kumar then directed the police to lodge an FIR. He said he also posted messages on his social media account that a fake person was demanding money in his name, and that none of his contacts should pay heed to the fake request.“We have roped in a cyber cell team to track the suspect and the fake profile has been shut down. So far, there is no information that anyone in my contact list sent him any money. I have also posted about the matter on my social media profile and have asked people not to forward the money to anyone in my name,” he added.At present, Kumar is also entrusted for surveillance of Covid-19 suspects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-man-creates-fake-profile-to-seek-money-in-top-cop-s-name-fir-lodged/story-No52jtw2iQOvlyWSKWeE0O.html
27-04-2020||City||For the first time, recovered cases outnumber active cases in Ghaziabad||For the first time since the Covid-19 outbreak was reported in the district, Ghaziabad saw recovered cases outnumber the present active cases. According to officials, out of the 58 positive cases in the district, 31 patients, roughly 53%, got discharged till Monday evening.According to health department officials, 14 Covid-19 positive patients were discharged from different hospitals on Monday after two successive test reports confirmed their negative status.“Till Monday evening, we have a total of 31 patients who have been discharged so far from hospitals and the number of active cases is just 27. The list of 31 includes 14 persons who were discharged on Monday. It is further encouraging that the first test reports of 14 other active cases have also turned negative. We have taken their second samples and sent them for testing as per the protocol. If the second sample turns negative, 14 more patients will be discharged. We are expecting these reports by Tuesday evening,” said DR NK Gupta, chief medical officer (CMO).The officials said that the 14 patients discharged on Monday include a couple from Savior Park, Mohan Nagar; a woman from Vasundhara, three people from Ranchi, two each from Muradnagar in Ghaziabad and Kolkata, and one each from Loni, Masuri and Kaila Bhatta and Hyderabad..“Barring the couple and the woman from Vasundhara, all others had either attended religious congregations or had come in contact with someone who had,” Dr Gupta added.According to UP principal secretary, Sudhir Garg, if the trend continues along with a continued enforcement of lockdown, Ghaziabad will be able to move from the red zone to the orange zone within a week.The health department officials said that one more positive case from Khoda was added to the tally of positive patients on Monday. With this, total number of positive cases in Ghaziabad stands at 58, which includes 31 patients who have been discharged so far.“The patient is resident of Khoda and presently under treatment at ESI Hospital in Sahibabad. Since his test was done in Noida but we are taking him in our count. There was one more case of a woman from Noida who was brought to MMG Hospital on Sunday but the staff from Noida also brought along her mother in the same ambulance,” Dr Gupta said.“We have taken up this issue with the Noida health department. The woman is admitted to Sahibabad hospital but will be counted in the tally of Noida and she is a resident there. However, since she and her mother are at our facility, we will be giving them all the required treatment. If her mother turns out to be positive she will be added to the tally of Covid-19 positive patients of Ghaziabad,” he added.Gautam Budh Nagar CMO Dr Deepak Ohri and district magistrate Suhas LY were approached repeatedly over the issue through calls and messages. However, they did not respond till late Monday evening.Lockdown continues in the districtIn the meantime, the district officials, on Monday morning, also sealed Gardenia Glamour in Vasundhara Sector-3. This was after a doctor couple tested positive on Sunday evening and is presently admitted to a hospital in Delhi.“The society has 288 flats. It was sealed on Monday afternoon. There is police deployment at the main gate and residents are now allowed to venture outside,” said Ashok Vardhan, the vice president of the residents’ welfare association (RWA) of Gardenia Glamour. On Monday, a woman doctor who had tested positive, took to Twitter and alleged that there was only one common washroom in Ghaziabad’s Covid hospital at Muradnagar. She also complained of the presence of mice and demanded to be shifted to Delhi. The woman is a resident of a high-rise in Indirapuram.“We have given a separate room to the doctor and some washrooms have been made available for women patients. We have taken up disinfection procedures to ensure that there are no rodents around,” said Dr GP Mathuria, the superintendent of the hospital.The total number of active Covid-19 positive patients in Uttar Pradesh stood at 1,589. Till now, 335 patients have been discharged and 31 have died. According to officials, there were 1,784 persons admitted to isolation centres and 15 of them were on oxygen while others were stable. The figure of persons in quarantine wards stood at 11,363 till Monday afternoon.“The UP chief minister has asked to ramp up the number of beds in quarantine centres in all districts. He has directed that about 15-20 thousand quarantine beds should be created in every district. The CM also took a detailed review of the worst affected districts of Agra, Ghaziabad, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Kanpur, Lucknow and Varanasi. He also gave directions for a strict enforcement of the lockdown,” said Awanish Awasthi, UP’s additional chief secretary (home).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/for-the-first-time-recovered-cases-outnumber-active-cases-in-ghaziabad/story-rZyMILhpUxpUDmxm42KlON.html
27-04-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt allows plumbers, electricians to resume work||The Delhi government Monday relaxed a few more lockdown restrictions by allowing self-employed persons such as plumbers, electricians and repairers of water purifiers to resume their work from Tuesday. The decision to allow self-employed persons to resume work came hours after an empowered group, constituted by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), to monitor the supply chain and logistics of essential items, recommended that a section of service rendering persons such as electricians and plumbers must be allowed to work even if the lockdown is extended beyond May 3. In a late-night order issued by chief secretary Vijay Dev, the Delhi government also allowed interstate and intrastate movement of all medical and veterinary personnel, scientists, nurses, paramedical staff, lab technicians, midwives, and other hospital support services, including ambulances. The order stated that air travel for such persons will also be allowed. This assumes significance since the Haryana and the Uttar Pradesh governments recently imposed curbs on the movement of people to and from Delhi, including those catering to essential services. After receiving feedback that several private clinics, pathological labs and dispensaries in Delhi have been shut due to confusion over the lockdown rules and also because of a general fear of spreading Covid-19, the Delhi govt’s late-night order also included the opening of all such facilities across the capital.The other additional activities that are now allowed include shops of electric fans, and shops of educational books for students. However, these relaxations will not apply to any of the 99 containment zones in the city, a senior government official clarified.The order also clarified that regular operations in shelter homes for persons with disabilities, children, elderly people, widows, etc., will continue. These homes were already operational during the lockdown, but with the order, they will be able to bring in more people or release those not needing these facilities any more. The order stated that all other restrictions will remain intact. The chief secretary asked the agencies concerned, including the Delhi Police to ensure that “status quo” be maintained across the city with regard to curbs that will continue, until further orders.On Monday, Delhi’s total number of Covid-19 cases touched 3,108, which included 877 recoveries and 54 deaths. A week ago, on April 20, the DDMA had constituted five empowered groups, comprising top bureaucrats and experts, to identify problems in the city’s Covid-19 mitigation activities and suggest solutions ranging from policy interventions to emergency planning. Of the five panels, the empowered group on facilitating supply chain and logistics of essential items submitted its first report to the DDMA on Monday. The panel, headed by Delhi food and civil supplies commissioner Ankita Mishra Bundela, reasoned that after the nationwide lockdown was extended to May 3, many services rendered by self-employed persons have now become essential.“The general public requires the services of electricians, plumbers, drain cleaners, etc, which are sometimes as essential as the supply of daily need items. In case there is an electrical fault in the house, the entire household activities may come to a standstill… Therefore, necessary consideration should be given to this aspect also,” read the report, which HT has seen. Allowing such self-employed persons to work was a part of the Central government’s guidelines on the extended lockdown issued on April 15. Delhi, however, did not allow any relaxation suggested by the Centre back then as each of the 11 districts in the capital was categorised as a ‘high-risk’ or ‘red’ zone. It was only on Saturday, after the Centre issued a revised order, that the Delhi government allowed standalone shops in residential colonies to operate, while still keeping all other restrictions in place. The empowered group also pointed out that if the lockdown is extended, attention will have to be given to items that are dependent on imports. Items such as coffee, diapers, dry fruits, oils and cereals “are expected to face a supply crunch” in the next few weeks, it said. When it comes to medicines, the group found that pharmaceutical companies and distributors are facing problems in the interstate movement of products as warehouses, which stock medicines, are located all over the country. “All essential medicines are available in the market, but the factories are told to be operating at less than 50% of their capacity. The distributors may not be able to supply all medicines if the production remains affected at the source level for a long time,” read the report. Bundela said that the report is a preliminary submission prepared to draw the broader contours of issues related to availability of essential items. “It is the first report and doesn’t mean the task of the empowered group is over. It is a work in progress,” she said.The first reports submitted by each of the five empowered groups will be analysed by chief secretary Vijay Dev, who will identify the actionable points and issue directions to the concerned agencies. If any of the problems highlighted are found to be extremely serious in nature, they will be flagged to the lieutenant-governor, who is the chairperson of the DDMA and the chief minister who is the co-chairperson of the DDMA. The general findings by the groups will also be conveyed to them. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-allows-plumbers-electricians-to-resume-work/story-HjivroDj8BNDFeOWAZMsXO.html
27-04-2020||City||42-year-old Digha resident dies; 14 new cases in Navi Mumbai||After a record 23 cases on Sunday, Navi Mumbai reported one death and 14 Covid positive cases on Monday. A 42-year-old resident of Digha, who was suffering from a heart ailment, died of a heart attack while being taken from Thane’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj hospital to another hospital. His swab test done later shows he was Covid positive.Navi Mumbai has 145 Covid cases.Nine members of a family of a Covid positive doctor working at Prince Ali Khan Hospital in Byculla living in Seawoods had tested positive on Sunday. Four more family members tested positive on Monday.A nine-year-old boy and his 35-year-old mother have tested positive. The woman got infected while treating a Covid patient in an Airoli hospital.A constable’s 73-year-old mother and 30-year-old wife from Juinagar have tested positive.A 39-year-old BEST bus conductor too has tested positive.Navi Mumbai municipal commissioner Annasaheb Misal said, “The spike in the cases in the past one week is because residents go to Mumbai to work. Out of 145 cases, 92 infections are because of this reason.”Navi Mumbai mayor Jaywant Sutar has written to the chief minister urging him to provide accommodation to such people in Mumbai itself so that it will help protect their families and curb the spread of the virus.Panvel City Municipal Corporation reported one new case on Monday. A 43-year-old police constable posted at Makhurd has been infected. The total number of cases in Panvel is 56.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/42-year-old-digha-resident-dies-14-new-cases-in-navi-mumbai/story-NbmhaEFI9frOroPWv3WxdL.html
27-04-2020||Delhi||Covid cases cross 3,000 mark, zero deaths in two days||The total number of Covid-19 cases in Delhi crossed the 3,000 mark on Monday, with 190 new cases being reported, as per the Delhi’s government’s daily bulletin. No deaths were recorded for two days in a row, shows the Delhi government data.So far, 54 people have died of the viral infection in the city. Of them, almost 54% were 60 years or older. Also, over 85% of those who died had some co-morbid conditions like diabetes, hypertension, and heart and kidney disease. So far, 877 people have recovered from it in the city.Of the 2,177 active cases — those still with the infection — 642 are admitted to nine Covid-19 designated hospitals in the city. Of these, 49 people are admitted to the intensive care unit, with 11 on ventilator support.Another 943 people with mild symptoms are in seven Covid Care Centres set up for the purpose in the city. As many as 117 people with moderate symptoms are admitted to two AYUSH hospitals, which have been designated as Covid Health Centres. The government has created five levels of facilities for the treatment of the Covid-19 patients — 22 Covid testing centres, isolation centres, Covid Care Centres for mild cases, Covid Health Centres for moderate cases, and Covid hospitals for those with a severe condition or those at risk of developing severe symptoms.Of the 5,438 samples collected from the community, 273 have tested positive for the infection, the data shows. On Monday, 4,392 samples were collected from across the city.The Prime Minister, health minister, health secretary and the empowered committees took stock of the situation in the state and the country in meetings on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-cases-cross-3-000-mark-zero-deaths-in-two-days/story-BIeLT2ydIG12suxfWx2lmL.html
27-04-2020||Mumbai||Aerosol levels drop 50% in Mumbai||The concentration of aerosols — tiny solid and liquid particles suspended in air — dropped by half in Mumbai during lockdown, says a study by Ministry of Earth Sciences (MoES).The study used satellite images of aerosol concentration which showed a 50% decline over Mumbai region and about 65% over Indo-Gangetic plains, said Madhavan Rajeevan, secretary, MoES.Aerosols include particulate matter (PM) which is a mix of organic and chemical particles that can be harmful if inhaled. Southeast Asian countries generally witness high aerosol concentration between January and April.“Our satellite study for aerosol optical depth (AOD) from the last week of March to third week of April showed a marked decline in concentration, especially across northern parts of the country, owing to reduction in anthropogenic sources such as industrial and transport related emissions,” said Rajeevan adding that AOD is the measure of light reflected by airborne particles revealing the quantitative aerosol concentration of the whole atmospheric column. “For Mumbai and surrounding areas, the reduction was significant due to drop in transport pollution, which accounts for 30%-35% of all pollution sources.”Last week, an analysis by System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), under MoES, showed air pollution hotspots across major cities turned from ‘red’ to ‘green’ zones with clean air quality. Mumbai saw a 60% decline in nitrogen dioxide levels, 49% in PM10 and 45% in PM2.5 concentration during lockdown.“Our analysis goes a step ahead and assesses the overall atmospheric scenario vis-à-vis falling human-induced emissions,” said Rajeevan.A similar AOD study done by US-based National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) compared satellite images for the period of March 31 to April 5 from 2016 with that of 2020, which showed air pollution over the Indo-Gangetic plain has dropped to a 20-year low.Another factor that has been relatively less researched is the declining trend in surface ozone (O3) during lockdown, said Rajeevan. O3 is photochemical oxidant formed when pollutants like volatile organic compounds and oxides of nitrogen chemically react in the presence of sunlight. High ozone concentration, which can be dangerous, is generally witnessed during this time of the year across major metropolitan cities, he said adding that it can lead to a lot of health problems such as asthma and cardiovascular diseases. “However, O3 levels recorded by SAFAR across Delhi, Mumbai, Ahmedabad and Pune, and a few of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) stations have seen a sharp decline during lockdown due to a drop in human activities,” the MoES secretary said. “SAFAR and IMD have been directed to analyse this data and publish a detailed report.”Rajeevan also addressed concerns of predicted rise in air pollution after lockdown owing to an expected surge in private vehicles and industrial emissions. “There is a need for cultural and behavioural change post lockdown where we try to increase the frequency of working from home, cycling or walking. While it may not be possible for all, especially those working in factories, construction sites etc, such alterations are essential,” he said.In addition, the ministry also studied the drop in overall human-induced noise from transport, aviation and construction sectors, which helped scientists detect and identify smaller earthquakes. “During the lockdown, we were able to easily detect earthquakes less than 2.8 or 2.5 on the Richter scale, and in some cases as low as 2.2 magnitude,” said Rajeevan. “Overall, the lockdown is giving us a natural laboratory to understand what background pollution levels are expected to be in cities. When it is over and activities pickup, pollution will rise again, and we need to calibrate and compare levels to come up with effective solutions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/aerosol-levels-drop-50-in-mumbai/story-jBNBRm7XPk0RXElbdFV81K.html
27-04-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra government to push Centre for funds, supply of PPE, aid to migrants||Though Maharashtra chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray did not get an opportunity to speak during Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi’s video conference with chief ministers of states on Monday, the Maharashtra government has decided to push its demands for financial aid, special trains for migrants and adequate personal protection equipment (PPE) kits from the Centre.The state government will also clarify its stand on extension of the lockdown after the second phase of the restrictions ends on May 3. “Since the PM has hinted at the continuation of the restrictions in heavily affected Covid-19 areas, and the state agrees, there should not be any problem in deciding over it. We will wait till the Union cabinet meeting on Wednesday before deciding the state level by the end of the week,” said a state official.Home minister Anil Deshmukh said that the lockdown will have to be extended for red zones like Mumbai, Pune, Malegaon, and Nagpur. “But the final decision will be taken by the high-power committee headed by the chief minister,” he said.According to a state government official, Thackeray was expected to raise issues of financial assistance, supply of PPE kits, and aid to stranded workers from other states during the video conference with the PM. “The Maharashtra CM has been speaking to the PM and other ministers, including home and health ministers regularly. We have raised many issues with the Centre time and again. They will be discussed again before the Union cabinet’s scheduled meeting,” said a senior government official.Maharashtra has already demanded financial assistance of ₹50,000 crore to be released over the next five months, amid the drop in state revenue due to the lockdown. A finance department official said that the CM and deputy CM Ajit Pawar have already written to the Centre about receiving the financial aid at the earliest. The state cabinet on Monday decided to push for central assistance and a few relaxations from the Reserve Bank of India. It also discussed the possibility of making jobs available for migrant workers at construction sites and factories that started operating from April 20. “In case the Centre does not respond positively to the plans to arrange their transportation, this could be an option for us,” said a cabinet minister, requesting anonymity. “We have also been demanding adequate supply of the PPE kits for doctors and medical staff treating Covid-19 patients. In Mumbai alone, we need more than 35,000 kits a week and the municipal corporation has been arranging them from the domestic market. We have also sought clarity on the usage and manufacturing of these kits,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-to-push-centre-for-funds-supply-of-ppe-aid-to-migrants/story-1DuUocARLIVHYHP9NHGnaJ.html
27-04-2020||Mumbai||Citizens group claims coastal road work threatening safety of staff||Alleging that construction being undertaken by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) as pre-monsoon work for the coastal road project was a violation of lockdown rules, a citizens group has filed a complaint with the ministry of home affairs (MHA).The letter by Save Our Coast, Mumbai, with members from Nepeansea Road, Bhulabhai Desai Road, Haji Ali, and Worli, was sent to the secretary, MHA on April 23 and made public on Monday. The complaint states that work being carried out was ‘non-essential’ and workers were forced to operate without masks and recommended social distance.BMC maintained that if work was not completed before monsoon, it would lead to flooding. The civic body also claimed that all project workers had tested negative for the coronavirus.Activities in the form of land reclamation, tunneling using explosives, pile driving, and construction of new structures were a violation of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, the letter. “Photographs show workers are not wearing protective equipment and not maintaining distancing norms. Entry and exit points of the [workers’] buses are in populated residential areas already within Covid-19 containment zones.”Vijay Nighot, chief engineer, BMC’s coastal road project, said, “Placing of armour (quarry) stones and reclamation is ‘essential work’ before monsoon when rough seas will flood the entire south Mumbai coastline. Five hundred workers have tested negative for the virus and have been provided protective gear. Prescribed distancing is followed with only one person per seat on the buses.” The latest complaint to the Centre comes after a legal notice was sent to the BMC by Save Our Coast on April 8 and a police complaint was filed on April 7. “Our legal team has responded to the group’s notice,” said Nighot.“Unfortunately, the agency supposed to enforce the lockdown is itself breaking it,” said environmentalist Debi Goenka.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/citizens-group-claims-coastal-road-work-threatening-safety-of-staff/story-zUtzicdLaNFpFSggHuir1K.html
27-04-2020||Chandigarh||From doubling every 30 days, Covid cases now doubling in 12 days in Chandigarh||With a surge in positive cases over the last three days, the rate at which Covid-19 cases are doubling in the city has fallen sharply from 30.26 days on Friday to 12.34 days on Monday.This means, up till April 24, it took around 30 days for positive cases to double in the city, but now, cases are doubling in only around 12 days. The doubling rate of Covid-19 cases is calculated by using growth over the past seven days. In neighbouring Haryana, the doubling rate is 19 days.On April 24, Covid cases in the city stood at 27, then increased to 28 by April 25, but by April 27, the number of positive cases jumped to 45.As per Union health ministry guidelines, state and union territories have to calculate the doubling rate, which is also a determining factor for designating a hotspot.The city is a hotspot with several cases and is designated as a red zone by the Centre. The UT administration, too, designated the entire city as a containment zone on April 18. Hotspots (designated red zones) can be assumed to be undertaking effective containment activities if no case is reported in next 14 days (designated orange zones) and are deemed successful in containment if no case is reported for 28 days (designated green zones).With increasing number of cases in the city, UT officials admitted it was unlikely that major relaxations will be introduced in the city after May 3.Stating that a final decision on relaxations as well as the future course of action will be decided on May 2, UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida said, “I have constituted a committee headed by UT finance secretary AK Sinha and other senior UT officials. The committee will examine and recommend steps to be taken by the administration in the post-curfew period in the city.”The administration is mulling revoking curfew while continuing with the lockdown. It is also considering of opting for specific areas in the city to be designated as containment zones instead of the entire city, as is the case currently.The committee will make recommendations on issues such as public transport, opening of schools, colleges, hospitality industry, other industries, factories, shops, exemptions in lockdown measures, inter-state movement functioning of offices, distribution of essential items relief on taxes, rent and fees. The committee has been directed to submit its report by April 30.The Punjab governor and UT administrator VPS Badnore, on May 1 and May 2, will also hold discussions with stakeholders in the city before a final decision is taken on relaxations, said Parida. City MP Kirron Kher, several political parties, industries and business associations will be part of the discussion.“The final decision will be taken by UT administrator after taking the expert opinion of the medical community, and it will depend on the status of positive cases in the city,” added Parida.Punjab governor and UT administrator VP Singh Badnore will also convene a special meeting of chiefs of PGIMER, GMCH-32 and GMSH-16 on Tuesday, to discuss the issue of health workers getting infected with the virus. “The governor will meet chiefs of the three medical institutions to discuss safety protocol within the hospital campus. The UT adviser and health secretary will also participate in the video conference,” Parida said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/from-doubling-every-30-days-covid-cases-now-doubling-in-12-days-in-chandigarh/story-9O8e6A9AD7NN86IPdzDMlO.html
27-04-2020||Chandigarh||2 held with 251 country, English liquor bottles in Shimla||Two persons were arrested with 251 bottles of country and English liquor in Dhalli, which is around 5km away from the district headquarters, on Monday.The accused are Shyam Lal, of Amwla village, Kangra, and Keshav Ram, of Jubbal, Shimla.As many as 160 375ml bottles and 91 750ml bottles were seized. Acting on a tip-off, the police seized the liquor from a room in Dhalli and arrested the two men. Shimla superintendent of police (SP) Omapati Jamwal confirmed the report and said police are conducting the investigation.A case was registered under Section 39(A) of the Himchal Pradesh Excise Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2-held-with-251-country-english-liquor-bottles-in-shimla/story-lutuzHP1Cctgm02ncdLW3I.html
27-04-2020||City||50-year-old Thane cop recovers; colleagues shower him with petals||A 50-year-old senior police officer, who was a Covid patient, was discharged from a Mumbai hospital on Monday.A Nashik resident, he tested positive for coronavirus on April 11 in his home town. He was deployed in one of Thane’s hot spot to contain the situation.He was brought to a Mumbai hospital for treatment on April 15. After he tested negative, he was discharged. After he reached Mulund check naka, a group of policemen welcomed him, showering him with flower petals.The policeman was moved by the gesture.“My seniors and juniors from Thane took care of me like a family member by keeping in touch with me and motivating me throughout my days in hospital,” he said before leaving for Nashik where he will be home quarantined for few days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/50-year-old-thane-cop-recovers-colleagues-shower-him-with-petals/story-3E4TFmYTmS04NtsFYFo8mN.html
27-04-2020||Mumbai||10 Tablighi attendees from Indonesia held in Mumbai||Ten Indonesians nationals who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat programme at Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi in March were arrested by the Mumbai Police after they completed their 20-day quarantine.“The 10 were part of a group of 12 Indonesian nationals who had come to attend the religious gathering in Delhi. After being traced on April 1, two of them tested positive for Covid-19 and were admitted to Lilavati Hospital in Bandra. The remaining 10 were home quarantined for 20 days. We arrested them after their reports came back negative,” said Pranaya Ashok, Mumbai Police spokesperson and deputy commissioner of police (operation). The two who were admitted have now tested negative, and are under home quarantine till May 8, added Ashok.The accused were arrested on April 23 under sections 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease that is dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and were in police custody till April 28. Mumbai Police had earlier issued an advisory, warning people who had attended the meet in Delhi to come forward, failing which a first information report (FIR) would be registered against them.Police learnt that the 12 attendees had come to India on February 29 for the event and had come to Mumbai on March 7. They were staying at an apartment in Bandra. “From March on, they visited various places in the city, and we have initiated necessary action after conducting the contact tracing,” said a senior officer from Bandra police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/10-tablighi-attendees-from-indonesia-held-in-mumbai/story-D2cuns45m9YQyk1gRoymvK.html
27-04-2020||City||Giggles, smiles welcome volunteers distributing sanitary pads in Mohali||Giggles and shy smiles welcomed the volunteers of an NGO and Punjab police personnel who went door-to-door distributing sanitary napkins in Mohali colonies.In consideration of women’s menstrual health, Punjab Police started distributing free sanitary pads to women who cannot move out owing to the curfew imposed to contain the epidemic.For this endeavour, the NGO and Punjab police had primarily chosen colonies in Jagatpura which have been sealed owing to Covid 19 cases, Amb Sahib Colony, Ambedkar Colony and Azadpur Colony in Balongi in Mohali.“We had started using cloth when we couldn’t get sanitary pads. The problem was not just getting the pads, but also of disposing them,” said Santosh Rani, resident of Amb Sahib Colony and working as domestic help. She and her two daughters had resorted to using cloth as they couldn’t leave home to buy pads.“My father has been without work for more than a month now, so we’re saving every penny we have as we don’t know when this will end. How can I ask them to buy me pads?” said a 15-year old from Azadpur colony, not willing to be named. Her father, a driver, has been without work due to the curfew.“The women would pick the packets with a shy smile or giggle and cover them with their pallu and run back into the house,” said Gaurav Gaur, NSS, program officer, Panjab University, who, too, was part of the project. He said so far they have distributed about 1,400 packets of sanitary towels.“Initially people thought we were there to distribute gloves or masks. We had to make announcements that only women should come forward. They hesitated initially, but after sometime it didn’t matter whether the persons distributing pads was a male or a female,” Gaur added. Manjula Sularia, director of Prasanchetas Foundation, working on menstrual hygiene, said that when they reached out to the men and told them what they were distributing, they were pleasantly surprised. “In fact, it was the men who helped volunteers and cops to identify houses where women lived. There is huge demand for pads, as from one small room, we would see about 5 to 6 women emerging to collect the packets,” Sularia said.Punjab Police have distributed free sanitary pads as part of the #SheFirst campaign by Paree, a sanitary napkin brand. Sahil Dharia, founder and CEO of Paree, “We tied up with local enforcement agencies to reach out to women. In fact, the women are more than forthcoming in asking for sanitary pads, and did not shy away as we had anticipated.” “People were surprised to see Punjab police personnel knocking at doors to distribute sanitary napkins. No doubt people hesitated but women were forthcoming and demanded more packets. This shows how people living in slums have also started believing in the importance of menstrual hygiene,” said Gurpreet Deo, additional director general of police, community affairs division, Punjab. She added that in places such as Jagatpura, which are sealed due to Covid cases, police teams helped in drawing people out of their homes, while ensuring social distancing was maintained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/giggles-smiles-welcome-volunteers-distributing-sanitary-pads-in-mohali/story-LZ0bhDPmAEBlGxh3uhnz6H.html
27-04-2020||Chandigarh||While fear, hesitation grip Chandigarh residents bidding adieu to their loved ones, crematorium workers rise to the occasion||“In my 40 years of career, I have seen many different emotions in people who have lost their loved ones. But this is the first time that I am seeing fear and hesitation,” says Gulzar Singh, a 57-year-old worker at the LPG crematorium in Sector 25, Chandigarh.At a time when social distancing has become the norm, Gulzar and his team members Surender Kumar, 38, and Raghubir Singh, 39, are helping the UT administration cremate bodies of those who have died of Covid-19.Surender and Raghubir recall the first time they cremated a Covid positive person. “It was a moment of great fear. Neither were we given any training nor were we taught any protocol on how to handle such cases. We, too, have families. But we could see the helplessness of the deceased’s son,” says Surender.‘‘Since the government had mandated wearing of PPE suits, we waited for the gear to arrive, and as soon as it did, we immediately cremated his father,” Raghubir adds.To date, a total of four persons who have died of Covid-19 have been cremated at the LPG crematorium.The most difficult cremation for them, however, was that of the six-month-old baby. “I have never cremated a child before. I was shocked that no family member accompanied the dead infant,” says Gulzar, adding, “She was brought here by the Red Cross workers.”Back home, these unsung heroes have their own share of troubles. “Since our relatives got to know about the work that we have been doing at the crematorium, they have started maintaining a distance from us, which is fine because these days everybody fears for their lives. But we are performing our duty, we too need to earn and run the family,” say the trio.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/while-fear-hesitation-grip-chandigarh-residents-bidding-adieu-to-their-loved-ones-crematorium-workers-rise-to-the-occasion/story-llTSBdZmNswiOQrZxMoFtK.html
27-04-2020||Delhi||JNU’s School of Environment Studies starts online exams||The Jawaharlal Nehru University’s (JNU) School of Environmental Sciences on Monday began the online mid-semester examinations for its students to ensure minimal academic loss during the Covid-19 nationwide lockdown. The school was scheduled to conduct the mid-term exams from March 16, but had to reschedule it after a lockdown was announced on March 22.Applauding the move, vice-chancellor M Jagadesh Kumar said, “To complete the academic requirements for the MSc and MPhil/PhD degrees, the School of Environmental Sciences, JNU has started the mid-semester exams using digital means from today (April 27) until May 4.”Last week, the varsity had given the approval for all schools and centres to hold the examinations in their preferred mode -- online, offline, or a combination of both. The School of Environmental Sciences is among the five schools that approved the online mode of examinations. Students who miss these exams can appear for it later as well.Shairik Sengupta, who is pursuing his masters from SES, was among those who wrote his mid-semester paper on Monday. “We received the question papers via email at around 8am and were given 24 hours to submit the answers. Though the questions I answered today were similar to our offline examinations, there have been concerns over the quality of questions in the remaining papers, especially since this is an open-book examination,” he said.The second-year MSc student also pointed out that many students did not take their study material with them when they left for their hometowns in the run up to the lockdown. “In addition to slow internet issues, students don’t even have their study material at home. For them, the online examination can be an issue,” he said.Another student, Saumya Awasthi, said students were also concerned about the submission of their dissertation. “The last day of submission is May 22 and our department has decided to not extend the dates. We need our laboratories to conduct experiments and collect data for our thesis. It is not possible to finish the work even if lockdown restrictions are lifted on May 3,” she said.Asking to postpone the semester, Raj Maurya, student councillor for SES, said, “This situation is particularly bad for the MSc final year students as they could not start their dissertation work due to the university strike against fee hike from October to January.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/jnu-s-school-of-environment-studies-starts-online-exams/story-Vs3zcSC1iZzHPXFxfAg8fK.html
27-04-2020||Delhi||Chandi Mahal cop recovers from Covid-19, will join duty soon||One of the eight policemen from Chandni Mahal police station who were infected with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has returned from the quarantine centre after his two tests came negative. He is the second of 31 infected policemen to have recovered from the virus, senior police officers said. Deputy commissioner of police (central) Sanjay Bhatia said constable Vikas was the third constable in Chandni Mahal who had contracted the virus. “Constable Vikas’s two recent tests were negative for the disease. He wants to join duty. But we will keep him in a guest house in Karol Bagh for two more days before allowing him to resume work,” Bhatia said.The DCP said two other constables, who were among the first to test positive for Covid-19, are likely to get discharged from the quarantine centre in a day or two. As on date, 31 personnel from the city police have tested positive for the Covid-19, of which 14 are from central district’s Chandni Mahal, Nabi Karim and Jama Masjid police station. Another six personnel were from the Jahangirpuri police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/chandi-mahal-cop-recovers-from-covid-19-will-join-duty-soon/story-BaH9GNj3XZVg7hw2f2cPoI.html
27-04-2020||City||Punjab cop runs 42-km marathon, inspires public to take charge of health||To motivate people and to promote the importance of exercising at home, Rohit Heera, a sub inspector of Punjab Police, ran a 42-km marathon in the premises of Mohali’s state cyber crime cell.Heera is a committed marathoner who has taken part in more than 20 marathons across the country and earned several medals for it. He has dedicated this 42-km run to medical staff, police personnel, sanitisation workers, media people and workers delivering essential commodities, working at the frontline in the war against the coronavirus.He has urged people to exercise indoors for physical and mental well-being to cope with the stress caused by the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-cop-runs-42-km-marathon-inspires-public-to-take-charge-of-health/story-nrYwLjP08XdiUjPcN9aVKO.html
27-04-2020||Lucknow||Notice asks Kanika to appear in police station on April 30 in Lucknow||A notice was served on Bollywood singer Kanika Kapoor on Monday regarding the FIR registered against her for negligence and committing acts likely to spread a disease dangerous to life, police said. She has been asked to appear in Sarojininagar police station to record her statement on April 30.After Kanika tested coronavirus positive on March 20, police booked her under IPC sections 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 188 (disobeying government orders).The singer was hospitalized till April 6.ACP Deepak Singh said, “A police team was sent to Kanika Kapoor’s residence to serve the notice. She has been asked to record her statement on April 30.”On Sunday, Kanika had explained, on social media, her position on the controversies surrounding her after she tested Covid-19 positive.“I was giving time for the truth to prevail and for people to reach their own realisation,” she had tweeted on Sunday. “Every person I came in contact with in UK, Mumbai or Lucknow, has shown no symptoms of Covid-19. I travelled to Mumbai on March 10 and was screened at the airport. There was no advisory on that day for quarantine. I showed no ill-health, so did not quarantine myself.”She had added, “I travelled to Lucknow on March 11 to see my family but there was no screening for domestic flights. On March 14 and 15, I attended a friend’s lunch and dinner. I was in good health and did not host any party. I had symptoms on March 17 and 18 so I requested to be tested. I was tested on March 19 and on 20 I was informed that my test was positive. I chose to go to the hospital and was discharged on April 6.”Earlier, police had that said Kanika attended three functions/parties in the city on different days, came in contact with several VIPs, including top politicians, stayed in a top luxury hotel and travelled to a relative’s place in Kanpur after her arrival from London.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/notice-asks-kanika-to-appear-in-police-station-on-april-30-in-lucknow/story-n8CSe27DwBDK8BxXrOpLvL.html
27-04-2020||City||No fresh case reported from Panchkula district in a week, 2 more discharged||No fresh coronavirus disease (Covid-19) case has been reported from Panchkula district in the last seven days. The district count currently stands at 18. The last case was reported on April 20, when a 20-year-old Tablighi Jamaat attendee tested Covid-19 positive. Two Jamaat men, both residents of Banoi Khuda Baksh village in Pinjore, were discharged after their second test report came back negative on Monday, bring down active cases from eight to six. This comes day after seven family members of the positive Sector 15 woman were discharged.Both men – 20 and 27, are among four jamaat men, whose first test results had come back negative, on Friday.District Covid-19 nodal officer, Dr Rajiv Narwal said, “Out of the four jamaat men, two have recovered and been discharged from civil hospital. One has tested positive and the report of another is awaited.” Till now, seven Jamaat attendees have tested positive in Panchkula.“After the two were discharged, four jamaat men are currently admitted to the hospital. A 37-year-old attendee had been discharged on April 20,” an official said.On April 9, three men – 20, 37 and 80, who had attended a Tablighi Jamaat event in Sikar, Rajasthan, tested positive.On April 16, an 18-year-old boy from Khuda Baksh village in Pinjore tested positive as well, followed by two more men from the same village, the next day. Panchkula deputy commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said 1,442 samples have been taken so far, of which 18 tested positive and 1,312 negative. He said reports of at least 92 samples are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-fresh-case-reported-from-panchkula-district-in-a-week-2-more-discharged/story-z1WQkV0K32g0TORetC4jkK.html
27-04-2020||Delhi||Teen girl, forcibly married to 27-yr-old man on Akshay Tritiya, rescued; 7 booked||Amid the lockdown, a 16-year-old girl belonging to North Delhi’s Burari, who was forcefully married to a man in neighbouring Haryana’s Sonepat district was rescued on Sunday night (Akshay Tritiya) by the state police and NGO Bachpan Bachao Andolan, which had initially received the information. The police arrested seven persons in the case, including the girl’s father and the groom.According to Manish Sharma, senior manager of the NGO’s access to the justice department in Delhi, on April 25, he got a tip-off on his WhatsApp about a girl, a student of class 10 in a government-run school in Burari, being taken away by her father to get married in Haryana amid the lockdown.“The WhatsApp message I received was from an unknown number. It also mentioned the contact number of the girl’s father. I then shared the details with our Haryana state coordinator, who, in turn, informed the police and other state authorities,” said Sharma. As per a statement from the NGO, the state anti-human trafficking unit (AHTU) also took note and approached the police for help. The Sonepat police’s cyber-crime unit put the girls’ father’s phone on surveillance and tracked it down to the district’s Gohana village. “After being put on surveillance on April 26, it was found that the girl was married to a 27-year-old man late on the night ,of Akshay Tritiya. It has been a a long-standing tradition here, many people marry off their underage daughters on this day,” the NGO’s statement said. Subsequently, the police rounded up the suspects and rescued the girl. The girl was produced before the local Child Welfare Committee (CWC) whose members heard in detail the events leading to the arrests, it stated. Superintendent of Police (Sonepat) Jashandeep Singh Randhawa confirmed the arrests. “The minor has been rescued and seven people have been arrested in this connection,” he said. An FIR wa registered at the Gohana police station under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant when lockdown is in force), relevant provisions of Sections 370 (trafficking) and 370A (exploitation of a trafficked person) of the IPC, the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015, and Child Marriage (Prohibition) Act. The NGO in its statement further said, “It is now for the court to declare the ‘marriage’ null and void. The minor has been housed at a quarantine facility in Sonepat. The incident shows that children are not safe even with the lockdown and strict surveillance is required on the part of authorities in all states.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/teen-girl-forcibly-married-to-27-yr-old-man-on-akshay-tritiya-rescued-7-booked/story-lQnAuku2vJz9HuokAxuHeM.html
27-04-2020||Lucknow||Sighting of rare dolphins increases in Ganga basins of West UP||With people practising social distancing and staying at home due to the Covid-19 lockdown, endangered Gangetic dolphins are returning to their habitats, all thanks to the reduced water pollution and less human activities across the river in West UP. Dolphins’ sighting has increased at different locations in upper Gangetic basin (168 km stretch of Ganges between in Bijnor and Narora of West UP). Aquatic lovers are even sharing dolphins’ sightings in fresh water on twitter and other social media platforms and sharing knowledge about these aquatic mammals.Sandeep Behra, a biodiversity expert and associated as consultant with National Clean Ganga Mission shares, “At least 40 plus dolphins have been sighted in upper Gangetic basin and it is due to less human activities and reduced pollution level in the river.” He said these dolphins can differentiate only dark and light, but can’t see. They use echolocation, often known as sonar, to see better underwater. They are also known as indicator of a robust river and mainly found at confluence of tributaries and other water bodies in river Ganga.Behra said in upper Gangetic basins--Karnwas and Aahar in Bulandshshar district, Pooth in Hapur, Tigri in Amroha and a near barrage in Bijnor district are favourite spots for spotting these dolphins, which have been declared “National Aquatic Animal”. Besides, 82 kms stretch of Ganges between Garh Muktesgwar and Narora was the first wetland of UP declared “Ramsar Site” in the year 2006 for conservation of these dolphins. Ramsar is an international treaty for the conservation and sustainable use of wetlands. The treaty was signed in 1971 in the city of Ramsar in Iran, and India is one of its signatories. Dr Behra said that not only in upper Gangetic basin, but the sighting of these dolphins has also been noticed close to Ghats in Kolkata after a long period of three decades. “These are not mere sightings but indications that how animals and human are associated with each other, and increased human activities have driven them away from us.”These highly endangered fresh water dolphins (a species different from marine dolphins) are facing multiple threats for their existence. Chemical seepage in river from riverbed farming, illegal fishing activities, rising level of pollution and poaching for their blubber are some major threats to these dolphins.Two months ago an adult dolphin was killed in Hastinapur area of Meerut district and injuries of piercing it with some sharp weapon was spotted on its body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/sighting-of-rare-dolphins-increases-in-ganga-basins-of-west-up/story-ldT2mN63qdkOZV8eVXRLlO.html
27-04-2020||Delhi||Mansara Apartment residents get some freedom after relieved of ‘containment zone’ tag||It was after nearly a month that residents of Mansara Apartments, in east Delhi’s Vasundhra Enclave, heaved a sigh of relief. Not finding layers of police barricades at their gates was a welcome change. On March 31, five days after a resident tested positive for the coronavirus, the complex that has around 85 families was declared a containment zone. That was when the Delhi government’s SHIELD protocol kicked in: Sealing with barricades and police at the gate with no entry or exit for residents or outsiders, home quarantine for all residents, isolation and tracing, essentials would be home delivered (at the gate), local sanitisation and door-to-door health checks.Those involved in essential services were allowed to move but their health too is strictly monitored.Last Friday, the Delhi government ordered lifting of restrictions after no fresh cases were recorded during the stipulated 28 days since the last positive case was detected.After staying locked up in their houses, sustaining on home deliveries from local grocery stores, residents finally stepped out on Saturday to purchase essential commodities. “I went out in the morning to get some milk and vegetables and it felt really nice. We know this freedom has come at a cost, so we are maintaining social distancing, wearing masks and taking all the precautions. This has, however, been a glimmer of hope for all of us in these tough times,” said Shailja Srivastava, a resident of the colony.The “freedom”, however, is not full as the Capital still is under lockdown to contain the spread of the virus. Government officials said they instructed the residents to use their judgment before stepping out.District magistrate (east), Arun Mishra said, “Though the apartment has been de-contained, we have asked the residents to refrain from moving out frequently to quell any chance of the virus spreading.”A senior Delhi police officer from the district, said, “We met with the residents’ welfare association (RWA) before the official announcement of de-containment was made. We told them that the situation for them might have eased but the general scenario in the city is still grim. There are some basic things, such as relying on home delivery services and restricting movement of people within the colony, that the residents must continue to follow,”The RWA released advisories to engage with their members and sought their cooperation in this regard. Sourabh Mukherjee, president of the RWA, said that they have relaxed the mandatory home delivery of essentials.“Today people went out to buy groceries and also stepped out for a walk within the society. But all these activities were done keeping social distancing in mind. We have also issued advisory regarding “dos and don’ts” for the residents. We have asked them to not step out unless it’s very important. We will follow all measures to avoid any possibility of the coronavirus disease spreading,” Mukherjee said.The local grocery shops say they will continue to offer home deliveries to the residents and also to all those nearby.“We are making nearly 40 to 50 deliveries everyday across all colonies here and all the shop owners selling essential commodities are trying to do our best to ensure that people do not have to step out. We will continue to do so,” said Vishal Agarwal, owner of a grocery store near Dharamshila Narayana Super Specialty Hospital, which is less than a kilometre away from Mansara Apartments.Arzoo Raj, a resident of Mansara Apartment in Vasundhara Enclave said that there was no fresh case reported from the locality so de-containment was a “required move”.“It is a welcome move. Regular screening of residents was being conducted ever since the society was declared a containment zone. Therefore no fresh cases appeared. The authorities helped us in getting essential items at our doorsteps. We still will take precautions and avoid going out of the society,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/mansara-apartment-residents-get-some-freedom-after-relieved-of-containment-zone-tag/story-gfYVRcWeB5Reb0wOUITFhM.html
27-04-2020||City||Jan Sahayak app to provide plethora of facilities to residents amid lockdown in Panchkula||To get various facilities such as ration, telemedicine, appointment to go to banks among others, amid the coronavirus outbreak, Panchkula residents can now sign up at the ‘Jan Sahayak’ mobile application launched by the government. This was told by Panchkula deputy commissioner (DC) Mukesh Kumar Ahuja who said the mobile application, which is available on android plays store, has been specifically designed to help the needy during corona crisis. “The aim is to provide convenience to the people through just one click. Also, for those who could not get below poverty line (BPL) cards due to any reason or has applied for the same, we have planned to give free ration till June 30. For this, the portal has been opened and from April 28, we will start giving ‘distress ration tokens’,” said the DC.He said the mobile application also provides an option for farmers to book a gate pass to sell their crops in mandis. In addition, citizens receiving financial assistance can find out in real time the eligibility and status of their application. “The application is available in both Hindi and English languages and is GPS-enabled. Its purpose is to provide the necessary and timely support to every person. It also provides the option of home delivery of cash to people. To use this facility, the user has to choose the option, after which the cash will be disbursed through postman without any cost through postal bank,” said Ahuja.HARYANA SPEAKER FELICITATES SANITATION WORKERS IN PANCHKULAHaryana assembly speaker and Panchkula MLA Gian Chand Gupta on Monday felicitated the sanitation workers by presenting them with certificates of appreciation, gloves, masks and fruits at the municipal corporation office in Sector 14. The workers were welcomed with flowers and were handed over 2,000 double layered cloth masks, 2,000 gloves and 1,000 hats.Gupta said that every sanitation worker should be provided with two masks, gloves and caps so that they can protect themselves as well as society in this hour of crisis.MC commissioner Sumedha Kataria said the sanitation workers are working with dedication and have been provided with Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits also. She said that the work of collecting garbage is also being done smoothly in the quarantine centres along with the cleaning system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jan-sahayak-app-to-provide-plethora-of-facilities-to-residents-amid-lockdown-in-panchkula/story-ZbvZBD1OYqN9TDFRoTWwWI.html
27-04-2020||Lucknow||Twin west UP villages set up own system to check lockdown violation||From installing CCTV cameras all over, to manning the borders against visit by outsiders and setting up their own home delivery model, twin villages in Hapur district, Upeda and Lahadra are doing their bit to prevent lockdown violation.Hapur’s Upeda village has a population of around 10,000 people. Village head Meghraj Singh said with the help of panchayat’s money allotted for village development, 64 CCTV cameras and 20 loudspeakers have been installed all over the village. “The monitoring unit is set up in ‘Panchayat Ghar’ from where regular monitoring is done in three shifts- from 6am to noon, noon to 4pm and then from 4 pm to 10 pm,” said Meghraj. “With the help of CCTV cameras, we make sure that everyone follows lockdown and remain indoors. We keep making announcements on loudspeakers to warn villagers against moving out aimlessly,” said the village head. “Apart from this, 4 teams of villagers have also been set up. One takes care of the borders of the village while other three teams move around the village, counselling masses on the need to follow social distancing and staying indoors,” he added. “Whenever anyone is caught on CCTV roaming outside without any appropriate reasons, their name is called out on the public address system. They are then asked to stay indoors,” Chatar Singh, a villager of Upeda said. “In case any outsider enters our village, immediately the information reaches the authorities who quiz the visitor about the reason for his arrival. The outsiders are granted entry only if they give valid reasons,” he added. Lahadra with a population of 3,500 people is another village taking measures to prevent people against coronavirus infection. “All the entry points of the village are sealed by the youngsters of the village in the wake of Coronavirus. More than 30 youths are engaged in the ‘fight against Coronavirus’ in the village,” said Manoj Kumar, the 35 year old village head of Lahadra. “These youths move around in small batches to conduct door-to-door awareness sessions around the village,” he said. “Apart from that, all daily requirements for villagers are provided by these teams who have distributed WhatsApp numbers among the villagers asking them to list their routine requirements like milk, vegetables and ration which is delivered at the people’s doorstep,” he said. Kumar said that the villagers are cooperating by following the lockdown as people step out only in unavoidable circumstances. “To keep a check on entry points of the village, villagers are working in three shifts of 8 hours each and man these points. In case any outsiders wants to enter, villagers inform the police and health authorities before granting them entry,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/twin-west-up-villages-set-up-own-system-to-check-lockdown-violation/story-xB01xtc1IIn1zGLT7ypa5I.html
27-04-2020||Lucknow||Man tests positive in Covid-free Bareilly||A 38-year-old man in Bareilly tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday, according to chief medical officer VK Shukla.The sample of the man, a resident of Hajiapur locality in Bareilly, was sent to Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI) on Sunday and the man tested positive for coronavirus in the report sent to the CMO on Monday.Bareilly was declared corona-free when six people, resident of Subhash Nagar, all from same family and diagnosed with the deadly virus had recovered fully and were discharged from the hospital on April 17.According to CMO Shukla, the 38-year-old man had complained of breathing problem initially and was admitted to the district hospital on Saturday. His condition deteriorated after which he was shifted to SRMS hospital, which is a level 1 Covid-19 facility. Shukla said the man’s contacts were being investigated and precautionary steps were being taken to sanitise Hajiapur locality and declare it a containment zone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/man-tests-positive-in-covid-free-bareilly/story-5yHqsdDVwFHEiX3DuHnrxI.html
27-04-2020||City||Unable to pay salaries, Panchkula schools call for govt to review mandate on fees||The Panchkula Public Schools Association (PPSA) on Monday has written to the director general of secondary education, Haryana, seeking a review of the government orders in regard with voluntary fees and suitable amendments regarding deposition of the same by parents amid the lockdown.In their letter, the association said they have not asked any parents to deposit any school fee immediately; however, a few parents have come forward to deposit fees voluntarily.Piyush Punj, secretary PPSA, said that under these circumstances, the fees collected are inadequate to meet usual salary disbursal expenses. “Private schools in the city are unable to generate revenue as to date, about only 10% of parents have deposited fees voluntarily. Even those who can pay are consciously considering the lockdown period as a fee-free period,” he said.The association members said teachers were giving their best despite hectic routines with online classes. They said schools have been successful in conducting such classes for students but they should not be made to bear unsustainable losses.Punj said schools were currently facing a cash crunch, making it difficult for managements to fulfill liabilities, such as salaries of teachers and other staff. Also, many schools have reported that pending fees of defaulters are yet to be recovered, he added.The association also took up transport issues, citing that there are certain fixed expenses incurred through the year, such as salaries of drivers, conductors and monthly EMI’s to be paid to banks, insurance and other taxes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/unable-to-pay-salaries-panchkula-schools-call-for-govt-to-review-mandate-on-fees/story-J2RiDCVAnkMDKvolLMEKIP.html
27-04-2020||Pune||Five deaths, 78 new Covid-19 cases in Pune on Monday||The city reported five deaths and 78 fresh cases of Covid-19 positive patients on Monday. The death toll in the city is 77 as of Monday evening while the total progressive positive cases stand at 1,217. Also, 11 patients were discharged on Monday after being declared as fully recovered, taking the final count of recoveries to 176 in the city.Four deaths were reported from Sassoon and one from Deenanth Mangeshkar Hospital on Monday. The four deaths include a 64-year-old female from Ghorpadi gaon who was symptomatic since April 18 and was admitted to Sassoon General Hospital on April 23. She tested Covid-19 positive on April 24. She also suffered from hypertension and diabetes. She was declared dead on April 26 at 9:30pm.The second death was of a 48-year-old female residing at Parvati who was symptomatic since April 16 and was admitted to the hospital on April 18. She tested positive on the day of admission. She suffered from diabetes, hypertension, ischaemic heart disease, obesity, multiple organ dysfunction syndrome (MODS), acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), myocarditis and acute kidney injury. She was declared dead on Monday at 12.30am.The third death was of a 38-year-old male from Kondhwa who was symptomatic since April 19 and who was admitted to Sassoon on April 25. The swab report came Covid-19 positive on Monday and the patient was declared dead at 10am on Monday. He suffered from diabetes mellitus and acute kidney injury. The fourth death, which took place on April 12, was brought on record on Monday by the Sassoon administration, of a 65-year-old female residing at Somwar peth who was symptomatic since April 8. The patient was admitted to Sassoon on April 11 and was on mechanical ventilator. The patient died on April 12 at 8 am and her swab report was received on the same day in the evening. The fifth death reported from the private hospital was of a 74-year-old male from Khadki who was admitted to Deenanth on April 26 and died early morning on Monday. The patient suffered from multi organ distress syndrome, urosepticshock and diabetes along with being Covid-19 positive. Out of the 77 deaths reported in Pune city, 59 are from Sassoon General Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/five-deaths-78-new-covid-19-cases-in-pune-on-monday/story-Nzo2jESyO0v66H0DUuqUkJ.html
27-04-2020||Lucknow||BHU study: Pollution in Ganga has decreased by 25% to 30% during lockdown||Water pollution in river Ganga has decreased by 25% to 30% during the lockdown implemented to contain the spread of coronavirus, said professor BD Tripathi, chairman, Mahamana Malaviya Research Centre for Ganga, River Development and Water Resource Management (MMRC for Ganga), BHU on Monday.The conclusion was arrived on the basis of study of water samples collected on March 24 and on April 20.Prof Tripathi said the composite samples of Ganga water were collected from five locations, including Shooltankeshwar Ghat, Samne Ghat, Asi Ghat, Dashashwamedh Ghat and Rajghat before the announcement of Lockdown on March 24 and then during the lockdown on April 20.“By composite samples, we mean the average of five samples each from different spots of every site. They are collected for accurate results,” said Prof Tripathi.Prof Tripathi said, “We tested Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) and Dissolved Oxygen (DO) level in the Ganga water samples. We found that the concentration of dissolved oxygen increased by 20 to 30 percent in Ganga water and the concentration of biochemical oxygen decreased from 35 to 40 percent. In total, Ganga pollution load has been decreased from 25 to 30 percent.” Prof Tripathi added that there has been a very positive effect on Ganga as the river shows that it can rejuvenate itself.Insisting that there were many reasons for the decrease in pollution in Ganga, he said the pollution has decreased because there was around 40 percent decrease in the number of bodies cremated at Manikarnika Ghat and Harishchandra Ghat. There is also a check on the immersion of half-burnt flesh content of cremated bodies in the river Ganga.Prof Tripathi said that at present the discharge of toxic effluent from more than 1,000 small scale and cottage industries and motor workshops is completely stopped in Ganga in Varanasi.Prof Tripathi further added that during the sampling of water from Ganga, the highest transparency was observed because fishes were seen swimming up to the depth of one meter from the surface of the Ganga.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/bhu-study-pollution-in-ganga-has-decreased-by-25-to-30-during-lockdown/story-ffyblTwG6csVQHTgu20u1O.html
27-04-2020||City||18-month-old boy recovers from Covid||The 18-month-old boy from Jasai in Uran taluka, a Covid-19 patient, was discharged from MGM Hospital Panvel on Monday.Officials of Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC), who were present at the hospital, clapped and cheered for the child.Sub-divisional officer Dattatray Navale said, “The child tested positive and was admitted to MGM Hospital Panvel on April 16. Two of his tests were negative and so he was discharged on Monday.”“His mother also tested negative. We could not trace from where he got the infection as his close contacts tested negative. We are happy that the child has recovered,” said Navale.He was given warm send-off by PCMC chief Ganesh Deshmukh, sub-divisional officer, doctors and other officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/18-month-old-boy-recovers-from-covid/story-9zKZ5ObApLj97I1u4iEteJ.html
27-04-2020||Chandigarh||Week on, Covid-19 concerns, strict norms keep most industries in Punjab shut||The easing of lockdown norms by the Union home ministry and state government has done little to get the industries on track in Punjab.A week after the Centre allowed industrial operations in non-containment areas with certain restrictions to restart economic activity, only 3,341, or say 1.32%, of the 2,52,741 registered units are working in the state, according to the latest information by the industries department. Of these industrial units, 2,650 were already running when the modified lockdown norms kicked in last week, while 691 have resumed production since.The remaining factory owners have been held back by the strict norms, disruption of supply chain and the prevailing business environment even as fresh Covid-19 cases continue to fuel fears in the state’s industrial hubs. Five industrial districts of Jalandhar, SAS Nagar (Mohali), Patiala, Ludhiana and Amritsar account for 73% of the total 330 infected cases so far.Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU) president Upkar Singh Ahuja said that minimum 70% industry must be allowed in one go on all-India basis along with warehouses, industrial supplies, and smooth transportation of goods, otherwise manufacturing activity would not start due to shortage of raw material and components. “At the same time, sales outlets should be opened in compliance with social distancing norms. Workers should be allowed to commute to the factories on foot or on own two-wheelers individually,” he said, listing the measures needed to restart industrial activity in a phased manner.Seconding these views, Surinder Singh Chouhan, president of industrial focal point phase 6 in Ludhiana, said industry would find it difficult to resume operations till the entire supply chain, from availability of raw material to transportation and retail sale of products, is restored.Industries Director C Sibin said the state government was giving permission to all those who fulfilled the conditions, but not many industries located within the city limits in places such as Ludhiana were granted relaxations under the modified lockdown norms issued by the Centre. “Also, industry and district administration are cautions about Covid-19 related health concerns,” he said, stating reasons for the lukewarm response across the state.Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh has, in a letter to Union home minister Amit Shah, also urged to allow opening of small shops, businesses and industries in all areas except containment zones, giving an assurance that the state would comply with the norms to prevent the spread of Covid-19.In the state’s industrial hub of Ludhiana, 1,014 of the 95,202 units are operating currently. Of these, 413 factories had restarted operations during the initial 21-day lockdown (curfew in Punjab), which was extended by the Centre on April 14 for 19 more days, after the CM on March 29 had asked the industry to start operations to stop the exodus of migrant workers from the state.Similarly, only a few factories are working in the remaining districts with lower staff capacities. In SAS Nagar, 160 of the 15,564 industrial units are open. In Amritsar, which is home to 20,200 units, only 121 are running as of now.Balwinderpal Singh, general manager of district industries centre in Amritsar, said, “Being an old city, most factories are located within the urban limits. Those units located in rural areas, outside the municipal limits or in industrial zones are facing raw material availability and delivery issues,” he said, buttressing CICU’s contention.The Union home ministry had on April 15 issued detailed guidelines allowing factories in rural areas (outside the limits of municipal corporations and municipalities), special economic zones, industrial townships, and industrial estates, besides export-oriented units (EoUs), in non-Covid hotspots and containment zones to reopen from April 20 onwards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/week-on-covid-19-concerns-strict-norms-keep-most-industries-in-punjab-shut/story-XpvCxIpHvEHHlT8H2RkewI.html
27-04-2020||City||2-year-old girl, her mother test positive for Covid-19 in Thane||A two-year-old girl and her 28-year-old mother from Diva were among 15 people who tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday in Thane. An eight-year-old boy also tested positive.The total number of cases in Thane has risen to 241. “We are yet to trace the contacts of the mother and child. Most cases detected recently are of people who had been in contact with positive patients,” said Sandeep Malvi, public relations officer, Thane Municipal Corporation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-year-old-girl-her-mother-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-thane/story-hzrkAw0bkNHC8RkHf9gsRK.html
27-04-2020||City||All those who returned from Shri Hazur Sahib to be quarantined: Mohali DC Girish Dayalan||After five asymptomatic people who returned from Shri Hazur Sahib in Nanded, Maharashtra, tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Tarn Taran district, all those returning from the pilgrimage will be put in quarantine facilities of the district administration, Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said. He said samples of all returning pilgrims will be collected by teams of the health department. Dayalan said if found positive, they will be put under isolation in state quarantine facilities, and if negative, they will be put under home quarantine for 14 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/all-those-who-returned-from-shri-hazur-sahib-to-be-quarantined-mohali-dc-girish-dayalan/story-jpOhsMwClvBhRb2D3dAnmM.html
27-04-2020||Chandigarh||Manmohan to guide Punjab’s expert group on post-covid revival plan||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Monday said former prime minister Manmohan Singh has accepted his request for guiding a 20-member group of experts that the state has formed to come out with a post-covid-19 revival strategy for the state. The group, formed on April 25, is headed by former planning commission chairman Montek Singh Ahluwalia and held its introductory meeting with the CM on Monday, via video-conference.Montek told the meeting that the group of experts that had co-opted two more members had been further divided into sub-groups of finance, agriculture, health, industry and social aid.Amarinder told the group that the state’s financial situation was grim, with monthly revenue losses to the tune of Rs 3,360 crore. This includes losses on account of GST (Rs 1,322 crore), state excise on liquor (Rs 521 crore), motor vehicle tax (Rs 198 crore), VAT on petrol and diesel (Rs 465 crore), electricity duty (Rs 243 crore), stamp duty (Rs 219 crore) and Non-tax Revenue (Rs 392 crore).The state’s cash inflows had completely dried up, said the CM, adding that power consumption had declined by 30%, casing a daily loss of Rs 30 crore. The state’s industry has been shut down, with less than 1% of working, he added. Group member and industrialist SP Oswal said the state and the industry were facing a hard time.Group’s deliberations afutile exercise: Bir DevinderFormer deputy speaker of Punjab Vidhan Sabha Bir Devinder Singh has claimed that the group’s deliberation will be a futile exercise. “It has no practical knowledge of Punjab’s problems; hence I am afraid that the deliberations of the expert group would merely be a futile exercise of optics without any cogent objectivity and meaningful delivery for the purpose it has been constituted,” he said.“How will the state government, or for that matter, the expert group, will ascertain and visualise a post-covid scenario, when you have no idea when Punjab would be free of the virus,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/manmohan-to-guide-punjab-s-expert-group-on-post-covid-revival-plan/story-fhIe35aSmYk4WX4y02WJZI.html
27-04-2020||City||Amritsar will be joined to Delhi-Katra expressway: Singla||A day after Congress MP from Amritsar Gurjit Singh Aujla and BJP Rajya Sabha Member from Punjab Shwait Malik wrote to the Centre to raise objection over the ‘exclusion’ of Amritsar from Rs 60,000 crore Delhi-Amritsar-Katra expressway project, Punjab public works minister Vijay Inder Singla said Amritsar will be joined to the expressway. “A spur at Kartarpur will join the Kartarpur-Amritsar section with the expressway. This section will be developed as 6-lane access controlled expressway along the existing alignment only,” the minister said. The expressway is aimed at promoting tourism by linking two major religious shrines, the Golden Temple in Amritsar and the Mata Vaishno Devi Temple in Katra of Jammu and Kashmir. Notably, the website of the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change, shows that Amritsar district is not part of the execution plan of the project, which means the expressway bypasses the district in the alignment proposed. To this, the minister added, “The alignment approved by Punjab and the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) provides the shortest, and express, connectivity to the cities of Amritsar, Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Sangrur, Patiala with the National Capital as well as to UT of J&K.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amritsar-will-be-joined-to-delhi-katra-expressway-singla/story-j5JxxU44afEJX2dvqgyOkN.html
27-04-2020||Lucknow||From resistance to cooperation: How attitude began to change in Kasaibada||A dual policy of reaching out to residents and going tough on lockdown violators is beginning to yield results in Sadar’s Kasaibada locality, the first to be declared a coronavirus hotspot in Lucknow.“As a result of the carrot and stick policy, more than 300 people from the area of Kasaibada have been tested and now there is no resistance to testing,” says Amit Mishra, chief executive officer of the Cantonment Board.“Initially we thought that police and administration would be able to handle the situation. But when we saw the inhabitants were not under control, we decided to be very strict with people who were creating problems for the authorities. We decided to go for aggressive testing in every house and anyone stopping that would be dealt with according to the law,” Mishra adds.Kasaibada area of Lucknow’s Sadar area was declared a hotspot when 12 jamaatis were found infected with the coronavirus on April 3. Later, 74 more people tested positive. About 3,000-4,000 residents of Kasaibada live in ghettos.“At the same time, we had to create awareness among the people and meet their daily needs like milk, bread and other food items. We arranged a community kitchen to ensure proper food distribution in every house in the presence of the local corporator and other influential people. We also motivated the residents to volunteer for testing as it was in their interest to do so. The corporator and influential people played their part perfectly,” Mishra says.At present, the authorities are distributing food to rozedars in the evening and encouraging them to get medically examined, says Mishra.However, some people still ventured outdoors, defying the lockdown and spat ‘deliberately’ on the road and then ran away. “We decided to go tough against these misguided people, who are trying to test the patience of the police. We used informants to record their acts on mobile phone cameras. We also used our CCTV network and drones to control such activities. Around 30 FIRs were lodged against troublemakers and 15 of them were arrested on the basis of evidence,” the CEO said.Local corporator Anjum Ara says, “Person-to-person contact while distributing food brought things in our favour. We not only supplied food but also medicines, fruits, and other household items. A WhatsApp group was also created and officials of the Cantonment Board, the district administration and police were included. People’s queries were answered. This swung the game in our favour and now residents are coming for tests on their own accord and have started maintaining social distancing.”The corporator also says, “After jamaatis were taken away, the lack of trust was visible as people were not happy with the police. But now they have befriended them as police are supplying food and medicine daily.”Taking the help of public representative worked, says district magistrate Abhishek Prakash. “Such interventions are required where people are less aware, less educated. We are confident we will control the coronavirus in the area soon,” he says.“For decades, the authorities shut their eyes to problems of the area, where certain pockets lack toilets and ventilation. Now it’s the time to address real issues like proper toilets and running water supply,” says Pramod Sharma, former vice-president, Cantonment Board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/from-resistance-to-cooperation-how-attitude-began-to-change-in-kasaibada/story-xcJQQc2Zbzbb7n4aLUfyFO.html
27-04-2020||City||STF recovers cash, drugs from Nabha ASI’s house||Two Punjab Police personnel, including an assistant sub-inspector and a constable, have booked for allegedly running drug business in connivance with drug peddlers during lockdown.A team of STF, led by deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Sukhamrit Singh, raided ASI Manjit Singh’s residence on Sunday night. Manjit is the chowki in-charge of Rohti Pull police station in Nabha.The team raided his house and office and recovered 5gm heroine, 15kg poppy husk, 250gm charas, 30 illicit liquor and Rs 2.7 lakh ‘drug money’.The cash was recovered from his house while the drugs were found from the residential quarter of the accused at the police station, STF AIG Gurpreet Singh told HT.ASI Manjit Singh and constable Gagandeep Singh have been booked at Mohali STF police station for alleged involvement in drug trade under the NDPS Act and under Sections 213 and 166 of the IPC. Both the accused are absconding.IG STF Balkar Singh Sidhu said said that the accused cops used set drug smugglers free in exchange of money. They used to seize the drugs from the smugglers and keep it with themselves.“The accused cops caught two drugs smugglers Barinder Singh and Manjit Kaur on April 24 and let them go after setting deal for releasing Barinder for Rs 2.5 lakh and Manjit Kaur for Rs 1 lakh,” the IG said.The STF said two days back, both the cops had taken in possession the car of a drug smuggler and demanded money to release the vehicle.Police have recovered the cash taken in exchange of the vehicle and recovered the car.Senior superintendent of police Mandeep Singh Sidhu said both the accused cops have been dismissed from the service with immediate effect.“We will not tolerate such elements. Further punitive action will be initiated against the two,” the SSP said.One of the officials, privy to the investigation, said “The accused ASI shares cordial relations with the personal assistant of a Congress leader. Investigation is on as we are collecting more information on call records of the accused.”The Rohti Pull police station is situated at Rohti Chhanna village, where many residents have been booked under the NDPS Act. The area is infamous for illicit activities.People of the surrounding villages have protested over this on multiple occasions and raised questions on the working of police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/stf-recovers-cash-drugs-from-nabha-asi-s-house/story-lwO8AQ6DWOiH2zKcMs3KkL.html
27-04-2020||Chandigarh||Rohtak PGI to explore TB vaccine’s efficacy to tackle Covid||Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak in Haryana will shortly start clinical trials to research the efficacy of a tuberculosis vaccine, the recombinant Bacillus Calmette Guerin (BCG), to potentially protect people from the novel coronavirus.The development is significant in present times when the need to have an antidote to tackle the fast spread of respiratory illness is being looked for. The BCG vaccine protects against tuberculosis and is administered to newborn infants in the country.Professor of pharmacology at the institute, Savita Verma who is the primary investigator for clinical trials said that the drug controller general of India (DCGI) has granted them the permission to hold a clinical trial for the rBCG. “We have also obtained regulatory permissions from the ethics committee of the PGIMS,’’ she said.Head of the pulmonary and critical care medicine at PGIMS Professor Dhruva Chaudhary who is also a part of the clinical trial team said the trials are aimed to find out whether rBCG boosts immunity and can decrease the incidence or severity of symptoms in patients infected with the coronavirus.Professor Chaudhary who is also the nodal officer for Covid-19 at PGIMS said that BCG was developed as a vaccine against tuberculosis, but studies have shown its ability to induce potent protection against other infectious diseases.“A favorable effect has been observed in studies on BCG for distinct viral pathogens like the respiratory syncytial virus (RSV), a common respiratory virus which causes mild, cold-like symptoms,” Prof Chaudhary said.Prof Verma said rBCG is a live vaccine against tuberculosis and is based on the well known BCG strain used since 1921 and administered approximately four billion times worldwide. “As BCG is not sufficiently effective to stop the spread of tuberculosis, two modifications have been implemented in rBCG to improve its immunogenicity. Thus it is believed to be an appropriate means for improving the induction of immunity,’’ she said.The PGIMS research team said due to the capacity of BCG to reduce the incidence of respiratory tract infections in children, they hypothesise that this vaccination may induce some protection against the susceptibility to or severity of SARS-CoV-2 infection.What are clinical trials The World Health Organization (WHO) says clinical trials are a type of research that studies new tests and treatments and evaluates their effects on human health outcomesPeople volunteer to take part in clinical trials to test medical interventions including drugs, cells and other biological productsThe trials are carefully designed, reviewed and completed, and need to be approved before they can startrBCG trials at PGIMS will be done on above 18 individuals who have come in contact with Covid-19 patients and include health care workersInformed consent will be taken by the institute from every person involved in the trial||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/rohtak-pgi-to-explore-tb-vaccine-s-efficacy-to-tackle-covid/story-bzcf7eTp0WIKIAmsN1l8IK.html
27-04-2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Lack of piped water, narrow lanes evoke concern in Sadar’s Kasaibada||The fight against Covid-19 is quite tough in Sadar’s Kasaibada locality, more so because of a lack of piped water supply in illegal brick houses that have mushroomed along the railway track in the area over the years.Running water is essential to wash one’s hands with soap for at least 20 seconds as this is an effective way to keep the Sars-Cov-2 pathogen at bay.The lack of running water is not the only matter of concern as these illegal houses don’t have toilets in them. Although the Cantonment Board has constructed public toilets and mobile toilets, most slum-dwellers still relieve themselves beside drains or the railway track. Despite the area being open defecation free, residents of Sadar’s Kasaibada just have one toilet per 200 people.The area was declared a hotspot on April 3 after 12 Tablighi Jamaat members were found infected with the coronavirus. Since then, 74 more people have tested positive in Sadar, Kasaibada.Arif, a resident of Kasaibada, says, “A number of houses in narrow lanes across the railway track are illegally constructed. They don’t have access to proper civic amenities and basic hygiene.”Another resident Abid says, “Lack of awareness about sanitation, modern education in slums of Kasaibada in Sadar are making things difficult.”Most of the slum-dwellers are butchers and vegetable vendors. Some of the houses are situated on two- feet wide streets and have very little ventilation with narrow drainage giving an open invitation to disease.“The houses are so small that it is not possible for anyone to isolate family members in case of an infection. They don’t have space, no separate rooms for home quarantine,” says Anjum Ara, the local corporator.She says, “Initially, they were taking the coronavirus infection like any other infection because they did not know about the havoc caused by the virus in Wuhan, China. They were under the impression that they would remain unaffected by the virus as they have better immunity than others.”“Earlier, many residents were not cooperating with the health officials because there was a trust deficit. Secondly, none of them wanted to be quarantined, if they tested positive,” she says.Cantonment Board chief executive officer Amit Mishra, who has supervised the work in this hotspot, says, “Our staff has entered the lanes, where no one dared to go in the past. It has been possible with perfect cooperation among the district administration, the police and the Cantonment authorities. We cleaned all the drains. We are cleaning the lanes regularly. Sanitisation is ensured daily. We have sealed entry points from the railway tracks. The shanties of butchers, where animals used to be slaughtered illegally in the past, have been seized.”He says, “We have ensured water supply in houses allotted to butchers, but the illegal houses along the railway track don’t have piped water supply. We have now put pressure on them to use public toilets and mobile toilets, but many of them still relieve themselves beside drains and the railway track. Awareness about basic hygiene is being created through corporators and influential people,” he says.He says, “The presence of security personnel, cameras, drones and lodging of FIRs against some people has also instilled the fear of law among hooligans who used to pelt people with stones and disappear inside narrow lanes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/lucknow-lack-of-piped-water-narrow-lanes-evoke-concern-in-sadar-s-kasaibada/story-RxcFP5qY521NDHbc9sDReL.html
27-04-2020||City||Procurement agencies to face action for tardy lifting in Karnal||Following multiple complaints of tardy lifting and glut in mandis, the district administration issued strict instructions to procurement agencies to speed up the lifting process else criminal cases will be registered against them under the Epidemic Act. Karnal deputy commissioner (DC) Nishant Kumar Yadav on Monday paid surprise visit to district grain markets and directed the officials of procurement agencies to speed up the lifting process to ease the procurement operations.The DC also made it clear that strict action will be taken against those agencies which fail to lift wheat from the mandis as per the schedule. As per the reports from the Haryana State Agriculture Marketing Board officials, about 40% of the procured wheat was still lying in the mandis.The heaps of wheat in the mandis have created a glut and the farmers are not getting enough space to unload their produce. The DC issued directions to the mandi secretaries to cancel the license of those commission agents who are found violating the norms of the procurement. Notices have been issued to 14 commission agents for not following the lockdown instructions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/procurement-agencies-to-face-action-for-tardy-lifting-in-karnal/story-DV5K5rflRvsKAjOytV5uTN.html
27-04-2020||City||TMC seals two areas in Thane||The increasing number of Covid cases in Wagle Estate and Lokmanya Nagar in Thane has prompted Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) to seal the two areas till May 3. Only medical shops and clinics will be opened in the two areas from Monday midnight. On Monday, there were four Covid positive cases from Wagle Estate and two from Lokmanya Nagar. Wagle Estate has 24 positive cases so far.“I surveyed Wagle Estate on Monday and found that the narrow lanes will not allow residents to maintain social distancing. So, we have decided to seal the area completely. Those residents with symptoms will be checked and history of those who are positive is being traced,” said Vijay Singhal, TMC commissioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tmc-seals-two-areas-in-thane/story-dPwzuSYqj6IHvJruxHhwJP.html
27-04-2020||Chandigarh||Khattar seeks clarity from Centre on schedule of competitive exams||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Monday asked the central government to provide clarity on the schedules of various entrance examinations for medical and engineering colleges like JEE and NEET as well as combined defence services and national defence exam for the armed forces. Speaking during a videoconference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday, Khattar said a large number of students preparing for the competitive exams were anxious because of ambiguity over the examination dates.The chief minister said the statistics regarding Covid-19 cases were quite promising. “We are testing 3,115 samples everyday. Of total 22, 243 tests conducted till date, only 299 have been found positive. After treatment, 205 patients have recovered and been discharged,” he added. Khattar said his government was putting ‘a lot of emphasis’ on screening and testing. Total 20,792 teams, including Asha and Anganwadi workers, have been formed for this purpose, he said, adding that screening of 100% families in Haryana is being carefully carried out and samples are being taken of all those who are suspected to be possibly infected.He said presently, there are 155 containment zones in the state where the lockdown is being ‘strictly’ implemented. As many as 1,101 ventilators are in working condition in the state, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/khattar-seeks-clarity-from-centre-on-schedule-of-competitive-exams/story-x4JvviIwmJO4j8UAKexNWI.html
27-04-2020||Chandigarh||369 J&K, Ladakh students return from Rajasthan’s Kota||A group of 369 students, hailing from different districts of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh, reached here on Monday from Kota in Rajasthan onboard 15 SRTC buses, officials said.The students, who were taking coaching for various professional courses in Kota were left stranded since March 25, when nationwide lockdown was announced. Kathua deputy magistrate OP Bhagat said, “A total of 369 students reached Lakhanpur on Monday morning around 7 am. After screening, breakfast was provided to them before sending everyone to their respective districts. As many as 213 from Kashmir were sent to Srinagar and 186, including 30 parents from Jammu province, were sent to their respective districts. Those from Jammu will be reaching their destinations by this (Monday) evening.”Bhagat said that as per guidelines they will be kept in administrative quarantine before being sent to their homes.“During screening by the health teams at Lakhapur, no symptoms were noticed among the students but still they have to be quarantined as per the guidelines,” he said.An official the Ladakh UT administration said, “Ladakh will be getting back first batch comprising 57 Ladakhi students from Kota.”He thanked the government of J&K for its cooperation.A total of 15 SRTC buses from J&K were pressed into service to bring back the students.A girl medical aspirant said, “Soon after the lockdown, almost all the students left for their native places. Coaching classes have been closed since March 25 and we also started facing problems of food. We talked to the officials concerned and also tweeted to the J&K governor.”“When Article 370 was revoked last year, we began to doubt government’s concern towards us, however, the way the administration swung into action after our appeal, we felt very satisfied. If the progress and development (the response) continue to takes place like this, we don’t think anyone would question abrogation of the Article 370,” she added.J&K residents stranded in HP arrive in KathuaKathua: A group of 250 residents of Jammu and Kashmir who were stranded in Himachal Pradesh due to the lockdown arrived in Lakhanpur here on Sunday. OP Bhagat, deputy commissioner, Kathua, said that these people are being sent to their respective districts in buses after medical screening.“From Saturday, people from Himachal Pradesh have started coming. 156 people were brought on Saturday and 250 reached on Sunday. Some people are coming here on foot. We have held 168 people. We have kept them in quarantine centres,” Bhagat said. “Protocol will be followed and those coming by bus will be sent to their districts in buses. They will be medically screened and made to fill a self-declaration form,” he said.Riaz Ahmed, a resident of Kulgam, said that he was in quarantine for 27 days in Himachal Pradesh.“I was in quarantine in Himachal for 27 days . There was no hope earlier. I will follow guidelines of social distancing,” he said. Another resident Javed Ahmed said, “I was there in Himachal for 27 days. It’s good to come back home and be with my family.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/369-j-k-ladakh-students-return-from-rajasthan-s-kota/story-TPcH7ez7twLkjuYnCwHV0I.html
27-04-2020||Mumbai||3,186 industrial units start operations in state||After state government partially relaxed the lockdown restrictions for industrial operations in rural areas on April 20, 3,186 industrial units have started operations in the state. 13,448 industrial units have applied for the state government permission to operate during lockdown period by complying with the standard operating protocol. 69,035 employees in the units that have gone operational have reported to work against their total capacity of 3.41 lakh employees. The state government has made the employers mandatory to make the arrangements for the stay and food of the employees working in the units.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/3-186-industrial-units-start-operations-in-state/story-9GZjQ7oHKNYxIXMC9gdEYK.html
27-04-2020||Mumbai||BMC sends show cause notice to Thyrocare for late report||Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has sent show cause notice to Thyrocare for providing late Covid-19 reports to patients. As per the protocol of Indian Council of Medical Research, private labs need to provide reports within 24-hours. But due to the mismanagement on the part of the private laboratory, they aren’t submitting the reports within the stipulated time. “It is up to ICMR to suspend any lab’s license to run the test. So, under our jurisdiction, we can only send show cause notices seeking an explanation,” said Dr Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC.As HT had reported earlier, several private labs are providing reports 2-3 days late. In a recent example, a 27-year-old nine month pregnant woman from Grant Road had to wait for four days to get her report from a private laboratory for admission in a hospital for her delivery. Her samples were taken on April 11 and the reports came on April 13.Chandrasekar Mani, vice-president of Thyrocare didn’t respond to calls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-sends-show-cause-notice-to-thyrocare-for-late-report/story-3JiiyNl1dpsU74846czG1O.html
27-04-2020||City||Two Lashkar militants arrested in Uri||Security forces have arrested two suspected militants of Lashkar-e-Toiba close to the Line of Control in Uri sector of Baramulla district.Police said the two were arrested by a joint team of forces when they were moving in suspicious circumstances. “Many checkpoints were set up in different locations by the joint forces of Baramulla police, 18 Maratha and 53 Battalion CRPF. One such checkpoint was set up at NS Bridge Uri towards the Hathlanga side. At around 3.30 pm, two suspected persons were coming from Saidapora towards Uri. On seeing the forces, they tried to escape,” Baramulla SP Abdul Qayoom said.On preliminary inquiry, they disclosed their names as Zubair Ahmad Tantry alias Abu Bakar of Baharampora Sopore, who is an active Militant of LeT outfit and Bilal Ahmad of Sahura in Uri.“On their personal search, a huge catch of arms and ammunition and other incriminating material was recovered,” he said.Meanwhile, on Monday evening, the Indian and Pakistani soldiers exchanged firing in north Kashmir’s Hajipeer sector.Local villagers said that the shelling started around 4 pm and lasted for half an hour in the Hajipeer sector near LoC. The shelling left villagers in panic. No loss of life or property was reported. Earlier this month, three civilians were killed when shells fired from Pakistan occupied Kashmir landed in two Kupwara villages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-lashkar-militants-arrested-in-uri/story-fpoUJ6Jf3sZPuOg1jS3DwJ.html
27-04-2020||City||BDC chairperson flags Chinese activity in Ladakh’s Demchok, later withdraws post||Nyoma block development council (BDC) chairperson Urgain Chodon on Monday drew attention to the intensified Chinese activity across the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in China-occupied Tashi Gang region in Demchok sector of Ladakh in a Facebook post.However, she withdrew the social media post four hours later.Urgain doubted that China, which recently ordered 2,00,000 body bags from Taiwan, might have been dumping Covid-19 victims in the barren region close to the LAC on their side.“Alert! This is to express my concern for my country and especially my border people. Being BDC chairperson of Nyoma block, it is my responsibility to inform that a few days ago, 50km away from Demchok village, there was movement of around 300 vehicles in China-occupied Tashi Gang region. Even aircraft movement was heard in our area. The heavy vehiclular movement is happening in their own region, but why now when the whole world is in war against Covid-19?” she had stated in the Facebook post on Monday morning.Urgain also cited a report on how China had placed an order of 2,00,000 body bags from Taiwan.“It might be possible that they are planning to dump the bodies in that barren region, which is so close to our border. If that is the case, then dumping so many bodies may spread the virus through different carriers of air, water and migratory animals,” she had stated.“Even if it’s not about their Covid-19 victims, what is the big urgency of doing all this during this critical time? It is my plea to the government and policy makers to investigate this urgent matter,” she had added.Before withdrawing her post, Urgain had told HT that she had sent messages regarding the Chinese activity to BJP MP Jamyang Tsering Namgyal and the Leh deputy magistrate.“There is something fishy and the government needs to investigate it,” she remarked.BJP MP Namgyal said he has forwarded the BDC chairperson’s messages to the ministries concerned in Delhi.“She had sent me messages on WhatsApp and I forwarded them to the ministries concerned. At the same time, I am trying to reach out to a few more people on the ground in Nyoma for counter verification (of her claims) before officially writing anything to the ministries,” said Namgyal.However, Ladakh divisional commissioner Saugat Biswas dubbed Urgain’s claims as “unverified reports”.Leh deputy magistrate Sachin Kumar Vaishya didn’t respond to calls and messages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bdc-chairperson-flags-chinese-activity-in-ladakh-s-demchok-later-withdraws-post/story-RmANIYvWfS9tpUPBQCJfZN.html
27-04-2020||City||BEST driver, 2 health workers among 8 new cases in Kalyan-Dombivli||Eight new Covid-19 cases were reported from Kalyan-Dombivli on Monday.A 38-year-old BEST driver from Dombivli (East), a 21-year-old bank employee, a 34-year- old employee of at private hospital in Mumbai, and a 40-year-old man from Dombivli (West), who is a staff nurse at a private hospital were among the new cases.The total number of Covid-19 cases in Kalyan-Dombivli has reached 137.The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) has given permission to wholesale grocery, vegetables and fruit traders to keep shops open between 5am and 2pm and transport essentials to retail traders.“The shopkeepers are supposed to operate as per the directions laid down by the civic body so that people don’t go out. If there is any complaint against shopkeepers, they will face legal action,” said Madhavi Pophale, public relations officer, KDMC.The wholesale traders will transport all essential to retailers, who will home deliver the commodities.“Like we have stopped counter delivery at retail shops and only allow home delivery, the wholesale shops will do the same. Any shopkeepers who refuses to delivery at home or to the retail traders, will face legal action under section 188 of Indian Penal Code,” said Pophale..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/best-driver-2-health-workers-among-8-new-cases-in-kalyan-dombivli/story-3OfuQB4a94no0kvXpIQzPN.html
27-04-2020||City||J&K L-G calls for formulation of comprehensive strategy post-May 3 scenario||Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Girish Chandra Murmu on Monday called for preparing in advance a comprehensive strategy for the post-May 3 scenario to combat the coronavirus pandemic in the Union territory.Murmu was chairing a meeting on Covid-19 control efforts at the Raj Bhavan soon after the interaction with Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Advisor to Lieutenant Governor Rajeev Rai Bhatnagar; chief secretary BVR Subrahmanyam; DGP Dilbag Singh; financial commissioner (health and medical education) Atal Dulloo; principal secretary to government Shaleen Kabra; principal secretary to Lieutenant Governor Bipul Pathak attended the meeting.Murmu underlined the importance of continued efforts at all levels of the administration in the fight against coronavirus in the UT and asked the officers to formulate an effective rapid response mechanism so that pro-active steps can be taken to deal with any emerging situation.He observed that increased testing is the key in identifying and combating Covid-19 pandemic and asked the officers to ensure the sustainability of the testing speed and to explore the possibilities of increasing the same.He directed for effective implementation of restrictions in red-zones to contain the spread of the deadly virus.He urged J&K Bank to reach out to the masses with the digital banking facilities by encouraging them to use UPI, BHIM, QR in addition to the use of the Aarogya Setu application.He further directed the officers to take necessary measures to fulfill the nutritional requirements of the vulnerable population with special focus on destitute and slum dwellers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-l-g-calls-for-formulation-of-comprehensive-strategy-post-may-3-scenario/story-pQfBeuYFDPoIyTyUk4sCJK.html
27-04-2020||Chandigarh||Free ration rumour triggers commotion in Chandigarh’s Hallomajra||After Mauli Jagran, huge commotion was witnessed in a locality of Hallomajra in Chandigarh after rumours of free ration distribution spread in the area on Monday morning. The police had a tough time dispersing the crowd that gathered there assuming that ration was being distributed near a government dispensary by the UT administration. However, no such announcement was made.Police public relations officer (PRO) DSP Charanjit Singh Virk said, “As checked from the assistant superintendent of police (south zone), the incident was triggered by a rumour. As soon as we got to know, the public that had gathered was sent back. We will take legal action against those involved behind spreading these rumours.”WAITING FOR RATIONUT department of food supplies and consumer affairs began free ration distribution to 63,616 identified beneficiaries on April 10 but in Hallomajra, approximately 3,000 beneficiaries have been awaiting free ration to date.HT accessed a letter written by a para legal volunteer, Dalip Kumar, of Chandigarh State Legal Services Authority to UT administration on April 20 in which he mentioned that ration distribution in the area must be speeded up since it has a lot of poor families who are struggling to manage enough food amid the lockdown. Area councillor Bharat Kumar said department secretary Vinod P Kavle had assured last Thursday that ration distribution will start from Saturday, but he still had no communication from the department.“Such commotion was bound to happen since residents’ patience has been running thin. Most of the people living in Hallomajra are labourers and daily wagers who have gone unemployed due to the lockdown. Similar rush was seen earlier too but distribution has yet not begun. I request authorities to speed it up as it is already over a month and no supply has reached the area,” Kumar said.However, when contacted, Kavle said that there was no such assurance from the department. “The date for distribution is being finalised after consulting stakeholders concerned,” he said, adding that 40,000 eligible families (63%) have already been distributed wheat and pulses in the city, and around 23,500 were yet to be covered.Another department official anonymously said people should not fall victim to wrong information. “We issue distribution plan and coupons in advance before providing ration to any area,” he said. OPPN QUESTIONS DELAY Meanwhile, local Congress president Pardeep Chhabra questioned the delay in reaching out to poor people. “The UT must deploy additional staff and cover all areas as the poor are facing hardships,” said Chhabra, while saying that local BJP MP Kirron Kher had ignored the public in these difficult times.“Kher, who should have come forward and stood shoulder to shoulder with the public, has been missing for almost a month now. It was only after the public started questioning her absence that she chose to release a video on social media full of political rhetoric and directionless comments,” said Chhabra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/free-ration-rumour-triggers-commotion-in-chandigarh-s-hallomajra/story-tEr2MhtNB4Srj4c7V3DGtK.html
27-04-2020||City||Day after arrest of four gangsters in Panchkula, two local men held for harbouring them||A day after four gangsters, reportedly linked with the Bhupi Rana gang, were arrested from Chandimandir in Haryana’s Panchkula district after a gunfight, in which a Punjab Police head constable was injured, two locals were arrested on Monday for harbouring them.The crime branch of Panchkula police arrested the accused, identified as Keshav and Satwinder of Kot Billa village, who had allegedly arranged for a rented accommodation for the four gangsters in Billa village at ₹2,500 a month.Police said the house where the accused were staying belonged to a woman of a nearby village, and the gangsters were putting up there since the first week of March.Meanwhile, the four gangsters were produced in a local court and were remanded to three-day police custody. Following their arrest on Sunday, the police had recovered two country-made pistols with magazines, six live cartridges and two bullet shells from them. “As per the initial interrogation it has been learnt that the accused had procured the country-made pistols from Uttar Pradesh’s grey market,” said an official on the condition of anonymity.On Sunday, a team of Mohali police had received a tip-off that the prime accused in an attempt to murder case, Harsimran, alias Simu, of Naraingarh (Ambala), and his aides — Dhruv Mohan Garg of Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh, Gurcharan Singh, alias Gunna, of Parwala village in Raipur Rani, and Gurpreet Singh, alias Gopi, of Derabassi — were hiding in Billa village, following which a raid was conducted.An official privy to the investigation said both Keshav and Satwinder knew one of the gangsters, Dhruv Garg, which is why they helped them get an accomodation in the village. “The duo knew that the accused persons were outlaws. The gangsters had rented the place before the lockdown began and had even disappeared for a couple of days in between. They did not get any police verification done nor was a rent agreement signed,” said the official.The times when the gangsters would not be able to sneak out to get food from nearby dhabas, the two locals even arranged meals for them. Both Keshav and Satwinder have been booked under Section 216 (harbouring offender who has escaped from custody or whose apprehension has been ordered) of the Indian Penal Code.Meanwhile, after getting the gangster’ remand, police said they will interrogate them on the source of weapons and about other accomplices and connections. As per the officials, accused Simu and Gunna were involved in the Mohali attempt to murder case that dates back to March 11, when 22-year old milkman, Kamalpreet Singh of Chachumajra village in Kharar, was shot at in Mohali’s Phase 9 by three motorcycle-borne persons owing to a college-time rivalry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/day-after-arrest-of-four-gangsters-in-panchkula-two-local-men-held-for-harbouring-them/story-5hkyDrYNhkvMEtWjE5EFSN.html
27-04-2020||City||Mohali admn starts online career counselling for youth||The District Bureau of Employment and Entrepreneurship (DBEE), Mohali, has launched a new facility of online career counselling for the unemployed youth of the district. This was informed by additional deputy commissioner (ADC) Aashika Jain who said that the initiative would serve two purposes at the same time.She said that on one hand, the step would keep the Mohali youth busy in a constructive manner; thereby ridding them of psychological pressure of being home without active work/coaching while on the other hand, it would make them better equipped for the job scenario once the coronavirus pandemic is effectively tackled. During the online counselling session, the counsellors of the DBEE would provide valuable information to the youth regarding the methodology to qualify in various competitive exams, she said. It would also provide guidance regarding various job avenues, selecting the right career as per the interest and also the ways and means to obtain employment abroad, she added.The ADC said that the counsellors would also provide guidance regarding interview preparation, making a good CV detailing the qualifications of the prospective candidates and the self employment schemes of the Punjab government. She further said that the interested candidates can contact the career counsellors on the number 6280554158 between 9am and 5pm for availing the facility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-admn-starts-online-career-counselling-for-youth/story-dZzoNShMDnhTr5hTWWubEM.html
27-04-2020||Chandigarh||Former PM Manmohan Singh to help Punjab revive post-Covid state economy||Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh has accepted Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s request to guide the state government in restoring the state’s growth and economy once the Covid-19 crisis ends.State’s post-Covid strategy got operational on Monday with the noted economist and former deputy chairman of the erstwhile Planning Commission Montek Singh Ahluwalia-led group of experts holding a video conference with the chief minister.“I had written to Dr Manmohan Singh ji to guide us along with a group of experts headed by Montek Singh Ahluwalia. I am grateful to him for accepting,” Capt Amarinder tweeted on Monday.The group of experts has set up five sub-groups — finance, agriculture, health, industry and social aid — and the chairpersons of each group will mobilise workers to take the agenda forward.Amarinder told the group that the state’s financial situation was grim, with monthly revenue losses to the tune of ₹3,360 crore. This includes losses on account of GST (₹1,322 crore), state excise on liquor (₹521 crore), motor vehicle tax (₹198 crore), VAT on petrol and diesel (₹465 crore), electricity duty (₹243 crore), stamp duty (₹219 crore) and non-tax revenue (₹392 crore).The state’s cash inflow has dried up, said the CM, adding that power consumption has declined by 30% with a daily loss of ₹ 30 crore in collection of electricity tariff to the Punjab State Power Corporation Ltd. Punjab’s industry has been shut and the Centre is yet to pay the GST arrears of ₹4,365.3 crore the CM said. “The Centre had not accepted my government’s request for bonus to incentivise the farmers to bring in their produce in a staggered manner to the mandis, which was essential to check the spread of Covid-19,” said the CM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/former-pm-manmohan-singh-to-help-punjab-revive-post-covid-state-economy/story-xq1emti0B5ccblfvGww9DJ.html
27-04-2020||City||Five more patients including 11-year-old girl defeat coronavirus in Mohali||Five more patients including an 11-year-old girl have recovered from the coronavirus disease on Monday, taking the total tally of recovered patients in the district to 27.Civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said among the recovered, two are from Jawaharpur village in Dera Bassi—declared a containment zone—while two belong to Mohali city and one to Mundi Kharar. He said all these patients were discharged from the the Gian Sagar Hospital near Banur.According to Dr Manjit, 15 Jawaharpur residents have recovered so far. Five of them were cured on April 21 and eight on April 26, who are currently staying at the district quarantine centre in Sector 70, Mohali. Though they have tested negative in two successive tests, the patients have been quarantined for another 14 days as a precautionary measure.From 46, the number of active cases of Covid-19 till April 23, the number has gone down to 34 on Monday. In the last two days, 13 patients have recovered from the disease, and no new case has been reported in the last five days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/five-more-patients-including-11-year-old-girl-defeat-coronavirus-in-mohali/story-NDwgW5ZhEGWZX1zzk0BB7L.html
27-04-2020||City||Amritsar’s Covid war room reaches out to 1.80 lakh residents, clears 97%||As part of the municipal corporation’s (MC) efforts to connect to citizens through its Covid-19 ‘control room’, nearly 1.80 lakh computer-generated phone calls were made to them to enquire about people’s health with 97% residents green flagged after they did not report any Covid-19 symptoms.The control room, the first of its kind in Punjab, was set up on April 18 to ‘tele-screen’ five lakh residents in the city which currently has six positive patients being treated at the local Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH). Six others have recovered and been discharged from hospital.Besides this, district has also reported two Covid-19 confirmed deaths.The control room has MC staff recording calls and categorising cases according to colours: Pink, green, orange and red. People who say they do not have symptoms are flagged green; those with cough and fever get pink; orange is for those with breathing problems and red if they have any recent foreign history or have contacted any Covid-19 positive patient.FLAGGED IN FOUR COLOURSMC staff call back to reconfirm cases flagged pink, orange or red as a precautionary measure.“Among the 1.8 lakh residents who have been tele-screened, 97% said they do not suffer from cough and fever. However, out of them 92 persons were flagged red, 82 were given orange while 6,331 got pink. When MC employees called them back for confirmation, people claimed they had pressed the wrong buttons on their mobile phones by mistake. Only 11 people out of the 6,505 actually needed some medical help”, said Amritsar MC joint commissioner Nitish Singla.Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu added that 20 rapid response teams, with members of city police and medical officers, immediately reached out to the 11 persons seeking help and screened them. Ome woman was found symptomatic. “She had come in contact with a Covid-19 positive patient and later tested positive at the Government Medical College Amritsar.”Rintu also did not rule out mischief by some parties saying they might have given the wrong information intentionally. “I urge the residents to listen to the call carefully and respond correctly so that tele-screening can bear fruit and the outbreak can be contained.”DOOR-TO-DOOR SCREENING STOPSDoor-to-door screening of residents has currently stopped after 53,867 residents of Sultanwind Road and Krishna Nagar were screened in three days. Now people living within Amritsar’s walled city have to be screened but plans are on hold as the district administration is focused on conducting random sampling in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amritsar-s-covid-war-room-reaches-out-to-1-80-lakh-residents-clears-97/story-7pmGFhvy6DOqvAtr7yBFbO.html
27-04-2020||Chandigarh||Allow opening of small shops, biz and industries, Capt to Shah||Punjab chief Captain Amarinder Singh has urged Union home minister Amit Shah to allow opening of small shops, businesses and industries in all areas except containment zones. In his letter to Shah, Amarinder has also given an assurance of complying with norms to prevent the spread of Covid-19. The Centre had asked for written submission of issues from some CMs, with nine others getting to speak with the Prime Minister via a videoconference on Monday. Amarinder has listed release of Punjab’s GST arrears of Rs 4,386 crore and a revenue deficit grant to meet the shortfall in revenue, combined with the need for higher expenditure on relief and healthcare, to manage and contain Covid-19. He also demanded bonus to farmers for staggered purchase of wheat, as well as direct cash assistance to daily industrial and agricultural labour. He also reiterated the state’s demand for assistance to MSMEs and power generation and distribution companies by way of interest subvention, deferment of loans by commercial banks and reduction in GST on coal.“A revenue grant for the next three months, with flexibility to spend as per local conditions, would help tide over the acute fiscal crisis faced due to revenue shortfall,” the CM wrote, reiterated his suggestion that 15th finance commission should review its report for the current year. “The 15th Finance Commission should recommend devolution of funds for five years beginning from April 1, 2021 (instead of 2020) onwards, after factoring in the impact of the pandemic,” the CM suggested.He also demanded a special risk insurance of police personnel and sanitary workers engaged in fight against the pandemic and relief for daily wage and industrial labourers, who have lost their jobs, in the form of Universal Basic Income of Rs 6,000 per month.Other key demands included: payment of 15 days unemployment allowance per month for three months under MGNREGS to mitigate distress of rural poor; allowing 10-day wages under MGNREGS to small and marginal farmers; and allowing use of 14th finance commission grants by urban local bodies (ULBs) and panchayati raj institutions (PRIs) for emergency relief.The CM also demanded Rs 729 crore for upgrade of health infrastructure, as well as permission to set up an advanced centre of virology at New Chandigarh.Strap/BlurbAmong other issues, Amarinder seeks release of Punjab’s GST arrears of Rs 4,386 cr and bonus to farmers for staggered purchase of wheat||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/allow-opening-of-small-shops-biz-and-industries-capt-to-shah/story-7DcThiywfdO9f4Vmzf8H2N.html
27-04-2020||City||Migrant labourers in Hisar get training in utility, repair works||Migrant labourers in Hisar are getting trained in utility and repair works under the skill development training programme, officials said on Monday.Eighty-seven migrants are learning how to repair air-conditioners, plumbing and carpentry among other utility works. They are being provided with food at Surya Palace in Hisar city.Hisar deputy commissioner Priyanka Soni on Monday visited the shelter house and interacted with the migrant labourers.While talking with mediapersons, Soni said, “The migrant labourers are getting many facilities like TV, yoga classes, proper food and drinking water. Besides, they are being taught plumbing, carpentry and AC repairing with the help of Industrial Training Institute (ITI) experts.”These migrants who mainly belong to Uttar Pradesh (UP), Bihar and Rajasthan had been working in different parts of Haryana and Punjab. They are staying in shelter homes after the nationwide lockdown was announced.DC Soni said, “After getting proper training, they will able to earn a better living. At the shelter home, we told everyone to implement social distancing and take preventive measures amid the coronavirus pandemic.”Raj Kumar, a migrant labourer from Uttar Pradesh said, “This is a good initiative by the local administration. When the lockdown period is over, we will be able to put this knowledge into practice and earn a better living.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/migrant-labourers-in-hisar-get-training-in-utility-repair-works/story-NKhwq8u4uE3ZXqCjqw1taM.html
27-04-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University organises international webinar on advancements in biotechnology||The department of biotechnology, Panjab University, organised an international webinar on ‘Recent advances in biotechnology’, on Monday. Vice-chancellor Raj Kumar inaugurated the webinar that brought together researchers from different universities, institutes and industries to share their knowledge in their respective fields.Chairperson of department of biotechnology, Kashmir Singh, said, “Participants from across the world, including USA, Europe and Taiwan and from 19 states of India participated in the webinar.”Dr Gaurav Raikhy from Louisiana State University and Health Centre, USA, explained how they have developed 3D skin models for testing of infections from viruses. Dr Ashutosh Pandey from National Institute of Plant Genome research, New Delhi, spoke on genetic manipulation of important medicinal pathways in plants, to improve productivity of select compounds, especially in banana and tomato, to improve nutritional quality of commercial crops.PK Pati from Guru Nanak Dev Univeristy, Amritsar, spoke on herbal medicines and said while looking for possible ways to curb the spread of Covid-19, study of genome of organisms is essential.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-organises-international-webinar-on-advancements-in-biotechnology/story-LJ4naezYONR8wb1pOBoq0M.html
27-04-2020||City||Lockdown hits Mohali MC, left with funds to pay just 3-month salaries||As Mohali’s municipal commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg took charge as its administrator on Monday, he faces a herculean task. Owing to a cash crunch, the MC has only ₹22 crore in its kitty, just enough to pay salaries of employees for the next three months. The nationwide lockdown has made the problem worse, as MC cannot collect dues and taxes which could have generated funds for the civic body.With Mohali MC’s five-year term getting over on April 26, powers will be vested with new MC commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg from Monday. The posts of mayor, senior deputy mayor and deputy mayor have been dissolved.Amid scarce funds, more than 200 tenders of development works worth ₹30 crore have not been allotted in the past six months. The works pertain to development of parks, laying of paver blocks, foot paths, re-carpeting of roads and installing gyms in parks.Even in December last year, after failing to spend ₹9 crore allocated under various heads, Mohali MC re-appropriated the budget to shift the surplus funds to account heads with a deficit.MC Commissioner of Mohali, Kamal Kishore said, “We are just left with ₹22 crore with which we can only pay employees’ salaries for three months. We have asked the state government for funds to carry out some development works. Moreover, the lockdown has put an end to activities such as collecting property tax, water bills, advertisement fees and more, which has further aggravated the financial issue, he said. Every month, the civic body spends ₹5 crore on paying salaries, power bills, fuel charges and private agency maintaining cleanliness in city.On the other hand, members of all 65 residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) of Mohali are sour with the MC not paying for maintenance of parks. CL Garg, the president of confederation of Greater Mohali RWAs, apex body of 65 RWAs, said, “We have been paying gardeners from our own pockets for the past three months. But the MC has assured it will clear the dues,” he said.Even Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) has failed to pay Rs 191 crore to the municipal corporation (MC) of Mohali. As per an agreement signed in 2017, GMADA was to pay ₹200 crore every year to MC for maintenance of 540 parks, roads and streetlights. However, in the past three years, it has only paid ₹9 crore to the civic body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lockdown-hits-mohali-mc-left-with-funds-to-pay-just-3-month-salaries/story-fDwJd3XJ7DhHIs9AwLO6oJ.html
27-04-2020||Mumbai||HC asks state to justify claim of Covid-19 spreading through newspapers||The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court (HC) rapped the state for making sweeping statements that the Sars-Cov-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, could spread through newspaper distribution and hence should not be allowed. The court held that the state should substantiate its claim with evidence and the opinion of experts rather than making such statements. The court was hearing a suo moto public interest litigation (PIL) following news reports of door-to-door distribution of newspapers being barred by the government.The single bench of justice Prasanna Varale, while hearing the petition on Monday, was informed by amicus curiae advocate Satyajeet Bora that following the April 20 news report which read “Maharashtra allows printing but bans distribution of newspapers”, the Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court had also taken cognizance of the issue and passed an order on April 20.Referring to the April 18 order of the government, which restricted door-to-door delivery of newspapers and magazines as a precautionary measure to curb the spread of Covid-19, government pleader DR Kale informed the court that the order was amended on April 21 and door-to-door distribution was allowed across the state except in Mumbai, Pune, and other containment zones.Kale justified the April 18 order through an affidavit, stating that experts had opined that the virus remained on surfaces for some time and hence, newspapers could be a medium for spreading.In the absence of any data or proof to justify the statement in the affidavit, the court said, “It seems that this is only a general and sweeping statement made in the affidavit in reply. There is no reference to any comment of the experts in the field or any opinion formed by anybody working in the health area.”The court, however, added that the state could consider restricting door-to-door delivery of newspapers in particular areas and asked the government to file an additional response to its queries along with a report by amicus curiae Bora. The case has been posted for hearing on June 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-asks-state-to-justify-claim-of-covid-19-spreading-through-newspapers/story-ZFKmKjOj2gbPylMt1aMppK.html
27-04-2020||City||Over a month on, 23 Navodaya Vidyalaya students stranded in Punjab due to Covid-19 lockdown return to Madhya Pradesh||CHANDIGARH: Twenty-three students from Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya in Madhya Pradesh, who had been stranded in Punjab since the lockdown on March 24, were sent back to their hometown on Monday in a chartered bus, an official said.They had come from Chhatarpur in Madhya Pradesh to their sister school in Chamkaur Sahib in Ropar district of Punjab on a student-exchange programme and got stuck due to the lockdown, Punjab special chief secretary KBS Sidhu, who is in-charge of monitoring state-wide coronavirus cases, said.Deputy commissioner Sonali Giri had tied up for their travel, security, food and route permissions, he added.Incidentally, the Jawahar Vidyalaya in Ropar is being converted into a Covid care centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/over-a-month-on-23-navodaya-vidyalaya-students-stranded-in-punjab-due-to-covid-19-lockdown-return-to-madhya-pradesh/story-H2pxl6znmo1bDQ9v6X5bYL.html
27-04-2020||Chandigarh||RK Singla appointed Panjab University DUI||Panjab University appointed RK Singla dean university instructions (DUI) after the proposal was taken up in an online meeting of the syndicate.Singla is currently PU’s dean research. He will replace Shankarji Jha whose term as DUI ends on April 30.The proposal to appoint the new DUI was taken up on the syndicate’s Whatsapp group on Friday, where 13 out of 15 members consented to the move.The proposal was put forward by members Navdeep Goyal and Keshav Malhotra.Professor VR Sinha from University Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences will replace Singla as dean research, effective from May 1.Objections over appointmentPanjab University syndicate member, Rajinder Bhandari, who opposed the appointment said, “Whatsapp is not a platform where we can conduct the syndicate’s business. It is not acceptable. Moreover, the vice-chancellor is empowered by the university to make such an appointment till the syndicate meeting is conducted.”PU teachers’ association welcomes movePresident of Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA), Rajesh Gill said, “We welcome the decision of University authorities to appoint the new DUI and dean research. We wish a fruitful term to Singla and Sinha,” said PUTA president Rajesh Gill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-appoints-dui-after-online-meeting-of-syndicate/story-HnGKWVSmoezYF7jnFzLopJ.html
27-04-2020||City||Covid-19: Punjab institutes design containment box for protecting frontline healthcare workers||The Indian Institute of Technology(IIT) Ropar and Dayanand Medical College and Hospital(DMCH), Ludhiana, have designed a containment box for protecting frontline healthcare workers fighting the Covid-19 pandemic.The aerosol containment box that can be manufactured out of readily available materials was jointly developed by Dr Ashish Sahani from IIT Ropar along with Dr Vivek Gupta and Dr GS Wander from DMCH.According to Dr Sahni, coughing, sneezing or aerosol generating procedure in the Covid-19 patients leads to spread of heavy viral load among healthcare workers. Despite using Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) and taking appropriate precautions, the healthcare workers get infected with coronavirus, due to which a higher than normal infection rate has been noted among them, he added.He said that containment box could be quickly made out of commonly available resources such as wood, thick poly-vinyl chloride (PVC) sheets, velcro and pasting and fixing materials. This box has a design that can allow it to be converted into a negative pressure chamber by connecting the vacuum from wall-gas supplies, which are readily available in most of the hospitals, said Dr Sahni, adding that aerosol particles are passed through a micron-level filter before being passed out to atmospheric air, which are standard fittings in majority hospitals.He further said that the containment box has been tested at DMCH for its aerosol containment capability. “Patient comfort has been validated through volunteers lying with the box over their heads for more than one hour. They didn’t feel claustrophobic and their oxygen saturation levels remained normal throughout the test,” he added. He also said that the advantage of the design was that it could be made and deployed easily by the hospitals themselves without depending on any external supply chains, many of which were broken due to lockdown in ever part the country. Dr Sahani, Dr Gupta and Dr Wander hope that the design will be adopted by the hospitals in order to provide additional layer of protection to frontline healthcare workers fighting the Covid-19 pandemic. They are willing to offer help for quick adoption of this technology, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-punjab-institutes-design-containment-box-for-protecting-frontline-healthcare-workers/story-N5Z1n2fPq0Zbf8Ss5w2iDL.html
27-04-2020||Chandigarh||Northern industries body for staggered opening of economy from May 3||The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) conducted a snap poll to assess the impact of the lockdown due to Covid-19 among 70 CEOs from CII Northern Region. The participants have opined that the lockdown is likely to deeply impact Indian businesses if the economy isn’t opened soon. More than four-fifths of the respondents said the Government of India should consider staggered opening of the economy post May 3, to put it back on growth track and at the same time, control the spread of the virus. When asked to rank pressing challenges faced by India Inc, a majority (58%) of the respondents cited liquidity crunch as their biggest concern, followed by supply chain bottlenecks and labour shortage.Also, majority of the respondents expect significant decrease in their companies’ topline and bottom-line during the year 2020-21. More than 10% fall in employment opportunities is also expected.The CEOs also said they expect government support in the payment of wages to industries impacted by the lockdown along with a waiver of fixed utility charges and low interest rates.Commenting on the poll, Nikhil Sawhney, chairman, CII Northern Region, said, “The results indicate the mood of Indian industries. The MSME sector that provides significant amount of employment opportunities will need stimulus from the government to get back up on its feet.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/northern-industries-body-for-staggered-opening-of-economy-from-may-3/story-xO3YjFHp2IqooRPKFECkuJ.html
27-04-2020||City||Ludhiana cops come out in solidarity with colleague attacked on duty in Patiala||Police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal and other cops in the city wore badges bearing the name of their colleague Harjeet Singh whose hand was chopped by Nihang Sikhs when he had stopped them for curfew violation in Patiala a few days ago.Harjeet Singh, who has now been promoted to the rank of sub-inspector, is recuperating at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, where doctors had carried out a surgery to suture his hand.The men in khaki launched a campaign at Bharat Nagar Chowk and paid tributes to all other corona warriors, especially the doctors at PGIMER who treated Harjeet Singh.They showered flowers on the medical professionals to show gratitude to their service. In solidarity, a few residents posted pictures of themselves holding placards saying #MainBhiHarjeetSingh. Police have now launched a Facebook frame on the theme, which users can use on their display picture.Police chief Rakesh Agrawal said they have joined the campaign against attack on policemen, doctors and all other corona worriers, who are fighting Covid-19 across the country. The police chief added that everyone should unite to convey a clear message -- Don’t attack policemen ‘the protectors’ and doctors who are ‘the saviours’.ADCP (City-1) Gurpreet Singh Sikand said that in the battle against Covid-19, frontline warriors including police personnel and doctors are getting infected with coronavirus. “We have lost assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Anil Kumar Kohli to Covid-19. Many police personnel such as sub-inspector Arshpreet Kaur, ASI Sukhdev Singh and constable Prabhjot Singh are now in a battle against the virus. Despite the hardships, cops and doctors are working day and night for the society. To encourage the corona warriors all should come in their support,”said the ADCP.Ludhiana member of Parliament Ravneet Singh Bittu also shared a post on his Facebook account in support of the campaign. Bittu said, “We are fighting an enemy that cannot be defeated by guns or force, but only by showing compassion, love and a sense of duty towards fellow human beings.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-cops-come-out-in-solidarity-with-colleague-attacked-on-duty-in-patiala/story-rMndYgLT9VCnwREsR3ixhK.html
27-04-2020||Mumbai||Yes Bank fraud case: Wadhawans sent to CBI custody till Wednesday||The special CBI court on Monday remanded Dheeraj and Kapil Wadhawan of Diwan Housing Finance Corporation Limited (DHFL) in Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) custody till April 29. The lawyer for the brother objected to the custodial interrogation of both calling their arrest as illegal. The court held that the investigation is at a primary stage and therefor detailed investigation is necessary to reach a proper conclusion. The court also refused to entertain the bail plea of the accused observing that it cannot be considered at this stage as they both are remanded to CBI custody.Two brothers were arrested by the CBI from their bungalow in Mahabaleshwar on Sunday afternoon and were brought to Mumbai. On Monday morning the agency produced the two before the special court and sought their custody for eight days.The CBI prosecutor Ashok Bagoria, argued that the case is of serious nature relating to a huge amount. The prosecution alleged that the accused are linked with a former senior officer of Yes Bank – Rana Kapoor. The prosecution also submitted that they were issued notice to join investigation but they failed followed by which CBI had to obtain a warrant against the two.According to the CBI FIR, between April and June 2018, Yes Bank invested ₹3,700 crore in short-term debentures of DHFL, which is till date not redeemed. It is further alleged that Yes Bank had sanctioned loan to RKW developers, where Dheeraj is a director and the whole amount was siphoned off by Kapil. CBI has alleged that In return, Wadhawan allegedly “paid a kickback of ₹600 crore” to Kapoor and family members in the form of loan to DoIT Urban Ventures (India) Pvt Ltd.The plea was objected by Wadhawan’s lawyer Amit Desai and Subodh Desai. They pleaded that the arrest of the accused is unconstitutional and illegal, hence there is no question of sending them to CBI custody. Further, the defence pleaded for bail of the two.The defence pleaded that the prosecution obtained an arrest warrant without informing them. It was pointed out that the execution of the warrant was stayed by the special court till May 5. In between the stay was lifted by the special CBI court on April 25. The defence pleaded that the order of the special court lifting stay is illegal, hence Desai pleaded that the demand for CBI custody of Wadhawan brothers be rejected.After hearing the prosecution and the defence argument, special judge AS Sayyad observed, “From the case papers it appears that Rana Kapoor, who is proprietor, director and chief executive officer of M/s Yes bank limited entered into a criminal conspiracy with the present accused for extending financial assistance to their respective companies and allegedly obtained undue pecuniary advantage from M/S DHFL from the companies of the accused.”The court rejected the argument of the defence that the order dated April 25 lifting the stay on the execution of the arrest warrant is illegal. The court held that the order of April 25 was not to be stayed or set aside by the higher court, hence it is still in existence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/yes-bank-fraud-case-wadhwans-sent-to-cbi-custody-till-wednesday/story-VU9qNvGtcRtwTdSrVNMMIP.html
27-04-2020||Mumbai||Cop injured, four detained as crowd attacks policemen at Shivaji Nagar||A policeman was injured when a team from Shivaji Nagar police station was attacked while dispersing a crowd, at 90 Feet road, Shivaji Nagar on Sunday. Four people were detained in connection with the incident.Around 6.50 pm on Sunday, a police team, while patrolling, noticed a crowd had gathered near a junction in the densely populated slum area of Shivaji Nagar in Govandi. The police control room was informed and cops reached the spot. People attacked the policemen when asked to disperse.“A crowd comprising of around 25 to 30 men and two women had gathered, violating lockdown rules. They began to raise anti-police slogans and pelted stones on the police team,” said Sudarshan Paithankar, senior police inspector, Shivaji Nagar police station. A man attacked an inspector-rank officer with an iron rod, however, the policeman obstructed the attack aimed at his head with his right hand and injured himself, police said. “The crowd had gathered to shop. People also damaged a police vehicle parked there. Stones were also pelted on the cops but no one was injured,” said Paithankar. The area falls under the M-East ward which is one of the worst-hit by the Covid-19 pandemic in the city. The ward, which includes slum pockets of Deonar, Govandi, Bainganwadi, Shivaji Nagar and Cheetah Camp and the Deonar dumping ground, is spread across an area of 32.50sqkm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cop-injured-four-detained-as-crowd-attacks-policemen-at-shivaji-nagar/story-DOeDq36FSyVXTEbRYvppTP.html
27-04-2020||Mumbai||HC extends stay on publication of first merit list for PG medical admissions||The Bombay high court (HC) on Monday extended the stay on publication of Maharashtra’s first merit list for admissions to postgraduate (PG) medical courses till May 5. The list was scheduled to be published on April 24.Justice Ujjal Bhuyan on Monday continued the stay order passed last week by justice SJ Kathawalla on separate petitions filed by two PG aspirants through advocate Madhav Thorat.One of the petitioners, Dr Rajdeep Deshmukh, has sought admission to a non-surgical PG course through the physically handicapped category, as he is affected by a congenital deformity which has led to the shortening of his index and middle fingers.Dr Deshmukh moved the HC after he was declared ineligible for admissions to the course. He contended that despite the deformity, the functional capacity of his upper limbs is very strong and he can carry out routine activities without difficulty.“In other words, he does not have any functional impairment of upper limbs in as much as there is only shortening of the fingers and not the absence of limb or fingers,” stated his petition.According to Thorat, Dr Deshmukh was admitted to the MBBS (Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery) course through the physically-handicapped category, pursuant to the order passed by the HC.The second petitioner, Dr Abhinav Bhute, has challenged the government resolution (GR) issued by the medical education department on March 19 last year, granting only 4℅ additional weightage to in-service candidates who have worked in rural areas, instead of the 10℅ weightage given by the Medical Council of India (MCI).Thorat had earlier pointed out that the MCI had in April 2018 issued a notification granting 10℅ additional weightage per year of service, subject to a cap of 30℅, to candidates serving in tribal areas, difficult terrains, and rural areas.Bhute has served in rural areas for six years and accordingly, sought 30℅ additional weightage last year. When the department refused to give him the 30% weightage, he moved the HC. The court had on March 12, 2019, directed the state government to extend additional weightage as contemplated by MCI notification to in-service candidates who have served in rural areas. Despite the HC’s direction, the department refused to give the 30% weightage to Bhute, Thorat had added. The petitions will now come up for further hearing on May 5 and the stay will continue till then.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-extends-stay-on-publication-of-first-merit-list-for-pg-medical-admissions/story-LOG2X0XqHsxFGQ6agJONOL.html
27-04-2020||Mumbai||Muslim groups demand evening market hours to buy food to break fast||With Ramzan, the Islamic month of prayer and abstinence, having started on Saturday, the city’s Muslim community is facing difficulties in procuring fruits and eatables with which to break their fast in the evening.Residents of Dongri, Nagpada, and Bhendi Bazaar reached out to various community leaders seeking help, citing that with market hours restricted to the first half of the day, they are unable to procure food in the evening. Some of them have even written to the civic authorities and political leaders, asking for a change in the market hours in their locality.“People are finding it difficult to get food. If we are fasting all day, we will need good healthy things to eat in the night after we break our fast. But none of the shops or eateries are allowed to stay open then. We need some sleep after sehri [early morning meal], so by the time we wake up, markets are already shut. This will lead to more problems eventually,” said Aslam Malkani, a resident of Marine Lines.Some community leaders have suggested that families could purchase fruits and other essentials and for the entire week, instead of stepping out daily.“One can even break the fast by having a pinch of salt and dates. These are testing times and Ramzan teaches us to be patient even in testing times,” said Sohail Khandwani, trustee of the Mahim and Haji Ali dargahs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/muslim-groups-demand-evening-market-hours-to-buy-food-to-break-fast/story-xbJvyOhPntLuXVLMLBvCBN.html
27-04-2020||Mumbai||Education department braces for challenges in junior college admissions||Even as the state education department has announced the cancellation of the last paper of SSC exams, it now faces the challenge of planning for the first-year junior college admissions (FYJC) amidst the Covid-19 lockdown. With some boards completing its exams and decision still pending on the conduct of exams in other boards, equivalence of marks while taking admissions will be a concern.In a recent meeting between officials of various boards and education department, FYJC issues were discussed. The admission process usually begins in June. “The status of all the three key boards- SSC, CBSE and ICSE, is different in case of Class 10 exams. While SSC board has cancelled its last papers and the CBSE has completed its main exams, ICSE is yet to come up with a decision on the remaining papers. This might lead to issues concerning the equivalence of marks. For this, the government would have to come up with a plan,” said an official, who was present at the meeting. “These issues, however, can be resolved later, depending on how things pan out,” he added.Vaishali Bafna, from the System Correcting Movement (SYSCOM), a Pune-based think-tank, said that the government would have to come up with a concrete plan to ensure that no student has an added advantage. “To take a call, they first have to see how the remaining papers for other boards are conducted. Since students from other boards are only a small per cent of the overall applications, having a common policy should not be very difficult,” said Bafna. Meanwhile, parents from the state are now requesting the Human Resource Development (HRD) ministry to reduce the syllabus for Classes 1 to 12, owing to the current situation in the country. “Students will be under a lot of pressure to study the entire syllabus once schools reopen,” said Anubha Sahai, president of the India Wide Parents Association, who wrote to the ministry on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/education-department-braces-for-challenges-in-junior-college-admissions/story-LI1lsptEM1XdZQ6hfLXwiM.html
27-04-2020||Mumbai||Two men accused of attacking Arnab Goswami granted bail||Two men arrested by NM Joshi Marg police for allegedly attacking Republic TV chief Arnab Goswami and his wife were produced in the court and granted bail on cash ₹15000 each. The accused Pratik Kumar Shamsunder Mishra and Arun Dilip Borade, both residents of Sion in Mumbai had attacked Goswami and his wife at midnight on April 22 in Lower Parel area while they were driving home from their studio. Goswami and his wife escaped unhurt in the attack.“After five days in police custody, both the accused were produced before a magistrate court on Monday and were remanded to judicial custody. We moved a bail application stating that there was no concrete evidence against them. The court then granted them bail after each of them furnished ₹15000 in cash,” said Sunil Pandey, an advocate of the accused.Both the accused were arrested immediately and were charged under section 341 (Punishment for wrongful restraint, from the Indian Penal Code) 504 (Intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) and 34 (Acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal code.The arrest happened after Goswami filed a police complaint at NM Joshi Marg police station. “Two men on a motorcycle overtook my car and tried to identify who was driving. They then blocked the path of my car with their two-wheeler. The pillion rider hit the right-side driver window several times and after realising that the car windows were up, the pillion rider removed a liquid bottle from his pocket and threw liquid on the driver’s side of the car where I was sitting,” Goswami said in his complaint.He also said that the attackers were apprehended by Mumbai Police protection team.In his complaint, Goswami pointed fingers at the Congress and mentioned a tweet by party leader Alka Lamba “just three hours after the attack”.At the same time, Congress leaders also filed FIR’s against Arnab across the country for pointing fingers at Sonia Gandhi in the Palghar lynching incident. One cased filed at Nagpur was transferred to NM Joshi Marg police station for inquiry. On Monday, Arnab was called for questioning, and to record, his statement, at around 9.30 am. “Inquiry is still going on,” said a senior police officer, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/two-men-accused-of-attacking-arnab-goswami-granted-bail/story-HlS7Tmh6P6BRkpZVJulZDL.html
27-04-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai university colleges start online training programmes for teachers||Several colleges affiliated to Mumbai University have started online training programmes for their staff with the aim to upgrade skills and subject knowledge in preparation for the next academic year.“These are courses we’d have otherwise asked teachers to take during the summer vacation, but this year, since teachers are already free, we are ensuring they upgrade their knowledge as well as learn some new teaching pedagogy,” said Ashok Wadia, principal of Jai Hind Autonomous College, Churchgate. These courses have been on for over a week now and the college, as the same time, is also conducting webinars for their students as well as interested students of other institutions on career calls and higher education opportunities.Similarly, the management of Shri Vile Parle Kelvani Mandal (SVKM) has started online training for the staff of all the institutes under their aegis. “We have also encouraged our staff to look up other new and interesting courses that could help enhance their understanding of any chosen subject and submit a report on the same by May 3,” said Anju Kapoor, principal of Usha Pravin Gandhi College, Vile Parle, a part of the SVKM group.The union government has already released recommendations by two separate expert committees, both suggesting online exams in July followed by start of the new 2020-21 academic year by September this year. However, experts have pointed at the fact that online exams will not be possible for colleges and universities set up in rural India as many students will have no access to computers or internet. At present, Maharashtra state government is yet to announce their final call on what lies ahead for higher education institutes and students.“Since the future is uncertain, we have been encouraging students to keep opting for all the free online courses made available by the union human resource development (HRD) ministry. Our IT team, meanwhile, has been working extra hours to ensure that our teachers are being trained on new concepts in various fields for their knowledge enhancement,” said Marie Fernandes, principal of St Andrew’s College, Bandra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-university-colleges-start-online-training-programmes-for-teachers/story-P9qWTRpKkZDA4Ziv4uZsRN.html
27-04-2020||City||TMT gives free bus ride during lockdown||More than 3,000 commuters are travelling by Thane Municipal Transport (TMT) buses every day since the lockdown.TMT provides free rides to these commuters as most of them are emergency services workers.“Around 70 drivers and conductors ply 35 buses on different routes every day. Over 3,000 commuters are travelling by TMT buses daily and 98% of them are employees of Thane Municipal Corporation’s (TMC) health department or government-run hospitals in Thane,” said a senior official from TMT.“As most commuters are civic staff, working for emergency services, we decided not to charge them. The rest of the commuters too are allowed to travel free to avoid any contact between TMT conductors and passengers while issuing the tickets,” added the official. The TMT bus stops and buses are sanitised daily and more than 2,000 masks and sanitisers have been distributed among the staff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tmt-gives-free-bus-ride-during-lockdown/story-VcoKxjBYpSpNOQ3qOTKMkM.html
27-04-2020||Chandigarh||People turn to deities in HP for answers to Covid-19 as temples give freely to CM’s relief fund||Its mountains almost touching the heavens and its numerous ruling deities truly make Himachal Pradesh dev bhoomi (land of the gods), and now, with the battle against Covid-19 getting fiercer, people are turning to temples and the gods and goddesses for aid… and answers, as they have done through centuries during a crisis or calamity.Last week two temples, Baba Balak Nath shrine in Hamirpur and Chinmastika Dham or Chintpurni Temple, one of the state’s richest shrines and an important Shakti peetha (spiritual power centre), donated Rs 5 crore each to the chief minister’s Covid-19 relief fund Two other major temples, Jawalaji and Brajeshwari Devi in Kangra district are proposing to donate Rs 1 crore and Rs 50 lakh, respectively, again to the state’s coffers.Temples across Rohru and Jubbal have opened their treasuries for the second time after the Sino-India war in 1962, when the country faced a financial crunch.Deity speak: Wait for a monthDeities, speaking through their gurs or priests, who also act as interlocutors between the gods and devotees, have predicted that Covid-19 will continue to spread for another month. Some have blessed rice to be distributed in villages. “We had invoked the local deity Jaga Mata, believed to be the manifestation of Lord Krishna’s mother Devaki, and she predicted that the impact of virus will reduce in the coming month but it will continue to wreak havoc for a few years,” says Vinod Boris, kardar or manager of the Mahasu Mandir Committee in Balsa, Shimla. “The deities have decreed that rice be given to every person in the village to protect them from the virus.”In Kullu the committee of kardars had invoked the town’s supreme deity, Hadimba mata, wife of Pandava Bhim, who presides over the Hadimba Temple in Manali, which was built by Maharaja Bahadur Singh in 1553. “People here have firm faith in the goddess, she has vowed to protect us and our people in Kullu valley,” says Jai Dev Thakur, head of the Kullu Devi Devta Kardar Sangh, an association of a committee which manages various temples across Kullu. They are also donating cash and other relief material.The temple committee in Gothan village in Theogh, which has the influential Dhoom Devta as its principal deity, has decided to donate a ventilator to Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC) in Shimla. “We will shortly donate a ventilator to IGMC,” says Madan Lal Verma head of the temple committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/people-turn-to-deities-in-hp-for-answers-to-covid-19-as-temples-give-freely-to-cm-s-relief-fund/story-pwRgVwNnCX5AjLlAiEVGVM.html
27-04-2020||Mumbai||Woman threatened over social media post on distancing norms||jayprakash.naidu@hindustantimes.comGoregaon police have several people for harassing, threatening and abusing a 33-year-old woman over the phone, after she commented on a video on social media about social distancing norms in slums.The woman, who co-owns a start-up, complimented the social activist who uploaded the video, Social distancing a Myth in Slums, but later, she criticised him for his careless comments. This enraged a friend from college, who, tagged people asking them to give her a fitting reply.However, on April 24, she got calls from over five people who threatened and abused her. They demanded an apology and asked her to delete her comments. The accused also posted defamatory comments on her company’s website. Police have identified three accused in the case.A first information report was registered on Sunday at the Goregaon police station against the people who called her, and harassed and trolled her on social media, under section 509 (word, act or gesture to insult the modesty of a woman), 504 (intentional insult), 506 (criminal intimidation), 500 (defamation) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) along with section 67 (publishing obscene content in electronic form) of the Information Technology Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/woman-threatened-over-social-media-post-on-distancing-norms/story-fN8B7MRTtAgr6gtKDoyMnL.html
27-04-2020||City||Jai Ram Thakur favours lockdown extension beyond May 3||SHIMLA: Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Monday said lockdown should continue beyond May 3 to contain the spread of coronavirusPrime Minister Narendra Modi earlier held a video conference with the CM to discuss the situation arising due to Covid-19.Thakur also demanded more ventilators for the state hospitals. PM Modi appreciated the HP government for its efforts to fight Covid-19 and undertaking an Active Case Finding Campaign that helped screen the entire population of the state for Influenza-like illness.During the video conferencing with the chief ministers, PM also urged other states to emulate initiatives taken by Himachal Pradesh in the battle against coronavirus.He also urged all states to follow HP in this initiative to combat the pandemic and motivate their people to download Arogya Setu App which would help in detecting active coronavirus carriers.Meanwhile, Thakur urged PM Modi to provide an adequate number of ventilators to the state to meet any emergent situation.He said that pharma units in the state have started operations and were trying to meet the demand of medicines in the state and the country.“However, about 80% of pharma units in the state are in the micro, small and medium enterprises sector, so the Union government should provide all possible help to ensure a smooth supply of chemical and raw material.Thakur said that the state government has constituted a task force to restart economic activities in the state. He said that the state was heading towards starting economic activities.“Tourism in the state has been adversely hit by Covid-19. Similarly, horticulture especially apple cultivation is a key contributor to the state’s economy and there is an urgent need to ensure an adequate supply of carton boxes and also a better facility for smooth transportation of apples,” he said. Briefing the PM about the situation due to coronavirus in the state, Thakur said that to date 40 persons have tested positive for the infection of which 25 have been cured and one person has died of the virus.“Four persons have shifted outside the state for treatment,” he said.The lockdown should be continued but at the same time all states must be allowed to start economic activities particularly in the green zone, he said.CM added that the testing ratio of the state was 700 per million which was one of the highest in the country.He said that the state health department screened 70 lakh persons for influenza-like symptoms under the Active Case Finding campaign.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jai-ram-thakur-favours-lockdown-extension-beyond-may-3/story-jl5EuhW8Gww3v9AKiYl6AI.html
27-04-2020||City||Punjab’s death toll reaches 19 as 63-year-old Rajpura woman succumbs to Covid-19||A 63-year-old woman succumbed to coronavirus disease in the isolation ward of Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) here on Monday, taking the Covid-19 death toll in Punjab to 19.The woman, a resident of Rajpura, had tested positive on April 16, following which she was admitted to the intensive care unit of GMCH.She was the first Covid-19 case reported from Rajpura, which is now a hotspot with 42 positive cases.Patiala civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said the woman was symptomatic at the time she was tested positive for Covid-19.“She had a history of diabetes, hypertension and respiratory issues. She was admitted in a serious condition and was also put on ventilator support for a few days,” Dr Malhotra said.Two of her sons and their wives have also tested positive and are currently admitted in the isolation ward of GMCH here.FAMILY BIDS FAREWELL THROUGH VIDEO CALLThe family of 63-year-old the covid patient from Rajpura, who died on Monday, paid their last respects through a video call. The family requested authorities to allow them to attend the victim’s last rites, but the request was disapproved.Two of the victim’s sons, a daughter-in-law and one other member are presently admitted in the isolation ward of the Government Medical College after they were tested positive for the virus on April 18.CREMATORIUM CARETAKER FLEES, REFUSES TO TOUCH THE BODYMeanwhile, the health department sent its team to safely transport the body to cremation ground at Rajpura. A district administration team, led by joint director public relations department Ishwinder Singh Grewal, oversaw the process to ensure protocol is followed.Fearing to catch the infection from the body, a caretaker of the crematorium fled. “He was brought back but he refused to even touch the body,” Grewal said.The deceased’s nephew was allowed to make video call to her immediate family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-s-death-toll-reaches-19-as-63-year-old-rajpura-woman-succumbs-to-covid-19/story-xU5SMqh6WT10cFfHPihC7O.html
27-04-2020||Pune||Four IAS officers join fight against Covid-19 in Pune||Four senior Indian administrative service (IAS) officers in Pune have been given additional charge along with their existing portfolio as the number of Covid-19 positive patients continues to rise in the city.Maharashtra cabinet minister and Nationalist Congress Party spokesman Nawab Malik credited deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar for the initiative. “The four officers who have been recruited are posted in Pune,” added Malik.The Maharashtra chief secretary’s office has asked co-operative commissioner Anil Kawade, former Pune municipal commissioner and current sugar commissioner Saurabh Rao, animal husbandry commissioner Pratap Singh and groundwater survey and development agency director Kaustubh Divegaonkar, to join the fight against Covid-19 in the city.“The IAS officers have been instructed to work in Pune along with divisional commissioner, the municipal corporation and the district administration,” Malik said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/four-ias-officers-join-fight-against-covid-19-in-pune/story-vEwoWwmQ9jIQT8wNV7JIbJ.html
27-04-2020||Pune||Monday Musings: What explains lowest Covid-19 infections in Aundh, Kothrud?||Even though the novel coronavirus pandemic originated in the Chinese city of Wuhan and then spread across the world via air travel, it is by now clear that people from the IT industry have not been badly hit by the virus even though they travel widely around the world. In the United States, almost half of the 53,000 deaths due to Covid-19 have occurred in New York state, and less than 10% of this in California which hosts one of the major IT hubs in the world. Closer home, India’s IT capital, Bengaluru, has not been as badly affected as say, Delhi, Mumbai or Pune. As of April 24, Maharashtra had 6,430 positive cases and 283 deaths against 474 cases in Karnataka and 18 deaths. Bengaluru has had 67 positive cases and four deaths as against 1,070 positive cases in Pune and 69 deaths.In Pune, the entire contiguous belt of Aundh, Baner, Balewadi and Kothrud has consistently shown the lowest number of Covid-19 cases.While Pune has seen more than 1,000 positive cases and 69 deaths as of April 25, Aundh-Baner and Kothrud have seen a total of three cases and zero deaths. Last week, Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad told this newspaper that these two wards could be moved from the orange zone to the green zone, any time now, giving greater relaxation from the lockdown to the people there. Whether it is the United States or India, one common factor in the rapid spread of Covid-19 is high population density. New York has the highest population density in the US and governor Andrew Cuomo co-related high population density to the high incidence of the disease in the Big Apple.In Bengaluru, the latest nine positive cases were detected in a colony of labourers in the city. In Pune, the worst hit areas are primarily the high-density, low income localities of Bhavani Peth and Kasba-Vishrambaugwada in the heart of old Pune. Even in areas like Shivajinagar-Ghole Road and Yerawada-Kalas-Dhanori, it is primarily the slum pockets that have seen a high incidence of Covid-19 cases. Given the strong co-relation between high population density and high incidence of Covid-19, the situation in Mumbai does not come as a surprise at all. A city doctor explained the low incidence of Covid-19 in Aundh-Baner and Kothrud, by saying that “the living conditions are better and most of the areas in these localities are not congested as in the peths (inner city) where poor people living in wadas (typical structures in old Pune) have to share common toilets. Another observation was that the IT industry mostly has young people, especially the ones who are sent abroad on assignments, and as is well-known, it is the older age-group which is more susceptible to the coronavirus infection. High population density has clearly emerged as a major vulnerability for the coronavirus infection because it stands in inverse proportion to social distancing. This is the picture that has emerged most clearly and therefore the response from the health authorities too, can now be delivered with greater precision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/monday-musings-what-explains-lowest-covid-19-infections-in-aundh-kothrud/story-wpP4ZUDI80xog1ngc2Bw8J.html
27-04-2020||Chandigarh||#MainBhiHarjeetSingh ‘a huge reward,’ says emotional Covid warrior||Covid-19 frontline warrior, sub-inspector Harjeet Singh, whose hand was dismembered by a group of Nihangs (warrior order) on April 12 in Patiala, is a proud man today because of the enthusiastic response to the #MainBhiHarjeetSingh social media campaign launched by Punjab police on Monday to show solidarity with him.“I had never thought or imagined that I would get such a huge reward,” Harjeet Singh said in a phone call with Hindustan Times from his bed at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh.As top policemen and others in khaki replaced their name badges with his, the sub-inspector said it was not just pride but “an emotional moment for me. I and my family will cherish this reward throughout our lives. The thought that the entire police force is standing by my side will keep me and my family in high spirits and help us emerge from these trying times,” he added.He said he also wanted to share this “reward with all the police personnel who were present” when they were attacked by the Nihangs and “gave a befitting reply to them.”What added to his joy, Harjeet Singh said, was the news of security forces from across the country enthusiastically participating in the campaign.“I will always be grateful to Punjab director general of police Dinkar Gupta and Patiala’s senior superintendent of police Mandeep Singh Sidhu for supporting me and my family in these hard times,” Harjeet Singh said.Where his medical condition is concerned, he is now able to feel movement in his left hand.Thanking doctors and other medical staff at PGIMER for putting all their efforts in saving his life, he says he is eager to rejoin duty and serve Punjab police with high spirits and honesty.Patiala SSP Sidhu said campaigns such as #MainBhiHarjeetSingh will help boost the morale of the entire police force fighting the Covid-19 battle as frontline warriors.“I have never witnessed in my career such a campaign launched to give respect to the force’s heroics. It gives a clear message to the force that Punjab police will always stand by its personnel through thick and thin,” the SSP said.Terming it a “great and proud moment for the family,” Harjeet Singh’s brother Gurmeet Singh said, “We will never forget the respect shown to Harjeet not only by Punjab police but also by the people of Punjab in praying for his health.”The family, which was in deep shock after the attack on the sub-inspector , felt its spirits uplifted because of the support from top Punjab police officials, he added.Harjeet Singh’s 24-year-old son Arshpreet Singh said his father’s act of exemplary courage and bravery had been recognised by the police force across the state.“The family will always be thankful to Punjab police for being with and supporting the family through these hard times,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mainbhiharjeetsingh-a-huge-reward-says-emotional-covid-warrior/story-jnQXMoh66bHEGGtAvaNJHO.html
27-04-2020||Chandigarh||Kangra police use cartoons to drive home dos and don’ts regarding Covid-19||Every morning, inspector Dhyan Singh diligently offers his daily dose of advice, mostly tips to fight Coronavirus and dos and don’ts to prevent the infection and warns residents against flouting guidelines.Only, inspector Dhyan is not a Himachal Police cop but a cartoon character, which features in the Kangra police’s series ‘Dyan Ra Gyan’ (Dhyan’s Advice) on their Facebook page.Adept at multitasking, the good inspector conveys vital information about the deadly virus while simultaneously tickling the funnybone.The endearing character’s unique selling point (USP) is that he conveys the information in the region’s local dialect, which adds to the humour.In one of the cartoons, a man asks another to act like a patient so that they can go for a spin around town but inspector Dhyan counsels them saying, “Pulsa Ta Jana Dena par Corona Pakdya Ta Kuthi Joge Ni Rehna (Police may let you go but you will be ruined if corona gets you).In another popular illustration, four people, who claim to be bored due to the lockdown, are playing cards in a jungle.“Je chimdya Corona ta na khaloni tash na rehna udas (If you get infected, you will neither feel sad nor will be able to play cards),” the inspector Dhyan tells them, sagaciously.CARTOONS BRAINCHILD OF KANGRA SPThe cartoons are the brainchild of Kangra superintendent of police (SP) Vimukt Ranjan.“A Dharamshala-based cartoonist Arvind Sharma volunteered to help the police with this initiative,” he said.Ranjan said the cartoon series had garnered a good response from the netizens and are being widely shared and liked.Meanwhile, Arvind Sharma, who created inspector Dhyan, said the character was inspired by all cops in his neighbourhood and their interaction with the general public.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/kangra-police-use-cartoons-to-drive-home-dos-and-don-ts-regarding-covid-19/story-N8KYSkwBTNaiq24W6kAELJ.html
27-04-2020||Mumbai||Number of containment zones in Mumbai has come down: BMC mayor||The number of containment zones in Maharashtra’s Mumbai, the worst-hit city in the country, have come down significantly after no case of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) were reported from the metropolitan in 14 days, news agency ANI reported on Monday citing the mayor.“Our containment zones had reached to 1036. There has been a significant drop in the number of containment zones in Mumbai,” Kishori Pednekar, the mayor of Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation, was quoted as saying by ANI.“Two hundred and thirty-one zones are out of the containment zone list after they didn’t record a single Covid-19 positive patient for the last 14 days,” she said.Mumbai had recorded the majority of the state’s cases of the coronavirus disease with 358 new infections, taking the tally to 5407, on Sunday. The city reported 12 deaths.Maharashtra on Sunday reported 440 cases, a slight drop from Saturday’s record figure of 811, taking the number of infected people in the state past the 8000-mark to 8,068. The state on Sunday recorded 19 deaths, taking the toll to 342.With the rising number of cases in Mumbai and Pune region, the state government is yet to take a call on the Union ministry of home affairs notification allowing all shops, excluding liquor shops and those providing services, in urban and rural areas to reopen. State officials said that the government is still considering the “pros and cons” of allowing the opening of shops in urban areas.“Allowing shops to reopen in the non-containment areas of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) and Pune region could be harmful as hundreds of cases are being recorded daily. The chief minister is taking a review of all areas,” an official said.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday indicated that the decision on a relaxation of restrictions in the state will be taken after a review of the situation once the national lockdown ends on May 3. BMC, which has 67.01% of the total Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, is preparing for a drastic spike by May 15. According to Manisha Mhaiskar, one of the bureaucrats on the Covid-19 task-force in BMC, the civic body is basing is preparedness plan on the projections of the Centre for Mumbai. Mhaiskar said that taking an input assumption for a doubling rate of seven days in Mumbai, the modelling suggests that there would be around 70,000 cases towards the second half of May.“I am not saying this, this is a projection of the Centre,” she said.In a Facebook post, Mhaiskar said the “obvious” task before the civic body is to improve the doubling rate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/number-of-containment-zones-in-mumbai-has-come-down-bmc-mayor/story-LHjN6SjvTFxIeQ0A9xCukI.html
27-04-2020||Chandigarh||Rainfall, thunderstorms in HP, yellow warning issued||Heavy rainfall, hailstorm and thunderstorms took place across the state on Monday. A yellow warning has been issued by the state’s meteorological department for as many as nine districts, excluding Lahaul-Spiti, Kinnaur and Sirmaur districts for Monday, Bilaspur, Chamba, Kangra, Kullu, Mandi, Shimla and Solan for Tuesday and for Chamba, Shimla and Mandi on Wednesday.Ghamroor in Kangra district received 30mm rain, which was the highest in the state, followed by Nahan in Sirmaur district, which received 27.4mm rain.State meteorological department director Dr Manmohan Singh said that due to a fresh western disturbance, snowfall in higher hills and rainfall along with hailstorm and thunderstorms at lower and middle hills is likely to continue throughout the state till April 30. Weather will be dry throughout the state on May 1, after which rainfall is likely to continue till May 3.While the minimum temperature was normal, the maximum temperatures were four to five degrees below normal.Shimla, the state’s capital received 16.4mm rain and recorded 10.3 degrees minimum temperature.Kufri received 8mm rain and recorded a minimum temperature 7.4°C, and Manali recorded 8.8°C minimum temperature. Dalhousie has received 15km rain and recorded a minimum 9.4°C temperature, while Dharamshala recorded 12.8°C minimum temperature.Solan, Bilaspur, Hamirpur and Nahan recorded 12.2°C, 16.0°C, 15.8°C and 17.3°C minimum temperature, respectively.Kalpa in Kinnaur district recorded 6.6 degrees minimum temperature.Keylong in Lahaul-Spiti district was coldest in the state at 5°C while Una was the hottest at 34.7°C and witnessed 9.2 mm rain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/rainfall-thunderstorms-in-hp-yellow-warning-issued/story-LxXhAxYiPaEwuIt9qWl19K.html
27-04-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal’s Mehatpur border chock-a-block as thousands queue up to enter the state||The stretch of highway close to the Mehatpur border in Una was chock-a-block on Monday as thousands of residents that had been stranded in different parts of the country during the lockdown queued up to enter state.The Himachal Pradesh government had opened its borders on Sunday. Approximately, 3,000 people entered the state on Sunday and around 3,000-4000 people had crossed the border till Monday afternoon.The queue stretched 3km into Punjab’s border as people waited to enter the state. The cops posted at the border have had a hard time controlling the crowd and more police personnel had to be deployed at the border. Social distancing went for a toss as people jostled to get screened before entering the state.Una deputy commissioner Sandeep Kumar also went to the border to oversee the arrangements.Una sub-divisional magistrate Suresh Chand Jaswal said the situation had been controlled by the afternoon.Adequate police force has been deployed at the border. Extra screening booths have also been set up for scanning people entering the state, said Jaswal.“The Aarogya Setu app is being downloaded on the phones of people entering the state and they have been directed to stay quarantined,” he said.CONSCIENTOUS CITIZENS PITCH IN Meanwhile, many social organisations have also come forward to help authorities facilitate people entering the state by putting up food stalls and providing water to those queued up.Many people have also entered the state from Gagret.The state had earlier implemented a strict lockdown and nobody was allowed to enter the state. However, after resentment build-up over the government’s move to bring back students stuck in Kota, Rajasthan, the state authorities allowed all Himachalis stuck outside the state to return.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-s-mehatpur-border-chock-a-block-as-thousands-queue-up-to-enter-the-state/story-vLFOKCzJZuAMmpakqvzshN.html
27-04-2020||Bangalore||One Covid-19 patient commits suicide at hospital, 8 new cases in Karnataka||A 50-year old Covid-19 patient allegedly committed suicide here on Monday, as eight new coronavirus cases have been confirmed in Karnataka, taking the total number of infections in the state to 511.“A fifty-year old male from Bengaluru Urban, Covid positive patient admitted in Victoria on 24-04-2020 with history of pneumonia, known case of Hypertension, HCV positive and chronic kidney disease on regular dialysis. Patient died on 27-04-2020, with non-Covid cause,” Health Department said in its mid-day situation update.The patient allegedly jumped from the trauma centre building of the Victoria Hospital here this morning, police said, adding that further investigations are on.“Eight new positive cases have been reported from last evening to this noon...Till date 511 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed. This includes 19 deaths & 188 discharges,” the update said.Five out of eight newly confirmed positive are contacts of patients already tested positive; while one is with Influenza Like Illness (ILI), the other is with a travel history to Mumbai.Contact tracing of another man from Vijayapura is under process.Among the patients two each are from Vijayapura, Dakshina Kannada and Jamakhandi in Bagalkote district, while one each from Bengaluru urban and Nagamangala in Mandya district.Five patients are men and three are women.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/one-covid-19-patient-commits-suicide-at-hospital-8-new-cases-in-karnataka/story-1srVwrqjmrvq2oGNzkrChO.html
27-04-2020||Chandigarh||Back from Nanded, 11 pilgrims isolated in Tarn Taran after driver tests positive in Maharashtra||Back from Nanded’s Hazur Sahib, 11 people were isolated in Tarn Taran’s civil hospital on Monday after the driver of their vehicle tested positive for the deadly virus in Maharashtra. The pilgrims, which include two women, are part of a group of 14 people who were dropped by the Maharashtra-based driver to Tarn Taran on Sunday. Three others are from Moga’s Chak Tarewa village. At least 3,000 pilgrims from Punjab were stranded in Hazur Sahib, one of the five temporal seats of Sikhs, after the nationwide lockdown was imposed. Eight of the eleven persons hail from Khemkaran, a Nagar Panchayat that falls within Bhikhiwind sub-division, while the remaining two hail from Mianwal and Ramuwal villages. “The pilgrims returned on Sunday and were quarantined in their homes after their return. Later, we learnt that the driver who dropped them off had tested positive for Covid-19 in Maharashtra,” said deputy commissioner (DC) Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal. He said the pilgrims’ samples had been sent to Amritsar’s Government Medical College (GMC). The driver hails from Nanded district in Maharashtra. Nanded is 1,900 km from Tarn Taran and it takes around two days to cover the distance. DRIVER FERRIED PILGRIMS DESPITE PENDING TEST RESULTSA senior official, requesting anonymity, said the driver’s samples must have been collected earlier, but his results came on Sunday. This has raised questions as to why the driver was allowed to ferry the pilgrims if his test reports were pending. The pilgrims have been returning to Punjab in small batches. The state government has also sent several buses to bring back the pilgrims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/back-from-nanded-11-pilgrims-isolated-in-tarn-taran-after-driver-tests-positive-in-maharashtra/story-v9cNAJBgoyPDMWLFToz8oL.html
27-04-2020||Chandigarh||Three Covid-19 patients recover in Himachal; active cases come down to 10||Three more Covid-19 patients recovered in Himachal Pradesh on Monday, bringing down the tally of active cases to 10.Two patients are from Solan and one from Una. The patients from Solan are paramedics at a private hospital in Baddi. He had come in contact with a woman who had died of coronavirus at the Postgraduate Institute of Medicinal Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh.The patient from Una is a Tablighi Jamaat worker, who was under treatment at Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College.Additional chief secretary (health) RD Dhiman said the recovered patients have been discharged from the hospital and will remain under observation in an institutional isolation facility for the next two weeks.So far, 25 patients have recovered from the deadly coronavirus disease (Covid-19), of which 11 patients recovered in the last week.Twelve patients from Una district, five from Solan, four from Chamba, three from Kangra and one from Sirmaur district have recovered from the infection.No fresh Covid-19 case has been reported from the state in the last four days.Of the ten active cases, four are from Una, two each are from Chamba and Hamirpur, one each from Kangra and Sirmaur.Four patients have shifted out of the state for treatment. The state has reported one casualty due to the virus. As many as 4,819 tests have been conducted in the state. A total of 9,538 people have been kept under surveillance, of which 5,786 have completed the observation period and 3,352 are still under home or institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/three-covid-19-patients-recover-in-himachal-active-cases-come-down-to-10/story-rP0wIe7fCggqN5Xt0bpMNL.html
27-04-2020||Chandigarh||Blaze breaks out in Ludhiana’s vegetable market||A fire broke out in sabzi mandi near the Jalandhar Bypass around 10.30pm here on Monday.The reason behind the blaze has not been determined yet. The thousands of wooden and plastic crates lined up at the market added fuel to the fire. Five fire tenders were pressed into service to douse the flames. It took two hours to bring the fire under control.Sub-fire officer Atish Rai said, “Timely action was taken and the crates that had not caught fire by the time we arrived were removed.”Rai, while maintaining that the cause for the blaze had not been determined, did not rule out foul play. Fruit Mandi Arhtiya Association president Kamal Gumber said the loss was being assessed. “The crates that caught fire were being used to distribute fruits among the vendors,” he said, while thanking the fire department and alert workers present on the spot. “Had the godowns been gutted, the loss would have been irreparable,” he said.SOURCE OF INFECTIONLudhiana’s main vegetable market has been mired in controversy for blatant violation of guidelines, which led to Punjab Police assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Anil Kohli catching the deadly virus, which claimed his life, during crowd control duty. The ACP’s wife, Palak, Jodhewal station house officer Arshpreet Kaur, her driver assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Sukhdev Singh, a police constable Prabhjot Singh, district mandi officer Jasvir Kaur, her daughter block development and panchayat officer Navdeep Kaur and latter’s husband food supply inspector Prabhjot Kuar were all subsequently tested positive for the virus and are undergoing treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/blaze-breaks-out-in-ludhiana-s-vegetable-market/story-dCdy6ebIGsnhNad3n2I47L.html
27-04-2020||Chandigarh||#MainBhiHarjeetSingh is Punjab Police’s salute to frontline corona warriors||CHANDIGARH: A fortnight after sub inspector Harjeet Singh’s hand was chopped off when he stopped a group of nihangs from violating the Covid-19 curfew in Sanour town of Patiala district, Punjab Police on Monday launched a nationwide tribute to all policemen, doctors and healthcare professionals by saluting its corona warrior.Punjab director general of police Dinkar Gupta has written to police chiefs of all states and Union territories to show solidarity with frontline warriors such as policemen and healthcare professionals who have been attacked by people in different parts of the country. BADGE OF SOLIDARITYThe Punjab Police campaign is called #MainBhiHarjeetSingh where the police personnel are being asked to replace their own name with Harjeet on their badges.A social media campaign has also been launched for people to show solidarity with him and other police personnel and healthcare experts in the country who are risking their lives during the epidemic. “We all will be Harjeet Singh, because for society, Harjeet Singh symbolises the two top attributes of a good cop which is not meeting violence with violence or resorting to tit for tat and showing courage in the face of fire,” Gupta said.In his letter to the police chiefs, Gupta said Harjeet Singh has emerged as the symbol of the nation’s fight against Covid-19 and its spread. ‘PROTECTORS AND SAVIOURS’“Harjeet’s episode signals to us all that the frontline warriors need to unite and stand together for each other in a demonstration of solidarity and support to each other. We must also convey a clear message—don’t attack policemen, the ‘protectors’, and don’t harass doctors and heathcare workers, the ‘saviours’,” said Gupta in his letter. A group of seven nihangs had chopped off the left hand of Harjeet Singh, who has since been promoted as sub-inspector, and left two other police personnel injured with swords when they were not allowed to enter the vegetable market in Patiala district on April 12.Harjeet Singh underwent a seven-and-a-half-hour operation at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, where he is recuperating at present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mainbhiharjeetsingh-is-punjab-police-s-salute-to-frontline-corona-warriors/story-RPNuLpuIaMj8SBxx1cGDyL.html
27-04-2020||Chandigarh||3 doctors among nine found Covid-infected in biggest single-day spike in Chandigarh||In the biggest single-day spike in Chandigarh, confirmed novel coronavirus cases surged to 45 with nine fresh ones, including that of three women doctors, being reported on Monday.As many as 40% of the total cases in Chandigarh — which reported its first case on March 18 — have surfaced in the past four days, the spike being triggered after a 30-year-old operation theatre (OT) attendant of Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, tested positive on Friday. Seven of the new cases are his contacts.Among them are his four workplace contacts, including three women resident doctors in the anaesthesia department of GMCH, who were posted in the emergency OT of the hospital.They have identfied as a 30-year-old residing in Sector 49, 24-year-old residing in Sector 21 and 27-year-old residing in the campus hostel. Similarly, a 28-year-old male resident of Ram Darbar, who works as a housekeeping staffer in the hospital, has been found to be infected.Meanwhile, a 55-year-old male neighbour and another 38-year-old male community contact in Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26, besides a 19-year-old female family contact, who resides in Sector 52, have tested positive.The remaining two cases — 41-year-old man and 65-year-old woman of the same household in Sector 30B — are contacts of a positive case reported on April 17.Four family contacts of the Sector 49 doctor and three family contacts of the Sector 21 doctor have been sampled at GMCH and their reports are awaited. Similarly, six family contacts of the 38-year-old Bapu Dham Colony man and four family contacts of the 55-year-old positive case of the same locality have been sampled. Over the weekend, six contacts of the first GMCH positive case — parents, two sisters, a child relative and a colleague — had also tested positive. He was booked on Saturday for having hosted a party on April 17, which was attended by 123 people, in violation of curfew orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-doctors-ward-boy-test-positive-for-covid-19-at-chandigarh-s-gmch-32/story-hWeEdgI7Ta6U33tsohch1N.html
27-04-2020||Chandigarh||Marathon veteran Amrik Singh succumbs to virus at 84||Popular Glasgow businessman Amrik Singh, 84, the man who ran the London Marathon 26 times and graced various marathons around the world with his presence, has died after a four-day battle with coronavirus, his family said. He came to Glasgow from India in the 1970s. “Goodnight Amrik Singh. Gone but never forgotten. I hope to be able to do a fraction of the good and kindness you spread in the world. I hope you knew how loved you were at the end,” his grandson Paman Singh informed in a tweet. RAN OVER 650 RACES Paying tributes in a series of tweets, he recalled his grandfather by saying, “Apart from helping people, his passion was for running. They might as well have based the running man part of Forrest Gump on him. He ran over 650 races, from 5k to 10k, to half-marathons to full marathons, even though he only picked up running in his late forties. KEPT ASSISTING THE BLIND TILL THE END“Even in retirement, his routine was to wake up and be at the gym at 6 am to pound the treadmill, all the way into his 80s, before going to help at the gurdwara. “He would raise funds and then travel and assist those who had no money suffering from eye problems. He wasn’t an ophthalmologist, he was a simple shopkeeper, but he was qualified to change bedsheets, and feed and bathe. He continued to do this until his final trip last month,” his grandson said. For Paman Singh, his grandfather was utter inspiration and his best friend in life someone who empowered others to become better versions of themselves. “I would never have become a solicitor without him taking me under his wing and stopping me from going off the rails,” he said. FOUNDING FATHER OF SCOTLAND’s SIKH COMMUNITY Amrik Singh, the “founding father” of Scotland’s Sikh community, was admitted to a hospital last Sunday with symptom and he battled heroically, but eventually succumbed on April 23. “From when he came over to the UK in the 60s, he remained steadfast in his faith -- that of humanity. He faced up to the National Front and horrific racism with a smile, for him, these people weren’t enemies.” He served Glasgow’s west end community for nigh on 35 years from his small shop, always ensuring that he made deliveries to elderly people. BATTLED HATRED WITH KINDNESS“I remember him telling me when a man came into his shop and was hurling racist insults at him, but then was injured in a road accident just outside. My grandfather closed the shop and drove the man to the hospital himself and became friends with him,” he wrote in a tribute. “This was only a small part of his life though. His main focus was on seva -- volunteer work. NO WORK WAS BENEATH HIM, SEVA WAS HIS GOAL“At the local gurdwara, he would cheerfully wash the dishes, clean the toilets, and wipe shoes of those who came through the doors. Nothing was beneath him. “He was the inspiration behind the Scottish Sikh community’s drive to feed the disadvantaged and homeless regardless of beliefs, funding and setting up all manners of outreach support programmes, which is still going strong today,” his grandson added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/marathon-veteran-amrik-singh-succumbs-to-virus-at-84/story-rnG5PqwR1qqCJh5ItqqlhP.html
27-04-2020||Lucknow||UP lab staffer says duty above personal life||Ritesh Raj Mishra, a lab technician at a community health centre, could only meet his wife, Neha, on her birthday for all of five minutes. He has been living at a quarantine centre in a city hotel, and she has been at her parents’ house. He met her at their doorstep and left within minutes.“I couldn’t even give her a gift,” Mishra said.For several weeks now, Mishra, has been collecting samples of suspected Covid-19 patients in the lab he works at. He knows the risk associated with his job, and that he may also contract the infection, but has no regrets. He feels it is a part of his duty emerging out of an extraordinary situation.A laboratory technician at the Urban Community Health Centre in Baloo Adda here, Ritesh said it was a kind of national duty.On April 13, Ritesh and his team had to go to Kasaibada locality to collect samples of 117 people. “We started working at 4pm and continued till 10.30 pm. Precautions had to be taken so that no one in the team got infected, he said. The area had earlier been declared a containment zone.“When the administration, police, doctors and paramedical staff are working 24x7, you don’t feel hungry or thirsty amid the pressure of work,” he said. Ritesh said he and his team work tirelessly day and night. “I draw a lot of inspiration from my team members and seniors and I am confident that we will be able to defeat Covid-19,” he said. “There is always a risk, but we take precautions to ensure we don’t get infected,” the 28-year-old said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-lab-staffer-says-duty-above-personal-life/story-TrwACmwd9O6UMO13TGPAmI.html
27-04-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra man kills father, chops his private parts while saying film dialogues||A 25-year-old man in a fit of rage killed his father by biting deep in the neck and then chopping off his private parts, police in Maharashtra’s Nagpur said on Sunday.The incident happened on Saturday night in the city’s Hudkeshwar area and the man, identified as Vikrant Pillewar, was behaving so violently that it took a lot of effort on the part of the police to pin him down, said an official.“According to the family, Vikrant went into a violent rage without any provocation, and bit his father, Vijay, so hard on the neck that blood started oozing out. He then dragged the 55-year-old into the verandah and chopped off his private parts, killing him on the spot,” said the official.“Vikrant,a gym trainer, was reciting Hindi film dialogues and exhibiting inexplicable behaviour during the incident, the family has said. He also threatened his mother and sister when they tried to intervene. It took five policemen to pin him down and tie him up,” said Inspector Rajkamal Waghmare of Hudkeshwar police station.He has been charged with murder, the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-man-kills-father-chops-his-private-parts-while-mouthing-film-dialogues/story-tyegSdVo9Agw5xOae2I6bN.html
27-04-2020||Mumbai||Journalists cured of Covid-19 receive warm welcome in Mumbai||People here welcomed two journalists and applauded them as they returned home on Sunday after getting cured of Covid-19.In the video, housing society members of Press Enclave in Pratiksha Nagar, Sion East were seen cheering, clapping and even clanging their utensils to welcome the duo. Click here for full Covid-19 coverageAround 31 journalists were discharged earlier in the day after they tested negative for coronavirus in their second test.On Monday, the BMC had said that 53 journalists in Mumbai have tested positive for Covid-19.According to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, the state has so far reported 7628 confirmed Covid-19 cases which include 1076 cured and discharged cases and 323 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/journalists-cured-of-covid-19-receive-warm-welcome-in-mumbai/story-XxRdDoidDOKIp94iSn6CYN.html
27-04-2020||City||Undaunted by Covid lockdown, Ludhianvis sing about making most of the moment||Hoping to encourage people to make the most of the Covid-19 lockdown and take a break from the usual humdrum of life, Ludhiana-based industrialist and social activist, Radhika Jaitwani, has released a song “Is Pal Ko Tum Sambhalo”. The song, written by her daughter-in-law, Srishti Jaitwani, and composed by Sanjeev Sharma, features various prominent Ludhiana personalities, including the deputy commissioner and police commissioner.From young to old, people from all walks of life have also participated in the video of the upbeat song, sung by Sharma’s daughter Shivika Bhardwaj and Sanminder Singh.It was officially released on YouTube by the district public relations officer on April 24.“This song is a symbol of collective hope, faith and positive outlook during these testing times. My mother-in law facilitated this initiative to also pay tribute to the police, healthcare staff and all essential service providers,” says Srishti, adding that the idea for the song came from the music video “Muskurayega India”, self-shot by actors Akshay Kumar, Tiger Shroff and others, and released on April 6.“We wanted to create something of our own, so I penned this song. We contacted music composer Sanjeev Sharma, and once the song was ready, we approached various residents to contribute to the video,” she says.She thanked deputy commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal, commissioner of Police Rakesh Kumar Agrawal; RK Bakshi, SSP, Vigilance Bureau, Mohali range, Punjab; and Dharam Paul Juneja, ACP Model Town, Jalandhar, for participating in the video and boosting the residents’ morale.Besides the two women, the 2.59 minutes music video also includes entrepreneurs Mridula Jain, Ranjodh Singh, Vishal Kumar, Ravi Karan Jaitwani and Pranav Bhandari; principal of Sat Paul Mittal School, Bhupinder Gogia; former principal of Ramgarhia Girls College, Narender Sandhu; Dr Vinu Kumar; Ayurvedic doctor Niharika Vatsyayan; oncologist Dr Ashutosh Vatsyayan; and Prabhjyot Singh and Amandeep Kaur from CrossWhite company that edited the video. The video also features children - Navya Chopra, Muskaan and Ojas Vatsyayan.Music composer Sanjeev Sharma said the music video was completed in a week. “After I prepared the music, my daughter Shivika and another artist Sanminder Singh lent their voices to the song,” he said.More Ludhiana residents have also joined the cause of spreading positivity through music. Narayan Jindal of Mullanpur has released the song “Corona – Ek Pralay”, while Lakshay Sharma of Ghumar Mandi came up with a music video, “Yeh Hai Karma” promoting environment conservation. Folk artist Rajinder Malhar has released a music video, “Corona – Rabb Da Ehsaas”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/undaunted-by-covid-lockdown-ludhianvis-sing-about-making-most-of-the-moment/story-ngtnF2Uk0xCQl7W65ALNjJ.html
27-04-2020||City||Dadri civil surgeon gets show-cause notice for sudden absence||Dadri deputy commissioner Shyam Lal Punia on Sunday issued a show-cause notice to civil surgeon Dr Pradeep Sharma for leaving the district headquarters on April 25 and 26 without permission.“Several calls were made to Sharma during his absence, but didn’t respond. Due to this, students who had returned from Rajasthan’s Kota could not be sent home as their check-up got delayed. Migrant workers staying in relief camps could not be screened either,” the order stated.The DC has told Sharma to resume duty with immediate effect and file a written explanation by April 28.The civil surgeon could not be reached for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dadri-civil-surgeon-gets-show-cause-notice-for-sudden-absence/story-Fd6a5gfTpy4SIERzqBFNxM.html
27-04-2020||Chandigarh||Relax moisture content limit for wheat grains: Surjewala||Senior Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala on Sunday demanded relaxation in moisture specifications for wheat as unseasonal rainfall had damaged the harvested crop.He asked the state government to increase the moisture content limit for wheat from 12% to 18%.Addressing mediapersons here on Sunday, Surjewala criticised the government for its failure to provide adequate arrangements for coverage of the wheat harvest lying in the open in grain markets. He said grain markets in Karnal, Nissing, Jundla, Gharaunda, Assandh, Nilokheri, Kaithal, Guhla Cheeka, Pundri, Pai, Dhandh, Ismailabad, Shahbad, Pehowa, Jhansa, Bilaspur, Jagadhari, Yamunanagar, Rohtak were waterlogged.“The net consequences of mismanagement and ill-preparations of state government have resulted in destruction of crop. But the M L Khattar government refuses to acknowledge this. We demand that it’s still not too late to increase the limit of moisture content from 12 to 18%,” he added.Referring to effect of unseasonal rains, Surjewala said that massive losses had occurred in Kaithal, Kalayat, Pundri, Cheeka, Karnal, Yamunanagar and Rohtak. The BJP-JJP government should immediately take responsibility for the purchase of lakhs of quintals of wheat lying drenched due to rains, he said.22 LAKH MT WHEAT PROCURED LAST WEEKProcurement agencies in Haryana have purchased around 22.41 lakh metric tonnes (MT) of wheat from nearly 1.48 lakh farmers in the last seven days. The wheat procurement began on April 20. Additional chief secretary (agriculture) Sanjeev Kaushal stated that 3 lakh MT wheat was procured from 21,144 farmers on Sunday. He added that 10,827 MT mustard was procured from 3,911 farmers on Sunday. The total mustard procured was 2.52 lakh MT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/relax-moisture-content-limit-for-wheat-grains-surjewala/story-JLcwD7SaeNYDBM9Llu3MyI.html
27-04-2020||City||Illegal entry of street vendors continues to crowd Ludhiana’s vegetable market||Even though the threat of a Covid-19 outbreak looms large over the vegetable market near Jalandhar Bypass, there seems to be no end to crowding in the area despite deployment of police at the entry point. On Saturday, a huge crowd was witnessed inside the mandi, prompting police to drive them away with lathi charge. Besides authorised vegetable vendors, the gathering comprised street vendors and staff of commission agents. Some street vendors scaled the boundary wall to avoid the police at the entry gate, while several others entered the market with the enlisted vendors. Basti Jodhewal station house officer (SHO) Pramod Kumar said he had received information about the ruckus in the market, following which he led a team to the market and police used lathi charge to disperse the street vendors.In the wake of the Covid threat, the administration had closed the vegetable market for four days from March 31 and restricted its operations to three days a week thereon. Amid the curfew, only enlisted vendors can enter the market for supplying veggies and fruits to street vendors at ward level. Earlier this month, district mandi officer (DMO) Jasbir Kaur had tested positive for the virus, and deceased ACP Anil Kumar Kohli is also suspected to have contracted the infection while he was deputed at the vegetable market. His contacts - his gunman; sub-inspector Arshpreet Kaur and her driver ASI Sukhdev Singh were also found positive. Last week, DMO’s daughter and son-in-law were confirmed infected.POLICE ACCUSED OF MANHANDLINGCommission agent Lucky Galhotra accused SHO Kumar of beating up workers and illegally grabbing fruits worth Rs 7,000 while they were unloading produce in the market on Saturday. The SHO on the other hand refuted the allegations, stating the workers were illegally selling fruits to street vendors. The produce was later returned to the vendors, he claimed.‘ALTERNATE DAY OPERATIONS CAUSING CROWDING’Chairman of the market committee, Darshan Lal Baweja said currently the mandi was operating only on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday to ensure social distancing. However, whenever the market reopened on alternate days, bigger crowds visited it, defeating the purpose of the move. He said he will urge the deputy commissioner to open the market for at least six days a week, and ban the entry of street vendors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/illegal-entry-of-street-vendors-continues-to-crowd-ludhiana-s-vegetable-market/story-BXg82X3n3yLTbIMbXRUxlI.html
27-04-2020||Chandigarh||Nuh fights back: No new Covid-19 case in 8 days||It took barely three days for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) to turn Nuh, a backward district with 80% Muslim population, into the hotbed of the outbreak in Haryana. With three cases on April 4, the count jumped to 37 on April 7 and subsequently went up to 56 on April 17. Amid the rapid increase in cases, via the Tablighi Jamaat followers who had attended the Nizamuddin congregation, the fight back of Nuh administration has been equally striking. No fresh case has been detected in the past eight days, even as the district, with 57 cases, still has the maximum number of cases in the state. According to Nuh deputy commissioner (DC) Pankaj, a large number of Covid-19 positive cases pertain to people linked to the Nizamuddin congregation and their direct contacts. “In two days, beginning March 31, we tracked 656 Jamaat attendees and in the next three days, we identified 312 people who had direct contact with them,” said the DC, who is known for his hands-on approach.Until Sunday, the number of active cases in Nuh had shrunk to 18 after the recovery of 39 Covid-19 patients, according to official data.The district began hitting the path of recovery on April 17 when the first batch of four patients were discharged.The Nuh district in Mewat area is close to the national capital. It emerged as the epicentre of the disease after 711 Tablighi missionaries, including 57 foreigners, were tracked down in Nuh district alone.The health department, says Dr Suraj Bhan Kamboj, director health services Haryana, swung into action very fast and worked day and night after the Centre sounded about the Tablighi Jamaat.“Without wasting time, we took samples of not only Jamaat people but also of their contacts. All of them were quarantined. That helped us,” Dr Kamboj said.QUICK TRACING AND TESTINGAccording to Nuh DC Pankaj, “quick identification, quarantine and testing” has been at the core of the administration’s collective response.The DC says that so far, over 1,500 samples have been taken and from Saturday, they started collecting samples of cops posted in “high exposure” areas.Nuh was divided into six zones with 36 villages in containment zones and 104 villages in buffer zones.“For active surveillance, 289 teams were deployed to cover all 501 villages,” Praneet Jaswani, a CMGGA (chief minister’s good governance associate) posted in Nuh said. “More than 2.3 lakh households were covered and over 14 lakh people were screened for symptoms in one-week period.”As per the official data, more than 1.8 lakh food packets were distributed, while 97 FIRs were lodged for lockdown violations and 677 vehicles impounded till April 23. Essentials were handed over to the people at their doorsteps in containment zones.And to ensure that people don’t step out of their homes, religious leaders of all the faiths were roped in to sensitise people about the benefits of the lockdown.“Still we will have to be very vigilant,” Pankaj, the DC Nuh, cautions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/nuh-fights-back-no-new-covid-19-cases-in-8-days/story-2A9QkYyUoazJmavXjE7kNI.html
27-04-2020||City||Jhajjar man ties the knot in lockdown, gets masks & sanitisers for wedding gifts||In what may be one of the most humble wedding ceremonies, a 24-year-old Jhajjar resident tied the knot with a 21-year-old woman from Rewari, amid the lockdown on Saturday.The low-key affair however assumed a coronavirus-care inspired theme when the bride’s family gave the groom, Deepak Kaushik, 35 masks and two bottles of sanitisers and a few pair of gloves as wedding gifts.As only a few people were allowed to take part in the ceremony, it was attended by the Deepak’s father, the bride’s father, a priest and five other close relatives of the two families.Deepak works as a contractual employee with the Haryana government while the bride, Neeru, is an arts graduate.The groom’s father, Devender Kaushik, said that the Jhajjar administration had given permission only to five persons, including his son, to travel to Rewari for the wedding.“The wedding was fixed much ahead of the lockdown and once the restrictions were imposed, we decided not to postpone it. Our family is against accepting cash and cars and it was only fitting for the groom to receive masks and sanitisers as wedding gifts in the prevalent times,” he added.When the groom arrived, the bride’s family was all set for their welcome. They had kept sanitisers at the entrance and the wedding guests cleaned their hands with them and also wore masks throughout the affair. The couple too performed all rituals while wearing masks.Masks, sanitisers and gloves were presented as gifts to the couple during the wedding ceremony.Both the newly-weds said they were happy with the way they tied the knot.“Many of our relatives and friends could not attend the wedding due to the coronavirus scare. But we will invite them over for lunch after the situation improves across the country. The total spending for this marriage was on a mangalsutra and food for 10 people,” the couple added.The couple has appealed to the public to maintain social distancing, use masks and wash hands either with a soap or sanitiser.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jhajjar-man-ties-the-knot-in-lockdown-gets-masks-sanitisers-for-wedding-gifts/story-y2V8XIJgkA5AHjKndro5FM.html
27-04-2020||City||NGO writes to NGT seeking collection of samples from Ludhiana’s Buddha Nullah||Disagreeing with the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) that claimed there was not much reduction in the pollution level of the Buddha Nullah due to the Covid-19 lockdown, Faridkot-based NGO, Naroa Punjab Manch, has written to the National Green Tribunal (NGT), demanding collection of samples.Members of the NGO said many villagers living near the nullah had been sharing videos of reduced pollution in the stream. Manch president Gurpreet Singh Chandbaja said the pollution had decreased as the dyeing industry, which dumped untreated water in the sewer lines, was closed during the lockdown. “As the recent PPCB reports are contradictory, we have demanded that the NGT monitoring committee may conduct sampling to detect heavy metals in the nullah,” Chandbaja added.He said, “These reports can then be compared with the sample reports that will come out once the industry restarts its operations. The truth about the matter will then become clear.”A municipal corporation (MC) official, requesting anonymity, said the MC was also collecting samples from the nullah as the pollution level had comparatively decreased, adding that the reports will be out in a week.MC, PPCB AT LOGGERHEADS The MC and the PPCB have been at loggerheads over the Buddha Nullah pollution with each blaming the other for its failure to curb its pollution.Last year, the PPCB had also filed a criminal case against mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu, MC commissioner Kanwalpreet Kaur Brar and six others for the civic body’s alleged failure in operating the sewer treatment plants (STP) properly due to which the pollution level of the nullah was rising. However, the case was withdrawn in January this year.PPCB chairman Satwinder Marwaha was unavailable for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ngo-writes-to-ngt-seeking-collection-of-samples-from-ludhiana-s-buddha-nullah/story-En7vEIJ4Hhi8hnDSUAnhgP.html
27-04-2020||City||Covid curfew: Ludhiana man dupes migrant labourers by offering to send them home, arrested||Fraudsters are active even when the entire country is in the grip of coronavirus disease. A conman in Ludhiana duped nearly 100 labourers on the pretext of helping them board buses to go back to their native places.The accused has been identified as Dharminder of Atam Nagar, a school van driver by profession.Inspector Pawan Kumar, SHO at the Model Town police station, said the police came to know that around 100 people had gathered at a spot near Dhuri Lines despite the curfew.He added when the police reached the spot, they found Dharminder collecting Rs 10 from each labourer “to include their names in the list of people to be sent to their native places in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar.The police said, “The accused had told the labourers to gather at the spot as the government was sending labourers in buses and he could help them with his links. He had told them that they have to enrol themselves at the Atam Nagar police post and pay Rs 10 each for this.”The inspector said a case under Sections 420 (cheating) and 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code had been registered against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-curfew-ludhiana-man-dupes-migrant-labourers-by-offering-to-send-them-home-arrested/story-Wm4byxj29s36JIaicgniJJ.html
27-04-2020||City||Ludhiana NGO comes to the aid of murder convict awaiting release||Help Organisation, a non-governmental organisation (NGO), helped a prisoner who was behind the bars even after completing his sentence as he could not pay the Rs 10,000 fine.Ranjodh Singh, alias Jodha, was convicted in a murder case registered against him at Sadar police station, Khanna. He was serving time at the Ludhiana Central Jail.Gaganpreet Singh, president of the NGO, said, “The court had fined him Rs 10,000, along with the sentence. Though he had completed the sentence, he was forced to spend six months more in the jail because he could pay the fine.”“Neither him nor his family had any money. After we got to know about the case, we paid the fine, following which Ranjodh was released from the jail on Sunday.”Jail superintendent Rajeev Arora and warrant officer Inderpreet Singh appreciated the efforts of the NGO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-ngo-comes-to-the-aid-of-murder-convict-awaiting-release/story-QhNeKZ5owrMFLHA0wIUQVI.html
27-04-2020||City||Coronavirus lockdown: Punjab dyers’ body complains to PM office about high interest rates||With certain banks not reducing the interest rate on loans even when the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has decreased the repo rate (RR), the dyeing industry in Ludhiana has filed a complaint with the Prime Minister’s office (PMO) demanding its intervention to pass on the benefit to the industry amid the coronavirus lockdown.Repo rate refers to the rate at which commercial banks borrow money by selling their securities to the RBI to maintain liquidity, in case of shortage of funds or due to statutory measures. It helps RBI keep inflation under control.The Dyers Association complained that on March 27, RBI had reduced the RR from 5.15% to 4.4% to reduce industrialists’ hardships. “The benefits are to be passed on to the industry and residents, but the purpose is being defeated as the banks are still charging interest on the previous rates. Bank officials claim they have received nothing in writing from RBI to reduce the interest rates on loans,” said Bobby Jindal, general secretary, Punjab Dyers’ Association.President of United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association (UCPMA), DS Chawla, said, “The industry is facing a tough time during the lockdown and the government is aware of it. RBI should take immediate steps to bring some relief to the industry by stepping in, pass on the benefit to the industry and later, a declaration should be taken from the banks, stating that the benefit has been passed on.”‘POST LOCKDOWN, DEFER EMIs FOR 6 MONTHS WITH INTEREST WAIVER’Chawla also said the RBI hac deferred the EMIs for three months -- April, May and June, but it, along with the Union government, had failed to waive the interest. “Further, the government should also defer the EMIs for at least six months post the lockdown, as the industry needs time to revive. No interest should be charged for this period because if interest is not waived, there will be no benefit to the industry,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-lockdown-punjab-dyers-body-complains-to-pm-office-about-high-interest-rates/story-7YIJrNOFxZC1n2JlUWXwCM.html
27-04-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai Police loses second cop to Covid-19||A 52-year-old police head constable attached with the protection branch of Mumbai Police, who was undergoing treatment for coronavirus at MGM Hospital in Panvel, died on Sunday. The head constable is the second Mumbai Police personnel to die of coronavirus. A 57-year-old head constable attached with Vakola police station had died due to the virus at BYL Nair Hospital on Saturday afternoon. “Mumbai Police regrets to inform you of the sad demise of head constable Sandip Surve, aged 52. Shri Surve had been fighting Coronavirus for the past few days. Our thoughts and deepest condolences are with his family and loved ones,” tweeted Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh around 11.30am on Sunday. A senior police officer, who did not wished to be named, told HT that the head constable worked as a store keeper in the protection office. He had been posted in the protection branch since 2018. The head constable was a Navi Mumbai resident and is survived by his wife, a son and a daughter and used to stay in Navi Mumbai.“The head constable had been diagnosed with cancer three years ago and had received treatment for the illness. He used to travel by bus from Navi Mumbai to his office in in Ballard Pier and fell ill in the third week of April, after which he was admitted to MGM Hospital on April 23. Today [Sunday], he passed away around 7.30. His family has been informed and the cremation will be conducted in Navi Mumbai. We are tracing his contacts,” the officer said. Deputy commissioner of police (DCP) (operation) and Mumbai Police spokesperson Pranaya Ashok, said 50 police personnel have been tested positive for Covid-19 in Mumbai and are undergoing treatment at different hospitals. The Mumbai Police has recorded the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the Maharashtra Police department. The force has decided to keep its officers with health issues away from the containment zones where the chances of them getting infected by the pandemic are relatively high. “We are avoiding the deployment of older personnel and those with comorbidities in containment zones,” Ashok said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-loses-second-cop-to-covid-19/story-cHTYvhNas9f3sB0OCq9rKJ.html
27-04-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra Covid-19 case tally crosses 8,000; death toll rises to 342||Maharashtra on Sunday reported 440 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), a slight drop from Saturday’s record figure of 811, taking the number of infected people in the state past the 8,000 mark to 8,068. The state doubled its tally from 4,000 to 8,000 in seven days. The state took six days to go from both 2,000 cases to 4,000 and from 1,000 to 2,000.The state on Sunday recorded 19 deaths, taking the toll to 342.Of Sunday’s cases, Mumbai continued to record the majority of the state’s cases with 358 new infections. Mumbai alone has 5,407 cases, while its surrounding areas of Thane, Palghar and Raigad districts have 936 cases in all. Mumbai reported 12 deaths, while Pune saw three, Jalgaon two and Solapur city and Latur saw one each.With the rising number of cases in Mumbai and Pune region, the state government is yet to take a call on the Union Ministry of Home Affairs notification allowing all shops, excluding liquor shops and those providing services, in urban and rural areas to reopen. State officials said that the government is still considering the “pros and cons” of allowing the opening of shops in urban areas. “Allowing shops to reopen in the non-containment areas of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) and Pune region could be harmful as hundreds of cases are being recorded daily. The chief minister is taking a review of all areas,” an official said.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday indicated that the decision on relaxation of restrictions in the state will be taken after a review of the situation once the national lockdown ends on May 3. He also for the first time in his address said that this was not the time to play dirty politics, indirectly alluding to the politicking over his nomination to the Maharashtra legislative council. The governor, Bhagat Singh Koshyari, has not yet responded to the state cabinet’s recommendation to nominate Thackeray to the upper House.Thackeray has until May 27 to get nominated to one of the Houses of the state legislature and if is isn’t elected until then, he will be forced to step down.“There are questions about what will happen after the lockdown ends on May 3. Since April 20, we have gradually eased restrictions at some places. In Mumbai, this led to crowds that we cannot afford… We are not opening district borders in rural Maharashtra but gradually easing restrictions within districts to allow economic activity to resume. I am receiving daily reports. I will hold a review today evening and decide on further relaxations from 3rd May onwards,” Thackeray said, during his address via Facebook Live.“If we do politics at this time, then we do not need any other enemy. Elections come and go, so does power. But now if lives are lost, they will not come back. Therefore, no one should play dirty politics in this.” At the same time, he thanked Union minister Nitin Gadkari for sending a message to his party colleagues to keep politics aside at the time of a national crisis. A day ahead of the meeting between chief ministers of all states and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Thackeray took a review of the situation in Maharashtra on Sunday. An official, who was present in the review meeting, said, “The CM took stock of the situation. He reviewed the situation in Mumbai, Pune, Nashik, Nagpur, which have more cases. There are 11 districts, including Sangli, which have not reported any new cases in the past three days, while three districts — Bhandara, Gadhchiroli and Wardha — do not have any cases so far. The doubling rate of the cases and the death rate in the state was also discussed as Maharashtra has been reporting around 20 deaths for the past three days.”Maharashtra, till date, has conducted 1,16,345 coronavirus tests, of which 1,07,519 are tested negative. On Sunday, the state health department said that 112 people have been discharged from the hospitals, taking the total number of recovered patients to 1,188. Currently, there are 1,36,926 people under home quarantine, while 9,160 are under institutional quarantine.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), which has 67.01% of the total Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, is preparing for a drastic spike by May 15. The civic body, according to Manisha Mhaiskar, one of the bureaucrats on the Covid-19 task-force in BMC, is basing is preparedness plan on the projections of the Centre for Mumbai. She said that taking an input assumption for a doubling rate of seven days in Mumbai, the modelling suggests that there would be around 70,000 cases towards the second half of May. “I am not saying this, this is a projection of the Centre,” Mhaiskar said.In a Facebook post, Mhaiskar said, “The current doubling rate of coronavirus in Mumbai is 7 days. Positive cases doubled from 2,120 on 17th to 4232 on 23rd April. If 7days is taken as the input assumption, the modelling suggests that there would be around 70,000 cases towards second half of May. This has become the basis for preparing for Ides of May.” According to her post, the “obvious” task before the civic body is to improve the doubling rate. House-to-house surveillance, aggressive contact tracing, and containment strategies have been put in place, an official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-case-tally-crosses-8-000-toll-rises-to-342/story-99utgrubYi5uJg5vtmnAnN.html
27-04-2020||Mumbai||Covid warrior: Maharashtra doctor takes the fight to protect healthcare workers to Supreme Court||When the Centre brought in a landmark ordinance on April 22, amending a 123-year-old Act to enhance protection for health workers and frontline staff battling Covid-19, doctors across the country welcomed the decision. Among them, Dr Jerryl Banait, 27, a dermatologist from Nagpur, heaved a sigh of relief.Hearing of frontline staff getting infected as well as cases of assault against medical workers, Banait grew concerned for the safety of his elder brother Dr Yash Banait, 29, who was leading a team of 30 doctors at Mumbai’s international airport, to screen suspected coronavirus patients. “This had to stop, and the only way out was through the judiciary,” said Dr Banait, who decided to move the Supreme Court (SC) against the Central government in March. “The main aim of my petition was to provide police protection to health workers; jail term for assault on frontline staff and doctors, and ensure availability of personal protective equipment (PPE).”Banait failed to get his petition admitted multiple times before the SC. “By the time I had completed my research and prepared the final draft, a surge in Covid-19 cases began in Maharashtra and a partial lockdown was already in place. I could not physically submit my petition. Even the postal service had shut down,” he said. After calls and emails to SC judges, advocates, and politicians, Banait began losing confidence. “Fortunately, after a reminder email to the Chief Justice of India and relentless efforts from my advocates Astha Sharma and Prastut Dalvi, the plea was admitted,” he said.On April 1, the SC heard the matter and issued notices to the Central government. On April 8, a bench of Justices Ashok Bhusan and Ravindra Bhatt passed directions for immediate procurement of PPE; police protection for health workers at hospitals and those collecting samples on the field, and necessary action against persons inflicting violence or obstructing duties of medical staff. Subsequently, the Centre and states issued advisories and notifications based on the order.Last Wednesday, the Centre, citing the SC order based on Banait’s petition, also amended the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 as the Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020, making attacks on doctors and health workers a punishable offence with imprisonment up to seven years and fines up to ₹7 lakh. It also provided for expedited investigations and imposing stringent penalties on vandalism and damage to property. President Ram Nath Kovind on Thursday gave assent to the ordinance and it is to be ratified by both houses of Parliament once the lockdown ends.“The efforts are nothing but a cog in the larger wheel to support countless doctors and medical staff. They are the foot soldiers at the vanguard in this war against Covid-19,” said Banait.Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors (MARD) president Dr Rahul Wagh, said, “When we don’t end up going home for days due to our duty, and our family members hear of incidents of violence, their immediate reaction is to ask us to leave everything and come home. After a long time, due to this timely petition, and consequent decisions, there is relief.”The Indian Medical Association (IMA) said it was a long-drawn fight with the combined endeavours of the entire medical fraternity and individuals. “Amidst our attempt to address the surge in cases of violence against health workers, we may not have heard of individual efforts. However, we are aware of the recent petition and the SC order. This gives the entire fraternity more impetus to strengthen our focus in combating this grave crisis being faced by the country,” said Dr Rajan Sharma, national president, IMA.Dr RV Asokan, general secretary, IMA, said, “When there are multiple representations from society in the same direction, change is inevitable. We must not discount any effort to bring this change.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-warrior-maharashtra-doctor-takes-the-fight-to-protect-healthcare-workers-to-supreme-court/story-S8uDZrkMEUBaL8HAOo3VwM.html
27-04-2020||Chandigarh||PGIMER Chandigarh’s 5-day webinar on Covid-19 management for SAARC nations to start on April 27||The Postgraduate Institute of Medial Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, will conduct a five-day webinar on the best practices followed in India to contain the spread of Covid-19 pandemic, for 100 participants from different SAARC nations, from Monday.The programme was conceived after Prime Minister Narendra Modi suggested that healthcare professionals of SAARC nations could come together to jointly fight the Covid-19 pandemic.The webinar aims towards demonstrating the best and replicable practices followed in India to manage the pandemic.In a video message, PGIMER director Dr Jagat Ram and UT adviser Manoj Parida encouraged participating countries to combat the pandemic by cooperating with each other and appreciated the ministry of external affairs’ initiative to launch the programme.Dr Sonu Goel, programme director and professor at department of community medicine and school of public health, has reiterated the importance of the webinar in light of the current situation, and pressed for massive collective effort to manage the disease.The programme comprises 28 lectures demonstrating effective practices followed in India, including hospital management, field-based surveillance and administrative aspects. It also includes lectures from motivational speakers and some indigenous yoga practices. A one-hour panel discussion is also planned with experts of the institute and administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pgimer-chandigarh-s-5-day-webinar-on-covid-19-management-for-saarc-nations-to-start-on-april-27/story-HyqBP45wKn9Nz467VPulNO.html
27-04-2020||City||Owe Camp villagers in complete isolation, no positive cases so far||The Owe Camp villagers at Sector 30 in Kharghar have totally isolated themselves from outsiders, as a result, no positive cases so far have been reported from the area. Over 3,200 people reside in the village.The Owe camp village is 5km away from Kharghar railway station.Ramchandra Jadhav, 34, resident of Owe Camp village, said, “There is no gathering of any kind and villagers don’t step out of their houses at all. The vegetables too are grown locally. Groceries shop is also owned by one of us, hence, we ensure that essentials are delivered to individual homes.”“Marriage, engagements and all other celebration have been postponed and people have been asked to strictly follow the lockdown rules. We guard the entry and exit point of the village so that nobody leaves the village except in case of a medical emergency,” said Jadhav.The villagers ensure that there is zero contact with those outside the village boundaries and follow social distancing among themselves. Those working in essential services are allowed to travel.There are a total of 49 positive cases in Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC). Except Owe Camp village and few tribal hamlets in Kharghar, most of the area has reported positive cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/owe-camp-residents-in-complete-isolation-no-positive-cases-so-far/story-4rcLBfgtIGO9YkTR9T5PRL.html
27-04-2020||Chandigarh||Two floors in PGIMER building separate them, but this nursing couple won’t be able to see each other for days||Two floors in a building separate this couple at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), both have been assigned night shifts, but nursing officers Gurbinder Singh Dhillon and Kuldeep Kour last set eyes on each other five days back.They’ll be separated for a long time as Dhillon, aged 31, works in a high-risk zone where patients with flu-like symptoms tested for Covid-19 are handed their reports. Staffers over here have to be isolated once their weekly shifts are over. In Dhillon’s case, it will be next week, after which he will be quarantined up to May 13.As of now, he lives in a temporary accommodation in a hotel and works in the hospital from 8 pm to 2 pm, while Kaur, aged 29, returns to their Sector 38 home. She works in PGIMER’s emergency operation theatre, considered to be a moderate-risk area even though chances of contracting the infection in hospital settings are high.“Yes, it is frustrating, but one rejoices in knowing that you are doing what society requires in this pandemic. There is a cost to pay, however, because one has to live apart from the family,” she says.Once the infection spread to India, the couple decided to move Dhillon’s parents, both nearly 70, with Kour driving them nearly 450km to drop them at their village, Nangal, in Faridkot, and returning to Chandigarh.“Given their age which brackets them in the high-risk group and before I started dealing directly with Covid-19 suspected cases I moved them and my daughter to our ancestral village to minimise infection risk,” Dhillon adds.In the three years that she has been married, Kour says the family have never been separated for so long from each other.Work helps. “Once I am with my patients I forget everything and just focus on them, but when I go home it’s distressing to live alone, and have no one to speak to. To tell them how you feel working in these conditions,” she says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-floors-in-pgimer-building-separate-them-but-this-nursing-couple-won-t-be-able-to-see-each-other-for-days/story-byPsWyxxhRu1InlvBX3R5O.html
27-04-2020||Mumbai||IPS officer had no authority to let Wadhawans travel: Report||A probe commissioned by state home minister Anil Deshmukh found that senior IPS officer Amitabh Gupta had no authority to issue letter to Diwan Housing Finance Limited (DHFL) promoters Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan to let them travel despite lockdown restrictions on humanitarian grounds. The officer admitted that he had issued the letter to the Wadhwans. Deshmukh on Sunday confirmed that the report on the issue by Manoj Saunik, additional chief secretary, finance, has been submitted to the government. The report also states that Gupta admitted that he was not under any political pressure as suspected by the opposition parties. The report also found that the senior official had exceeded his jurisdiction and had no authority to issue such a letter. It, however, stated that a malafide intention could not be established as it needs further probe by a proper investigation agency. Even if the state government accepts his explanation a warning should be issued to check the background of the individual before extending such help in future. “We have received the probe report and it was found that Amitabh Gupta has admitted issuing the letter on his own. He has also said that he was not under pressure from anyone. The report will now be sent to the chief minister for further action,” Deshmukh said on Sunday.Gupta, who was serving the state home department as principal secretary (special), was sent on compulsory leave on April 10 after it came to light that he had issued a letter to aid Wadhawan brothers, accused by the CBI and their families to travel to Mahabaleshwar amidst the lockdown.“Amitabh Gupta has accepted the letter was issued by him and he should not have issued it but he said it was done on humanitarian grounds. The IPS officer has also said that the letter was issued based on an application in which Wadhawan had said they were stuck in a rented guesthouse in Lonavla and wanted to go back to their own house in Mahabaleshwar. Gupta clarified before the probe panel that his letter was not a directive to any authority and it was given only to facilitate the travel as per the discretion of the local authorities,” said a senior official.A fact-finding committee under senior bureaucrat Manoj Saunik was constituted to investigate the matter. Police had detained 23 people, including DHFL promoters Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhwan, for violating prohibitory orders of the nationwide lockdown. Kapil and Dheeraj are accused in DHFL scam and had been issued non-bailable warrants by the CBI. The family, along with other outsiders, had travelled from Khandala to Mahabaleshwar in their cars even when the borders of Satara and Pune districts were sealed.The home minister also said the report will be made public soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ips-officer-had-no-authority-to-let-wadhawans-travel-report/story-6GjzbaUIIi2ErvOZ97pwLJ.html
27-04-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal Pradesh students stranded in Chandigarh find little help on helpline numbers launched by state government||A day after the Himachal Pradesh (HP) government started bus service for its natives stranded in Chandigarh and surrounding areas, many students wanting to return home claimed that calls made to helpline numbers launched for the purpose are going unanswered. Meanwhile, others had trouble in reaching Himachal Bhawan, Sector 28, from where the buses were to leave, as there is no local transport facility available in the area.Renu Bala, who is from Kangra district and had recently completed her graduation from a local institute, said: “There are no arrangements in place for picking up students from different locations. How can I walk from Nayagaon, where I live, to Himachal Bhawan along with my belongings?” Renu said even the personnel manning the helpline number were of no help. Gaurav Sharma, a student leader in DAV College, Sector 10, said: “A few days back , the HP transport minister had assured students of help during video conferencing. Though he arranged the buses, mismanagement has left students confused.”Gaurav said even he has been trying to call the helpline numbers, but not a single one is working. “We don’t know how many students are being ferried in in one day or for how long students will stay in Solan before being sent to home districts. There is no one to answer our queries. In fact, a few students had to return from Himachal Bhawan on Saturday after getting no seat in the buses,” he said.In fact, this correspondent tried to contact all helpline numbers provided by the department of public relations, Himachal Pradesh, as well as circulated on different social networking sites, but could not get through a single one. While four numbers (9418008000, 9988898009, 8446313167 and 9418010857) were either switched off or went unanswered, a landline number (0172- 2638285) remained busy for an hour.Nodal officer Rajiv Sharma could not be contacted for comment as his mobile number, too, remained switched off.Meanwhile, sources said a total of 366 students from Chandigarh and its surrounding areas have been taken to Solan in 15 buses. The students are being put up at Satsang Bhawan there, from where they will be sent home after medical checkup.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-pradesh-students-stranded-in-chandigarh-find-little-help-on-helpline-numbers-launched-by-state-government/story-WeSFrCcxcaEMPyBfnIvtcI.html
27-04-2020||Noida||Child helpline receives double the usual number of calls amid lockdown||The district child helpline has received more than twice the number of calls during the ongoing lockdown than it usually does with regards to the nutrition of children. The data obtained by Hindustan Times showed that 220 calls were made to the district child helpline, 1098, between March 16 and April 26. This means that more than five calls were received per day.“This is more than twice the normal call volume that we face everyday. On an average, we receive about 70-80 calls per month. However, the last few days have seen a significant increase in the numbers,” said Satya Prakash, programme manager, FXB India Suraksha, a non-governmental organisation (NGO) that manages the district helpline. Of the total calls the came in, at least 39.5% were nutrition-related calls.“Most people in the need of dry ration or essential services are getting raw uncooked food in the form of care packages, containing rice, flour, etc. from the administration, the police or other sources. However, most of the calls coming to us are for nutrition products for kids, such as milk and milk-based supplements. In the last 40 days, 87 such calls have been made,” said Prakash.This, however, does not mean that calls for food are not coming in. On an average, 56 calls are made related to food supplies, while 23 call are related to coronavirus-related cases. At the same time, calls related physical and sexual abuse of children continue to pour in. Thirteen child abuse cases have been reported to the helpline while 12 calls have been made for the care and protection of children.“One positive effect of the lockdown is that there has been a reduction in the number of cases of children being lost. There were two instances of kids running away and seven of kids being lost and five children being found,” said Prakash. The figures are less than the usual number of calls received during normal times. Due to industries and private establishments being shutdown, the number of cases pertaining to child labour has also gone down to just two in the past 40 days.“There have been two reported instances of child marriage. Yesterday, we got a call from a 16-year-old girl, who alleged that she had been brought to Noida from Gorakhpur some time back. She wasn’t very clear on the details but it seemed to be a case of child marriage. Upon checking, it was found that her family had not filed any missing case back home. She is now recuperating at the shelter home,” said Prakash.With Sunday being Akshay Tritiya, the department is also on high alert for any child marriage cases in the district as per the orders by the district probation officer. The helpline is required to submit information about any such cases to the government by April 28. However, by Sunday evening, no calls had come in to the helpline regarding the same. Other reasons for calls include education of children, care and protection, counselling, shelter requirement etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/child-helpline-receives-double-the-usual-number-of-calls-amid-lockdown/story-gzup46Dt2U66be8TvMkoRK.html
27-04-2020||Noida||65-year-old ends life in Greater Noida West||A 65-year-old man allegedly jumped to his death from the balcony of his house in Greater Noida West on Sunday morning. Harish Chander, deputy superintendent of police, Noida Central, said the man lived with his family in a high-rise apartment. “The family members had dinner and then went to sleep. The elderly man came to the balcony when everyone else was asleep, and allegedly jumped to his death around 6am,” he said.The security personnel in the society found him wounded and alerted the residents, the police said. They added that the man was rushed to a private hospital where doctors declared him dead.Chander said that a police team had visited the spot after getting information about the incident. “The victim’s family members informed the police that he was depressed because of a prolonged illness,” he said. The police said they have not found any note from the spot. The body has been sent for an autopsy and the police are investigating the matter. Chander said the Bisrakh police are scanning the CCTV camera footage of the premises as part of the investigation. The man’s family has not filed any complaint to the police yet.Gautam Budh Nagar does not have a dedicated helpline to deal with such situations. A few major suicide prevention helpline numbers in India are +914066202000 from ‘Roshni’ (Hyderabad-based) and +914424640050 from Sneha India Foundation (Delhi-based).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/65-year-old-ends-life-in-greater-noida-west/story-KkaAgAbpgZ3aeWakIMuL2J.html
27-04-2020||Noida||In absence of clear guidelines, confusion prevails about de-sealing of societies||The residents of many high-rises in Gautam Budh Nagar district, which were sealed after the detection of several Covid-19 positive cases, are keeping their fingers crossed as the district administration has yet not announced the exact dates to de-seal their societies.Abhinav Ashwin, a resident of Logix Blossom County in sector 137 said that one month after three cases were reported from his society, he found on Saturday that the society is now part of the orange zone, instead of the green zone.“What are the parameters for converting red zones into orange zones and orange zones into green zones? Has the administration given the exact date of de-sealing any society before it is sealed? The administration does not care about the basic needs of the residents of the 900-odd flats in our society,” he said.Questioning the methodology of containment, he asked that if Wazidpur village in Sector 135, which is around three kilometres away and Paras Tierea, another high-rise in Sector 137, could be part of the same containment zone, how could other neighbouring societies in Sector 137 get relaxation in containment norms? “It clearly indicates that the administration is biased and it decides the containment zone randomly. Even the policemen deployed at our gates do not know about the relaxation norms for different categories,” Ashwin alleged.Echoing similar views, Ravish Gupta, the president of the apartment owners’ association in Paras Tierea, said that the district administration has not defined parameters for the sealing and de-sealing of societies. “Five cases had been reported from our society nearly one month ago. The administration has said that there will be a three-kilometre quarantine zone for a cluster with more than one Covid-19 case. If that is true then how can containment norms be relaxed for our neighbouring high-rise? How can two high-rises sharing a boundary wall be placed in different categories of containment?” he asked.The last positive case from Paras Tierea society was reported on March 29. On Sunday, its completed 28 days of quarantine. Similarly, the last positive case among the three cases from Logix Blossom County was reported on March 26 and the mandatory 28 days of quarantine were completed on April 23.The hotspots are divided into three zones--green zones, where no positive case have been reported in the last 28 days, orange zone, where no positive case has been reported in the last 14 days, and red zone, where a positive case has been reported in the last 14 days.Gautam Budh Nagar currently has 40 hot spots, where 10 are in the green zone, 13 in the orange zone and 17 are in the red zone.It may be noted that last Sunday, the district magistrate Suhas LY had categorically said that a two-kilometre buffer zone has been created outside quarantine zones and no activity other than the supply of essential commodities and visits from medical and sanitation teams will be permitted in these quarantine and buffer zones. But, he had also said that if no infection is reported during the next 28 days, the hot spot will be converted into a green zone.Despite repeated attempts via the phone and text messages, district magistrate Suhas LY did not respond for comment on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/in-absence-of-clear-guidelines-confusion-prevails-about-de-sealing-of-societies/story-Ft60uz1YalI0hcJs70VtGM.html
27-04-2020||Delhi||A Covid positive nurse and her toddler’s long wait to return home||Among the few words her two-year-old can utter are ‘mumma’ and ‘papa’.Huddled close on a hospital bed together, the mother springs up and makes a video call to her husband whenever her child says ‘papa’.“My boy hasn’t learnt how to speak yet, but he understands that the man on the mobile screen is his father,” says the child’s 29-year-old mother.The woman and her son have both been quarantined at a city hospital for 19 days, ever since they tested positive for Covid-19. She worked as a nurse at another hospital, where one of the doctors had tested positive for the virus on April 7.At the quarantine centre, for a lot of time when they are awake, the mother is often seen holding her mobile phone in front of her two-year-old so that he can watch cartoons. “He is a very active child. But he hasn’t troubled me at all here despite facing issues with his food and milk,” the woman said.“Our hospital wasn’t even treating or screening Covid patients, so I don’t know how he (the doctor) got infected. But once he tested positive, all of us who were in contact with him had to undergo tests,” said the woman, who doesn’t want either the hospital she works at, or where she is admitted to be identified. Soon after the tests, she and some other healthcare workers tested positive for the virus.An official from the hospital administration said they still haven’t been able to pinpoint how the doctor tested positive, despite not treating any Covid patients. They added that two members of the doctor’s family had returned from abroad, but that was several weeks before he was infected.In any case, this nurse thought that she was safe as neither there were any cases at her hospital,nor had anyone been tested. So, she didn’t feel the need to keep her child away from her while at home.But that changed and soon enough. After the doctor’s case, she and her son tested Covid positive while her husband’s result came negative.The two were allotted a hospital room, but the facility is nowhere close to what the nurse would have liked. “My child would get the milk around 11am or so. I can survive till 2 pm with just a packet of biscuits, but I can’t expect my two-year-old to be as tolerant,” she said.For the last two days, she said, milk has not been arriving. “I am using packed milk that my friends brought us and am heating it up in an electric kettle that I had brought along,” she said.She, however, fears that the electric kettle may not serve them anymore soon. “Anytime the kettle makes a sound, I worry that it will malfunction,” she said.The milk that her friends sent, too arrived after a lot of hassles. “The initial few days, the hospital staff wouldn’t let anyone bring anything for us. I am a nurse myself, but the hospital staff would look at me as if I have committed a crime by getting infected. But thankfully they allowed the milk to come in when we needed it the most,” she said.The mother and son sleep on the same bed. Unlike earlier, she said, she doesn’t feel like watching films on her mobile phone any more. Family members keep calling her through the day and all they want to know is the condition of the child, a thought she said her mind too is constantly occupied with. “Though it worries me that my child fell sick, he is the reason I am able to survive the quarantine,” she said.The nurse did have a little fever around the time she tested positive, but her son hasn’t displayed any symptoms. “My only prayer is that he remains asymptomatic,” she said.She said this was valuable time she is getting to spend with her son, though she misses her husband’s presence. “I’ll teach my child to speak a few more words by the time he gets to actually meet his father”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/a-covid-positive-nurse-and-her-toddler-s-long-wait-to-return-home/story-OOmX0GbfsL6cDU2pRNrt7J.html
27-04-2020||Delhi||Braving Covid threat, woman travels 2,400 km to help sister fight cancer||The lingering threat of Covid-19 failed to dissuade forty-nine-year-old Debeshwari CH from travelling over 2,409 kilometres to help her sister. She was determined to be in Gurugram to donate bone marrow for her sister’s transplant, but little did she expect to undertake a four-day car journey to reach the city from Imphal, Manipur. She reached the National Capital Region (NCR) from Imphal in Manipur on April 22 for the donation. Her sister, CH Ningolee, 55, was admitted to Fortis Memorial Research Institute (FMRI) in the last week of January to undergo treatment for acute myeloid leukaemia, a type of blood cancer where excess production of immature white blood cells affects normal blood production.“She has high-risk cancer, where the mortality is 100% if a bone marrow transplant is not done. We had to get her to remission — less than 5% of the leukaemia cells surviving — before a transplant could be done. Her first two chemotherapy failed, but she responded well to the third one. The lockdown was already underway when we informed her family that she was in a condition to undergo a transplant,” said Dr Rahul Bhargava, Institute of Blood Disorders and Bone Marrow Transplant, FMRI.Debeshwari was informed on April 7 about the improvement in her sister’s condition. The family decided to wait a week, expecting the lockdown to be lifted.Vilina L, Debeshwari’s daughter, said, “We had booked flight tickets for April 15. However, by April 13 or so, there was news about an extension of the lockdown, so we approached the state government. We asked them if my mother could hitch a ride on the cargo planes, but we did not get the permission. That is when we tweeted out and received a lot of support from the public and government agencies.”Under the lockdown, only two people are allowed to travel in a car but the family received permission for five — two drivers and three family members — as they had to cover a long distance. The doctors gave Ningolee another round of chemotherapy to ensure she remained healthy till her family arrived.“Because of the lockdown, there weren’t any hotels or restaurants open on the way either. We had to map the travel meticulously, planning all stops. The district authorities got in touch with the local police and the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), who arranged for our stay in hotels and guest houses on the way. We were scared and anxious about travelling such a long distance, especially through the hilly terrains of the North East, but the authorities met us at every step of the way, checking in on us,” said Vilina.She said that lunch was provided by NGOs along the way.Upon reaching Gurugram on April 22, Debeshwari underwent a Covid-19 test and tested negative on Saturday. From today, she will receive injections to prepare her for the donation. The injections force the blood-forming cells into the blood, which is then collected by applying apheresis — a process in which a machine separates the components of the blood, collects the required cells and pushes the rest back into the body.She is an allogenic donor, meaning that she is a genetic match for her sister.“We had counselled the family about the risk of undergoing a transplant during the Covid-19 pandemic. First, there was a risk to the family members who would be travelling to the hospital and second, to the patient who might be susceptible to infections. However, the risk of the disease was more than that of Covid-19 and the family decided to proceed with the treatment,” said Dr Meet Kumar, consulting haematologist and bone marrow transplant physician at the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/braving-covid-threat-woman-travels-2-400-km-to-help-sister-fight-cancer/story-Fl4la3gbHBEcXYY2JQF2QI.html
27-04-2020||Delhi||Traders anxious as test results still pending from Azadpur mandi||A large number of traders at the Azadpur Mandi in north Delhi have refused to resume business until contact tracing of all those associated with Mandi who have reported Covid positive so far. Four confirmed cases, including one death, have been found to have a direct link with Delhi’s largest mandi, which is the food supply lifeline of the capital. With reports of more cases associated with the market continue doing the rounds contributing to the anxiety of the traders and their employees, traders claimed the authorities are not coming out with precise data about cases from the market. “Now we have reached a stage where the total number of Covid-19 cases associated with the market is difficult to ascertain,” said Adil Khan, chairperson of the Azadpur agriculture produce market committee (APMC). Besides four cases in mandi, all of whom were traders, the daughter of a fifth trader tested positive last week, health officials confirmed.“So far, we have names of at least eight people who are suspected to have the infection but there is no official confirmation. Large groups of traders have refused to resume business until all contact tracing is done and pending test results are out,” said Anil Malhotra, a trader and elected member of the market’s committee.District Magistrate (North) Deepak Shinde said: “It is difficult to share official figures at this juncture. The number of people being traced as contacts and being sent for tests is on a rise. We have to have a final list of results and more details to ascertain figures. We are working in adherence to all protocols.”So far, test results of at least 100 persons associated with the market in capacities that range from trader to porters and accountants are pending. While 50 of them were tested after they complained of symptoms following a screening programme that covered around 400 persons in the last 48 hours, the others were contacts of the four cases, including the one who died, said a senior official in the district health department.The market has around 2,800 registered traders and 12,000 people who work there as porters, loaders, labourers, accountants, etc. On an average day, it witnesses arrival of around 3,300 trucks.Meanwhile, the Azadpur APMC issued guidelines to regulate the movement of trucks inside and around the premises of the market, spread over 101 acres space in north Delhi, to ensure congestion does not take place and social distancing norms can be better adhered to.The regulations include reserving an open space in Burari area where a token counter would be set up for access into the market premises based on serial numbers, issuing not more than 3300 tokens to truckers each day, issuing not more than 200 tokens per hour and penalising drivers who park vehicles for more than six hours anywhere inside the premises of the market, said the document which HT has seen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/traders-anxious-as-test-results-still-pending-from-azadpur-mandi/story-ALMQl4TAhbpcgsnVWQ3EAJ.html
27-04-2020||Delhi||Hindu Rao hospital to partially open today after nurse tested Covid positive||The Hindu Rao Hospital (HRH), capital’s biggest municipal corporation-run health facility, will partially resume services on Monday after being temporarily shut down following a hospital nurse testing Covid positive. The 980-bed facility which is run by the North Delhi Municipal Corporation caters to 5,000 patients daily and is one of the designated Covid screening centres in Delhi. All the entry and exit points to the hospital were sealed on Saturday night after the test reports of the 30-year-old nurse, who has been suffering from high fever the last one week, came positive. “We will resume services of casualty and emergency wards, including the flu clinic and the three OPDs (gynecology, paediatrics and medicine) with a restricted entry of patients and attendants from tomorrow, i.e, April 27,” said the north body commissioner, Varsha Joshi.Complete sanitisation of the hospital premises, with sodium hypochlorite spray, was carried out on Saturday, she said.At least 250 doctors, nurses, patients, their attendants, sweepers and even canteen workers were held back for testing on Saturday, who could have come in contact of the infected nurse. “Most of the staff workers had come for the night shift (8 pm to 8 am) and were told to stay back Sunday morning. They already had segregated duty rooms with beds to take rest and were provided food the entire day. The existing 170 patients were also taken care of,” a resident doctor, who didn’t wish to be named, said.Also, more doctors and nurses, who had worked closely with the affected nurse but were not present in the hospital on Saturday night, were summoned for testing.“Contact tracing of 52 staff members here, who have been in contact with the nurse, has been completed. In the case of seven contacts, the collection of samples has been done and they are currently in institutional quarantine. Rest are in home isolation and their sample collection will start tomorrow,” Joshi said.An enquiry has been initiated by the civic body on who asked the nurse to come for work in spite of symptoms. “There appears to be definite negligence at some level and we will take action against those responsible,” a corporation official, who didn’t wish to be named, said.Meanwhile, over 1,000 doctors, who are now apprehensive for their safety, presented a new charter of demands to the civic body.“We definitely need more Personal Protective Equipment (PPEs) here. Besides, the administration must book rooms for us to stay in nearby hotels. The accommodation provided in the New Hostel Block here for doctors attending to suspected COVID patients is not sufficient, and we don’t want to go back home and transfer any possible infection to our families,” a resident doctor, who requested anonymity, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/hindu-rao-hospital-to-partially-open-today-after-nurse-tested-covid-positive/story-8bPNH9wIS6RQAlDnNj25lO.html
27-04-2020||Delhi||Delhi government orders an audit of seven city hospitals||With an increasing number of healthcare workers testing positive in the national capital, the Delhi government’s health department has requested the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) to do an assessment and audit of implementation of guidelines and standard operating procedure (SOPs) followed at seven city hospitals.Delhi recorded a huge jump in cases on Sunday with 293 people testing positive for Covid-19, taking the total to 2,918. Fifty-four people have died of the disease so far.The seven hospital where the audit will be done are: All India Institute of medical Sciences (AIIMS), Safdarjung Hospital, Ram Manohar Lohia, Pandit Madan Mohan Malviya, Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality hospital, Max hospital in Saket and Indraprastha Apollo hospital.With several healthcare workers and patients visiting various hospitals in the city testing positive for Covid-19, district authorities raised the issue of hospitals becoming a major source of infection in a meeting with Delhi’s lieutenant governor Anil Baijal held on April 21.“We haven’t received any such letter yet. We do inspect the quarantine facilities etc sometimes but not hospitals. In case of such complaints, the health ministry constitutes special teams – of which NCDC officers might be a part – for inspections like it is happening in other states,” said Dr Sujeet Singh, director, National Centre for Disease Control. Central teams have been sent to states like Maharashtra, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, and Telangana among others.This comes on a day when at least 29 healthcare workers – including12 doctors and 11 nurses -- tested positive for Covid-19 in Baba Saheb Ambedkar hospital in Rohini. Earlier this week, 57 people from the hospital had been quarantined after they came in contact with a suspected Covid-19 patient, a 40-year-old woman from Jahangirpuri, where six of the eight containment zones from North district are located. In another hospital in Jahangirpuri – the non-Covid-19 Babu Jagjivan Ram Memorial hospital -- at least 44 healthcare workers had tested positive for the infection.On Saturday, a security guard and a nurse from the cancer centre of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) tested positive for Covid-19. So far, at least eight healthcare workers – all from the non-Covid-19 areas of the hospital – have tested positive for the infection. Two of the children of nurse also tested positive for the infection.South Delhi district magistrate BM Mishra told HT, “Nearly 30% of the cases reported in my district are of healthcare workers.”The chemotherapy area had to be shut for a couple of hours for sanitisation on Saturday after the nurse got her report. Several of the 40 chemotherapy patients who visit the centre in a day have also been advised home quarantine. At least 70 healthcare workers from the hospital are in quarantine.“There is a team that is contact tracing and will advise home quarantine or testing to colleagues and patients who might have come in contact with the nurse,” said Dr DK Sharma. All the patients from gastroenterology department of the hospital, where another nurse had tested positive, tested negative for the infection.A staff of Batra hospital tested positive on Sunday. The woman, who lives in Malviya Nagar, was employed in the hospital’s pharmacy. “Four of her family members have been put in institutional quarantine and one low risk contact has been put in home quarantine,” said a senior district official.In a letter to NCDC director, dated April 24, Delhi government’s health secretary Padmini Singla referred to the above mentioned hospitals and wrote, “It has been reported that doctors, nurses and other support staff (of the above mentioned hospitals)…are getting themselves infected with COVID-19 and becoming a source of infection in the society when they go to their respective homes. It is suspected that proper guidelines and SOPs may not be properly followed in these hospitals.”The government requested the NCDC to carry out a “quick assessment and audit of implantation of various guidelines, SOPs and other measures in these hospitals” to prevent the spread of the infection to doctors etc.“The increase in the number of health care workers, those posted at hospitals and their contacts testing positive is a cause of concern. It might be that adequate measures for protection are not being taken by hospital authorities, including those which are not treating Covid-19 cases. There is an urgent need to fix these lapses,” said a district magistrate (DM), requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-government-orders-an-audit-of-seven-city-hospitals/story-GeoG1zFvts7eS2GSMuIQGJ.html
27-04-2020||Delhi||At Delhi’s shelter homes, inmates complain of no medicine while doctors battle multiple threats||Nearly 110 doctors, all of whom are postgraduate students of the Delhi government’s Maulana Azad Medical College (MAMC) and have been posted to shelter homes, quarantine centres and government dispensaries across the city, say they have no medicines, infrastructure or even basic equipment to treat patients.Delhi has 259 regular shelter homes for the homeless, of whom 112 are porta-cabins, 111 are inside buildings and 36 are tents. The government has also converted 256 school buildings into shelters for migrant workers. Each of these facilities can house between 300 and 600 persons.“On Friday, a man living in a shelter home complained of severe pain in his lower abdomen. A few hours later, he started vomiting blood. Such a patient requires a hospital set-up for treatment and I did not even have the equipment needed to conduct his physical examination,” a doctor deployed at a shelter home in west Delhi, said requesting anonymity. On Tuesday, a 50-year-old migrant worker died at a Delhi government-run temporary shelter home in Chabi Ganj, Mori Gate. Officials said that though the man had no signs of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), he was unwell. The lack of medical supplies at the shelter home had prompted him to seek treatment from the Aruna Asaf Ali hospital last weekend. He died a few days later.Doctors said they only have basic treatment plans, which include medicines for fever, flu and stomach infections. In many places, they do not even have a thermometer or a blood pressure monitor.There is no provision to attend to cases of hematemesis, probable fractures or mental health episodes, which are some of the most reported cases from these facilities. According to 48-year-old Mohammad Tanveer, who is housed at a shelter home at central Delhi’s Aruna Asaf Ali Marg, he has had high fever for the past three days, along with bouts of vomiting. He alleged that the shelter did not even have a thermometer to check his temperature. All he was given was a paracetamol.When there was no relief or help from the facility, Tanveer said he took a loan of ₹2,500 from his fellow inmates at the shelter and with their help got himself admitted to a private hospital nearby, that too after much pleading.“I had almost lost consciousness, but there was no help at the shelter facility. I have been here for more than 20 days, but not a single doctor has visited. People have no means, proper food or even medical aid. If we die like this, how different will it be from dying of the virus?” Tanveer, who is a migrant labourer from Bihar’s Purnia, said.Thirty-five-year-old Mugeri, who goes by his first name, also a daily wager housed at the same shelter, said that many people here have complained of breathlessness, fever and dehydration over the past few days but doctors have not been informed.“Their condition cannot be helped by just some basic medicine. They need hospital-like care. A week ago, we called an ambulance. It took more than four-five hours to reach us and when it did, they refused to take the man saying it was not their case. We then had to call an NGO for help,” Mugeri said.Sunil Kumar Aledia, a social activist working for the homeless and founder of the Centre for Holistic Development (CHD), said, “Medical teams are visiting only a few shelters. Besides erratic timings and meagre food portions, there is no arrangement to provide medical aid to occupants,” Aledia said.He added that many inmates are patients of tuberculosis and HIV, and most are falling sick of the heat and improper nutrition. “The government must ensure proper medical aid for the large number of migrants and the homeless in shelters to save them from diseases and death.”The doctors also expressed their trepidations. A doctor, who has been posted at one such shelter home in east Delhi, said several inmates have been showing signs of physical discomfort as well because of their history of substance abuse.The doctor said that when they are not given proper medical attention, they often resort to violence and become a threat to others. He said two doctors are usually stationed at these centres during the day, and one doctor takes the night shift.“The government needs to understand that we are working without proper gear. We do not get personal protective equipment (PPEs) to protect ourselves from possibly infected patients; neither do we get alternative accommodation nor do we get any transportation facilities. We have been thrown here in these facilities, where there is a grave risk of violence against us,” he said, requesting anonymity.Another doctor posted to west Delhi said that medicos have been facing harassment—inmates have even tried to spit and urinate on them. She said that one of the homeless facilities in the area had to be shut down after a person staying there was found Covid-19 positive.“We are working in such close proximity with people who could have the coronavirus disease, that too without any protection. Last week, when I was leaving after the end of my shift, a man from the shelter began to chase me and I had to run to save myself. The policemen stationed there did nothing to protect me,” she said.The Resident Doctors’ Association of MAMC and associated hospitals, which represents four hospitals—including Lok Nayak Hospital (LNH), one of the biggest Covid-19-designated centres in the Capital—had written to the Delhi government on April 13 against the deployment of these 110 students in shelter homes, quarantine centres and dispensaries when they could be used to strengthen the workforce at Lok Nayak.“This relocation of PGs clearly overburdens the vital manpower resources at LNH, which are already under excessive stress,” the letter written by the association read.A senior Delhi government official said there is a clear-cut protocol in place that if anyone needs medical attention in such centres, they need to be shifted to a non-covid hospital in the area. “Any hospital will take them and treat them. There is no point in making an issue of this. There is no shortage of medicines in any of the centres but you can’t expect to treat severe medical conditions there,” the official said on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/at-delhi-s-shelter-homes-inmates-complain-of-no-medicine-while-doctors-battle-multiple-threats/story-ygEUDEqBpmztdr3t5xF51L.html
27-04-2020||Delhi||Tablighi Jamaat chief Maulana Saad tests Covid-19 negative, claims aide||Tablighi Jamaat chief Maulana Saad has tested negative for coronavirus, according to his associate. The person, who requested not to be named, said Saad’s result was received on Sunday and they will submit it to the police on Monday. “The crime branch had asked us to submit his Covid-19 test results. Now that we have it, we’ll submit it to the police team on Monday,” the person said. However, Saad is unlikely to appear before the police immediately. “We have been cooperating with the police and following their instructions step by step. If they summon him, he’ll visit them,” the person said.Saad has been booked under the Epidemic Act and sections of Indian Penal Code, including culpable homicide not amounting to murder, after hundreds of people who visited the Nizamuddin Markaz in March were found infected with Sars-Cov-2. Saad remains in home-quarantine at a relative’s house in south Delhi.While senior police officers remained tight-lipped about the developments in this case, an officer said they are in no hurry to arrest Saad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/tablighi-jamaat-chief-maulana-saad-tests-covid-negative-claims-aide/story-qA4kk0zspXFzwq6OltVg8O.html
27-04-2020||Delhi||Delhi shops remain shut as owners wait for more clarity||Till 1pm on Sunday, Sanjay Sharma (42), owner of an electric shop in south Delhi’s Munirka village, kept calling his friends in the local market to enquire if they were planning to open their shops. The Delhi government’s decision on Saturday to implement the Centre’s guidelines for reopening neighbourhood shops and stand-alone stores in residential neighbourhoods had given him hope of reopening his store after a month. But due to lack of clarity, Sharma and his friends decided to wait for further clarity on the matter. “We don’t want to violate the law and get into trouble. It is better if we keep it closed till things are clear,” said Sharma.Close to one lakh small traders in the city are likely to benefit, but many didn’t open their shops, citing lack of clarity and fear of police action.In most residential localities, only grocery stores, chemist shops and those selling vegetables and milk were open on Sunday.Need for definitionIn most residential areas, commercial activity is allowed on the ground floor of many buildings. Due to the rampant commercialisation of residential areas, there are no stand-alone shops anymore.“My shop is in a residential area, but there are other shops around. What does the government mean by stand-alone shops?” said Anil Chandiok, owner of an electrical appliances store in Acharya Niketan Market of Mayur Vihar Phase 1. “There is little clarity. I asked my staff who stays nearby to open and clean the shop at least,” he said.Deepak Sabrawal, a trader at Kotla Mubarakpur, said, “For the past two days, we have been getting contradictory orders and reports. Traders in the city are confused. The government should come out with a list of permitted traders.” The police didn’t allow traders here to open the shop.The issue was also raised by the Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) with the Union home ministry on Sunday. Praveen Khandelwal, secretary-general of CAIT, said, “There is no such thing as neighbourhood shops in Delhi. We have sought clarity.”Traders in local shopping complexes, mainly located in residential areas, said that market complexes should be allowed. “If a stationery store is allowed in a shop operating from a residential building, then why is it not permitted in the neighbourhood market? Moreover, market complexes are planned areas; it is easier to ensure social distancing,” said Rajinder Sharda, president, M-Block market in GK-I.With shops closed for over a month, most traders said that they have incurred huge losses. Sumit Gupta, the owner of a stationery shop in Patparganj, said, “This is the busiest time of the year for us. With most schools turning to online learning, there is a chance that my business will suffer…Not many know what all is allowed now,” he said.Police actionNot just the traders, but the police were in a quandary too about the relaxations. Till Sunday evening, the Delhi Police had not received any written orders regarding the relaxation from the government.“In a conference with the chief secretary, we were informed that the markets, malls and shops in the clusters wouldn’t be allowed to open. Once we receive the written orders from the PHQ, we’ll inform our officers on the ground about implementation,” a deputy commissioner of police (DCP) said. Another DCP said that he plans to allow up to two adjacent shops to open. “Up to two shops is not a cluster. But beyond that, it would be difficult to enforce social distancing,” said the DCP.While the police refused permission to open shops in some areas, traders in most parts of Delhi didn’t open their stores, fearing police action. In south Delhi neighbourhoods of Malviya Nagar and Khirki Extension, confusion prevailed.“Yesterday (Saturday), we had a copy of the Union home ministry’s order on our phones, but the police did not listen to us. Now, we have heard about the CM’s announcement in the news. What is the guarantee that the police will let us function?” said Satpal Rana, a stationery shop owner in Khirki Extension.On Sunday, Rana opened his shop after around a month, but only for cleaning and dusting. As a few customers approached, he requested them to call him tomorrow.In north Delhi’s Ashok Vihar, the police did not allow traders to open their shops in the residential area of pocket B, Phase-3, as they had not received such orders.Pramod Kohli, president, residents’ welfare association, said, “The local police told us that they haven’t received orders yet and from tomorrow (Monday), shops dealing in stationery, electronic items, mobile accessories and other such stores can open.”Shop owners, who opened their stores, said that there is not enough stock as shops have remained closed for a month now.Gautam, a resident of Aya Nagar who has an electrical goods store in the area, decided to open his shop on Sunday. While there is a huge demand for fans, coolers and air-conditioners, Gautam says that he doesn’t have stock. “We usually get our stock in March-end, but this time, we couldn’t get it due to the lockdown. We have placed the order, but the supplier doesn’t have stock. There is no point in opening the shop when we don’t have goods,” Gautam said.Another issue, Gautam pointed out, is of transportation. “There are no rickshaws or cart pullers available. How should we send the goods to customers? The labour is not available due to police fear,” he said.Residents oppose moveA large number of residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) in the city opposed the government’s decision.Rejimon CK, member and co-founder of Dwarka Forum (an association of RWAs in Dwarka), said, “The decision to allow neighbourhood shops will only lead to chaos and increase the threat of transmission of Covid-19, as residential areas in Delhi are largely commercial. There is nothing like a stand-alone shop in Delhi. The government should open them in a phased manner.”Some RWAs did support the government’s decision to relax norms but feel that only essential service providers should be allowed and that too, only in local shopping complexes. “Local complexes have a lot of space and social distancing can be ensured there. Also, open essential services, like electricians, plumbers, mechanics, etc, in areas under the green zone. The government should tell people which municipal wards are in the red zone,” said Atul Goyal, president of URJA, a collective of RWAs in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-shops-remain-shut-as-owners-wait-for-more-clarity/story-0j1pFNgt1pKf5V55o4PcOM.html
27-04-2020||Delhi||Kejriwal says no further relaxation till May 3, traders seek clarity on shops allowed to open||There will be no lockdown relaxations in Delhi until May 3, except for those suggested by the Union home ministry, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Sunday, adding that his government’s focus is on bringing down Covid-19 infections in the city.He said that neighbourhood and stand-alone shops will be allowed to reopen, but markets, shopping complexes and malls will remain closed. Curbs in containment zones will continue as is, the chief minister said in a press briefing through video conference. His statement came as confusion prevailed on the implementation of the Centre’s guidelines in the Capital, amid opposition from residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) across the city. Till Sunday, 2,918 positive cases and 54 deaths were reported in Delhi.Stand-alone shops in residential areas, including those selling non-essential goods, are allowed to function in the Capital, expect in containment zones. These shops will have to follow the guidelines issued by the Union home ministry on Friday night. After the lockdown ends on May 3, the relaxations or curbs would depend on guidelines issued by the Central government.“Shops selling essential goods would continue functioning like they were during the lockdown. Other than that, stand-alone shops in residential areas not selling essential goods would be allowed to function too, in adherence to the Central government’s guidelines. But no shops in markets, DDA (Delhi Development Authority) and civic authority-run commercial complexes and shopping malls would be allowed to operate. Also, no activities would be allowed in the containment zones,” said Kejriwal.Delhi currently has 97 containment zones, which are under strict surveillance and subjected to periodic sanitisation, door-to-door health checks of residents and scaled-up testing. In these red zones, the government ensures doorstep delivery of essentials, so that residents do not venture outdoors.Earlier, the Central government, in guidelines issued on April 15, had allowed conditional relaxations in areas outside containment zones from April 20. This includes self-employed workers, such as plumbers and electricians, workers at construction projects and industrial activities in designated industrial areas that have an adequate arrangement for accommodating workers. However, Delhi has not allowed these relaxations due to presence of hot spots in all its 11 revenue districts. Kejriwal had earlier proposed to revisit the decision on April 27, but the plan has now been called off, said senior government officials on Sunday.“Measures we take after May 3 will depend on the guidelines issued by the Central government,” said Kejriwal.On Monday, chief ministers are scheduled to join Prime Minister Narendra Modi in a video conference, to decide on the future course of action.“Last week, there were more than 850 fresh Covid cases reported, along with 21 deaths. This week, the number of fresh cases dropped to 662 and nine deaths were recorded. It is important to note that recovery rate has doubled – from 260 people last week to 580 people this week. The trends are encouraging,” read a statement issued by the chief minister’s office later in the day.Delhi chief secretary Vijay Dev issued an order about reopening of neighbourhood shops. “The said activities shall be allowed to operate in letter and spirit in Delhi with immediate effect, subject to strict maintenance of social distancing and other prescribed Covid-19 protocols… District disaster management authority shall ensure strict compliance of this order and bring this order to the knowledge of all field functionaries at ground level in Delhi for strict compliance without fail while ensuring that the containment of Covid-19 disease remains the main and prime objective of the district administration,” read the order.Several trade bodies reported confusion about the implementation of the order. “There is a lot of confusion among traders, which prevented them from opening shops today (Sunday),” said Praveen Khandelwal, secretary-general of the Confederation of All India Traders. The body has written to the Union home ministry, seeking clarifications, he said.“In its letter to the home secretary, the confederation has said that despite orders being issued, there is confusion regarding what constitutes ‘neighbourhood shops’ and ‘stand-alone shops’. There are several interpretations by the authorities. There is, as such, no clear definition for such terms, which is a problematic matter,” said Khandelwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/kejriwal-says-no-further-relaxation-till-may-3-traders-seek-clarity-on-shops-allowed-to-open/story-8jLPWDmhb1FJV3QO855daN.html
27-04-2020||Gurugram||Five landlords arrested for forcibly demanding rent||Five landlords were arrested at Sarawati Kunj in Sector 53 on Saturday for allegedly demanding rent from their tenants during the lockdown. The police said that the arrests were made after the tenants, all of whom are migrant workers, approached them and registered five different cases. The landlords were granted bail. The Haryana government and the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) had earlier issued directions stating that landlords in the city should not demand house rent for one month from migrant workers, students and paramedics. In an order issued earlier this month, the authorities had stated that if any landlord was found forcing his tenants to vacate, he would be liable to face strict criminal action.According to the police, the tenants came to the station to complain about their landlords on Saturday. Five separate cases were registered based on statements recorded by Raju from Delhi, and Alibudin Seikh, Rabirul, Armaan Seikh and Jiyar Ali from West Bengal. They work as daily wagers in Gurugram. The complainants alleged that they were paying rent between ₹600 and ₹1,500 every month. Deepak Kumar, station house officer (SHO), Sector 53 police station, said, “The complainants alleged that their landlords were forcibly demanding rent from them. On Saturday, we received five different complaints and arrested the men. We are investigating the matter.”Cases were registered against the men under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 384 (punishment for extortion) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Sector 53 police station on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/five-landlords-arrested-for-forcibly-demanding-rent/story-aEa0puRphRUcjshLnaBjqL.html
27-04-2020||Gurugram||Haryana govt allows construction work on small sites with 10 or less workers||In order to ensure that migrant labourers get work, the Haryana government has allowed the resumption of work on small construction and industrial construction sites where the number of workers is 10 or less, provided that these sites fall outside the containment zones. A directive issued by labour department, late on Saturday night, stated that no permission would be required for these projects to resume, provided that the social distancing norms are observed and the standard operating procedure is followed.It is estimated that this decision will help at least 2,500 builder floors and housing projects spread across various sectors of the Haryana Sahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) and private licenced colonies in the city, said officials. At majority of these sites, the labourers either are staying on the site or at a short distance from the site, officials added. The order issued by the labour department stated, “No permission will be required for small residential/industrial construction sites employing up to 10 workers only within the limit of municipal corporations, municipalities and rural areas where workers are available on site and no workers are brought from outside (sic).”Ramesh Singla, president, Gurugram Home Developers and Plot Holders Association, said that this was a positive decision and could help kick-start real estate industry in a big way. “A large number of contractors are taking care of their workers amid the lockdown and this is proving to be a big financial burden for them. It is important the work starts on these sites but the administration need to bring more clarity on this and help to smoothen out the resumption of work,” he added.A district administration spokesperson said that work can be resumed at those sites, where labourers are already staying. “The construction sites will have to be sanitised and disinfected regularly. Workers will have to wear masks and maintain social distancing during work,” he added.Meanwhile, the developers and contractors, who are operating such construction sites in various parts of the city said that they would wait for some time before resuming work. “The work can only be started if construction materials, such as sand, stones, tiles and cement, are available. Right now, it does not seem that these materials would be available easily. As such, we have decided to wait till May 3,” said Pramod Kumar, a contractor in Palam Vihar, who runs 11 small sites and has 80 workers working under him.Kumar said that he has been providing food and dry ration to the workers during the lockdown. “We want things to settle down a bit,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/haryana-government-allows-construction-work-on-small-sites-with-10-or-less-workers/story-Jt1QJVzy6YC0shiO1y60WL.html
27-04-2020||Gurugram||Employees of private firms in Gurugram may have to work from home until end of July||Private firms in Gurugram may have to ask their employees to work from home till the end of July as district officials have hinted at allowing gradual resumption of work in offices of IT, IT-enabled services and other companies in the district. VS Kundu, monitoring official for Covid-19 preparations in Gurugram, said on Sunday that all those who have offices in the city should prefer working from home model till the extent possible. Kundu is also the chief executive officer of the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA). Speaking with HT, Kundu, who is also the additional chief secretary of Haryana government, said that given the spread of Covid-19 pandemic, the administration was looking at gradual resumption of work at offices of private firms operating in the city, while maintaining social distancing and safety norms. “It is my personal estimation under prevailing situation that some staff in non-essential and routine offices in Gurugram may have to work from home till July-end. No such advisory or order has been issued by the government. The directions of the central and state governments will be meticulously followed in Gurugram in this regard,” said Kundu. Gurugram is home to a large number of IT, ITes, and BPO companies, which have been forced to close their offices since March 25 after the lockown was announced by government. A number of these companies have successfully managed to ensure that their workers are able to work remotely so that the business continuity is not disturbed.In a broader context, Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala said on Sunday that the lockdown will have to be lifted gradually in a phased manner. “Everything cannot be done everywhere at the same time. So, the things have to be re-opened gradually according to the situations. To prevent damage to economy, it has been decided to open the sale and production of everyday essential commodities first,” said Chautala in a statement released on Sunday. He also made it clear that liquor shops will stay closed till May 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/employees-of-private-firms-in-ggm-may-have-to-work-from-home-until-end-of-july/story-59zNrflRrOWhYKA341PEJN.html
27-04-2020||Mumbai||First plasma therapy trial in Maharashtra: 53-year-old’s condition improves||After undergoing the first round of convalescent plasma therapy on Saturday night, the condition of the 53-year-old man who was on ventilator support at Lilavati Hospital has improved. The hospital gave him one more transfusion of 200 ml on Sunday, the final one (also of 200 ml) will be given on Monday.The therapy involves transfusing plasma – a component of the blood – from a recovered patient into one who is fighting the infection, to act as a reinforcement for the latter’s immune system.“His intake of oxygen has improved but it will be too early to comment on it,” said a health officer from Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). Coincidentally, the blood group of the donor which is O-positive, got matched with the recipient. Though cross -blood group transfusion is possible but presently hospitals are not risking it.In this process, blood is collected from cured young patients who don’t have any comorbid health issues. After extracting plasma, it is transfused into older patients who have a higher mortality rate. Kerala was the first state to start the convalescent plasma therapy with approval from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). As HT reported earlier, on April 13, Lokmanya Tilak General Municipal Hospital collected around 600 ml of blood from a recovered Covid-19 patient in his 20s for the transfusion. Dr Om Srivastava, an epidemiologist is heading the process. Following this, ICMR, Lilavati hospital was allowed to conduct the first plasma transmission in the state on Saturday night. “To run the clinical trial, we had to seek permission from the family of the patients,” said an official from the hospital.As per the sources from the hospital, they have sought approval from BMC to allow them to extract plasma for the process, so that they don’t have to depend on other hospitals. “We have our blood bank where cured patients after three works of recovery can donate his/her blood for the process. But for that we have approached BMC which will seek permission from the ICMR,” said the official, on condition of anonymity. BMC has got three more donors for plasma therapy..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/first-plasma-therapy-trial-in-maha-53-year-old-s-condition-improves/story-MfBtsAYPwirheZAWZdeCaK.html
27-04-2020||City||Week later, deceased Ludhiana ACP’s source of infection remains a mystery||Over a week after assistant commissioner of police (ACP, north) Anil Kohli died of Covid-19 on April 18, the district health department has been unable to trace the source of his infection.Kohli was posted at the local vegetable market near Jalandhar Bypass when he was found positive on April 13.“It is very difficult to identify the source of the virus. We are still trying our best to stop its spread,” said civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga.On April 17, five fresh cases, all having connection with the vegetable market, were detected. Four of the five new cases were primary and secondary contacts of the ACP. The fifth patient was district mandi officer (DMO) Jasbir Kaur, whose daughter and son-in-law have also been found positive.The ACP’s contacts who tested positive are his wife Palak Kohli, his driver constable Prabhjot Singh, Basti Jodhewal SHO sub-inspector Arshpreet Kaur, who was also deployed at the market, and her driver ASI Sukhdev Singh.TWO SAMPLES COLLECTEDA day after the DMO’s son-in-law, a food supply official, was tested positive, the samples of his neighbour and a gardener, whose wife worked for the official, were sent for testing. The health department has sealed the area, instructed residents to remain indoors and is screening migrants living in their neighbourhood. Deputy commissioner Pradeep Agrawal said till April 26, 1,707 samples had been collected in the district, of which 21 were positive and 1,444 were negative. Reports of remaining samples are awaited.Among the positive patients, 18 are from Ludhiana and three from other districts. He said five patients had lost their lives, while six patients (five from Ludhiana and one from Jalandhar) had recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-acp-s-source-of-infection-still-unknown/story-LcEmiFb6DabFJDdG18FZML.html
27-04-2020||City||Ludhiana snatching accused wins battle against Covid, but loses favour with family||Let off on bail by the court and discharged by the civil hospital after recovering from Covid-19, snatching accused Saurav Sehgal is still cooling his heels at the hospital with nowhere to go.According to the health department, peeved with his criminal background, the 25-year-old’s family has refused to take him home.A police team that visited his house in Ganesh Nagar was turned away by his family with the statement that “they had snapped all ties with him for bringing disrepute to the family”.“The patient’s family has refused to take him home. It is sad, but serves a lesson: As you sow, so shall you reap. While family members anxiously wait for their loved ones to recover and welcome them with flowers, Sehgal’s family refused to pick him up. There was no one to receive him as he walked out of the Covid-19 ward,” said civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga, adding that the youth will continue to stay at the hospital for sometime as providing a patient nutritious diet was important. Arrested on April 5 for snatching, Sehgal was suspected to be infected by a doctor posted at the Ludhiana Central Jail, where he was taken for judicial custody post his arrest. As he tested positive for coronavirus on April 9, as many as 17 police personnel, including Focal Point SHO Mohd Jamil, two civilians and a duty magistrate were home quarantined. They all tested negative later. Sehgal’s family members were also tested and were given the all-clear. His accomplice Navjot Singh Navi’s test reports are awaited.A health official said Sehgal was suspected to have picked the infection in Jaipur when he travelled there in March.SEVENTH PATIENT RECOVERSA 35-year-old Tablighi Jamaat member, who was found positive on April 8, has recovered. The seventh patient in the district to be cured of the disease, he was discharged from the Jagraon civil hospital. He thanked the hospital staff for taking great care of him that helped him recover quickly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/snatching-accused-wins-battle-against-covid-loses-family-s-favour/story-3mYVdejohlJx3EtllxIuDN.html
27-04-2020||City||Hizbul Mujahideen terrorist held in Amritsar with Rs 29 lakh||Punjab police have arrested a terrorist of Kashmiri militant outfit, Hizbul Mujahideen, with Rs 29 lakh in Indian currency in his possession. Hilal Ahmed Wagay, a resident of Nowgam village under Pulwama district in Jammu and Kashmir, was nabbed by an Amritsar police team on April 25 near Metro Mart on national highway-1, director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta said in a statement.Preliminary investigation revealed that Wagay was sent by the Kashmir valley chief of Hizbul Mujahideen, Riyaz Ahmed Naiku, for collecting money from an unidentified person near the Metro Mart in a truck, the DGP added. According to sources in the Amritsar police, the truck carried the registration number JK-03-F -2261. The unidentified man who delivered the money came on a white Activa. The person accompanying Wagay in the truck was identified as Rayees Ahmed, a resident of Bijbehara in Anantnag district, the DGP added. His role is under investigation. A case has been registered under sections of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967 (Amendment 2012) at the Sadar police station in Amritsar. —With PTI inputs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hizbul-mujahideen-activist-held-in-amritsar-with-rs-29-lakh/story-SsGJwZQqzAyOx0X7la7p2M.html
27-04-2020||Chandigarh||Mercedes SUV impounded, Chandigarh woman tells family it’s stolen||Already under pressure managing the curfew due to Covid-19 in the city, Chandigarh Police were virtually taken for a ride by a 26-year-old woman who reported the theft of a Mercedes Benz (GLS), a sports utility vehicle (SUV), but later confessed she had lied and that the vehicle had been impounded.Emergency response officers (EO) posted at the Sector 3 police station were surprised when they received a call from the police control room (PCR) about an elderly man alerting them to the theft his SUV, estimated to cost more than Rs 80 lakh, from Sector 2. Wondering how carjackers could be active during heavy police deployment because of the curfew, the police team reached the complainant’s home to find him sharing details of the vehicle with the PCR officials. “We proceeded to check the cameras and also questioned the helpers in the man’s house but could not join the dots, as they no clue about it,” said a police official requesting anonymity.However, as the police were questioning people living in the house, a young woman came forward and confessed that she had lied about the theft fearing the wrath of her family.“The girl took the vehicle for a ride up to Sector 11, when it was stopped at a checkpoint by the police patrolling staff near the sector 23/24 light point. Since she did not possess a curfew pass the vehicle was impounded and out of fear she cooked up a story,” the official added.Investigators tracing the vehicle found it had been taken to the traffic lines. A challan was issued in the name of the woman. The vehicle owner is a businessman related to a highly placed political family in Punjab.Jaspal Singh, station house officer (SHO) Sector 3, said, “We have not taken any action against the girl and after recording the statements the matter was closed. Initially, the message was of theft but later things became clear.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mercedes-suv-impounded-chandigarh-woman-tells-family-it-s-stolen/story-cBU8eQlhiuKPCqv7RisMyO.html
27-04-2020||Pune||120 micro-clusters in hotspots under scanner in Pune||The city police have identified at least 120 micro-clusters across the city, from where positive cases have been reported. Along, with the officials of the Pune Municipal Commission (PMC), the police will visit these spots and ensure aggressive enforcement of lockdown and restrict the movement of people. This will help PMC officials to screen residents for possible cases of Covid-19 (coronavirus).K Venkatesham, commissioner of Pune police, said, “The survey has been done by additional commissioner of Police (crime) Ashok Morale and his team. Based on the number of cases in a particular area and the reasons for infections reported in the areas.”“We will see if 100 per cent restrictions should be imposed and identify people who have come in contact with positive patients so that they can be treated. Senior citizens and comorbid people in these areas could be put in shelters in a particular area,” he said.Most of the city’s cases are reported from Bhawani peth, Kasba peth and neighbouring areas, which prompted police and civic administration to declare it as containment zones early this month. However, despite declaring parts of peth areas as containment zones, Covid-19 cases have been on a rise.“We have established a network of volunteers to help. The purpose (of this exercise) is to identify people as early as possible and to break the chain. If there are people who are not reporting due to some fear, we will be reaching out to them by going to doorstep while taking due precaution and maintaining social distancing,” said Ravindra Shisve, joint commissioner of police, Pune.The spots clusters have been identified with the help of crime branch and are spread across 13 major clusters in the city, according to Sanjay Shinde, additional commissioner of police, Pune. Every cluster has multiple micro-clusters he said.“Micro-clusters are those areas from where five-ten cases have been reported. We will be visiting and conducting a joint survey in these areas. The aim is to contain and restrict the spread of infection. The visits will begin tomorrow. For example, if you visit Tadiwala road, there are five to six places. We will ensure availability and use of mask, sanitiser, inspect the cleanliness of common toilets, social distancing, fumigation,” said Additional CP Shinde.The 13 clusters are spread across multiple areas including Mukundnagar-Parvati darshan, Gultekdi, Lumbininagar, Tadiwala road, Bhawani Peth, Kasewadi, Ghorpade Peth-Mominpura-Gurwar Peth, Nana Peth, 633-455 Gunj Peth, 54 Lohiyanagar, Mangalwar peth-Kasba peth, Mithanagar-Saibabanagar-Bhagyodaynagar in Kondhwa, 1088 Ravivar peth, Patil Estate, and Lakshminagar-Yerawada.While the PMC and police have been working in their own capacities, this exercise will bring the two on the same page, according to a senior official.As on April 25, the city had 1139 positive cases of which at least 214 are from the Bhawani peth area, at least 160 in Dhole-Patil road area, at least 133 in Shivajinagar-Ghole road area, at least 127 are from Kasba peth-Vishrambaugwada area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/120-micro-clusters-in-hotspots-under-scanner-in-pune/story-Nb7CKHV5T472sK1DPWeoaP.html
27-04-2020||City||Akshaya Tritiya: Jewellers, consumers in Ludhiana miss the usual hustle-bustle||Lockdown has dampened the spirit of this year’s Akshaya Tritiya for both consumers and jewellers . Although top companies are selling products online, they are also finding fewer customers in the state.Akshaya Tritiya, a spring festival mainly observed by Hindus and Jains, signifies the day of unending prosperity. On this day, they purchase gold products or invest in properties.According to jewellers, Akshaya Tritiya used to be a day of huge business, and huge rush of customers was common at their shops every year.“But today, shops are closed and we are sitting home,” said Anand Sikri, president of the Jewellers Association, while recalling the hustle and bustle in the market witnessed on this day.“This time, enthusiasm is missing. Jewellers are sitting at home and unable to sell anything, even online,” he said, adding he had not received even a single call from any customer since morning, which had never been the case earlier.Nand Kumar Jain from Munish Diamonds said, “The country’s economic growth was already slow, but now it has been hit hard by the lockdown.”“Residents are also showing less interest in buying gold. They are rather focusing on purchasing grocery items, medicines and arranging money for their workers,” he said.Asim Nagpal from Tanishq, Ludhiana, said, “The company is booking some orders with advance payment on its online portal, but products will be delivered to customers only after the lockdown is over.”“However, people are hesitating to make big purchases, and most of them are preferring coins. Gold jewellery worth less than Rs 2 lakh is available on the portal,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/akshaya-tritiya-jewellers-consumers-in-ludhiana-miss-the-usual-hustle-and-bustle/story-CerCDuX0L3dX0qWEcEfIcL.html
27-04-2020||Pune||4 persons missing from quarantine facility at Sinhgad in Pune||Four people registered at an institutional quarantine facility on Sinhgad road were reported missing from the facility on Saturday evening, according to police.The incident was reported at the facility established at the women’s hostel of Sinhgad dental college.Senior police inspector Nandkishor Shelke of Sinhgad road police station, said, “The four were brought in an ambulance to the hostel. The health authorities left them in the ambulance and went inside the facility to complete formalities. When they came back, these four were missing. We are confirming if they went back home.”The four people are suspected to have been brought to the facility from Bibvewadi by the officials of the health department, according to the police. However, when asked about it, the ward officer of Bibvewadi denied any responsibility.“I have no idea about any such incident. I do not run that facility, so I cannot comment on the incident,” said Somnath Bankar, ward officer of Bibvewadi.The police are awaiting further information from the health department in order to launch a search operation for the four.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/4-persons-missing-from-quarantine-facility-at-sinhgad/story-Rpb9tDmLTWubaDerR0ngLJ.html
27-04-2020||Pune||Few fresh faces will be on field this year: Lalit Nahata, vice-president, PDBA||During the summer vacation, the Pune District Basketball Association (PDBA), dedicates time to finding fresh talent, but this year, due to the Covid-19 (coronavirus) lockdown, there will be fewer fresh faces on the court, according to Lalit Nahata, vice-president, PDBA.Nahata, said, “Usually during this time of the year (April and May) beginners enroll to play as parents are keen to engage their children in field activities. This year the scenario will be different as we will have fewer fresh players on the court during the entire year.”“The players who have played district, state or national tournaments will not be affected much as they continue practice, even now. They follow an exercise routine at home and perform drills. They will be eagerly waiting to get back on the field,” said Nahata.NBA India junior west zone trials affectedAn important game which city players missed due to the lockdown is NBA India Junior West Zone trials which were scheduled for March 14 and 15, according to Nahata.“It was a vital tournament and gives good exposure to players. Selected players represent west zone at the NBA India National Championship which was scheduled in May, but it is now cancelled,” explains Nahata.NBA juniors is popular in the city as it attracts quality players. “In the last couple of years we have seen many players from state getting selected for NBA India Junior programme and they also get chance to go overseas and train in NBA academies,” added Nahata.Junior (under- 18), youth (under- 16) category tournaments suspendedMost of the under-16 players avoid playing during their Class 10 exams and train hard during these two months (April and May) to get selected for nationals and state tourneys, and the same is for the under-18 category. This year tournaments under these categories stand suspended.“The season for the junior and youth categories starts in April and May. For these players, it is their last chance in the u-16 category and these two months are all about sharpening their drills to give in their best performance,” said Nahata.Coaches keep players motivated via fitness drillsMost of the coaches are now using social video apps to task various coaching drills to the players. “They conduct online competitions like whoever post best fitness video will become the leader of the group and all other will be following her/him to do the fitness drills,” said Nahata.“Keeping players motivated is one of the biggest tasks for coaches,” added Nahata..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/few-fresh-faces-will-be-on-field-this-year-lalit-nahata-vice-president-pdba/story-lLlMRPzUG4KMWFFRMj5coL.html
27-04-2020||Pune||Chakan firm gets refund of Rs64.7 lakh in online fraud||A firm in Chakan that had lost Rs 64.7 lakh in an online fraud got the money back, after the intervention of the cybercrime cell of Pimpri-Chinchwad.On March 16, an employee of a chemical equipment and fabrication manufacturing company, who is the complainant in the case, received an email from a German client company that was in regular business with the complainant company. The email was sent from the ID similar to that of a Mumbai-based employee of the client German company.The email claimed that the company was changing its bank for the transaction.The sender provided bank details of the new account and asked the complainant to use it for their regular transactions.On March 20, regular payment of $89,969.60 (Rs 65,67,780) was made to the new bank account, details for which were provided by the fraudster.However, the Mumbai-based employee of the complainant’s German client company, who was unaware of the online fraud, raised the issue of a default in payment. That is when a complaint was registered at the Pimpri Chinchwad cyber crime cell.“As per the complaint, the officials of the cyber cell conducting the cyber analysis of the complainant as well as German company’s Mumbai-based employee’s email ID to find that the complainant’s ID was not hacked but a duplicate email ID of the German company’s Mumbai-based employee was used,” read a statement issued by the cyber cell.The cybercrime cell, thereafter, communicated with the German bank and ensured a refund of Rs 64,77,290 to the complainant.The cyber cell has also managed to get refund worth Rs 2,51,054 for other complainants during the lockdown period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/online-fraud-chakan-firm-gets-rs64-7-lakh-refund/story-7IYnS4myLJFwU01PAMqv8K.html
27-04-2020||Pune||Decision on Pune varsity exams only after lockdown, says SPPU vice-chancellor||In view of the Covid-19 (coronavirus) lockdown, the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU), on Sunday, announced that it will wait for the state government’s decision about when to hold university and college examinations for all the institutes under the SPPU umbrella. Nitin Karmalkar, vice-chancellor, SPPU, said that colleges will not reopen until the state government issues an order. The order is likely to come after May 3.Karmalkar said this after a panel set up by the University Grants Commission (UGC) submitted recommendations on the revised academic calendar and suggestions for holding examinations under lockdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic.According to the statement released by UGC, the commission members are likely to discuss the recommendations via video-conferencing on Monday and issue advisory guidelines for institutions of higher education. Most colleges and universities have not yet held their semester examinations to close out the current academic year.The first committee under the chairmanship of professor RC Kuhad, former member UGC and vice-chancellor, Central University of Haryana, was given the responsibility to look into the issues related to examinations and academic calendar. The second committee under the chairmanship of professor Nageshwar Rao, vice-chancellor, Indira Gandhi National Open University (Ignou) was asked to look into issues related to promoting online education.UGC will issue guidelines in consultation with the ministry of Human resource development following which universities can chalk out their action plan.“We have taken cognisance of the report submitted by UGC but I will believe in any order coming in from the state office, the report should be rectified by the commission first after it has been submitted. We may not follow in totality all the points put forth by the UGC but only in accordance with changes applicable in the state,” said Karmalkar.Maharashtra board may delay SSC and HSC results With the delay in the assessment of HSC and SSC papers due to the lockdown, the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE), is likely to delay the announcement of results for secondary and higher secondary school exams.According to MSBSHSE officials, the decision is pending due to the delay in assessment of the Geography paper. “Due to the lockdown, submission of answer sheets to moderators has become a challenge and that could add to the delay in results being declared. Usually, we would declare the HSC results by May end, and SSC results by June first week, however, students will have to wait for a bit longer for their results,” said Shakuntala Kale, chairman, MSBSHSE.On Geography’s evaluation in view of cancellation of exam, Kale said, “We are waiting for a government response on what will be the next step regarding the remaining subject, but we haven’t received any reply yet.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/decision-on-varsity-exams-only-after-lockdown-sppu-v-c/story-SUMfNppwh3STsl2gTtBvbM.html
27-04-2020||Pune||On the frontline: Making 6,000 chapattis in an hour... just to ensure nobody goes hungry||The Sikh community in Pune is working tirelessly to deliver free meals, daily, to people struggling with financial hardship during the Covid-19 lockdown in Pune. At the Gurdwara Gurunanak Darbar in Camp, a langar (community meal) is being prepared for 5,000 people every day. Sant Singh Mokha, a Sikh community leader and chairman of the Darbar, speaks to HT about how the community kitchen safely serves meals to the poor and hungry.What exactly is your role in this crisis?We prepare food for at least 5,000 people daily. Our volunteers prepare the food at the community kitchen. The langar is distributed to social organisations, NGOs and the Army, who then distribute it to the poor in the city. With respect to funds, we are not facing any shortage as of now. We are coordinating with the regional gurudwaras for this. My responsibility is to ensure that no one sleeps hungry. We have two chapatti-making machines at our kitchen. While one machine can make 4,000 chapattis at a time, the other one can make 2,000 chapattis in an hour. So a total of 6,000 chapattis are made and served in one hour to feed the poor.How does your day begin and roll out?After waking up I do yoga for half-an-hour and also walk in my house. Post that, I take a call on what has to be done in the community kitchen during the day. I have a conversation with our volunteers who execute the plan for the day.What precautions are you taking?I take necessary precautions like wearing a mask, sanitising my hands and wearing gloves whenever I head out. Our volunteers who prepare the food at the community kitchen also follow social distancing norms and wear masks.What is your assessment of Covid-19 crisis in Pune?The officials have not been able to curb the spread of Covid-19 in slum pockets. People there have small houses which makes it difficult for them to follow social distancing norms; they are also not aware about the health and hygiene standards that must be followed. I believe that there should be equitable development where all persons can avail the same quality of life.What gaps do you see in health and relief work?The government has done a good job by imposing a strict lockdown. However, the areas where there are no patients must not be subjected to restrictions. The administration must concentrate on the red zones in the city to help curb the spread of virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/6-000-chapattis-in-an-hour-to-ensure-nobody-goes-hungry/story-EJiPfRKbu58ZhaiaLPAMfJ.html
27-04-2020||Football||East Bengal prematurely terminate contracts of players, citing COVID-19 pandemic||In a big blow to the players and officials, I-League side East Bengal have terminated all the existing contracts, citing ‘Force Majeure’ in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic. Left with no option, the players have now knocked the doors of the Football Players Association of India who have assured full support and referred the matter to the world body for players (FIFPro). Confirming this, East Bengal’s top Spanish winger Jaime Santos Colado said the entire team disagrees with the decision. “This is true, they have terminated our contracts citing COVID-19 pandemic (Force Majeure). The entire team disagrees with that decision, we hope to reach an agreement soon. We are working on that,” the 24-year-old, who has two more years’ contract left, told PTI. Currently, several foreign players of East Bengal are stuck in India because of the lockdown. “We are trying to go home, but no club or embassy is helping us at the moment,” a desperate Colado added. Coming in support of the players, FPAI wrote on their Twitter handle: “No club can prematurely terminate contracts with players because of the pandemic. There has to be a mutual understanding and the player must agree to it. “We are in touch with all the players and will take up this issue on a priority basis with global stakeholders @FIFPro.” The big blow came on Saturday when East Bengal’s title sponsors Quess Corp, who have already announced their dissociation with the club from June onwards, informed the players and officials about the decision by an e-mail. Founder of Quess Corp Ajit Isaac and the company’s CEO Sanjit Sen were not available for comment. East Bengal, who are already in a team-building mode, are in talks with prospective investors in their bid to follow arch-rivals Mohun Bagan into the Indian Super League from next season. The red-and-gold outfit had a patchy I-League campaign that saw them parting ways with coach Alejandaro Menendez after losing the derby to eventual champions Mohun Bagan. They were at second spot (with 23 points) when the remaining I-League matches were cancelled due to the coronavirus-forced nation-wide lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/football/east-bengal-prematurely-terminate-contracts-of-players-citing-covid-19-pandemic/story-u66rw1jhu5fBsiyrn4LjMP.html
27-04-2020||Chandigarh||Migrant labourers on their way home taking shelter at Radha Soami Satsang centres in Panchkula||The migrant labourers of the region, who are on their way to the native villages, are being provided shelter and food by the Radha Soami Satsang Beas Spiritual Society.The spokesperson of the society said the facility was started in March and so far, 100 labourers have been sheltered. “We provide them with a place to sleep and feed them at our centres in Panchkula.”As per the members of the society, there is no limit on how many days the labourers can stay, however, most of them leave within two to three days as they are worried about getting back to their families. “Recently around 40 people came to our centre in Ramgarh. The Panchkula deputy commissioner had to intervene and the labourers were shifted. At present, around 20 people are staying with us,” they said.There are arrangements for up to 150 people to stay at these centres. The beds are routinely sanitised. The society also provides 13,000 packets of cooked food daily to the Chandigarh and Panchkula administrations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/migrant-labourers-on-their-way-home-taking-shelter-at-radha-soami-satsang-centres-in-panchkula/story-qs0lNtzkCGU8zcl6JdMSPK.html
27-04-2020||City||GADVASU develops low-cost hand sanitiser||To meet the rising demand of hand sanitisers in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak, the department of pharmacology and toxicology, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU), has developed a low-cost alcohol-based hand sanitiser.Department head Vinod Dumka said due to sudden rise in their demand, hand sanitisers, which were expensive, soon became out of stock. “So, we developed an effective and low-cost (around ₹20 for a 400ml bottle ) hand sanitiser, which can be locally manufactured,” he added.EMERGENCY SERVICES FOR ANIMALSParkash Singh, dean of College of Veterinary Science, GADVASU, said the university was providing emergency services at the veterinary hospital. “Sick animals are being diagnosed and treated, animal farms are being managed and processing and sale of milk, eggs and meat is being done,” Singh said.“Several scientists, clinicians, staff members and workers are performing these duties while maintaining social distancing and taking other precautions. The low-cost hand sanitiser is being used by the staff and is proving to be effective in containing the spread of the virus,” he said.GADVASU vice-chancellor AS Nanda said the timely availability of this product had helped in the provision of services by the university while keeping the varsity staff safe from Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gadvasu-develops-low-cost-hand-sanitiser/story-sFcP7jxlKm8azHuvFwDlrO.html
27-04-2020||Pune||Mosque in Pune ready for use as quarantine facility||A mosque located inside the educational institute at Azam Campus in Camp has been turned into a quarantine facility for Covid-19 (coronavirus) patients. The 9,000 square feet hall on the first floor of mosque has a capacity for 80 beds has been turned into a quarantine centre, informed P A Inamdar, chairman of Maharashtra Cosmopolitan and Education Society (MCES).The officials of the Campus have offered the facility to the district administration who is yet to decide on the same. Inamdar said, “We have obtained required permission from the administration and the first floor is ready for use as a quarantine facility. Our trust will also provide food to patients who will be here.”“We are contributing whatever we can towards helping the state government in combating the Covid-19 pandemic. The mosque has all the facilities like beds, toilets, fans, electricity and other essentials needed for housing Covid-19 patients,” he said.”If more space is required for patients here it can be handed over to the administration,” Inamdar said.SM Iqbal, director, Muslim Co-operative Bank, said, “Giving the mosque for a quarantine facility is a good initiative. However, the Unani Hospital on the campus also has a full-fledged infrastructure while Inamdar Multispeciality Hospital in Wanowrie can also be used as a quarantine facility for patients.”“The administration must consider the hospital first as they have the necessary facilities to provide relief to the patients. The Inamdar hospital is also run by a public trust and is eligible to be given to quarantine patients,” said Iqbal.Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram said, “We will consider the facility which has been offered by the Azam Campus management. We have been looking out for big spaces and a final decision will be taken after necessary checks are done.”The MCE Society management which runs the trust had earlier expressed its readiness to voluntarily handover the mosque for creation of quarantine facility patients from Bhavani peth and Nana peth. These two areas located near Azam Campus have seen a maximum number of Covid-19 patients.Azam Campus management has so far distributed groceries estimated to be worth over Rs 25 lakh to the poor and needy and deployed five ambulances with a staff of 25 doctors to cater to the patients in central parts of the city including Kondhwa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/city-mosque-ready-for-use-as-quarantine-facility/story-PIxOKkYtPYa37vXHfrHmeO.html
27-04-2020||Pune||Living in lockdown: No short supply of medicines; challenge is in delivery, say Pune distributors||In spite of numerous hurdles on account of lockdown in the city, medical distributors have been ensuring that supply reaches pharmacies throughout the city. According to Vijay Changeria, committee member chemists association of Pune, “Business is down by about 20% because almost 90% of doctors are not operating their clinics. People are not venturing out.”Besides, the chemists have been asked to maintain a record of people who ask for paracetamol or cough and cold medicines. “This list we have to send to the police every evening and send the customer to a doctor,” he said. When the lockdown was announced on March 25, there was panic, according to Vijay Rathi, owner of Anand Distributors, the largest in the city. Apart from the panic buying in the initial period, Rathi had to deal with reduced manpower as 50% of my staff didn’t turn up for work. On a normal day, Anand Distributors sees about 300 customers at the godown. “There was chaos for about two weeks. Customers would crowd at our store since there weren’t enough delivery boys. My staff too was at half strength. It took much longer to pack an order. Social distancing was very hard to maintain,” he saidFinally, a system was introduced whereby days were fixed for delivery to certain areas. While buyers could come from any area on Mondays to purchase emergency medicines, Tuesdays were allotted to Deccan, Aundh, Senapati Bapat road and Wednesday for Katraj, Bibvewadi, and so on. The distributor provided safety gear to his staff to reduce the risk of Covid-19 infection.Online suppliers to pharmacies like Biddano did not have a problem with staff shortage, said Talha Shaikh founder of the firm. However, getting police passes became difficult, especially during the extended phase of the lockdown, he said.Biddano has 4,000 pharmacies and over 200 hospitals as their customers. Almost 85% of their delivery executives use mobikes and they have about 30 tempos. PharmaRack another online platform with about 2,000 pharmacies and about 200 distributors in Pune on its platform faced a problem of getting permissions in place. Says Amit Backliwal co-founder, “It’s the last mile delivery that is an issue. For us the challenge is not so much the people to deliver the medicines but the passes they need to do the work. This is still a very cumbersome process. You have to go on the site, you get rejected, you apply again and you go through this rigmarole three to four times. Moreover, every pass is individual. It would be infinitely better if they gave it to an organisation instead.”Vinay Baldawa, an authorised dealer for medical equipment focusing mainly on dialysis consumables and machines, said, “A renal failure person has to undergo dialysis twice or thrice a week. If I cannot supply the consumables to the hospitals where they do it, their lives are at serious risk. So, Covid or no Covid, we have to deliver.”His deliveries have, however, been quite difficult, primarily because of labour shortage. Distributors said there is no shortage of stocks. “We have enough stocks for at least three to four months” said Rathi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/living-in-lockdown-no-short-supply-of-medicines-challenge-is-in-delivery-say-pune-distributors/story-UhOdpR7ZDedXwQIWVNiW6I.html
