29-04-2020||Mumbai||Malegaon emerges among top five Covid-19 hotspots in Maharashtra||Following a spike in Covid-19 cases over the last few days, Malegaon in Nashik district has become one of the five hotspots in the state. The Maharashtra government has now launched Mission Malegaon, to tackle the coronavirus outbreak in this densely-populated city.Of the 195 cases in the district, 171 (around 90%) were reported in Malegaon and the 12 related deaths were also from the city. The tally of cases in Malegaon has doubled from 85 in a week since April 21, largely because of the failure of containment mechanisms and social distancing norms. This has put the city among the top five hotspots in the state, alongside Mumbai, MMR excluding Mumbai, Nagpur, and Pune. The state has now appointed a task force of medical workers and security personnel to control the situation.“Lockdown orders were ignored and power loom and handloom industries were working for a few days after the announcement. Police officers who took action against violators faced pressure from political leaders. Administrative staff, health workers, and security personnel are not ready to work in the area,” said an official from the district collectorate.The state government has deployed three companies of State Reserve Police Force, in addition to the local police, taking the total strength to 1,800 personnel deployed on the ground in Malegaon. Home minister Anil Deshmukh said that the government is ready to deploy additional forces if required. State health minister Rajesh Tope said, “The death rate in Malegaon is high because patients did not report symptoms, making it difficult for the authorities to trace contacts,” he said. Tope said that authorities have now been asked to organise mass institutional quarantine of contacts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/malegaon-emerges-among-top-five-covid-19-hotspots-in-maharashtra/story-VIquInXbGFADhZQgcYDqDP.html
29-04-2020||City||Thane collector gives nod for pre-monsoon repairs||The Thane district collector has given permission to carry out pre-monsoon construction works such as structural repairs, safety walls, basement and plinth. These works will not be permitted in containment zones.Residents can carry out repairs such as plumbing and plastering work but no new work will be permitted during the lockdown period.The lockdown period in Thane district might be extended further as the district is one of coronavirus hotspots in the country. This will affect emergency pre-monsoon work.Thane district collector Rajesh Narvekar said, “Most construction works are incomplete in some parts of the district. Trenches have been dug up for plinth and basement work and have been left incomplete. This can lead to waterlogging and mosquito breeding during monsoon. We have decided to permit such works which are important for residents’ safety.”All work should follow safety guidelines at the site and workers should stick to guidelines.Narvekar said, “We have allowed structural repair works for buildings and urgent repairs such as plumbing and plastering for buildings. The transport vehicles for such works should strictly follow lockdown guidelines. The company should take permission to bring workers to construction sites in small batches and they should be given accommodation at the site.”The collector said the construction site should be barricaded and a signboard put up.The contractors should provide a copy of work permit to the local police station before starting the work and all safety rules should be followed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-collector-gives-nod-for-pre-monsoon-repairs/story-VzYHBJk0NyEwA4UQ07GpHM.html
29-04-2020||Mumbai||Bhabha Hospital will have to pay ₹37L to Taj Group for housing its staff||KB Bhabha Hospital in Bandra will have to pay over ₹37 lakh to Taj Group of hotels for accommodating hospital staffers on Covid-19 duty. The Taj Group, in an email, said they don’t want to respond. As the pandemic broke out, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) started to make alternative accommodation arrangements for hospital staffers on Covid duty to curb any possible transmission among their family members and non-Covid staff. In March, the Tata Group of hotels offered Taj Lands End in Bandra and Taj Santacruz to accommodate around 150 hospital staffers, mostly from Bhabha hospital, which got a Covid ward with 150-bed capacity and intensive care units (ICU). The initial agreement stated the hotels were to provide free accommodation. But according to BMC officers, they have redone their agreement under which the corporation may now have to pay a daily charge of ₹2,000 per staff member.Confirming the change, Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, BMC, said, “In March, the accommodation at the hotel was for free, but now the agreement has been changed…It is still just a proposal. We are still in talks and will take a decision on it soon.”However, the data accessed by HT shows that on April 24, medical superintendent of the hospital has released a bill of ₹37,12,000 to be paid to the hotels for accommodating hospital workers. It reads, “As per the telecommunication with Dr Prachi from BMC who is coordinating this, it has been agreed upon to pay ₹2,000 per staff. Accordingly, the below bill has been generated.”The bill doesn’t mention any amount for the period of March 20-April 1. But from April 2, the hotel has imposed the new charge. The document has the signature of the medical superintendent of the hospital. On April 2, the number of occupants from the hospital in Taj Lands End was 27, for which the BMC has to pay ₹54,000 a day. Gradually, with the rise in the number of occupants, the bill amount started surging from ₹1,48,000 to ₹2,34,000 for each day. The hospital has drawn up a bill of ₹34,72,000 for 12 days of stay at the hotel till April 18.Similarly, for the other hotel, the hospital has to pay ₹2,40,000 for the accommodation of 12 workers for 10 days between April 11 and April 20. This takes the total amount to ₹37,12,000.Civic activist and teacher Aftab Siddique has filed a complaint with the BMC for paying over ₹2 lakh per day to accommodate staff in five-star hotels. “This is quite upsetting, people have no food to eat, people are stranded in the city and BMC is on a different node,” reads the complaint copy sent on April 26. She said, “The staff could easily have been shifted to the deputy municipal commissioner’s building.” Dr Pradip Jadhav, medical superintendent of the hospital, said, “I won’t be able to comment on it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bhabha-hospital-will-have-to-pay-37l-to-taj-group-for-housing-its-staff/story-DCueEODQzlg3O0P7Tx1G7J.html
29-04-2020||Mumbai||After scrapping exam, board yet to decide on SSC marking scheme||The Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) is yet to decide on the marking scheme for the secondary school certificate (SSC) exam, leaving students and parents worried about what this means for their final SSC marks. It has been more than two weeks since the state education department cancelled the last SSC exam. On April 12, the education department decided to cancel the final paper for SSC-Geography, which was scheduled for March 23 but was cancelled owing to the lockdown. The papers for vocational subjects (offered to children with special needs and conducted a few days after the board exams) were also cancelled. Officials at the state board had said a marking formula would be arrived at for the cancelled paper. However, even while the board has formed a committee to deliberate the issue, it is yet to arrive at a decision. “Since it is the first time such a cancellation has taken place, we need time to explore all possible options. This would be done in consultation with the government,” said a senior official from the state board. Parents complained that with no clarity on the marking scheme, students have been left hanging. “Students prepare for their board exams throughout the year and while it is true that the current situation is unprecedented, they are worried about their marks for the last paper,” said Sarita Tambe a city-based parent, adding that the uncertainty was leading to greater anxiety.While the board has, in the past, resorted to giving average marks to students whose answer sheets were lost or stolen, this was done only for a handful of students. This year, nearly 17 lakh students appeared for the SSC exam and officials say they have to consider all possible options.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/after-scrapping-exam-board-yet-to-decide-on-ssc-marking-scheme/story-XdwedpgV07gWw7jL2Q2jUL.html
29-04-2020||Lucknow||Post lockdown, 17 green zone districts in UP set to get maximum relief||Seventeen Uttar Pradesh districts, which have not reported a single Covid-19 positive case since the outbreak of the pandemic, are likely to get the maximum relief in terms of resumption of commercial, industrial, construction and agriculture activities, once the lockdown ends on May 3.Dubbed as districts in green zone, these areas will see minimum possible restrictions, unlike in districts where there are cases, said a senior state government officer familiar with the development. Additional chief secretary, Home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi said, “The green districts are likely to get maximum relief with opening up of various activities. The state government departments as well as the district magistrates have been directed to prepare a work plan for the starting of the activities in these districts.”Chief minister Yogi Adityanath had also directed senior officers of various state government departments to draw up a plan for activities that could be permitted in ‘green’ and ‘orange’ zones.Districts that do not have enough confirmed cases to meet the ‘red zone’, but are being seen as potential hotspots, are part of the ‘orange zone’.Awasthi said though activities will get momentum in green districts, it is likely to be restricted in orange districts while there will be no activity in areas where the Covid-19 positive cases have been reported. Dubbed as red zones, there will no activities in the districts where 20 or more Covid-19 cases have been reported, Awasthi had said.The chief minister had directed the DMs of all 75 districts to take decision regarding starting of the activities according to the situation in the respective districts. “Much will depend on the decision of the DMs,” he said. On April 16, the state government has given nod to the continuous process industries, including steel, chemical, refineries, fertilizer, paper, sugar mills, cement, tyre and textile (not garment) factories to start operation in the green and orange districts, said a state government officer. The state government will implement the central guideline for starting various activities in the green and orange zones. The 7,425 industrial units have been activated and estimated 1.33 lakh labourers have been employed. They will stay in the premises of the factory, he said.The state government has already started works on the three expressways, Purvanchal Expressway, Bundelkhand Expressway and Gorakhpur Link expressway.The Public Works Department (PWD) is planning to launch 225 projects while the rural drinking water department is set to begin work in 78 projects.The state government has also ordered resumption of operation at 32,345 common service centres and 12,027 brick kilns in the green and orange zone districts. The minor irrigation department is planning to start construction on 84 check dams and 96 ponds in the green zone districts. The DMs of the green and orange districts have been directed to permit the transportation of construction materials in the respective districts, he said. The 119 sugar mills are continuing with the crushing of the canes and manufacture of the sanitizer in the distilleries, he said.Along with the opening of the state secretariat in Lucknow with one third officers/ employees, the state government has directed the DMs of the green and orange zones to start working in the collectorate and other state government departments according to the guideline issued by the state government.The operation of the public transport is likely to be banned, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/post-lockdown-17-green-zone-districts-in-up-set-to-get-maximum-relief/story-JWGB3ewaqJvKt8w1pbGRPJ.html
29-04-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s Bapu Dham Colony police post in-charge transferred to Police Lines||UT Police ordered transfer of the police post in-charge at Bapu Dham Colony (BDC) in Sector 26, the hotspot of Covid-19 outbreak in the city, as they stepped up measures to ensure enforcement of stay-at-home orders at the most affected pockets on Wednesday.In an order issued by superintendent of police (SP) Manoj Kumar Meena, sub-inspector Rohitash Kumar Yadav, posted in vigilance cell was made in-charge of the BDC police post with immediate effect. He replaced sub-inspector Gurmeet Singh, who was sent to Police Lines. The reshuffle comes after reports surfaced that a Covid-19 positive case, held a rooftop party at his house in the colony and invited many people. However, the concerned station house officer (SHO) Narinder Patial, police post in-charge and beat officials were completely unaware of the event. Explanation sought from Sector 26 SHO UT Police on Wednesday sought written explanation from the SHO of Sector 26, Narinder Patial, on why they were unaware of the party that took place at the residence of a Covid-19 positive patient. Sources said if found guilty, he could be transferred. Resort to baton wielding if need be: DSP EastIn an audio clip that was leaked on multiple WhatsApp groups, the deputy superintendent of police, East, Dilsher Singh Chandel stated that since the people were not listening to the prohibitory orders, the six station house officers (SHOs) under him, in their respective areas needed to increase the number of cases against violators and rounding up of people. “We have got directions that if the people do not listen, we need to resort to lathi charge, especially in areas of Sector 30 and 26 (containment zones). We need to do so after taking permission from duty magistrate as the infection is spreading at a rapid pace. From now, we need to be inflexible against violators,” the DSP stated in the audio.Police have started to install cameras outside houses of people that are supposed to be under quarantine for round-the-clock surveillance. At present there are nine functional cameras. At least 50 police personnel along with two inspectors and one station house officer (SHO) will be on duty round-the-clock outside BDC and no one will be allowed to enter or exit. The force has been provided with protection gears, including PPE kits, masks and face shields. The outer perimeter of the area has been cordoned off by central reserve police force (CRPF).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-s-bapu-dham-colony-police-post-in-charge-transferred-to-police-lines/story-1QfAhd4zpeZdnvlxaRCTfN.html
29-04-2020||Delhi||Delhi records 125 new Covid-19 cases, 2 casualties after five days||Delhi recorded 125 news cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, down from Tuesday’s 206 cases, the state’s health department said.The national capital has now registered 3,439 cases of Covid-19 out of which 2,291 are active cases and 1,092 have recovered. The number of infections in the country now stands at 31,787. Also Read: I didn’t want rumours to reach my family, says Delhi police constable after recoveringThere were two casualties in the past 24 hours to take the death toll to 56. The casualties had been static for the last four days.The Delhi government’s rate of testing is also going up daily. On Wednesday, it carried out 3,855 tests and the rate of testing is now at 2,338 per million of the population.A total of 47,225 people have been tested so far out of which 3,439 have tested positive and 39,920 tested negative.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicEarlier Wednesday, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said that only 3 out of 529 journalists, who have been screened for Covid-19 have tested positive for the virus. The Delhi government which has designated 100 containment zones in the city to fight the pandemic, launched a website for all Covid-19 related updates and information on Tuesday. Also Read: New Covid-19 guidelines to give considerable relaxations, says CentreCalled DelhiFightsCorona.in, the website will act as a single-window with detailed lists and geo-locations of containment zones, testing facilities, ration shops, temporary relief centres and hunger relief centres of the Delhi government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-records-125-new-covid-19-cases-2-casualties-after-five-days/story-d6ucouh3SJCsNb45tIQtHJ.html
29-04-2020||Lucknow||Five more deaths take UP’s corona toll to 39||Five more coronavirus patients died across Uttar Pradesh in the last 24 hours, taking the statewide death toll to 39 even as 81 more people tested positive for the Sars-Cov-2 pathogen, according to official data released on Wednesday.With this, the statewide tally of Covid-19 infected patents has gone up to 2,134. Till now, 510 patients in the state have recovered from the disease and they have been sent home from hospital.Of the five deaths, two were reported from Agra and one each from Firozabad, Bareilly and Mathura, according to PTI, which also said both Bareilly and Mathura recorded their first coronavirus deaths.Among the 81 fresh cases, 29 were reported from Agra, 10 from Firozabad and four from Lucknow.Since the outbreak began, 14 deaths were reported from Agra, six from Moradabad, five from Meerut, four from Kanpur, two from Firozabad, and one each from Basti, Varanasi, Shravasti, Bulandshahr, Aligarh, Bareilly, Mathura, and Lucknow, said Dr Vikasendu Agrawal, state surveillance officer in the health department.“The number of patients getting discharged after completing treatment is going up gradually. Till April 27, 399 patients had recovered and now the figure has gone up to 510 in two days,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general of the association of international doctors.The 60 districts that reported cases till now include Agra (430), Lucknow (205), Ghaziabad (61), Noida (137), Lakhimpur Kheri (4), Kanpur (207), Pilibhit (3), Moradabad (109), Shamli (27), Jaunpur (8), Baghpat (15), Meerut (97), Bareilly (8), Bulandshahr (50) and Basti (23).The districts with Covid-19 cases also include Hapur (26), Ghazipur (6), Azamgarh (8), Firozabad (110), Hardoi (2), Pratapgarh (7), Saharanpur (182), Shahjahanpur (1), Banda (4), Maharajganj (6), Hathras (4), Mirzapur (4), Rae Bareli (44), Auraiyya (10), Barabanki (1) Kaushambi (2), Bijnor (31), Sitapur (20), Prayagraj (4), Mathura (13), Badaun (16), Rampur (21), Muzaffarnagar (23), Amroha (25), Bhadohi (1), Kasganj (3), Etawah (3), Sambhal (18), Unnao (1), Kannauj (7), Sant Kabir Nagar (21), Mau (1), Etah (3), Sultanpur (3), Aligarh (32), Mainpuri (5), Gonda (2) Shravasti (5), Bahraich (9), Balrampur (1) Ayodhya (1), Jalaun (3), Jhansi (3), Gorakhpur (1) and Varanasi (53).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/five-more-deaths-take-up-s-corona-toll-to-39/story-rBMB9lXmaJ4OifAVfLAFjI.html
29-04-2020||Mumbai||70 state buses sent to bring back students stranded in Kota||Students from Maharashtra that were undertaking coaching for competitive entrance examinations in Rajasthan, stranded in Kota due to lockdown owing to the spread of coronavirus, will now be returning to the state.Seventy Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) buses have left from Dhule in Maharashtra for Kota on Wednesday morning. “The buses have left from Dhule for Rajasthan. Precautions have been taken and protective gears are provided to the staff,” said Abhijeet Bhosale, public relation officer, MSRTC. These 70 buses along with two additional standby buses are likely to reach Rajasthan by Wednesday night and will leave for Maharashtra on Thursday late evening or Friday morning.The buses will have limited stops while two drivers have been provided by the MSRTC for every bus. Twenty students will only be allowed to travel on one bus. The students will have to undergo a health check upon arrival, post which they will be quarantined.“We have a list of 1,876 students that will arrive in the buses. Students from the same districts will be sent together in buses. Upon arrival in the district and after a health check, the respective district collectors will decide on home quarantine or institutional quarantine of students. We are also arranging food for the students while they are on-board the buses.” said Sanjay Yadav, district collector, Dhule.After the coordination of the state disaster management cell with the Rajasthan disaster management unit, students that had personal vehicles were allowed to travel back to Maharashtra. 150 vehicles were permitted to travel from Rajasthan to Maharashtra.Maharashtra transport minister Anil Parab, on Tuesday, had tweeted about bringing back the stranded students. “1,780 students from Maharashtra are stuck in Kota, Rajasthan due to lockdown for precaution against Covid-19. As directed by Honourable CM Shri. @OfficeOfUt, 92 buses of MSRTC fleet will Leave on 29th April 2020 from Dhule to rescue the students & Bring them back home.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/70-state-buses-sent-to-bring-back-students-stranded-in-kota/story-NDGF5U1rUjJg0X806wPNzM.html
29-04-2020||Mumbai||IIT-B’s e-token app to help grocers and buyers||To maintain physical distance and minimise the time spent in queues while picking up groceries and fresh produce at markets, a team of researchers from the Indian Institute of Technology Bombay (IIT-B) and Chennai Mathematical Institute have developed an e-token system for grocers and local buyers. Called SMALL-BAG — an acronym for Shopping Management App for Local Buyers and Grocers — the app uses both SMS and email. Once the customer has filled a Google form or sent a text message with their order to the grocer’s mobile number, a token is generated and sent to the customer by either text or email. The customer can check the token’s live status via a web address. The token’s status is updated by the vendor and customers can collect their orders accordingly.“The e-token system will be beneficial even after the lockdown because physical distancing will have to be followed for a long time. The system is useful for managing crowds by minimising the number of people visiting the grocer, which will also be helpful during summer and monsoon months,” said Professor Bhaskaran Raman, department of computer science and engineering, IIT-B. Both SMS and email versions of the e-token system are operational at the institute, he said.At present, the software is open source and the team will provide free support to set up the system.With many local vendors accepting orders on WhatsApp, the team has created an online ordering system by which a customer fills a form comprising partial product information. When the order is ready, the customer receives an “order ready” email. “Orders on WhatsApp are very unstructured as compared to an online system. No third party in our online ordering system will bring down costs for the vendor while scaling up business,” said Raman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/iit-b-s-e-token-app-to-help-grocers-and-buyers/story-lZHPDCJZLAyl5EJghZCpyM.html
29-04-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt freezes DA, DR for its employees, pensioners||The Delhi government has put on hold hike in inflation-linked allowance for around 2.2 lakh employees and pensioners till July 2021, following a similar step by the Centre. The dearness allowance for employees and dearness relief for pensioners were due from January 2020. The Delhi finance department has issued an order endorsing the central government’s order to put on hold hike in DA and DR till July 2021. “The Centre’s order on the issue of DA and DR has been endorsed by the Delhi government and it will also be applicable on Delhi government employees and pensioners,” a government official said. Money saved by the move can be used to combat COVID-19 in the national capital, the official said. Umesh Batra, general secretary of Delhi government employees welfare association, said that the move will affect around 2.2 lakh state employees and pensioners. Last month, the Union government had announced a 4 per cent increase in dearness allowance (DA) for its 50 lakh employees and 61 lakh pensioners beginning January 1, 2020. But it recently froze the inflation-linked allowance in view of the coronavirus pandemic. Several states have followed suit. Delhi government employees and pensioners will continue to receive DA and DR, respectively, at the current rate -- 17 per cent -- till June 30, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-freezes-da-dr-for-its-employees-pensioners/story-pyYTBo8Q4dUeb9AXTBgHJJ.html
29-04-2020||City||Ludhiana: Shops to open from 7am to 11am, residents can move only on foot||With the state government announcing steps for limited lifting of lockdown restrictions on Wednesday, deputy commissioner (DC) Pradeep Kumar Agrawal has allowed counter sales at shops selling essential commodities, agriculture equipment, hardware, etc from 7am to 11am in urban and rural areas. The relaxation has been announced only for those shops, which had already been permitted home delivery of items. However, no relaxation has been announced in containment areas.As per directions, residents would be allowed to go out without passes, but they will have to walk on foot and will not use any vehicles. Use of vehicles will not be allowed for visiting any shop during the relaxation period. Strict action will be taken against violators of the order. Action will also be taken, if anyone is found using the relaxation time slot for any other purpose, other than buying essential commodities.The administration also appealed to the residents that only one person from a family should move out to buy commodities. They should wear masks, wash hands and also clean the items purchased from shops properly.DIRECTIONS FOR SHOPKEEPERSShopkeepers have been asked to ensure that all of their workers wear masks and ensure 2-metre distance from one another. If the shopkeeper fails to adhere to the guidelines issued by the state government, strict action will be taken against the shopkeeper and the permission to open the shop would be cancelled. Any shop selling essential commodities in any shopping mall will not be allowed to open. He clarified that barber shops, salons, etc will also not be allowed to open. RURAL AREASOnly the shops, selling essential commodities, stationery, etc will be allowed to open in rural areas.Speaking on shops in urban areas, against which permission for home delivery of goods has not been taken by shopkeepers till now, Agrawal said that standalone shops (having no other shop on either side) can be opened. The shops selling essential commodities inside residential complexes, gated colonies, vehras, etc can also be opened. Any shop, situated inside a market, market complex, shopping mall has not been allowed to operate and the wholesale market selling essential goods would be allowed to open only after 11 am. Restaurants, liquor shops, ahatas (taverns) will remain closed.MARKET COMMITTEESAgrawal said if any market committee wants to open the shops, then the market association can submit an application along with a proper map and details regarding the nature of shop, name of owner, etc. The application can be submitted to the SDM and the DSP if the market falls under a market committee and application for markets situated in the city can be submitted to ADC Jagraon Neeru Katyal Gupta and DCP (law and order) Ashwani Kapoor and these committees would take final decision on the matter. NO PERMISSION REQUIRED TO OPEN UNITSNow, industrialists will not have to take permission to operate factories if the units are located in rural areas, focal points, industrial estates, SEZs etc (designated places). They would only have to submit self- declaration with the general manager (GM), District Industries Centre (DIC), stating that they would follow all guidelines/ standard operating procedures (SOPs) of the Punjab government. The industrialists would have to ensure that the labour is quarantined within the factory premises. If any transportation facility is being provided to the labour, then the industrialists can get bus passes issued from GM, DIC offices, Ludhiana. If any labour commutes by cycle or on foot from nearby areas, the industrialists will have to get a pass issued from GM, DIC. The factory owner will have to submit a list of staff/labourers with the DIC and the GM would issue bulk passes, the copy of which can be distributed among staff members. But, that copy would be held valid only if it is supported by a valid identity card. The labour movement would be allowed only between 7 am to 9 am and 5 pm to 7 pm. The management/owners can also apply for e-pass with the GM,DIC.CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY ALLOWED IN RURAL AREASThe DC said that in the first phase, only government projects were allowed, but now there is no restriction on any kind of construction activity in rural areas even if any new project has to be started. As the construction activity is within the village, no pass is required for labour movement. But, if the labour is moving from other areas, SDMs of subdivisions concerned have been authorised to issue passes. However in the areas falling under the Ludhiana police commissionerate, Ludhiana East and Ludhiana West and other urban areas, construction would be allowed only at the sites, where construction was going on, but was put to a halt due to the imposition of curfew (ongoing projects). It can be private, residential or commercial project. But, the contractor would ensure that the labour stays on site. If any person wants to start work related to construction, he can apply for permission at acgludhiana@gmail.com, along with details of labour and bulk passes would be issued. He appealed to residents that these relaxations are being given because the government feels that people would ensure all directions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-shops-to-open-from-7am-to-11am-residents-can-move-only-on-foot/story-rZWYtZU6WycqV4r8fe1yeK.html
29-04-2020||Mumbai||Amidst political uncertainty in state, Uddhav Thackeray dials Modi||After Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari appeared non-committal on nominating chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to the legislative Council, Thackeray dialled Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday night to discuss the current political situation in Maharashtra.A senior Shiv Sena leader said that Thackeray expressed unhappiness over the politics being played around nomination as a member of legislative Council (MLC).The conversation between the two leaders assumes significance in the context of the ongoing friction between the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) and opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) as well as Governor Koshyari’s alleged delay in nominating Thackeray to state legislative Council.The state cabinet had recommended Thackeray’s nomination to one of the two vacant seats in the upper house. Over 20 days later, the Governor has not processed the recommendation of the cabinet. On Tuesday, a delegation of MVA ministers met Koshyari to urge him to nominate Thackeray.A senior Sena leader said Thackeray decided to call Modi and directly speak to him after he got indications from Koshyari that he would be consulting with the Centre before deciding on his nomination. The Sena leader said the CM requested Modi to intervene as a bitter political tussle in the middle of the Covid-19 outbreak would affect the state’s measures to control the pandemic. Maharashtra has the highest number of cases among India’s states.“Uddhav discussed the current political uncertainty in the state with the PM. He expressed unhappiness over the politics being played over his nomination as MLC at a time when the state is combating the coronavirus outbreak,” said a senior Shiv Sena leader, requesting anonymity. Despite attempts, none of the senior Shiv Sena leaders wanted to officially comment on the issue.With less than a month left for Thackeray to fulfil the constitutional requirement of getting elected to either of the houses of the state legislature, the alleged delay by the Governor has kept the proverbial Sword of Damocles hanging over the CM and his government. Thackeray, who is not a member of either of the houses of the legislature, took oath as the CM on November 28. He could lose the post if he is not elected to the legislature by May 27. The Shiv Sena is also exploring legal options to tackle the current uncertainty surrounding Thackeray’s nomination.A senior BJP functionary said the governor had taken time to seek legal counsel. “Legally, election or nomination to vacant seats in the legislative Council cannot be done if the remainder of the term of a member in relation to a vacancy is less than one year,” he said. The functionary, who requested anonymity, declined to comment on Thackeray’s call to the Prime Minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/amidst-political-uncertainty-in-state-uddhav-thackeray-dials-modi/story-fwYnkTxfkahldzs12QrfwN.html
29-04-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s Covid-19 death rate lower than of Maharashtra: BMC||The central team, which recently visited Maharashtra to assess the Covid-19 situation, has concluded that the mortality rate of coronavirus positive patients in Mumbai is less than the state’s average, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said on Wednesday.The team also found that the doubling rate of coronavirus cases in this megapolis is lower than what is registered by the state and the country, the civic body said.In a release, the BMC said that the doubling rate of coronavirus positive cases in the city has increased to 10 days from 8.3 days between April 11 and 27, and the mortality rate of patients declined to 3.9 per cent from 6.3 per cent in the same period.Claiming that the central team praised the efforts of the civic body in containing the spread of the virus, the BMC release said that the doubling rate in the country is 9.5 days, while the same on the state level is 8.9 days, whereas the mortality rate in the state is 4.3 per cent.The central team concluded that the mortality rate of Covid-19 patients in Mumbai is less than the state’s average and the doubling rate is less than that of the state and the country, the BMC said.The central team, led by Manoj Joshi, Additional Secretary in the Ministry of Food Processing Industries, had last week visited the state, including Mumbai, to monitor the testing efforts, management of lockdown and supply chain issues in the state.The first coronavirus positive case was found in Mumbai on March 11 and the number of such cases in the city has now crossed the 6,000-mark.The BMC claimed that it is taking all possible efforts to contain the spread of the disease and till April 26, it has searched 1,29,477 contacts including 21,053 high risk contacts of the positive patients since the first patient was found in the city.The corporation said that the contact tracking helped it to find 1,647 coronavirus positive cases.According to BMC release, the city also tops in the number of tests done to find out coronavirus positive cases.The BMC has conducted 66,000 tests, which calculates to 5,071 tests per lakh population, while in Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan, New Delhi and Kerala states conducted 2624, 1220, 794 and 684 tests per lakh population respectively, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-covid-19-death-rate-lower-than-of-maharashtra-bmc/story-JVWYR2CeqyHrcmhCiNQgbO.html
29-04-2020||Lucknow||Plasma therapy: KGMU looks to be part of ICMR’s pan-India study||King George’s Medical University (KGMU) is aiming to be a part of Indian Council of Medical Research’s national-level study to find out the effectiveness of plasma therapy in treatment of the Covid-19 disease.“We are in the process and our paperwork is almost complete. We hope to be a part of the study that shall establish the role of plasma therapy,” said professor Tulika Chandra, head of the department of transfusion medicine at KGMU, Lucknow.The university has already taken permission from the drug controller general of India for plasma therapy for coronavirus patients. Three cured patients have donated plasma and it has been transfused to one patient, who is still under treatment.The therapy aims to obtain plasma from a cured patient and administer the same to a patient under treatment. This exercise is based on the theory that a cured patient develops antibodies for the coronavirus.KGMU had applied to be made a nodal centre for plasma therapy in the state. Communication was going on with ICMR in this regard for the past 20 days and now the same is under way to include KGMU for a pan-India study.“We have treated 12 patients and several more are admitted. Not just our patients, but we can collect plasma from patients treated at other medical centres in the state and conduct plasma therapy,” said professor Chandra. She said a decision will be announced by this weekend, but she was sure ICMR will include KGMU in the study.The study will include other centres from different states as well. Although it will take months to ascertain the role of plasma therapy in treatment of Covid-19, the move will help start the facility at many centres across India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/plasma-therapy-kgmu-looks-to-be-part-of-icmr-s-pan-india-study/story-fXZVzGDFbr5IXvOondkuSL.html
29-04-2020||Delhi||Produce supply dips at Azadpur Mandi as Uttar Pradesh, Haryana shut their borders||The Azadpur agriculture produce market in Delhi saw a nearly one-third drop in total arrivals of produce this week, compared to the previous week, owing to strict restrictions imposed by Uttar Pradesh and Haryana governments at the borders they share with the national capital.Both governments have shut its borders at Faridabad (Haryana), Noida and Ghaziabad (both Uttar Pradesh), in an effort to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in their respective states.“Wednesday, around 5,000 tonnes of fruits and vegetables arrived at the market. The daily average is 7,500 tonnes. We will take all possible steps to ensure that the supply chain is not disrupted and prices remain stable,” Adil Khan, chairperson of the Azadpur agriculture market committee, said.The market is Delhi’s lifeline for produce and accounts for roughly 80% of the total produce consumed in the city. Shortage in arrivals can lead to a supply crunch in local markets and prices shooting up.Before the borders were sealed, the district administration in Haryana’s Sonepat had already prohibited farmers from sending their produce to Azadpur after a trader in the local wholesale market there -- who used to frequent Azadpur -- tested Covid-19 positive earlier this week.“The restrictions in Sonepat would affect supply of cucumber, ladies finger, bottle gourd and bitter gourd, among other vegetables. But such vegetables also come from Rajasthan. So, there are alternatives,” Khan said.But to reach Delhi, trucks from Rajasthan will have to cross the Haryana border, which has sealed the borders, an issue that has become a bone of contention between Delhi and her neighbours.Azadpur market is currently witnessing a coronavirus transmission scare after 11 traders in the market tested positive for the disease with one death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/produce-supply-dips-at-azadpur-mandi-as-uttar-pradesh-haryana-shut-their-borders/story-7XnvbbFiEGY7vyAOxvwNtO.html
29-04-2020||City||Navi Mumbai crosses 200 mark with 18 new cases||Navi Mumbai crossed the 200 mark of positive Covid cases on Wednesday with cases doubling in just five days.The city crossed the 100 mark on April 24.After a record spike of 43 cases on Tuesday, Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) reported 18 new cases on Wednesday, taking the total number of cases to 206.Some of them who tested positive are a 37-year-old woman from Airoli, who delivered a baby recently; a 22-year-old woman, who delivered a baby on April 26; three people working at APMC market; a 35-year-old woman from Juhugaon, who had gone to Hiranandani Fortis hospital for dialysis; a 35-year-old BEST conductor, living in Kopar Khairane, deployed at Deonar depot; a 43-year-old staff nurse from Sion hospital, living in Airoli; a 30-year-old woman, who delivered a baby on April 6. Her newborn daughter has tested negative.Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) reported seven new cases on Wednesday. The total number of cases in Panvel is 65.Two police personnel posted at Wadala and two BMC sanitation workers have tested positive. An X-ray technician working at a hospital in Kharghar has tested positive. Panvel municipal commissioner Ganesh Deshmukh said, “A woman doctor working at Mumbai Port Trust who had tested Covid positive has recovered.”He added, “There are rumours that a complete lockdown has been ordered in Kamothe node. There is no such order given. Strict action will be taken against those spreading such rumours.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/navi-mumbai-crosses-200-mark-with-18-new-cases/story-dHYNejtaseJkGw6kNf2K6K.html
29-04-2020||Jaipur||Over 23,000 labourers sent to different states, 4,500 return to Rajasthan in 2 days||Over 23,000 labourers have been sent to various states in last two-days, while over 4,500 returned to Rajasthan.A senior official closely working with the development on the condition of anonymity said that majority of the labourers are sent to Madhya Pradesh, followed by Punjab. “It is learnt that Uttar Pradesh and Harayana, too, have agreed to accept their labourers – their movement will start in next two days,” he said.Till Wednesday afternoon, a total of 23,019 labourer are sent to various state and 4,874 of Rajasthan have been brought. From Gujarat, 4,082 labourers staying at the relief camp come to Rajasthan and 636 has been sent.Around 9195 labourers in 190 buses have been sent to Madhya Pradesh and 7,000 are being sent in 130 buses. The state has brought 400 labourers from MP and 1,850 are in process. Similarly, in 60 buses 3,000 migrant labourers have been sent to Punjab.“The state government is making arrangements to send students studying at coaching institutes in Kota. Till date, 22,616 students have been sent in 806 buses. Today, 162 students in seven buses sent to Karnataka, 1,500 to Maharashtra in 70 buses, 3,000 to west Bengal in 125 buses are being sent,” he said.The pilgrims stuck in Ajmer are also being sent – 27 to Gujarat, 46 to Maharashtra, 51 to UP, 17 to MP have been sent. Arrangements to send another 250 are being made. The correspondence for acceptance is being made with Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka government. Around 4000 pilgrims are left in Ajmer, he said.He informed that 17 buses carrying 222 migrants have left Assam for Rajasthan on Wednesday morning. These buses had gone to drop students from Kota.The official said over 6 lakh labourers/migrants have registered through call center, portal etc, either to return Rajasthan or move to respective hometown from here. A total of 4,39,440 wants to return Rajasthan from other state, and 1,67,576 are for other state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/over-23-000-labourers-sent-to-different-states-4-500-return-to-rajasthan-in-2-days/story-JqiwsfSFF0rLz0aPmli9IM.html
29-04-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh schools not in favour of resuming classes in May||Most Chandigarh schools are not in favour of resuming classes in May even if the lockdown is relaxed. The response comes a day after the UT education department sought inputs from schools on whether they wanted reopen on May 3 or May 15, maintaining social distancing among students.District education officer, Alka Mehta, said, “90% of the schools in Chandigarh informed that they were not in favour reopening in May as it was difficult to ensure social distancing among students. A few schools informed that they might think of resuming classes of senior students appearing for board examinations but in a phased manner.”Sources also hinted at the prolonged closure of schools in the city because of increasing number of Covid-19 positive cases. The total number of positive Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh on Wednesday evening stood at 68. Officials said schools may resume working in July. Mehta said the admission process will be initiated in June after and the classes will start in July. She said admissions will follow a normal course of action. The UT education department has chalked out a proposal to allow specific schools to collect monthly fees if the lockdown is extended. Education department had earlier instructed the schools to display their balance sheets on their websites. Officials said that the schools with tight purses will be allowed to collect monthly fees so that they can pay their staff and meet obligatory expenditure. However, the proposal awaits nod of higher authorities. The proposal comes days after the Independent Schools Association (ISA) wrote to UT administrator VP Singh Badnore seeking withdrawal of the directive on delayed fee payment.Rubinderjit Singh Brar, director school education, Chandigarh, refused to comment on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-schools-not-in-favour-of-resuming-classes-in-may/story-9a0LoIaP1uuFartAtRxZ5J.html
29-04-2020||Lucknow||BJP MP announces cash reward of 11k on info about suspect cases||In a unique way to trace Covid-19 cases and encourage infected people to come out voluntarily for test and treatment, BJP MP Ravindra Kushwaha has announced cash reward to anyone who gives information about an infected person coming from outside or linked with Jamatis, as well as patients who do not hide their details and come out voluntarily for test and treatment.Kushwaha, who is MP from Deoria’s Salempur said,“Covid -19 doesn’t see religion, caste, creed or status of rich and poor. It can infect anybody. So I have decided to pay from my side cash reward of Rs 11,000 to anyone giving information about those who have come from outside and have symptoms or are suspected Jamatis. An infected person will also be rewarded with equal amount if he comes out voluntarily for treatment and does not hide his illness. We will pass on this information to the district adminstration for further action.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/bjp-mp-announces-cash-reward-of-11k-on-info-about-suspect-cases/story-xKV8Bx2WvPjxyTXyyAra9I.html
29-04-2020||City||Suspected Covid patient kills self by jumping off 3rd floor of Panchkula civil hospital||A 30-year-old man ended his life by jumping off the third floor of the local civil hospital in Sector 6 on Wednesday. A tuberculosis patient and resident of Surajpur in Pinjore, the man was tested for Covid-19 on suspicion, which left him upset. Around 9.30pm, he jumped off the third floor, suffering serious injuries. He was rushed to the emergency ward where he succumbed during treatment.A police team led by ACP Noopur Bishnoi and Sector 5 SHO inspector Lalit Kumar reached the spot for investigation. “The patient’s Covid test report is awaited. Preliminary investigation is underway,” ACP Bishnoi said.Police have initiated inquest proceedings under the Code of Criminal Procedure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/suspected-covid-patient-kills-self-by-jumping-off-4th-floor-of-panchkula-civil-hospital/story-BuprPR7r1jgPPSzBdCpRQL.html
29-04-2020||City||Four injured in Yamunanagar shooting||Four people were injured in a shooting at Kandroli village of Jathlana area in Yamunanagar district on Wednesday. The firing was triggered by a property dispute within a family, police said. As per details, nephew of Surendra, a former sarpanch, along with his friends, barged into his house and started firing indiscriminately, injuring four people. All of them were taken to the civil hospital, from where one was referred to PGIMER, Chandigarh, while others are undergoing treatment at a private hospital.Station in-charge Manoj Kumar said, “We’ve lodged an FIR under Section 307 (attempt to murder) of the IPC against four people. The matter is being investigated and search is on to find the accused.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-injured-in-yamunanagar-shooting/story-hqJyqSLfMcmIfmrvN31ruO.html
29-04-2020||Delhi||One ‘false’ positive leads to trouble, stigma for this 73-year-old Delhi man||Negative. Positive. Negative. Negative.For a 73-year-old man from South Delhi’s Govindpuri Gali no. 13, fortune changed multiple times over a period of nine days. When the see-saw came to an end on Tuesday night, he returned home to a warm welcome after spending just five days in the Covid-19 ward of a private hospital.“All his life, he had never been admitted to a hospital. When he got to know that he had tested negative, he kept pestering us to take him home,” his son says.While the mood of the household after his return was joyous, their neighbours continue to stigmatise them. “Our neighbours are behaving as if even speaking to us could infect them,” his son adds. The elderly man is a retired government officer and lives with his three children and their families in Govindpuri. He has high blood pressure and high sugar, which his family calls old-age ailments.During the lockdown, the family says that they hardly ever stepped out of the home. “Only my brother stepped out to purchase essential items. The items he purchased would be kept outside the house for hours and he would mingle with the family only after bathing every time he returned,” he says. But despite all precautions, by mid-April, the elderly man developed a fever that wouldn’t subside. He did not develop a cough or breathing issues though. On April 19, his sons took him to Holy Family Hospital. “We were asked to get him tested for Covid-19. We got the tests done at Max Hospital in Saket. The result was negative on April 20,” his son says.Around the same time, the elderly man’s other son too developed a fever but tested negative. For the next couple of days, while the elderly man remained admitted to Holy Family Hospital, his doctors advised him to undergo a second test. “We got him tested again at an authorised private laboratory. The result this time was positive,” his son says. The family suspected that he may have been infected while travelling to the lab in an ambulance.They got him admitted to Max Hospital in Saket on April 23.“We were all worried about his health. He was among five other patients in a ward at the hospital, but he felt so lonely,” his son says. Back at home, his family allegedly battled discrimination from local residents even as their building was sealed.“The shopkeeper refused to sell milk to us. Vegetable vendors would be told by neighbours to avoid our house. Our tenants couldn’t procure drinking water jars. We had to request a relative to drop essential items outside our home,” the man says. But what hurt the family the most was videos of the house and their family circulating on WhatsApp groups. “We felt like we had committed a crime. Neighbours looked at us with such hatred in their eyes,” he says. However, after a few days, they heard some good news. “On April 25, my father’s third test result was negative. We were happy, yet cautious. How could someone who tested negative one day test positive two days later and then negative after three days? There was a mistake somewhere, most likely with the results of the private lab which declared him Covid-19 positive,” the son says.According to a senior Delhi government health official, “there is the possibility of errors in test results”. “There have been cases in which labs have declared people positive. They eventually turned out to be free of infection,” the official said, refusing to comment on any specific case. The family’s concerns about the latest test result were dismissed when the fourth result on April 27 was also negative. He was finally discharged from the hospital on Tuesday night. “When he walked in, we clapped and cheered for him. Five days earlier, we were worried about his life and now we had him back with us,” the son says.Max Hospital cited patient confidentiality and refused to comment on this case. The family may have won one battle in the hospital, but the battle closer home continues. “When all this is over, I’ll meet the local residents and tell them we hadn’t erred even once,” the son says while his father sleeps alone in a separate room at their home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/one-false-positive-leads-to-trouble-stigma-for-this-73-year-old-delhi-man/story-5qBlY2WqRLQrAjYmirDFBJ.html
29-04-2020||Chandigarh||Government caught napping as Nanded pilgrims jack up Punjab’s count||The state government’s preparedness to deal with people entering Punjab from other states has been exposed as 36 pilgrims who returned from Hazur Sahib in Nanded, Maharashtra, in the past three days have tested positive for coronavirus. On Wednesday alone, 24 Nanded-returnees were found infected with the virus. The state’s health department was caught napping as it had no strategy to deal with the Punjabis entering the state, especially Maharashtra, which is one of the worst-hit states as far as coronavirus cases are concerned. The guidelines to quarantine these visitors in government facilities were issued on April 27, two days after the first batch of pilgrims entered the state and that too after three of them were found Covid-19 positive in Tarn Taran district.When the guidelines were issued, the damage had already been as more than 500 pilgrims had entered in the state by April 27 evening.In absence of any strategy before the guidelines were sent to deputy commissioners, Nanded-returnees were advised home quarantine after thermal screening. There are reports that these visitors not only met fellow villagers and family members, but were accorded welcome by people at several places. On April 28, the panic-struck health department called back all Nanded-returnees from home quarantine and shifted them to government facilities and started taking their samples.As per the health department’s official spokesperson for Covid-19, around 4,000 pilgrims have already entered Punjab. Many are said to be on their way as government-run buses sent to ferry them are still arriving. Health department officials says more than 1,500 pilgrims who returned from Nanded have tested for Covid-19. SOURCE OF VIRUS UNKNOWN Many pilgrims who spoke to HT claimed that during their stay of over one-and-a-half month in Nanded, confirmatory tests were conducted results of which came negative.“We underwent regular medical check-ups during our stay in Nanded and those with minor symptom were checked and even confirmatory tests were conducted. Nanded reported its first case on April 22. May be, our fellow pilgrims contracted the virus on their way to Punjab,” Surjit Kaur Khalsa, a Sikh pilgrims from Bathian village of Gurdaspur district said, adding that she and around 1,000 other Sikh pilgrims were stuck at Gurdwara Langar Sahib in Nanded. Health department officials said more than 2,000 pilgrims reached Punjab in private vehicles hired by Takht Hazur Sahib management. The others are coming in Punjab government-run buses which have specially sent to Nanded.HEALTH MINISTER PUTS BLAME ON MAHA GOVTPunjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu has blamed the Maharashtra government for not carrying out tests on pilgrims before sending them back to Punjab. “We conducted tests on people of other states stuck in Punjab before sending them back,” he said. He said the Maharashtra government also did not share the information on private vehicles being used by pilgrims to enter Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/government-caught-napping-as-nanded-pilgrims-jack-up-punjab-s-count/story-NZ3AbX9jQQtfoGXyJmagDL.html
29-04-2020||City||19-year-old shot at over financial dispute, critical||Gurugram: A 19-year-old man was allegedly shot at over some financial dispute in Bamroli village near Sector 88 on Tuesday afternoon. The police said the man sustained at least three gunshot wounds and his condition is reported critical at a private hospital. The victim, identified as Nikhil Gupta, is a resident of Garhi Harsaru village in Sector 10. He has a flour mill business, the police said. According to the police, the incident took place around 1.15pm when Gupta got a phone call from two acquaintances, Sunil and Sonu, who asked him to come to Bamroli to collect Rs 50,000 which the duo had borrowed from the victim. The victim’s brother, Prince Gupta, said that his brother drove his scooter to Bamroli, about three kilometres from their house, to meet the suspects. “They shot him near a drain after refusing to return the loan money. He sustained gunshot wounds in his foot, stomach and left arm. After sustaining injuries, he made a phone call to my uncle informing him of the shooting. Within a few minutes, we reached the spot and found him lying in a pool of blood and rushed him to a private hospital near Rajiv Chowk,” said Prince.He added that on the way to the hospital, his brother had identified the shooters before falling unconscious. A police official privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said, that the victim was later referred to another private hospital for treatment. “On the statement of his brother, we have registered a case and a probe has been initiated. Preliminary probe suggests enmity over a money dispute was the reason for the alleged shooting,” said the police official, adding that the suspects are at large. A case was registered against the suspects under sections 307 (attempt to murder) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Arms Act at Sector 10A police station on Tuesday, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/19-year-old-shot-at-over-financial-dispute-critical/story-xxw7p6DriU65HL9s1wwiLP.html
29-04-2020||Chandigarh||Following MHA order, 200-odd migrants at shelter homes in Chandigarh, P’kula look forward to going back home||It has been a month since 500-odd migrant labourers walking back to their native places on foot, owing to the mass exodus amid the Covid-19 lockdown, were housed at shelters homes in Chandigarh and Panchkula.So far, 10 migrants from Chandigarh, and 336 from Panchkula, have gone back to their homes after authorities tied-up with their respective states. Currently, there are around 60 inmates putting up in Chandigarh and 120 in Panchkula.They have no complaints, but a unanimous request; for an arrangement to made so they can go back to their native places. A month after millions of people, mostly migrant workers were stranded without work in different parts of the country, the Union home ministry on Wednesday finally allowed states to repatriate them to their respective states.The only condition that the home ministry has imposed for such inter-state travel is that the government of states, from where these people begin the journey and the government in the destination state, should clear the trip.Panchkula deputy commissioner (DC) Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said the administration is working to get the remaining labourers back to their native places. “A meeting for this was held with officials concerned and we will soon initiate the next step of the process. I have come across recent orders from the MHA and will go through it with other officials. The administration will go as per guidelines issued by the central government and will take up the matter accordingly, on Thursday.” Hotam Singh, a 22 –year- old labour from Rajasthan, putting up at a Chandigarh shelter home, says he worked in Mullanpur, 35 km from the city, and was walking towards his native place on foot, before he was brought to the facility. “If I was at home, I could have earned for my family, instead of sitting here idle,” he adds. Another inmate, Manmohan Singh, whose family is in Badayun, Uttar Pradesh, says his wife and three-year-old child, are alone there. Even he wishes to reunite with his family.Also stuck with them, is 26- year -old Anita, who says her four children are alone in UP. “I am living here with one of my children. I cannot sleep thinking what my other kids are doing alone in UP. It’s a nightmare for me.” She adds.Most of them had no complaints about the arrangements. They get food, tea from time-to-time and have access to TV. They are visited regularly by a doctor and yoga instructor from a local varsity.Rajiv Tiwari, nodal officer of Chandigarh said, “The Chandigarh administration set-up a shelter home for stranded migrant labourers on March 29, and they have been looked after well since then. But now, they want to go back to their native places, especially after their stranded friends and relatives in Ambala were shifted to UP on Tuesday. We have 60 migrants staying at the shelter home here, 37 are from UP, seven from West Bengal, seven from Rajasthan and eight from Bihar.”“We have received updated guidelines from ministry of home affairs and the course of action will be decided after discussion with higher authorities,” he said.The UT administration had setup a facility to house 140 migrants following the Centre’s order. But, reported only 70.In Panchkula, 454 such persons were housed at 12 different shelter homes, of which 336 have been sent back by arranging buses to states including UP, Himachal Pradesh and Punjab. Now, only 118 odd migrants are left, including 42 origami artists, natives of Badarpur in Delhi.Damodar, 58, says they were kept well. “But, in this scenario, I don’t want to live here,” he says.Duli Devi, 35, who is stuck here with five children, aired a similar sentiment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/following-mha-order-200-odd-migrants-at-shelter-homes-in-chandigarh-p-kula-look-forward-to-going-back-home/story-9c0hPdgwwRCc75HkW50RlJ.html
29-04-2020||Gurugram||Civil defence volunteer assaulted after argument||A volunteer from a civil defence team was allegedly assaulted and threatened with murder by at least two unidentified men while he was distributing food in Sector 57 on Tuesday. The police said that the volunteer sustained minor injuries and his condition is reported to be stable.According to the police, the victim is a professor at a university and a resident of Sector 52. He began volunteering for the team last month, helping its members distribute food across Gurugram. The incident took place on Tuesday around 7pm when he went to an economically weaker section (EWS) colony in Sector 57 to distribute food. In the police complaint, the victim said, “On Tuesday, around 7pm, I went to a shanty to distribute food. Suddenly, two men came out and began screaming and told me not to distribute food. When I told them that I am associated with a government department, they got agitated. One of them said that the property belonged to him and I cannot come there. They called at least three more men at the spot and assaulted me.” He also said that the men allegedly became angrier when he asked them to wear masks and threatened to kill him. Summit Kumar, station house officer (SHO), Sector 57 police station, said, “The victim is a volunteer with a civil defence team. He sustained a minor injury on the hand and his condition is reported to be stable. The men are yet to be arrested. We are investigating the case.”A case was registered against the suspects under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Sector 57 police station on Tuesday, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/civil-defence-volunteer-assaulted-after-argument/story-L8Fmd8hVeKyWTFFRkpgu2L.html
29-04-2020||Delhi||I didn’t want rumours to reach my family, says Delhi police constable after recovering||For ten days, 34-year-old Delhi Police constable Vikas Kumar Verma evaded questions about his health from his kin so that they did not worry about his well being in a city that is being ravaged by the Covid-19 pandemic..On Monday, however, a Facebook post by Verma’s colleague welcoming him back to work, alerted his family. Soon after the social media post went up, he got a call from his wife and mother, who live in Kotputli, near Jaipur, Rajasthan. Verma took the call and said told them the truth.Verma was among the first three policemen to have contracted the virus and tested positive on April 17. He recalls how while performing duty in Central Delhi’s Chandni Mahal, he suddenly started feeling weak and then within hours had developed high fever. As a precaution, he got himself tested and was declared coronavirus positive on April 17. He said that everything happened so quickly, he didn’t get time to properly convey the news properly to his family. After the three policemen from Chandni Mahal tested positive, the police station was sealed with 26 policemen being asked to stay there in isolation. The remaining workforce were told to report to duty from Jama Masjid police station for some time.“My mother and grandmother live in a village in Rajasthan and aren’t very well educated.Because Covid-19 is a scare in villages, I didn’t want them to start worrying about me. Another major concern was that villagers and neighbours start reacting in unexpected ways. In villages coronavirus is not only a threat to life but also carries a stigma. They would tell my mother and grandmother things about the virus, which aren’t true. This would only give rise to rumour mongering and make them worry. I didn’t want them to be caught in such a situation,” Verma said.The day Verma’s test reports were out, he called up his younger brother, who also lives with the family and works with a private firm there, and told him everything. “Only he knew the truth. I had to confide in someone because the virus has so far claimed thousands of lives. At that time, I didn’t know if I will return alive. I had asked my brother to tell others in the family that I am just unwell and under observation, so that if something happened to me, they aren’t shocked all of a sudden. I felt bad, but at that time I thought that was the best I could tell them,” he said.On Monday, when Verma was discharged from the hospital after 10 days, he was welcomed back by his colleagues and senior officers with garland, flowers and music. Some of them posted pictures on social media and one such post on Facebook led Verma’s family to learn the truth.For past three years Verma had been living in the barracks of Chandni Mahal police station. After resuming duty, he has chosen to put up at a hotel in Karol Bagha.Deputy commissioner of police (central) Sanjay Bhatia said Verma will stay in the hotel and will join office on April 30. “There are 15-20 other policemen in that hotel, which we have hired to keep our men in isolation. Policemen who are active in the field and do not want to go home to prevent their families from getting the infection, are staying there. Verma is fit to join work and his condition is being monitored regularly,” Bhatia said.Verma, however, is not sure when will he be able to visit his family. The constable, who had joined the police force in 2015, is a father to four daughters, the youngest of whom is one-and-a-half-year-old.“For us, duty comes first. I was on duty when I fell sick. Now I have been discharged from the hospital and am ready to join work. In such times, I can’t ask for a holiday to go home. I have told my family that I am fine now and will be home once the crisis is over,” he said.Verma remembers how tiring his treatment was as he spent ten long days at in the hospital wondering if he will ever be able to meet his daughters again. “All i seemed to be doing there (at the hospital) was swallow tablets and getting tested. It wasn’t easy but i needed to be strong willed. When I came to know that I was Covid-19 positive, it scared me. But, I had to remain strong. I had heard that many people have even recovered and going for the treatment with a positive mind was the only option I had,” Verma said.Apart from Verma, more than 30 Delhi police personnel have so far tested positive for the virus in the city that so far has seen 3,439 cases in total with 56 deaths. Two more cops of Chandni Mahal police station recover, offer to donate plasmaTwo more constables from Chandni Mahal police station who were infected with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) recovered from the virus on Wednesday and returned from a private hospital, where they were under medical observation.Three constables of the police station have recovered from the virus, so far, while five others are still under medical observation at a central Delhi hospital. All three of them have offered to donate their plasma to help save lives of coronavirus infected, said deputy commissioner of police (central) Sanjay Bhatia.DCP Bhatia said that the duo – constables Pushpendra Yadav and Indraj – were discharged from the hospital after their two tests came negative, The Chandi Mahal police station, which was sealed since eight personnel were tested positive for the virus, will be de-sealed on Thursday, he said.“Twenty-six personnel of the police station, including the station house officer (SHO), will resume their duty on Thursday, as they have completed their 14-day quarantine period and will be discharged. We will welcome them at the police station,” added the DCP.DCP Bhatia said that Pushpendra and Indraj were the first two constables who were tested positive from the police station. Thereafter, 32 staffers were sent in self-quarantine to avoid the spread of the virus. Another six of them were later found positive and admitted to different hospitals and quarantine centres. Among them, Constable Vikas, was the first who recovered from the virus on Monday.“Like Vikas, Pushpendra and Indraj also want to join duty. But we have presently shifted them to a guest house in Karol Bagh where they will spend two more days to ensure they do not suffer a relapse,” Bhatia said.As on date, 32 personnel from the city police have tested positive for the Covid-19, of which 14 are from central district’s Chandni Mahal, Nabi Karim and Jama Masjid police station. Another six personnel were from the Jahangirpuri police station. A total of four personnel are now recovered. (Inputs by Karn Pratap Singh)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/i-didn-t-want-rumours-to-reach-my-family-says-delhi-police-constable-after-recovering/story-p6v0buD34n2cugyefRTk2I.html
29-04-2020||City||Ggm admin seeks details of Indian students stranded abroad to bring them back||Gurugram: To bring back Indian students from different countries who are unable to return to the country due to the flight restrictions imposed to contain the Covid-19 pandemic, the district administration on Wednesday asked parents to submit details of their children who wish to come back. The administration took the initiative after Vijay Vardhan, additional chief secretary (home), wrote to all districts on April 24, asking deputy commissioners to send details of Indian students pursuing education in colleges or universities in different countries who may be desirous of returning to India. The administration has issued an email ID at which the details of such students can be sent.“Gurugram has a large number of such students. To help them, we have issued the email ID – covid19gurugram@gmail.com. Parents will have to mail basic details mentioning ‘overseas support’ in the subject line. A form will be sent to them which has to be filled up with details of their kids who want to come back,” said Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner.The state government has initiated the process of collecting details of such students with the help of the central government. “Many parents were approaching the senior authorities at the state-level. Taking cognizance, the state government is collecting the data of such students which will be shared with the central government for bringing them back,” a senior official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ggm-admin-seeks-details-of-indian-students-stranded-abroad-to-bring-them-back/story-pu5s72zCt7qgZY1UtFdnuM.html
29-04-2020||Lucknow||Despite lockdown, no let-up in vulgarity and stalking on social media||Anti-socials are active on social media even during lockdown. Complaints of cyber bullying have increased by 19 per cent compared to the period between February 23 and March 24.and women have been complaining of vulgarity, stalking and misbehaviour on cyberspace during the past one month, as per the data of Women Power Line (WPL)-1090.The WPL which is a dedicated centre for women in distress was launched in November 2012 and specifically deals with complaints related to stalking on phone, social media platforms and other issues with which women require help.Additional director general (ADG), WPL, Anju Gupta said that as many as 2,61,000 calls were received between March 25 and April 24 of which 2,59,800 were related to women related crimes while 1200 complaints were related to problems during the lockdown. Around 2,18,000 calls were related to vulgarity, stalking and misbehaviour on phone and social media platforms before the lockdown between February 23 and March 24, she added.The comparison shows that at least 41,800 more complaints related to misbehaviour, vulgarity and stalking were received during the lockdown period that stands for around 19.17 per cent of the calls between February 23 and March 24. However, the complaints of stalking and misbehaviour on streets have declined drastically due to restricted public movement.The ADG, however, emphasised that the team of counsellors was busy warning troublemakers on phone and tracking people causing trouble for the fair sex on social media platforms.Gupta said the WPL had also received multiple complaints about domestic disputes during the lockdown period since April 7 following which a separate team of counsellors was set up to handle these cases. She said the WPL team had counselled and sorted out disputes in over 200 such complaints in the past few weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/despite-lockdown-no-let-up-in-vulgarity-and-stalking-on-social-media/story-B8bRnM7a80YMAmW9DcNP1J.html
29-04-2020||Gurugram||70% govt school students accessing lessons on WhatsApp||Around 70% of government school students from classes 2 to 12 in the district have connected via Whatsapp as part of the ‘Ghar se Padhao’ online learning campaign, according to a state government report. The ‘Ghar se Padhao’ campaign was launched on April 14 to ensure that teachers remain in regular contact with parents and students through WhatsApp during the countrywide lockdown imposed from March 25 to contain Covid-19. While teachers share academic videos and worksheets, students are required to maintain a dedicated notebook to record their work. The findings were based on data recorded through Google Form responses, where in respondents could send feedback over the programme. Out of the 117,731 students in the district that fall under the category, 82,060 had connected via WhatsApp.The remaining students have struggled to stay in tune with the rest of the class on WhatsApp due to accessibility and connectivity issues. Teachers and students said that while some couldn’t afford a smartphone, others were unable to get it recharged.As per the report, around 2,106 teachers out of a total of 3502 are registering participation of students in Gurugram. They were reporting detailed action/activities-undertaken during the lockdown. District education officer Indu Boken said, “We created five Google Forms which are sent out daily (to WhatsApp groups), and collated.” She said that students in remote locations were attending classes which implied that lessons were reaching students in most areas.School principals said that while teachers were sharing study material and assignments regularly via WhatsApp, the medium had its limitations, and they couldn’t accurately ascertain the engagement levels of students. “While some students are taking the lessons seriously, asking questions and responding, there are some who need to be prodded for submission of work,” said Suman Sharma, principal of Government Model Senior Secondary School in Sector 4/7, Urban Estate.Sharma said that some students had been unable to catch up due to the unavailability of smartphones. “Most of these children come from backgrounds where parents have a simple phone for the purpose of making calls. Some of them even borrow phones from their neighbours to access assignments, but they fail to respond actively due to the hassle of borrowing the phone time and again,” said Sharma.She, however, added that more and more students were gradually understanding the gravity of the current situation, and trying to connect via WhatsApp. “We are noticing an improvement in engagement levels as children become aware of online classes. Parents have also reached out with doubts regarding online classes,” said Sharma.For students who can’t access WhatsApp, the state education department has initiated the transmission of lessons via NCERT’s Swayamprabha channel and three Haryana EDUSAT channels which are being aired on cable TV.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/70-govt-school-students-accessing-lessons-on-whatsapp/story-7B6uZkY3Gc6D8A4TmWKxYM.html
29-04-2020||Gurugram||Using tongs, toll operators blow-dry notes before placing them in registers||At Kherki Daula toll plaza, which reopened after three weeks on April 20, booth operators are blow-drying cash bills to ward off the coronavirus. The toll plaza is fumigated every day and the booth operators have been told to follow safe distancing norms while interacting with commuters.Commuters passing through the toll plaza cannot pay the booth operators directly anymore. They place the cash in a plastic tray placed for the purpose. At present, six canopy lanes are operational at the toll plaza.The ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH) had shut all toll plazas in the country from March 25 to April 19, following which it opened up with relaxations issued by the Centre.Anish John, systems manager, Millennium City Expressway Private Limited (MCEPL), the concessionaire, said, “With the outbreak of coronavirus disease, toll operators are afraid to take cash from commuters. We have devised a plan where the toll booth operators hand over a small plastic tray from inside their booth to the commuter sitting inside the car.”The booth operators have been trained to use tongs to pick up the bills from the tray. “After the cash is picked up from the tray, all notes are held in front of a heat blower for a minute and only then kept inside the cash register,” said John.Officials of the toll plaza are disinfecting the cash bags daily. The project head of Kherki Daula toll plaza, Rajendera Bhati, said, “We are spraying steam with the help of an iron inside the cash bags so that they are disinfected.”The toll officials also said that everyone entering the toll plaza office at Kherki Daula is being checked with infrared thermometers.“When we restarted toll operations on April 20, all toll booth operators were given masks, gloves, caps and we have trained them to remain at a safe distance from commuters. We are disinfecting the entire toll plaza every single day, including every toll booth and the operators too,” said Bhati.Toll officials said that about 20 toll booth operators are working presently in three shifts.As per the data released by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) for April 27, FASTag traffic amounted to 32% whereas commuters paying through cash was 25%, electronic payment amounted to 0.6%, while 31% were emergency exempted vehicles while 12% were exempted vehicles of villagers in the vicinity.MCEPL officials said that during the lockdown, the sale of FASTags at the toll plaza has come down to zero. “With lockdown in place, the sale of FASTag has come down considerably at the toll plaza. There are no bank officials who are selling FASTags anymore,” said John.On April 18, the NHAI had come out with operating procedures and guidelines for protecting workers at toll plazas. The NHAI has instructed toll officials to use their own transport. “Wherever possible workers should travel to the toll plaza alone using their own transport. Parking arrangements for additional cars should be made (sic),” read the guidelines.The highways authority has instructed that all non-essential visitors should be stopped. Not only this, but the guidelines also say that there should be a restriction on the number of people using toilet facilities one at a time. “All manpower on the toll plaza shall use masks/gloves and goggles for their own protection. Mass sanitisation of toll plaza through spray may be done at regular intervals (sic),” read the guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/using-tongs-toll-operators-blow-dry-notes-before-placing-them-in-registers/story-1QNVO4On0nio1Z8KBrF2lI.html
29-04-2020||Gurugram||Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam extends due date to pay bills by a month||The Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN), in what is likely to spell as major relief for consumers, on Wednesday said that it will extend last date to deposit electricity bill by a month — from April 27 to May 27.Nearly two lakh city consumers are likely to benefit from the move d.The one month relaxation was given in the light of Covid-19 lockdown that has been put in place since March 25 to contain the spread of Covid-19.The DHBVN had sent electricity bills to consumers for February and March in the first week of April without actual metre reading and making an average consumption calculation of past three months. The move had drawn criticism from city residents who raised complaints with the department demanding revision and relaxation in due date due to the lockdown.Sunil Yadav, Palam Vihar resident, said, “I got a bill of only Rs 3000 of two months February and March. I knew it was wrong because my average bill of two months comes to around to Rs 15000. Also, the department sent us bill on WhatsApp and many people received wrong bills. We lodged complaints with the department requesting to correct the bills and extend the due date. During this lockdown, it is not possible for us visit the office and deposit the bill by cheque, as we normally do.”The notification said that the consumers will not have to pay late fine and surcharge for the one month extension extended period.“This relaxation is being given in light of lockdown put in place to contain Covid-19. Also, our men have been restricted from visiting every consumer and taking actual metre reading of two months. The virus outbreak started showing in mid March itself and almost restrictions in office and public movements were restricted from March 21 only. The consumers can pay these bills by and before May 27, by when we hope lockdown will be over.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/dakshin-haryana-bijli-vitran-nigam-extends-due-date-to-pay-bills-by-a-month/story-zrRS1BkMCdVaNYbpF8CG1O.html
29-04-2020||City||Three health workers test Covid-19 positive||Gurugram: Three health care workers, including two nurses from the Civil Hospital in Sector 10, tested positive for Sars-CoV-2 virus on Wednesday, taking the total number of Covid-19 positive cases to 54 in the district.“The two nurses, residents of Sector 9 and Om Nagar, were assigned duty in the Covid-19 ward of Civil Hospital. Another person who tested positive is a general duty assistant (transport) at Medanta Hospital. The Medanta employee is a resident of Islampur village. Over 100-150 samples will be collected from people who came in contact with the nurses,” said Dr Jaswant Singh Punia, chief medical officer.All three patients are admitted at the ESIC hospital, a declared Covid-19 hospital in Gurugram, officials said, adding that a total of 11 health care workers have tested positive for the deadly virus in the district so far.Om Nagar was declared one of the 24 containment zones in the district after it reported a Covid-19 case earlier. Islampur, on the other hand, shares proximity with Jharsa, which is also a declared containment zone. Meanwhile, Sector 9 has been removed from the containment zone list after no case was reported for two weeks following the first case. Till now, eight positive cases involving nurses and medical staff have been reported in Medanta Hospital. It includes a 21-year-old nurse who had tested Covid-19 positive in Panipat in the first week of April. A few days later, two other nurses were confirmed coronavirus positive, and earlier this week four health workers, including three nurses and one male staff who transported patients, were infected.On Wednesday, Medanta hospital collected samples of all its health staff from Covid-19 ward and did random sampling of nurses and medical staff deployed in other wards. According to doctors, cases that have been confirmed Covid-19 positive were from other wards instead of Covid-19 ward. On Wednesday, the health department collected more than 243 samples from different containment zones. Of 54 Covid-19 positive cases in Gurugram, 38 are discharged and 16 are undergoing treatment. At least 96 people are under surveillance at the quarantine facility. A health team will collect samples of journalists for reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests at Civil Hospital from Thursday onwards, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-health-workers-test-covid-19-positive/story-JQcBjYAqOJFmDv3toFJrbK.html
29-04-2020||Gurugram||Resuming work during lockdown: Work environment, conditions witness sea change||Industrial units in Manesar which have been allowed to resume operations amid the lockdown are tweaking their seating plans, introducing staggered timing for workers and installing sanitation amenities, among a slew of other strict measures the district administration has ordered to prevent the spread of Covid-19 as the district, and the country, tries to maintain the supply chain and restart its economy. While agreeing that the introduction of these measures is essential, industry owners warned that they would also reduce their output as fewer workers would occupy the space available. At MM Creations in Manesar, 40-odd workers occupy the shop floor where 300 men worked till last week of March. They now wear masks at all times and are seated around five to six feet from each other in a large room, where the supervisor keeps a check on their movements. Wednesday was their second day of work in the factory, which had been closed for over a month and the change in work environment has left them all unnerved. As soon as the workers enter the unit they sanitize their hands, their body temperature is checked with a non-contact thermometer and then they wash their hands at the newly installed washbasin. “These measures are tough to implement and will definitely cause loss of productivity, but these are desperate times,” said Manmohan Gaind, CEO of MM Creations, which makes couture clothing and home furnishings. The more pressing worry for industry owners was space optimization, Gaind said. At V&M Industries, which makes and exports leather goods, the owners are trying to ensure that all steps are taken to keep production compatible with norms of physical distancing. Its three floors now have all of 50 workers as opposed to 250-300 workers earlier. The entry gates are marked with strips of yellow tapes pasted six feet apart to ensure workers don’t huddle while entering, no-contact thermometres have been placed, and instruction charts and posters pasted on the wall as constant reminders. “We are training two HR employees so they can give daily live demonstrations to workers to follow the norms. Audio recordings on precautions are being created and this shall be broadcast after every two-three hours,” said Suman Chawla, owner of the firm.A large hall in the factory has also been turned into a dormitory for 25 workers, whose meals have also been taken care of, she said, adding that as and when more workers come back their living arrangements would be made. The industrialists grudgingly admit that though implementing the safeguards came at great cost, they were better than risking the spread of Sars-Cov-2. “We are disinfecting the factory, entry and exits, masks and sanitizers are being issued, but the most difficult thing is maintaining the correct physical distance while working on machines. Sometime people pass by each other and it is difficult to remain six feet apart,” said Pradeep Kumar, owner of Gaps enterprises based in Udyog Vihar. The workers, who are new to this environment, are also unnerved by the change in work culture but said they would adapt as there was no alternative.Ramesh Kumar, an industrial worker who lives in nearby Kasan village, said that working in such a strict environment was difficult but there was no option. “We have to earn a livelihood and keep ourselves safe from the coronavirus. Last few weeks have been quite difficult, so we want to work and all of us will remain disciplined despite the discomfort,” he said.Auto major Maruti has also introduced similar measures at its plant in Udyog Vihar, where the company has been permitted to make PPEs, ventilators and other equipment. Kuldeep Janghu, president of Maruti Suzuki Kamgar Union, said workers’ body temperature is checked when they enter the factory, they wash their hands, wear masks and undergo other safety checks to ensure there is no spread of Covid-19.“We are aligned with government of India’s directives to fight the Covid-19 pandemic and are working towards the safety and well-being of our employees and communities around our manufacturing units. Our teams are coming up with ways to ensure proper social distancing and hygiene are maintained whenever we resume production,” a company spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/resuming-work-during-lockdown-work-environment-conditions-witness-sea-change/story-5SX0DM8lY3GELeCuYwci2N.html
29-04-2020||City||Uttar Pradesh to add 52,000 bed in Covid hospitals; three more test positive in Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad on Wednesday recorded three more Covid-19 positive cases — two from Vaishali Sector 5 and one from Dasna — taking the total number of cases in the district to 63. Officials on Wednesday also said that UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath had ordered the setting up of an additional 52,000 beds at Covid hospitals across the state.“This will include total of 30,000 beds at L1 category hospitals, 15,000 in L2 category hospitals and 7,000 in L3 category hospitals,” said Awanish Awasthi, UP’s additional chief secretary (home).Till date, Uttar Pradesh has a total of 155 Covid L1 category hospitals, 78 L2 hospitals and six L3 category hospitals to deal exclusively with Covid cases.Recently, the CM had also given directions for creation of 20,000 additional quarantine beds in each district.“We already have about 1,450 quarantine beds with about 650 persons admitted. We have also received directions that from now on only the close contacts of Covid-19 positive patients will be admitted in quarantine. We have many colleges in Ghaziabad and these can be acquired as quarantine centres,”said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer (CMO)..“As of now we have only 106 beds in L1 category Covid hospitals and 370 more have been identified at four locations. The Sanjay Nagar hospital is L2 category and has 100 beds available, which are vacant at present. We can also add 20 more at Sanjay Nagar. Besides this, we have 200 more beds identified for L2 hospital and these can immediately be converted when the need arises,” he added.Meanwhile, Gupta said that thirteen patients admitted to the Covid hospital in Muradnagar will be discharged on Wednesday.“Of the people who tested positive on Wednesday, two cases are from Vaishali Sector-5. One of them had undergone an operation at a private hospital in March and had later sought treatment at another private hospital in Tuesday. His test report came positive on Wednesday. He has been shifted to L3 facility in Meerut,” said Gupta.According to officials, the prime localities of Indirapuram-Vaishali have number of Covid-19 positive cases emerging and most of these are related to medically acquired infection.“The second positive patient is from Vaishali sector-5 and had gone to a private hospital in East Delhi on Tuesday. His test reports found him positive for Covid-19. He has been shifted to ESI Hospital in Sahibabad. There were reports that a sub-inspector of Delhi police was also infected. Our teams are trying to trace him in Vaishali. We have come to know that he is admitted in Delhi and confirmation regarding the same is awaited. There is information of one more case from Garhi area, but that is yet to be verified,” Dr Gupta added.He said that the third positive case on Wednesday was of a 25 year old woman from Dasna who had gone to Meerut for delivery and later tested positive. According to officials, 13 test reports of patients were also received on Wednesday and they are likely to get discharged from Covid L1 category hospital at Muradnagar on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/uttar-pradesh-to-add-52-000-bed-in-covid-hospitals-three-more-test-positive-in-ghaziabad/story-XzEaXbJLjPFuVAIAzlXFuI.html
29-04-2020||Chandigarh||Tally may cross 200 in Chandigarh: UT adviser||UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida, on Wednesday, in a tweet, predicted that the city’s Covid tally may cross the 200 mark. Later, talking to Hindustan Times, Parida clarified that it was a rough estimate.Parida tweeted, “Our assessment says we may cross 200.” When asked about the time frame in which the case may go up to 200, Parida said it cannot be estimated as of now, and the number may increase or decrease.In the last five days, the city has seen a spike of 40 new cases taking the total number to 68.The administration’s main concern is that most cases are coming from congested and densely populated areas including Sector 30 and Bapu Dham. 23 cases have been reported in Bapu Dham alone in the last five days, as social distancing has been flouted in such areas. Significantly, the first man to report positive in the colony had thrown a party and police has booked him for violating the curfew restrictions.In the daily review meeting, Punjab governor and UT administrator VPS Badnore expressed serious concern about the continuously rising corona cases in the city. Badnore has asked for intensive screening and testing to be done in affected pockets such as Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 30-B and Kachi Colony. He said all resources and manpower should be concentrated on this while maintaining a strict vigil.Badnore also directed director general of police Sanjay Beniwal to regularly patrol all the areas and take stringent action against those found violating norms.On Wednesday, the administration installed 14 CCTV cameras in Bapu Dham Colony and 26 CCTV cameras in Sector 30-B to monitor violation of social distancing.Parida said affected zones in Bapu Dham Colony will be expanded to include 2,500 more people to contain corona more effectively. Badnore stated that although the Punjab Government has extended the curfew by two weeks Chandigarh will take a decision on May 3, only after consulting all stakeholders and keeping in view guidelines of Government of India on this subject.Enthused city residents are flooding the twitter handle of UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida with requests for delivery of cakes to their relatives or friends’ homes on their birthdays. This comes a day after a video went viral showing Panchkula police delivering a cake to a senior citizen on his birthday.Parida tweeted, “They want me to send police with cakes to their friends for birthdays” and “I plan to block my direct message facility (on Twitter) since I am getting too many such requests.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/tally-may-cross-200-in-chandigarh-ut-adviser/story-FlNZGyYmHlpsOvwocRHrQI.html
29-04-2020||City||Ghaziabad: Four workers booked for ‘stocking extra ration’, no seizure so far||Four workers were booked by the Link Road police on a complaint by the Ghaziabad district administration on Tuesday, alleging that they allegedly demanded ration “repeatedly” and told fellow workers about helpline numbers so that they too could get extra ration in this manner. No raids, however, have been conducted nor any extra ration have been seized so far. The complaint was filed by Surendra Singh, who is a Lekhpal.The four were identified as Chandrabhan, Ajay Kumar, Satish Kumar and Rajvansh Kumar. They were booked under Indian Penal Code Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant).HT on Wednesday spoke to Ajay, Satish and Rajvansh. Although according to the police all four are residents of Kadkad Model village in Sahibabad, Ajay claimed he lives in Ghaziabad’s Budh Bazar, Khoda.Ajay said he lives in a rented accommodation and had procured ration from the Khoda Nagar Palika only once, five days ago.“They gave me five kilogram (kg) flour, one kg sugar, one kg pulses and half a litre of oil. This is sufficient for me for about 10-15 days. Why would I demand more rations when I already have some? This is the first time that I procured food items through the government’s help. Even my landlord here is very helpful and has been supporting me. I have no links with anyone from Kadkad Model village and used to work at a stitching unit in Noida’s Sector-65,” said Ajay, who is from Bihar.None of the three HT spoke to said they were aware of the FIR lodged against them and denied they stocked any excess rations in their homes. They also said no raid had been conducted by administration officials or police. Meanwhile, when asked, neither the district administration nor the police said there had been any seizure of extra rations from the homes of any of the workers.A detailed query was sent to district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey for remarks over the issue but there was no response till late Wednesday.“I don’t know about others and have no links with them,” said Satish who is from Bhagalpur in Bihar and worked at a construction site in Ghaziabad.Another suspect, Rajvansh, has been trying to support his three children and wife while the family is staying in Kadkad Model during the lockdown.“Four days ago, I received the ration items from Vasundhara and a day later, cops came and inquired whether I received the ration or not. I told them that I had received them and they noted my details and went away. I have called the helpline to get rations only once. Why would I call them time and again,” Rajvansh said.Lekhpal Singh, the complainant, meanwhile, alleged that the four were booked as they had allegedly procured rations time and again.“All four of them are from Kadkad Model village and are stocking ration at their houses. They are also telling others to get rations in such a manner. Normally, a family is given rations in about 15-16 days. I cannot say anything about the seizure of extra food items as that is the police’s job. These people are taking away rations every three days,” he added.Pravardhan Sharma, his senior officer and the Tehsildar of Ghaziabad (sadar) area, said that there have been inputs that people have been stocking ration and even selling it to buy liquor and tobacco items such as Gutkha.“There have been complaints to us by NGOs, too. This is the input we have: Such people are violating lockdown norms and not maintaining social distancing. I cannot provide any details about seizure of any extra items from their houses. It is a matter of investigation and we cannot disclose it,” he said, while denying that the complaint was based on any finding.Rakesh Mishra, circle officer of Sahibabad, on the other hand said that the complaint was given by the Lekhpal and he, along with other officials, had gone to Kadkad Model village.“The seizure, etc., will be a part of the investigation but four persons have been booked upon the complaint which is for stocking and demanding extra ration. The investigation in the case will be free and fair,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-four-workers-booked-for-stocking-extra-ration-no-seizure-so-far/story-PHyf7QzT4GiyPrUitA710L.html
29-04-2020||City||Two pvt hospitals get ICMR nod to conduct Covid-19 tests in GB Nagar||Noida: Amid the rising Covid-19 cases in Gautam Budh Nagar, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has given permission to two private hospitals -- Sharda Hospital in Greater Noida and Jaypee Hospital in Noida -- to conduct Covid-19 tests. It will provide some relief to the health department as the district has been facing a lot of troubles in getting sample reports of Covid-19 cases. Currently, the district has only two full-fledged Covid-19 labs -- one at the Government Institute of Medical Sciences​ (GIMS) and the other at National Institute of Biologicals (NIB).While the lab at Sharda Hospital is ready to function from Thursday, Jaypee Hospital will take another 12 days to set up its lab, authorities from the two hospitals said.“We have got the orders to start conducting Covid-19 tests and we have placed our requirement of personal protection equipment (PPE) kits. It is going to take a few days to start the lab. We will be able to test up to 30 samples per day,” said Dr Suryasnata Das, associate director, department of lab medicine and microbiology, Jaypee Hospital.Both the hospitals were opted by the district health department to function as Covid-19 centres also. “Our lab is ready to start conducting Covid-19 tests. We are in the process of finalizing the price of the test. The price will be fixed as per the orders of the state government,” said Dr Ajit Kumar, joint registrar and media spokesperson, Sharda University, Greater Noida.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has said that the Covid-19 tests will be conducted for Rs 2,500 in the state, but some diagnostic centres, which are collecting home samples of Covid-19 suspects, are still charging Rs 4,500 for the test. “We have stopped doing Covid-19 tests as the costing is much more than Rs 2,500. We are only doing home collection of Covid-19 suspects,” said a receptionist of a private diagnostic centre in Noida.When asked about the issue, Dr Deepak Ohri, Gautam Budh Nagar chief medical officer (CMO), said he will ensure that no testing centres charge more than Rs 2,500 in the district. “I will look into the matter. Required action will be taken against those who are not charging as per the directions of the state government,” said Ohri.Recently, four patients from the Sharda Hospital got themselves shifted to a private hospital in Delhi after their reports to confirm them negative got delayed for days. The hospital staff have also been facing troubles in handling Covid-19 patients and suspects as they start panicking when their reports are delayed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-pvt-hospitals-get-icmr-nod-to-conduct-covid-19-tests-in-gb-nagar/story-z3Aff9FCrlha8Sd5pps2qI.html
29-04-2020||City||Patients kept waiting, some given preferential treatment at Covid-19 sampling centre||Inaugurated with much fanfare earlier in April, the Covid-19 testing centre at Sanjay Nagar Hospital has not turned out to be the succour it was promised to be. Patients said they were kept waiting for hours before the staff arrived and many of them complained that a few persons, who appeared to have been recommended by unidentified officials, were given preference in the queue.“I was waiting for testing my 46-year-old brother, who was complaining of cough for the past few days. We arrived at the sampling centre at 8am Wednesday but were kept waiting for hours. When the staff finally arrived at noon, they told us that they will initially test four to five persons recommended by some officials. So all other patients were again made to wait for hours while the four to five persons got tested ahead of others,” Ajeet Chauhan, a resident of Bhood Bharat Nagar near Vijay Nagar, said.Another resident Sachin Kumar had come around 9am with his 76-year-old father from Bajaria.“We kept waiting and my father also had bouts of breathlessness as he is a heart patient. Initially, we were told by a person at the sampling centre that the staff will come by 11pm. But no one arrived. They came only by noon. My father’s Covid-19 test is required as we went to a hospital and doctors told us that we will have to get him tested for Covid-19 first,” Kumar said.Another woman from Nandgram said the gloves used at the sampling centre were unclean and could pose a risk to those giving their samples.“I came here at 11am and no health care staff member was present. Since I am a media person, I tried calling up the chief medical officer but he did not take calls and disconnected my call. It is a sad state of affairs as patients were waiting since morning and no one was attending to them,” she said, requesting that she not be named. The sampling centre has also come under fire from health care professionals. Dr Deepa Tyagi, chief medical superintendent of the Women Hospital, said the reports of a 25-year-old woman who delivered a child on April 25 is still awaited.“Initially, we had no PPE kits to get the delivery of the woman done and we had to use kits meant for use for HIV patients. Her sampling was also done but she is still in isolation at our hospital and breastfeeding her child. Her reports are yet to arrive. In case she turns out to be positive, her baby is also at risk of getting infected. Further, the sampling of our 50 nurses and staff was also done after this centre got inaugurated on April 7,” Dr Tyagi said.“My staff are yet to get their reports. We have received 50 PPE kits for carrying out deliveries. But the stock will soon be exhausted as 12-15 deliveries are happening each day,” she said.District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey did not revert to detailed queries sent to him over the issue.Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer, Ghaziabad, said, “We will inquire about the issues at the sampling centre. Patients should come for testing between 11am and 4pm. The reports of the Women Hospital staff will also be made available to them soon and other test reports that are pending will be expedited. There has been some delay in getting reports.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patients-kept-waiting-some-given-preferential-treatment-at-covid-19-sampling-centre/story-RwAOAcDe4djaJduHBrTBDM.html
29-04-2020||Jaipur||Liquor prices to go up by 10% as Rajasthan hikes excise duty||Tipplers in Rajasthan may have to shell more to enjoy their drinks as the Rajasthan government increased excise duty on Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) and basic license fee on country liquor on Wednesday. The bottling fee has also been increased a little. The government is likely to make approximately Rs 800 crore from the change, said officials.According to the Rajasthan Excise (Second Amendment) Rules, 2020, notified on Wednesday, the additional fee to bottle IMFL having ex-distillery price (EDP) below Rs 900 will be Rs 5.50 per bulk litre. For IMFL which has EDP of Rs 900 or above, the fee will be Rs 11 per bulk litre. The notification also increased the basic license fee for sale of country liquor from Rs 10 to Rs 20 for one bulk litre.In another development, the department amended notification of 1997 to the Rajasthan Excise Act, 1950, to increase additional fee. This has been increased from 25% to 35% for IMFL with EDP below Rs 900, and from 35% to 45% for IMFL with EDP of Rs 900 or above.The additional excise duty on beer has also been increased from 35% to 45% of sum of ex-manufacturing unit price, CST and Export Fee, excise duty and actual cost reimbursed by the Rajasthan State Beverages Corporation Limited.Onkarmal Rajotiya, joint secretary (excise), who signed both the notifications, said the changes are likely to increase the MRP of IMFL and beer by 10-12% and that of country liquor by Rs 2-3.“All MRPs will be revised. Lower slabs will be mild but upper slabs will be little more expensive,” said excise commissioner Bishnu Charan Mallick.Rajasthan annual excise revenue target is about Rs 15,000 crore; Rs 12,500 from excise and Rs 3000 from sales tax. There is a 70% shortfall in tax revenue in April, the first month of the 2020-21 financial year because of the lockdown to contain coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The state reported 74 new cases on Wednesday, taking the tally to 2,438. There have been 55 Covid-19 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/liquor-prices-to-go-up-by-10-as-rajasthan-hikes-excise-duty/story-FkEa6yXYCxdsZYWscW37jM.html
29-04-2020||Jaipur||70% revenue shortfall in Rajasthan, finances in bad shape||The revenue collection in Rajasthan in the first month of the 2020-21 fiscal has fallen by 70% as on Wednesday even as it fights the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, said officials of the state finance department. There was a shortfall of Rs 18,000 in revenue in the last fiscal, 2019-20, they added.“We set out for Rs 8,400 crore in April and have been able to achieve only Rs 1800 crore. In March also, there was a shortfall of Rs 3,500 crore. This has put us in a fiscal crisis to tide over which the chief minister, who is also the finance minister, has requested the Centre for a package,” said Niranjan Arya, additional chief secretary of finance, taxation and excise department.The state targeted to earn Rs ,6800 crore through tax and GST compensation, and Rs 1,600 crore of non-tax revenue, which is primarily royalty from mining and petroleum activities.Rajasthan has allocated around Rs 1,200 crore on Covid-19 related expenses, including that on providing free PDS wheat to beneficiaries of National Food Security Act (NFSA). The Centre had recently given Rs 500 crore as GST compensation for January, while Rs 2,482 crore for February and March is pending, said another official of the department, who requested anonymity. The Centre compensates states for GST shortfall every two months.The biggest drop in tax revenue was seen in stamps and registration and vehicle tax because there was virtually no sale of property and vehicles, he added. The target for stamps and registration for April 2020 was Rs 466 crore; the state got only Rs 6 crore. Similarly, for vehicle tax, the target was Rs 500 crore, and the state has managed to collect only Rs 8 crore, which is a little more than 1 per cent.Arya said the state entered into a new financial year with a shortfall of Rs 18,000 because of a general slowdown of economy. “Loss of 70 per cent of April revenue will bleed our coffers,” he added.The state government deferred a part of salaries of legislators and its employees, including the all-India services officers, such as IAS and IPS, in March. Seventy-five per cent salary of legislators, 50 per cent salary of AIS officer and 30 per cent of state administrative officers was deferred. Five days of salary was deducted as donation to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund for Covid-19. As the date for disbursement of April salary nears, the finance department is staring at a crisis.Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot has demanded from Centre a stimulus of Rs 1,00,000 crore for the state. This can be distributed to the state according to the states’ share in central taxes. Gehlot has also requested for raising the limit of borrowing from open market, which is currently 3 per cent of the state GDP for Rajasthan; the CM wants this to be raised to 5 per cent.Arya said the state’s GDP is around Rs 11,00,000 crore. The 2 per cent raise will enable the state to borrow around Rs 20,000 more from open market. He said the CM has also requested for a raise in the wage and means allowance advance from Reserve Bank of India (RBI).To tide over the fiscal crisis, chief minister Gehlot has sought a moratorium of six months on repayment to RBI and other financial institutions. Another demand of the state government from Centre is compensation of GST until 2027; currently, the GST is to be compensated to states until 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/70-revenue-shortfall-in-rajasthan-finances-in-bad-shape/story-Dcxjl4LmFJSKZ1nn1628fJ.html
29-04-2020||Delhi||Sharjeel Imam booked under stringent UAPA||Delhi Police Wednesday booked Jawaharlal Nehru University student Sharjeel Imam under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) for allegedly hatching a conspiracy to incite communal riots outside Jamia Millia Islamia campus last December. He has already been arrested in this case and is in custody.On April 18, a charge sheet was filed against Imam charging him with instigating riots and delivering seditious speech outside the university campus during a protest against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and the National Register of Citizens (NRC). Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act is aimed at effective prevention of unlawful activities and associations in the country. A person charged under the law can be jailed for up to seven years.Delhi police spokesperson Anil Mittal confirmed that UAPA was added Wednesday to the case against Imam, in which he is already booked.Imam was arrested from Bihar’s Jehanabad on January 28, by the Delhi Police for a speech he had delivered on December 13, two days after which protesters, who had gathered outside Jamia Millia Islamia campus, clashed with police during a march against the amended citizenship law.Imam’s counsel Ahmad Ibrahim said they will take appropriate legal action in the matter soon. “The police has added UAPA provisions on the 88th day [of arrest] with the intention of keeping him jail for a longer time. We will challenge this in the appropriate manner,” he said.At least four buses were torched, over 100 two-wheelers and vehicles damaged and more than 100 persons injured in the violence.Last Sunday, Delhi Police had also arrested president of Alumni Association of Jamia Millia Islamia, Shifa-Ur-Rehman, under UAPA for allegedly hatching a conspiracy to incite communal riots in northeast Delhi in February. Four days before that, the police booked suspended Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) councillor Tahir Hussain under UAPA. Hussain is already in jail in connection with communal violence and murder of an Intelligence Bureau (IB) staffer. The same week, police also arrested Jamia Millia Islamia students Meeran Haider and Safoora Zagar under the UAPA. They were also accused of allegedly hatching a conspiracy to incite communal riots. While Zargar is the media coordinator of Jamia Coordination Committee, Haider is a member of the committee.Earlier this month, a 20-member group of scholars, filmmakers, advocates and writers, who said they have launched a campaign against the witch-hunt of anti-CAA activists, released a statement saying that instead of engaging with protesters, the state has chosen to detain and arrest them under harsh penal provisions. They also said while the crime branch is already probing the case of the riots in north-east Delhi, the Delhi Police’s special cell had filed a separate FIR under which the scholars were being arrested. “This FIR has enabled the stitching together of a political narrative where a direct link is sought to be made between anti-CAA protests and the widespread violence that rocked north-east Delhi in the end of February,” reads the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/sharjeel-imam-booked-under-stringent-uapa/story-fdpJMsFdcXG8yZrkLdtmeL.html
29-04-2020||City||Ulhasnagar records first Covid death||An 87-year-old woman, who was a Covid-19 patient, died in a private hospital on Monday. Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation (UMC) said this was the first coronavirus death in the city.“The woman was admitted to a private hospital. Her swab was collected by the hospital and the report came after her death. This is the first Covid death in the UMC,” said Raja Rijhwani, medical officer, UMC. In Kalyan-Dombivli, 13 new cases of Covid-19 were reported on Wednesday, taking the total count to 156. The civic body said most of the cases reported in the past five days are of essential services workers who travelled to Mumbai for work. Out of the 13 cases on Wednesday, eight are of those who regularly travel to Mumbai and got infected there. Maharashtra Navnirman Sena leader Rajesh Kadam from Dombivli has appealed to KDMC commissioner Vijay Suryavanshi, health minister Rajesh Tope and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on social media asking them to take measures to control on such cases. He has requested the civic body chief to keep a track of such travellers and make arrangements for their stay and food in Mumbai itself. Patil said this will ensure their family’s safety.Suryavanshi said, “We have raised this matter with the government. We will wait for the government’s directions on this.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ulhasnagar-records-first-covid-death/story-TgvhgYAIi8rcsxElYLVR4K.html
29-04-2020||Bangalore||3 of 5 Karnataka ministers who came in contact with infected video journalist, test negative||Three out of five Karnataka ministers, who reportedly came in contact with the Covid-19 positive video journalist of a Kannada news channel recently, on Wednesday said they have tested negative for the virus.Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai and Kannada and Culture Minister C T Ravi tweeted that their test reports have come out negative and they are under home quarantine. “After being informed that I might have come in contact with a Covid-19 affected person, I have been in home quarantine. I have tested negative, but will continue to be vigilant and take all necessary precautions,” Ashwath Narayan said in a tweet.After being informed that I might have come in contact with a Covid-19 affected person, I have been in Home Quarantine. I have tested negative, but will continue to be vigilant and take all necessary precautions.While Bommai said, he has taken a swab test and it has come out negative. ನಾನು ಕೋವಿಡ್-19 ಗಂಟಲು ದ್ರವ ಪರೀಕ್ಷೆ ಮಾಡಿಸಿದ್ದು ಅದು ನೆಗೆಟಿವ್ ಬಂದಿರುತ್ತದೆ, ನಾನು ಆರೋಗ್ಯದಿಂದಿದ್ದು, ಸ್ವತಃ ಕ್ವಾರೆಂಟೈನ್ ಗೆ ಒಳಗಾಗಿದ್ದೇನೆ. “I am under self quarantine and I am healthy.” Ravi said, “Even though I had no close interaction with him (camera man) during my meetings, I got myself tested on 28th April. I am happy to share with You that I have tested negative for #CoronaVirus.” Recently a Cameraman working for a kannada news channel had tested positive for #Covid19.Even though I had no close interaction with him during my meetings, I got myself tested on 28th April.I am happy to share with You that I have tested negative for #CoronaVirus. pic.twitter.com/PpAms4u77BWhile, the other two ministers have not responded so far, according to sources, one of them had undergone test and tested negative.Earlier in the day, Minister S Suresh Kumar, who is spokesperson for Covid-19 in Karnataka, told reporters that the five ministers are undergoing tests.However, reports allege that the few of these ministers had flouted mandated quarantining and are going about with routine work.Karnataka Congress President D K Shivakumar has questioned the government about ministers reportedly in contact with the video journalist not being quarantined, and termed it as “protocol violation”.A Kannada News channel's cameraman is Covid +ve. His primary contacts include CM, DCM & Ministers.Why aren't they in quarantine? Isn't it double standards by those who must set an example to citizens?This is a protocol violation. This Govt is not serious about fighting Covid. pic.twitter.com/PxgXzF4SId“A Kannada News channel’s cameraman is Covid +ve.His primary contacts include CM, DCM & Ministers. Why aren’t they in quarantine? Isn’t it double standards by those who must set an example to citizens? This is a protocol violation. This Govt is not serious about fighting Covid,” Shivakumar tweeted.The journalist, who had visited containment zones demarcated by BBMP (city civic body), was confirmed positive on April 24.As per the 34-year-old patient’s (video journalist’s) flowchart, he had met five ministers on work, between April 21 and April 24.Though, he had also visited Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa’s Home office “Krishna” multiple times during this period, according to officials, he had not met the CM.On April 23, he had given his swab samples along with other journalists for testing, and was confirmed positive the next day.At least 40 other contacts of the video journalist, including his family and journalists from various media outlets, have been quarantined, sources said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/3-of-5-karnataka-ministers-who-came-in-contact-with-infected-video-journalist-test-negative/story-PJgoqoKhYOkQqWydzgPlxO.html
29-04-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19 victim ACP Kohli’s son to be appointed as sub-inspector in Punjab Police||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Monday approved the appointment of the son of Covid-19 victim ACP Anil Kohli, as a sub-inspector in the Punjab Police, after completion of his graduation.During his video conference with 687 frontline field officers/personnel, which included 117 DSPs, 382 SHOs, ADGPs, IGs, SSPs and SPs, DGP Dinkar Gupta disclosed that the conditional offer of appointment of ACP Kohli’s son, Paras, had already been signed by him. “The CM had been extremely supportive of the health and welfare of cops working on the frontlines,” said the DGP, adding that the state and Punjab Police are committed towards the welfare of its personnel.Captain is the first CM in country to announce a health insurance cover of Rs 50 lakh for Punjab Police personnel. The DGP said that he had also proposed that full salary be paid as pension, till the date of superannuation of the deceased, to families of the cops who lose their lives to Covid-19. The DGP further disclosed that CPs and SSPs have been directed to identify additional SHOs to give the existing ones some break.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-victim-acp-kohli-s-son-to-be-appointed-as-sub-inspector-in-punjab-police/story-Fj8paaiFF6sFVHmPWzUu7O.html
29-04-2020||City||4 lakh intoxicating pills smuggled from Delhi in parcel train seized in Amritsar||Police on Wednesday seized 4 lakh intoxicating pills that were smuggled from Delhi in a special parcel train.According to the commissionerate police, these pills were smuggled in the guise of essential commodities on April 26. After being unloaded from the goods train at the Amritsar railway station, the contraband was sent to a private godown situated at Bhagtanwala area here. The pills were seized by the police following a tip-off. However, the accused who had ordered for the contraband are absconding.Police said they have identified two accused in this connection -- Naval Sood of Dhariwal village in Gurdaspur district and Mukesh Yadav of Amritsar. Sood, who runs a chemist shop in Gurdaspur, had ordered the consignment. Due to enforcement of the nationwide lockdown, Indian railways run 134 special parcel trains on 67 routes to ensure the supply of essential commodities.Deputy commissioner of police (DCP-investigation) Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar said, “A police team, led by crime investigation agency (CIA) wing in-charge Sukhwinder Singh Randhawa, raided Golden Deep Enterprises godown at Bhagtanwala. They recovered 4 lakh pills of tramadol (a banned drug) from eight cartons.”He said the police have also identified the locations in Delhi from where the drugs were dispatched. “A team is being sent to Delhi to unearth the racket. Another team is conducting raids to arrest the accused who placed the order,” he said. He said the preliminary investigation has suggested that as the supply chain of drugs has been cut off due to the lockdown, these pills were to be sold at exorbitant rates in various villages of Majha region. The accused have been booked under the various sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/4-lakh-intoxicating-pills-smuggled-from-delhi-in-parcel-train-seized-in-amritsar/story-p5om0HFd2bNYRWWXBUHQJL.html
29-04-2020||Kolkata||Mamata hints at continuing with Covid-19 restrictions in West Bengal||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday hinted that the ongoing lockdown would continue in the state, saying experts and doctors are of the opinion that the restrictions imposed to check the spread of Covid-19 should remain in force till the end of May.She, however, announced a few relaxations, in accordance with the orders of the central government, such as opening stand-alone shops dealing in non-essential items and resuming bus and taxi services in green zones, following all precautionary and social distancing measures.Banerjee also said her government has made arrangements to bring back 2,500-3,000 students hailing from the state who are stranded in the coaching hub of Kota in Rajasthan and they are likely to reach in three days.She added the students boarded buses for West Bengal this evening.“Nobody can say when this crisis will end. Most of the countries have already announced the lockdown till the end of May and the first week of June. Our experts and doctors believe that the restrictions regarding Covid-19 should continue till the end of May,” she said.The graph of infection might go down after that but it might again show an upward trend during the rainy season in July and August, she said.“We had announced the lockdown before the Centre did it. Till now the situation has not improved, so it is not possible to revert everything to normal. So, for a few more days, we have to follow the restrictions and continue with the lockdown. It may be 100 per cent in some areas or partial in other areas. My appeal to all of you not to venture out of their homes now,” she said.Banerjee announced the lockdown in the state from March 23 evening. Prime Minister Narendra Modi imposed it across the country from March 25 to break the chain of coronavirus transmission and it was scheduled to be lifted on April 15. The 21-day measure was later extended for 19 more days till May 3.The chief minister said that from May 4, restrictions will be eased in green and orange zones where stand-alone shops of non-essential items will be opened.“But there will be no relaxation for containment areas. The relaxation applies only to stand-alone shops and home delivery of non-essential items, not for market complexes or shopping malls,” she said.Stand-alone shops selling electronics goods, stationery items, books, paints, hardware products, laundry, tea, and paan will be allowed to open in green and orange zones, she said. “Police will survey which shops will be opened. Hawkers’ markets and shops on footpath won’t be opened. Factories can open in green zones but they need to abide by all protocols,” she said.“We are yet to get clarifications from the Centre regarding its order last week on opening of shops in non-containment zones. Once we get that, we would take steps about extending the relaxation in some other areas,” she added.Buses will also ply in green zones but will not carry more than 20 passengers at a time, she said adding that the vehicle should be sterilized at regular intervals. “Taxis also can operate in green zones, but with not more than three passengers,” Banerjee said.She said the Economic Task Force has prepared a six-month economic rehabilitation plan.The TMC supremo also alleged that the BJP was indulging in politics at the time of this crisis.“There are some people who are trying to spread rumours that there are no beds in hospitals of Kolkata to get admitted. There are still 790 beds ready for Covid-19 patients in Kolkata. We have moved from one Covid lab to 14 labs. And the BJP is busy doing politics to malign us. This is not the time for politics,” she said.“The BJP is making a hue and cry over the attack on policemen in Howrah. What about assault on policemen in BJP-ruled states,” she asked.A mob attacked policemen who were enforcing lockdown to prevent the spread of coronavirus at Tikiapara in Howrah district, a red zone, on Tuesday.“What happened in Tikiapara was wrong, it should not have happened and I have asked the police to take stern action. In Bengal, we treat everyone equally irrespective of their caste or religion. But those who are doing politics should come down on the road, clean the roads, stand beside the Covid-19 patients,” she said.Referring to the attacks on police personnel in BJP-governed Uttar Pradesh, she threatened to “open the Pandora’s Box, if the saffron camp continues to needle the Bengal government”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/mamata-hints-at-continuing-with-covid-19-restrictions-in-west-bengal/story-nT5VqSXo4uD5EeaXnL8rwO.html
29-04-2020||Chandigarh||Recovery rate of Covid patients in Haryana climbs to 73%||Haryana reported the first recovery of a Covid-19 patient on March 21, the day when the state had 22 positive cases. Five weeks later, on April 28, the number of positive coronavirus cases in state swelled to 308. But heartening is the fact that the number of recovered patients stood at 224, about 73% of the total positive cases. Despite four hotspots — Nuh, Faridabad, Gurugram and Palwal — in the national capital region (NCR) accounting for over 60% of the total positive cases across the state, the impressive rate of recovery has placed Haryana in an enviable position as compared to neighbouring Delhi (33%) and Punjab (30%). The state’s remarkable recovery rate also came in for appraisal on Monday during the videoconference convened by Prime Minister Narendra Modi with the chief ministers of all states. Notably, the national recovery rate as on April 29 was close to 25%.RECOVERY TRAJECTORYThe recovery trajectory of the state has a lot to do with the efforts to ramp up real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests, pool sampling, and prompt tracking down and testing of suspected Tablighi missionaries and their contacts, besides intensive house-to-house screening in 155 containment zones across 20 districts. The stepped up measures ensured that the spread of the virus was checked and contained in an effective manner. “Had the virus spread gone berserk, the recovery rate would have come down,” said a health official posted in an NCR district. “The state had tested nearly 3,900 samples till April 12. By April 14 evening, we had tested over 6,100 samples and in next two weeks (till April 28), the number climbed to 25,000,” said additional chief secretary, health, Rajeev Arora.The virology lab at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak, which started pool sampling on April 14, had tested over 2,300 samples in the first seven days. The pool-tested samples accounted for more than 27% of the total samples tested in that particular period by the lab. Pool sampling is recommended in the areas with low prevalence of infection (below 2%). NEW THREAT FROM DELHI LOOMS LARGEThe state, however, is trying to gear up to tackle the flow of infection from Delhi to Haryana districts. After a number of coronavirus cases with Delhi links being reported in Panipat, Jhajjar, Faridabad – all NCR districts – alarms bells have started ringing. Keeping the situation in view, Panipat, Jhajjar and Rewari have put a ban on the entry of government officials from neighbouring districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/recovery-rate-of-covid-patients-in-haryana-climbs-to-73/story-Rki6OXICXQ0jjAGV6pWH4J.html
29-04-2020||City||Private school found open in Haryana; principal held||A private school has been sealed and its principal arrested for alleged violation of the lockdown orders. As per the information, some people had complained that SB Mission School near Subhash Chowk was open. On the directions of Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Yadav, a team led by duty magistrate and district elementary education officer Rohtash Verma conducted a raid at the school, which was found open. The team also found that 11 students were present in the school along with teachers and other staffers. Karnal superintendent of police Surender Singh Bhoria said the principal and director of SB Mission School, Samta Sharma, has been arrested under sections 188, 269 and 270 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act.Karnal City police station in-charge Harjinder Singh, who visited the school, said this was a serious matter and clear violation of the directions issued by the government as there also were reports that some teachers were being forced to come to school. He said statement of all teachers and children will be recorded to decide further course of action. He said a probe was on, which might also indict the parents who sent their children to the school. Police officials associated with the investigation said some local online channels had aired the news about the school, following which authorities raided the institution. However, some employees of the school clarified that students were called to the school to collect books, while they had gone to take their salaries. But, they could not give any satisfactory response over the lockdown violation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/private-school-found-open-in-haryana-principal-held/story-JKPa0bd1siDIWTLMKFZmQM.html
29-04-2020||Chandigarh||‘Ensure dhabas, tyre repair shops are open in Haryana’||Haryana transport minister Mool Chand Sharma on Wednesday directed additional deputy commissioners (ADCs) to ensure that dhabas, tyre repair and spare parts shops are opened on national highways and main roads across the state.During a video conference with the representatives of Goods Transport Unions, ADCs-cum-secretaries and Regional Transport Authority(RTA) of all districts, Sharma said that a schedule should be prepared for dhabas, tyre repair and spare parts shops to resume operations.He added that due to the lockdown the state government had decided that the vehicle fitness permit, driving license and other documents under the Motor Vehicles Act, which were earlier valid till February 1, 2020, will now be considered valid till June 30, 2020.He said shops selling seeds, pesticides and repair of agricultural implements have been opened throughout the state.“Similarly, tyre repair shops should also be opened in all districts, whether inside or outside the city, as they also fall in the category of essential commodities,” he said.He said all goods-carrying vehicles are allowed to ply except those carrying prohibited items like liquor.Anurag Rastogi, principal secretary, transport department, said that a system would be developed to provide movement passes to drivers so that they can get their vehicles back which were left at dhabas and petrol pumps due to lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ensure-dhabas-tyre-repair-shops-are-open-in-haryana/story-ffOfkfhgjvCTpHFkKRiJsM.html
29-04-2020||Chandigarh||Detailed guidelines issued for industry, old construction can resume||The Punjab home department has issued detailed guidelines to district authorities on allowing industrial activities on Thursday. Clarifying the scope of permissible construction activities specifically whether it includes personal, residential/commercial building, the state government has also permitted all kinds of new constructions in rural areas without any restrictions.“In urban areas, there is restriction in the sense that only on-going projects can continue subject to availability of workers at site,” the guidelines say. There is, thus, on restriction on continuing/resuming work on the already ongoing works including personal, residential/commercial building subject to availability of workers at site.Additional chief secretary (Home) Satish Chandra said district authorities have been directed to call industry associations for a meeting and persuade them to re-start operations in permitted areas.The spokesperson pointed out that the state industry had been asked to comply with the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) in line with the guidelines of the Union home ministry, as per clause 15, which have permitted industries in Special Economic Zones (SEZs) and Export Oriented Units (EOUs), industrial estates, industrial townships and industries in rural areas to operate subject to the condition of complying with the SOP. The spokesperson added that the labour will not depend upon public transport, auto-rickshaws or state transport buses etc. However, the labour may be permitted to move on cycles or on foot, if residing within a short distance from the industry. The spokesperson added that the home ministry had clarified that for restarting operations, industry would require no approval of district authorities. If the industry is satisfied that it has made adequate arrangements for the implementation of the SOP and has submitted a self-declaration to that effect, it they can start operations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/detailed-guidelines-issued-for-industry-old-construction-can-resume/story-bbW8y3xr7efJFsFZ8eJtvL.html
29-04-2020||City||Punjab-origin man dies after assault in London||Scotland Yard on Wednesday appealed for witnesses and information after an Indian-origin man was found dead following an assault in Hayes, west London.The police and the London Ambulance Service were called around 11pm on April 25 to a report that an unresponsive man had been found in an alleyway at the location. He was pronounced dead at the scene and has now been identified as 37-year-old Baljit Singh, who lived locally.A forensic post-mortem examination held at Fulham mortuary on April 27 gave the cause of death as compression to the neck.Helen Rance, who is leading the police investigation, said: “Mr Singh was subjected to a vicious assault. The severity of which has caused him to lose his life. My officers are working through hours of CCTV footage and speaking with people in the area to establish what has happened and identify those responsible.”“I would like to appeal to anyone who was in the vicinity of Station Road, Hayes, from around 22.00hrs onwards on Saturday night who may have seen the victim in company with two individuals. Alternatively, if anyone is aware of the victim’s movements earlier that day we would be keen to hear from them.”The Met’s Homicide team wants to trace two people Singh was in the company of just prior to his death. It is believed a disagreement may have taken place during which the victim was assaulted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-origin-man-dies-after-assault-in-london/story-hxGuY7jQRhsjawENQewvmM.html
29-04-2020||City||Withdraw cut on MSP on damaged wheat grain: Farm unions to Centre||With untimely rainfall resulting in shrivelled grain and lustre loss in the wheat crop, Punjab’s farmers are facing the additional problem of the Centre imposing a value cut during procurement. The value cut to be imposed by the Centre varies between ₹4.81 and ₹24.06 per quintal for shrivelled grains and ₹4.81 for lustre loss on the Minimum Support Price (MSP) of Rs 1,925 per quintal. The order came on Tuesday evening. “Farmers are being penalised for no fault of theirs. First the delay in procurement due to covid-19, then the untimely rain that caused crop damage and now the cut in value due to shrivelled grain and lustre loss,” claimed Jagmohan Singh, state general secretary of BKU (Dakaunda), adding, “Instead of giving relief, the centre has imposed value cut on damaged yield.” He added that farm unions demanded a bonus of Rs 200 per quintal to compensate for their losses. A Central team had visited Mohali, Patiala and Fatehgarh Sahib districts on April 22 to assess if relaxation can be given in procurement norms. The state has 35 lakh hectare under wheat, with total arrival expected at 135 lakh tonne.Baldev Singh, a farmer from Bhadson in Nabha subdivision, said, “The new directions will not only result in financial loss to farmers, but there would be difficulty in selling the yield as well. The farmer is not responsible for damage caused due to untimely rainfall.”Krantikari Kisan Union Punjab president Darshan Pal said, “We condemn the Centre’s autocratic attitude. Farmers will not tolerate any value cut and will launch a stir.”On Tuesday, Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh had sought immediate withdrawal of the value cut, despite allowing relaxations in specifications of shrivelled wheat grains and lustre loss, caused by unseasonal rain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/withdraw-cut-on-msp-on-damaged-wheat-grain-farm-unions-to-centre/story-ZEDUU3rJz4fUMwp4Md8wVI.html
29-04-2020||Chandigarh||Shiromani Akali Dal seeks Punjab health minister’s resignation||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Wednesday urged Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh to ask state health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu to tender his resignation, claiming that Sidhu had completely failed in tackling covid-19. Former SAD minister Bikram Singh Majithia claimed, “He should resign as he has refused to go to field hospitals like his counterparts in Kerala and Haryana, the states which have successfully brought down the mortality rates to 1% against 6% in Punjab.” He alleged Sidhu was solely responsible for the mismanagement in handling pilgrims who had returned from Nanded. “The directions for quarantine for pilgrims and others were received at district headquarters on April 27, even as these people had started coming into the state from April 24 and 25,” he claimed, going on to allege that the state had failed to make proper use of Rs 112 crore it had received under the National Rural Health Mission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sad-seeks-health-minister-sidhu-s-resignation/story-F4q8UoENaR2Do8QWRInMMK.html
29-04-2020||City||4 booked for gangraping Panipat woman||Four men have been booked for allegedly gangraping a 21-year-old married woman in Sanaoli of Panipat district. Police said the woman belonged to Panipat and was married in a village of Uttar Pradesh. She complained that four men took her to an isolated place and gangraped her when she was going to cross Yamuna river near Rana Majra village on the evening of April 27 as her husband was waiting for her on the other side of the river.Sanoli police station in-charge Surender Kumar said the woman had filed a police complaint on Tuesday.He said an FIR has been registered under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and an investigation was launched. The cop said that the woman has also disclosed names of accused, “but this is a part of investigation”.He said the medical examination of the woman will be conducted, adding that she has been isolated as she belongs to another state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/4-booked-for-gangraping-panipat-woman/story-vP8skNWoQ491GKzEA7mB2I.html
29-04-2020||Chandigarh||Three new cases take Covid-19 count to 311 in Haryana||Three persons have tested positive for the novel coronavirus in Haryana on Wednesday, taking the tally to 311 in the state.Among the fresh cases, one each was reported from Nuh, Sonepat and Jhajjar districts.Meanwhile, the health department in Nuh has been in a tizzy over the travel history of the infected person.“A health team reached Sukhpuri village on Wednesday after the village sarpanch informed it about the arrival of two persons from Rajasthan. The duo told the health team that they were brothers and blacksmiths (dealing with sharpening and making iron gadgets) by profession and that they had come from Jaipur. Their samples revealed that one of them was positive for the virus,” said a senior district official from Nuh.However, later they told they had come from Mumbai, the official said, adding that it was difficult to accept such a travel route amid the nationwide lockdown. In order to track their exact history, the two brothers will be further questioned on Thursday.Meanwhile, 10 people who have been in their direct contact have been put under surveillance.“Another vegetable vendor has tested positive for Covid-19 in Jhajjar taking the total count of positive cases to seven in the district,” district civil surgeon Dr Randeep Punia said, adding that his family members have tested negative and he has been sent to isolation ward at Rohtak’s Pandit Bhagwat Dayal Sharma Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences.Earlier, a vegetable vendor, who had been travelling to New Delhi’s Azadpur Mandi for buying vegetables, had also tested positive for the virus. However, the state health bulletin did not mention about the seventh case.In Sonepat, a woman from Khubdu village who had come in contact with already infected Delhi cop of the same village, tested positive for the virus. She has been sent to the isolation ward at Bhagat Phool Singh Medical College for Women in Khanpur.1,766 reports awaitedMeanwhile, samples of 26,148 people have been taken from across the state. Among them, 24,071 have tested negative for the virus, while reports of 1,766 are still awaited.As many as 225 persons who had tested positive for the virus have recovered and discharged from hospitals, a health department bulletin stated, adding that 15,289 persons across the state are under surveillance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/three-new-cases-take-covid-19-count-to-311-in-haryana/story-tmGhlA1fAAWzFjc9datOcL.html
29-04-2020||Delhi||Sharjeel Imam charged under UAPA||The Delhi Police has booked former JNU student Sharjeel Imam under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in connection with the violent protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act near Jamia Millia Islamia in December last year, said his lawyer. Imam has been booked under section 13 (unlawful activities) of the Act in the case, said his counsel advocate Mishika Singh. The police had earlier charged Imam with sedition, alleging his speech promoted enmity between people that led to riots.“He was arrested in two cases of violence at Jamia on December 13 and 15, 2019, for instigating and abetting the Jamia riots, due to his seditious speech on December 13 and based on evidences collected, IPC sections 124 A and 153 A were also invoked,” said Anil Mittal, Additional PRO, Delhi Police. In its supplementary charge sheet, the police had said serious riots had broken out in consequence of the protest march organised by Jamia students against the amended citizenship law on December 15 last year. The mob indulged in large-scale rioting, stone-pelting and arson, and in the process destroyed several public and private properties while a number of police personnel and people were injured in the riots, the agency said in its final report filed before the chief metropolitan magistrate court. The cases were registered at New Friends Colony and Jamia Nagar Police Stations. In the New Friends Colony case, Imam was arrested for instigating and abetting the Jamia riots, due to his seditious speech delivered on December 13, 2019. “During investigation, on the basis of evidence collected, sections 124 A (sedition) and 153 A IPC (promoting enmity between classes) were invoked in the case,” a police officer said. Imam was arrested from Bihar’s Jehanabad on January 28. He was involved in organising protests at Shaheen Bagh but came into limelight after a video showed him making controversial comments before a gathering at Aligarh Muslim University, following which he was booked under sedition charges. The Delhi Police had also booked him for an “inflammatory” speech delivered on the Jamia campus. Another case was filed against Imam in Assam under the stringent anti-terror law for his remark that Assam could be “severed from India, even if for a few months” as a result of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. Police in Manipur and Arunachal Pradesh had also lodged FIRs against the JNU scholar over his speech in which he threatened to “cut off” Assam and the rest of the northeast from the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/sharjeel-imam-charged-under-uapa/story-pYhWbXWmvVFKHCAq4FdScP.html
29-04-2020||City||Virtual family court passes “interim” order on child’s education||Pune Amid the Covid-19 lockdown, a family court in the city has passed an online “interim” order on April 15, in a divorce case involving the education of the couple’s 10-year-old child.Initially, during the lockdown period, there was no facility for online hearing, but on April 11, the court began setting up virtual hearing as per the directions of the high court.According to advocate Supriya Kothari, her client, a 37-year old woman who works in the IT sector is seeking a divorce from a 43-year-old from Mumbai due to non-compatibility issues escalating since 2016, amid case coming up in the Pune family court in 2019. They have a 10-year-old daughter and 4-year-old son, both of whom were studying in a Mumbai school till 2019. As it was becoming difficult for the woman to commute to Mumbai daily from Pune she had petitioned in the court to admit the children here in Pune.The order delivered on April 15 stated, “The petitioner is permitted to obtain leaving certificate of the daughter with or without consent of the respondent, to transfer the children at Pune.”According to Kothari, “Initially when we began the proceedings, it was mid-session for education for the ten-year-old who was studying in a Mumbai school, while both the children were with her in Pune. When the woman had left the house, the child had six months of school left, hence to made sure that her child completes her school term, the woman asked for permission to the family court for the child to be transferred from Mumbai school to a Pune school, but the family court in Pune did not give the permission and has told to complete the six months of education in Mumbai.”As stipulated by the court, the mother and child made several trips from Pune to Mumbai during the school year completing her year though it was difficult for the mother, who later filed an application to the high court challenging the family court order.The high court, since she had completed a year, informed her that she has to conduct the school procedures before 15 April 2020 in the family court and it has to decide upon the application of schooling.On April 3 this year, the lockdown was further extended and the date was postponed to June 19 which was making things difficult for the mother and daughter. The mother then approached the family court via her lawyer for the application.The family court issued an online notice to the husband, and the family court asked both parties to contact for online counsellors as a last attempt, where there was no settlement. Thus on April 15, an online hearing was held of both the parties and as per order argued the case. All of the parties were online in their respective places, whereupon after the hearing, the order was finally passed in the favour of the woman whereupon her child could now study in Pune, with the father allowed access to his children.“The interim order stated that the Mumbai school has to give school leaving certificate for the child to join in Pune, in what according to the advocate is the first online hearing and order during the Covid-19 lockdown,” said Kothari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/virtual-family-court-passes-interim-order-on-child-s-education/story-LPMEmKz3ttlYawLneNxqSP.html
29-04-2020||City||Amid lockdown, community radio, WhatsApp have become medium of education for Dadri students||To continue imparting education to children amid the lockdown, the Dadri education department is reaching out to them through the Dadri Radio FM (community radio) and WhatsApp.Dadri has become the first district in Haryana to book a two-hour slot with the community radio to disseminate study material for students of classes 1 to 12. Ram Avtar Sharma, district education officer, Dadri, told Hindustan Times, “The teachers have been delivering one hour lecture each in the morning (9 am-10am) and evening (4pm to 5pm) for different classes and subjects through the Dadri Radio FM. As many as 14 teachers have delivered lectures in the past one week. These teachers are voluntarily doing their duty. We will release a list of the new teachers on Thursday.”Sharma said that they have been sending the recorded lectures in the WhatsApp groups formed by the government school teachers for those students who missed them.“We have reached out to nearly 2,000 students in the past one week. For the students residing within 20 kilometers radius of the district headquarters, the radio lessons are clearly audible. We have requested the district administration to provide us a local TV cable channel so that we can cover more students”, Ram Avtar Sharma added.Anita Rani , a Hindi teacher, said that she has been teaching grammar to students of classes 6 to 10 via radio.“Initially, students faced a problem with getting their queries cleared during live lectures. After that, they adjusted to the technology. We have been dedicating 40 minutes of our slot to deliver lessons and remaining 20 to take students’ doubts”, she added.Sapna , a student of Class 10 from Sanjarwas village, said that she has been regularly attending her class from 9am to 10am through the radio.“The lectures provided through Dadri Radio FM are beneficial and I am getting my doubts cleared by calling on the radio number. Many of the students are facing problem in receiving education amid lockdown as they do not have radios and internet connection”, she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amid-lockdown-community-radio-whatsapp-have-become-medium-of-education-for-dadri-students/story-X9zpsbhfRviNWn7h8788zK.html
29-04-2020||City||Nanded-returnees allege poor facilities at quarantine centres||The pilgrims, who have returned from Takht Sri Huzur Sahib in Nanded, a historic Sikh shrine in Maharashtra, have alleged that there are poor arrangements at the quarantine centres where they have been kept in Amritsar. They say they are living under the fear of getting infected with coronavirus as the norms of social distancing are not being observed at these centres.The authorities have kept 428 pilgrims, who have returned to Amritsar in the past three days, at four quarantine centres —Swami Vivekananda Drug De-addiction and Rehabilitation Centre, Princess of Wales Jenana Hospital, quarantine centre, Fatehpur (Chabal Road) and Naraingarh health centre.Rajwinder Singh, who has been quarantined at Jenana hospital said, “The centre is unhygienic and washrooms dirty. Over 60 people have been kept here and it has only 5 washrooms. Social distancing norms are up for a toss here. If we stay in such unhygienic conditions, we are bound to get infected. The health department should send those pilgrims, who have been tested negative for Covid-19, back to their homes.”“We are not being given proper and hygienic food,” said Kulwant Singh, another Nanded returnee at Jenana hospital.“100 pilgrims have been quarantined at Swami Vivekananda centre. I and my family can get infected from other people here,” said Sukhpal Singh.Sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Vikas Hira said, “The district administration is providing three meals to the pilgrims, besides filtered water, fruits, juice and milk. The centres are being cleaned regularly and washrooms are clean. I have personally visited these centres to take stock of the situation and everything is fine.”95 PILGRIMS QUARANTINED IN SBS NAGAR As many as 95 pilgrims who arrived from Nanded in Shaheed Bhaga Singh on Wednesday were quarantined at government facilities near Balachaur and in Behram town of the district. Deputy commissioner Vinay Bublani their samples have been collected for Covid-19 testing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nanded-returnees-allege-poor-facilities-at-quarantine-centres/story-LmWAxXHuO0XR5hksTpsyiO.html
29-04-2020||Mumbai||Dharavi reports 14 new COVID-19 cases, tally 344||Mumbai’s biggest slum sprawl Dharavi on Wednesday reported 14 new coronavirus cases, taking the overall tally to 344, a BMC official said.Dharavi, considered as the biggest slum in Asia, has so far reported 18 deaths, he said.“New cases were reported from 90-feet road, 60-feet road, Matunga Labour camp, Koliwada, Kuttiwadi, Dhorwada, Transit Camp, and Kunchi Kurve Nagar localities in Dharavi,” he said.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has so far medically screened 70,000 people in Dharavi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/dharavi-reports-14-new-covid-19-cases-tally-344/story-Dh5nlTIxUazXWPb9J69dZP.html
29-04-2020||Mumbai||BMC doesn’t find any error in Covid-19 test results of pvt lab||Days after sending a show-cause notice to Thyrocare private laboratory, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) quality checked thirty Covid-19 samples of the lab and didn’t find any discrepancies. As HT reported on Monday, the lab was given notice for violation of testing norms. After receiving several complaints, BMC ran a quality check on thirty positive samples that were tested at the laboratory. “We collected the samples from the lab and ran a second test. We didn’t find any discrepancy in the results. Thus, the claims of false-positive reporting has been overruled,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner (health), BMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-doesn-t-find-any-error-in-covid-19-test-results-of-pvt-lab/story-nrvADvKAyFKfwaPKtzOmmM.html
29-04-2020||City||Nanded returnees, students among 11 test positive in Ludhiana||Seven pilgrims from Hazur Sahib in Nanded, Maharashtra, and four students from Kota, Rajasthan — who had reached Ludhiana on Sunday and Monday, respectively — have tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19), taking the district tally to 29. Confirming the same, Ludhiana civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said all the 11 patients were asymptomatic. An eight-year-old boy is the youngest among the patients, while a 62-year-old woman the eldest among them. While four are from Samrala, the rest are from Moti Nagar, Neechi Mangli, Sandhu Nagar, Hargobind Nagar, Chander Nagar, Amarpura and Shimlapuri areas in the city.The pilgrims are among 56 and the students are among 25 currently quarantined at the Mother and Child Hospital on Chandigarh Road.Senior medical officer (SMO) of the hospital, Dr Amita Jain, said the samples of 22 students and 18 pilgrims, who are at high risk, were sent for testing at the Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH), while the remaining to the Rajindra Hospital in Patiala.Following the developments, district health authorities along with the administration and the police conducted an emergency meeting at Bachat Bhawan on Wednesday afternoon to discuss the future course of action.Meanwhile, four buses ferrying nearly 156 pilgrims arrived at the civil hospital in Ludhiana on Wednesday. Health department officials called pilgrims in batches of five and asked them to sit in the buses after collecting their swab samples. Deputy commissioner Pradeep Agrawal said the pilgrims will be shifted to a suitable location. Earlier on Tuesday, Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh had stated that the pilgrims arriving from Nanded will be kept at the Radha Swami Satsang Ghars.TRACING ON On the back foot for having sent the pilgrims and students back to their respective houses after screening them, the health department is now tracking and tracing the people who had come in contact with the 11 patients who tested positive on Wednesday.The administration, which had earlier escorted the pilgrims and students to their homes in taxis and PCR vehicles after the screening, turned up at their homes on Tuesday to take them back to the hospital at Chandigarh Road. Sources said some of the pilgrims and students were reluctant to visit the hospital.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) General Secretary Jeevan Gupta demanded a probe and strict action against the health official concerned “for sending the pilgrims and students back to their houses after conducting a mere health screening”.“The authorities in Ludhiana swung into action only after cases surfaced in Tarn Taran, otherwise the asymptomatic patients, who were tested positive today, would have kept spreading the virus,” Gupta said. However, civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the screening was done as per protocol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nanded-returnees-students-among-11-test-positive-in-ludhiana/story-FmsF4mmpR24cSSfWWzmLON.html
29-04-2020||City||Irked with son for not making her tea, Dera Bassi woman hangs herself||A 30-year-old mother of two allegedly hanged herself to death at Gulmohar City in Dera Bassi on Wednesday.Police said the woman, a homemaker, who hailed from West Bengal, was peeved as her nine-year-old son was busy playing mobile games and ignoring her requests to make her tea. She has another three-year-old son.Her husband, a who works as a private electrician, said he and his elder son were playing games on a mobile phone when his wife went to another room and hanged herself.Before taking the extreme step, she called up her sister and told her to take care of her children and disconnected the call. Her husband called the police on discovering her hanging. No suicide note was found. “The woman was upset since she lost her brother about three years back. She used to lose her cool on trivial matters and on Wednesday morning also, she got angry after her son did not make her tea,” said Satvir Singh, the investigating officer from Dera Bassi police station.The body was shifted to the Dera Bassi civil hospital and her parents in West Bengal were informed. The autopsy will be conducted after their arrival. Police have initiated inquest proceedings under the Code of Criminal Procedure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/irked-with-son-for-not-making-her-tea-dera-bassi-woman-hangs-herself/story-nrS7S7xh2VGggA14LCMEYO.html
29-04-2020||City||Navi Mumbai cops follow extra safety steps to keep family safe||As more in the police force are being infected by Covid-19, the personnel in Navi Mumbai are taking measures to keep themselves and their family safe.Satish Gaikwad, senior police inspector of Kalamboli police station, said, “While we practise social distancing, wear a mask and frequently wash our hands, our fear is are we carriers of infection when we return home. We meet so many people a day that we don’t know whether we or our family members are safe.”Many make sure to change their uniform and to not take anything house. “I don’t get anything inside the house, including shoes. I don’t go home for lunch,” said Gaikwad.Water and soap are available at nakabandi spots and residents have been asked to file complaints online.Traffic and local police have touching licence or any other document.Bhanudas Khatavar, a traffic police inspector from Vashi traffic police station, said, “After I reach home, I do not touch anything till I have washed myself. I wait for the security guard to open the gate. I use the stairs instead of the lift.”“Nobody is allowed to enter my room even if I am not around,” said Khatavar.The police personnel have been given protective gear so that they are safe while on duty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/navi-mumbai-cops-follow-extra-safety-steps-to-keep-family-safe/story-Vvmvje2KqRBRyz80NgZLJJ.html
29-04-2020||City||Seeking ration for families, residents in Ludhiana’s Dugri give social distancing a go-by||Throwing curfew norms to the wind, over 200 residents gathered in Dugri Phase 2 (ward number 44) in Ludhiana when administration officials reached the area to distribute ration on Wednesday.The team was carrying 500 kits and had distributed around 250 kits in the CRPF colony taking full precautions.The situation went out of control when the team went to distribute the kits in Dugri Phase 2 (near the overhead water reservoir). The residents gathered at the spot following which the officials took the vehicle to Dugri police station and the kits were distributed with the help of police.As per the information, on Saturday, members of Sikh Danga Peedit Action Society had threatened to sit on a hunger strike if the administration failed to provide ration to the needy families.Society president Surjit Singh, said, “The needy families were raising hue and cry for many days over the failure of councillors to distribute ration. Finally, the administration has paid heed to the problem.” Singh said, “The residents had not received ration for many days, so they gathered in large numbers. However, the ration was distributed with the help of police and residents were told to follow social distancing norms.”Dugri station house officer (SHO) inspector Surinder Singh said, “The police managed to pacify the residents and the ration was then distributed at their doorsteps. We appeal to the residents to obey social distancing norms.” OVER 1 LAKH CALLS ON RATION HELPLINE NUMBERThe administration officials said that they received over one lakh calls at the ration helpline number (1905) in the last week, even though 12,000 ration kits are being distributed in the city on a daily basis. Further, the officials said that teams have been formed and all efforts are being made to distribute the ration among the needy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/seeking-ration-for-families-residents-defy-social-distancing-norms-in-ludhiana/story-jLr9DEpMAmUg2MCSzqCqIO.html
29-04-2020||City||Mohali C-DAC develops tele-consultation service for patients||Mohali’s Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC) has developed telemedicine solution–eSanjeevaniOPD to provide tele-consultation services to patients through safe and structured video-based clinical consultations nationwide.The telemedicine solution has been developed for ministry of health and family welfare government of India (MoHFW). With this facility, a patient can consult a doctor at his residence or the hospital. The OPD facility can be accessed through the web site eSanjeevaniOPD.in.The patient can have a free face-to-face consultation with doctor, as well as enter demographics, upload reports and obtain ePrescription which is honoured by pharmacies. National and state level statistics have been made available to key functionaries on a daily basis.Dr PK Khosla said, “C-DAC Mohali has rolled out several tele-consultation solutions over the years. The current offering is a first-of-its-kind patient to doctor consultation, scalable to large numbers that are expected in a national roll out.”These services are being offered by respective state governments free of cost. Nine states/UTs namely Andhra Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Puducherry, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh have rolled out eSanjeevaniOPD for their population. Ten states/UTs including Chandigarh, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Mizoram, Rajasthan, Uttarakhand and West Bengal are in the process of rolling out the facility.Dr Hema Chaudhary of Andhra Pradesh has provided more than 300 consultations in a short span of more than 2,200 consultations carried out nationally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-c-dac-develops-tele-consultation-service-for-patients/story-3i3JC71J03pvsWctpx22WP.html
29-04-2020||Delhi||Lab technician kills himself at Delhi home, cops say he was not Covid-19 positive||A 55-year-old lab technician of a government-run medical college in Delhi allegedly killed himself at his home in north Delhi on Tuesday evening, the police said.Deputy commissioner of police (north) Monika Bhardwaj said the police are yet to ascertain the exact reason for his extreme step, as no suicide note was recovered. Asked if he was positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the DCP said, “He was not infected with the virus.”A police officer privy to the incident said that the lab technician’s family members had shifted themselves to another flat owing to the nature of his work and he did not want to risk them contracting the coronavirus infection.“The man was living alone in his house. Whether he was under work stress or was upset because of some personal or family reason is being probed,” the officer said.A group of 12 psychiatrists from the Institute of Human Behaviour & Allied Sciences (IHBAS) have started two helplines -- 9868396802 or 9868396859 -- to address concerns of health care professionals who are in the front-line of the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. The psychiatrists are working in shifts to attend calls and provide support and counselling to health care professionals, who are at the forefront of the fight against Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lab-technician-kills-himself-at-delhi-home-cops-say-he-was-not-covid-19-positive/story-Zir2ZvW84ebkhXLTmC50kL.html
29-04-2020||City||Call on easing curbs in Mohali after April 30 meeting: DC||Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan on Wednesday said he will take a call to relax the Covid-19 curfew after a meeting on April 30.He said they needed to consult all stakeholders as well as the state government regarding the red zone areas.On Wednesday, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh extended the curfew for two more weeks and also announced relaxation in curfew from 7am to 11am.Dayalan said, “The Punjab government has allowed certain relaxations for industry, construction and opening of shops in a staggered and rotational manner. Protocol of the implementation is being worked out and formal orders will be issued on Thursday.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/call-on-easing-curbs-in-mohali-after-april-30-meeting-dc/story-7rZvRn1DijaKcYLd5KHtyO.html
29-04-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana’s first Covid testing lab in Panchkula to start from May 1||To streamline the process of sampling and cutting down the waiting period of reports; the Panchkula health department on Wednesday finally set up its own Covid-19 testing lab at the Sector 6 civil hospital. The process had started earlier this month and setting up of machinery and infrastructure picked up pace last week.On Wednesday, Haryana assembly speaker and Panchkula MLA Gian Chand Gupta with deputy commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja visited the hospital to take stock of the lab. Gupta said it is the first real-time polymerase chain reaction (RTPCR) lab of the state which is a technique of molecular biology.“The government had decided to open 5 labs for Covid-19 testing in the state, of which the first lab is ready in Panchkula. This lab will prove beneficial for residents of the surrounding areas, too,” he added.So far, the district health department is dependent on Chandigarh’s PGIMER and IMTech lab where samples are sent for testing. Panchkula civil surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur said the infrastructure for testing lab was prepared in last few days and doctors and staff have been trained in PGIMER, Chandigarh.She said health teams will hold a trial on Thursday with few of the samples and will most likely start testing at the lab from May 1. “In this lab, samples will be tested in three batches. Around 24 samples can be placed at a single time in the machine, so with three batches we plan to test about 80 samples a day. For a single set of samples in a batch, the process will take around 5 hours for the reports,” said Dr Kaur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-s-first-covid-testing-lab-in-panchkula-to-operate-from-may-1/story-bCiLoWcoUrTxNE2skHaj5K.html
29-04-2020||City||Rupnagar DLSA facilitates return of 7 stranded Himachal residents||The District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) facilitated the return of seven residents of Sirmaur in Himachal Pradesh, who were working at a private firm in Rupnagar and residing at Khairabad village, amid the Covid-19 lockdown.Harsimranjit Singh, chief judicial magistrate and secretary of DLSA, said Jatinder Kaur, a paralegal volunteer, brought to the notice of the DLSA that seven people, including six women and a man, were stranded due to curfew and were residing at a paying guest facility in Khairabad village.On receiving requests from the stranded people, the DLSA deputed Kaur and driver Sukhwinder Singh to help them return to Sirmaur after getting curfew passes issued, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rupnagar-dlsa-facilitates-return-of-7-stranded-himachal-residents/story-3tPfCIo6pUkFEVAr8Yt7lO.html
29-04-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra guv stalls Uddhav’s nomination to state council, CM dials PM Modi||After Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari appeared non-committal on nominating chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to the legislative council, the latter dialled Prime Minister Narendra Modi to discuss the political situation in the state. A senior Shiv Sena leader said that Thackeray expressed unhappiness over politics being played around his nomination.The state cabinet had recommended Thackeray’s nomination for the two vacant seats in the upper house. Over 20 days later, the governor has not processed the recommendation of the cabinet. On Tuesday, a delegation of MVA ministers met Koshyari to urge him to nominate Thackeray.A senior Sena leader said Thackeray decided to dial Modi and directly speak to him after he got indications from Koshyari that he would be consulting the Centre before taking a decision on his nomination. The Sena leader said Thackeray requested Modi to intervene as a political tussle in the middle of Covid-19 outbreak would affect the state’s efforts to control the epidemic. Maharashtra has the highest number of Covid-19 cases among all states.“Uddhav ji discussed the current political uncertainty in the state with the PM. He expressed unhappiness over the politics being played over his nomination as MLC at a time when the state is combating the coronavirus outbreak,” said a senior Shiv Sena leader requesting anonymity.With less than a month left for Thackeray to fulfil the constitutional requirement of getting elected to either of the houses of the state legislature, the alleged delay by the Governor has kept the proverbial sword of Damocles hanging over the CM and his government. Thackeray, who is not a member of either house of the legislature, took oath as the CM on November 28. He could lose the post if he is not elected to the legislature by May 27. The Shiv Sena is also exploring legal options to tackle the current uncertainty surrounding Thackeray’s nomination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-guv-stalls-uddhav-s-nomination-to-state-council-cm-dials-pm/story-7Zti1VwVMySJlnAFQRi8tM.html
29-04-2020||City||Ludhiana MLA, Cong leader spar over distribution of ration||A high drama was witnessed after Congress MLA Sanjay Talwar and party leader Daljit Singh (Bhola) Grewal entered into a heated argument over the distribution of wheat at ration depots in ward number 11 in Ludhiana on Wednesday.Grewal accused Talwar of harassing the people (blue card holders) by asking them to get in writing from the area councillor, if they wanted to get free wheat from ration depots. Grewal said 15kg wheat is being given by the government to every blue card holder for free, but the MLA is forcing the people to gather in large numbers outside offices of councillors amid curfew.Talwar, however, refuted the allegations stating that they are trying to put a system in place so that no depot holder should distribute less than 15kg wheat to beneficiaries. He said Grewal was levelling baseless allegations for political mileage.A video of the incident also went viral on social media networks in which Grewal is lashing out at the MLA stating that wheat did not belong to any MLA and residents should not be asked to get in writing from the councillors. In the video, residents could also be seen giving a miss to the social distancing norm. Grewal alleged Talwar was indulging in politics even at this time of crisis when people are already facing a lot of harassment. Residents in the East constituency are being forced to visit Congress councilors’ offices for getting free wheat. Talwar said, “I am ensuring that people of his constituency face no harassment and councillors should keep an eye on the distribution of wheat so that no depot holder distributes less wheat to residents.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/talwar-and-bhola-grewal-spar-over-distribution-of-ration-video-goes-viral/story-BKX5efeu4j7etAuiNfgNaK.html
29-04-2020||City||15,000 residents who returned to Kangra under surveillance||As many as 15,000 people who have returned to Kangra district in last two to three days are under surveillance of the district authorities and they will have to remain under home quarantine for 28 days, deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said on Wednesday.The DC said that two people, who had returned to the state recently and were told to home quarantine self, have been booked for jumping home quarantine in Jaisinghpur sub-division of the district and they have been sent to an institutional quarantine centre.All adults in a family where a person has been quarantined are responsible for his monitoring and could invite action if they fail in their responsibility along with the violator, he added.“The district administration had prepared a data base of all 15,000 persons and the same has been submitted to concerned sub-divisional magistrates and block development officers (BDOs) who have been told to monitor them and inform the district authorities on regular bases,” he said.Meanwhile, private medical practitioners have been directed to submit reports of the patients suffering from fever, cough, and cold or respiratory distress, who came for treatment at their clinics, the DC said, adding that the concerned doctor has to record all the details if a patient or his family member has come from outside district and should submit the same to the health authorities or on helpline number 1077. Breach of these orders could invite action under Sections 269 and 270 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and 51 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/15-000-residents-who-returned-to-kangra-under-surveillance/story-X5fY28IewKlf24PHVRtuzN.html
29-04-2020||Delhi||Helplines to help Covid front-line workers cope with stress get just 4 calls in 5 days||A group of 12 psychiatrists from the Institute of Human Behaviour & Allied Sciences (IHBAS) have been waiting by the helpline phones to ring. Launched last week, the helplines -- 9868396802 or 9868396859 -- were started to address concerns of health care professionals who are in the front-line of the fight against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. But in the last five days, the helpline has only received four calls.The psychiatrists had proposed to work in two-hour shifts to attend calls and provide support and counselling to health care professionals, who are at the forefront of the fight against Covid-19. The director of IHBAS, Nimesh G Desai, said the low number of calls may be because many health care professionals were not aware of the facility. “The stress during such a time can vary from the mild to severe. We have heard reports of front-line workers taking their lives in some countries. The tele-counselling service is called Samarthan and is aimed at supporting or caring for the carers. The response has been low so far but it may be because it has not been publicised enough. There is only a remote possibility that health care professionals are coping with stress on their own,” Desai said.He said efforts are being made to publicise the initiative through social media and hospitals.sMeanwhile, the Delhi Police have also contacted IHBAS and asked the hospital to help counsel police personnel who are out on the streets enforcing the lockdown. A senior police officer, who did not wish to be named, said the counselling programme will be for constables, head constables, and other junior personnel. At least 31 police personnel have tested positive for Covid-19, while over 500 are in quarantine currently. There are also at least 150 personnel who are staying away from families and have checked into hotels, because their homes are in containment zones (in and outside Delhi). The Delhi Police have reserved 927 rooms in 67 different hotels across the city for such personnel. Apart from their law and order duty, police are out on the roads managing containment zones, conducting checks, ensuring social distancing and also feeding the hungry in congested areas. Over the last one month, at many police stations across the city, personnel manning containment zones have shaved their heads in the fear of contracting the virus. Senior police officers later assured them the virus doesn’t spread through the hair.Desai said IHBAS will help the police personnel and that they are working out a programme for personnel counselling.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/helplines-to-help-covid-front-line-workers-cope-with-stress-get-just-4-calls-in-5-days/story-xfXP9DGS5Xv7zRw1Ae550L.html
29-04-2020||City||No new Covid-19 case in Himachal in last six days||Himachal Pradesh has not reported any new Covid-19 case for the last six days.So far, the state has witnessed 40 positive cases, including one fatality, a health department official said on Wednesday.Currently, there are 10 active cases in the state, while four have been shifted outside Himachal Pradesh for the treatment. The active cases include four from Una, two each from Chamba and Hamirpur, and one each from Kangra and Sirmaur, he added.However, 25 patients who tested positive for the virus have recovered and have been discharged from hospitals. Among them, two are home quarantined and 23 are kept under observation in the institutional quarantine facilities. Meanwhile, Una has been the worst-hit district with 16 cases, followed by Solan with nine cases, Chamba with six, Kangra with five and Hamirpur and Sirmaur with two cases each.Additional chief secretary (health) RD Dhiman said that till date, 5,775 people have been tested for the virus of which 5,573 tested negative and reports of 162 are awaited. “Meanwhile, 11,144 people with travel history to the foreign countries or other Indian states have been put under surveillance. While, 5,192 are quarantined at home or at institutional facilities and 5,952 have completed the mandatory 28-day quarantine period. Remaining, have left the state,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-new-covid-19-case-in-himachal-in-last-six-days/story-xkSsNPJ70Uu7Eu9HsXHGaO.html
29-04-2020||City||In want of daily bread, 100 families of Zirakpur village take to the streets||Rendered jobless for the last 40 days owing to the curfew, daily wagers have run out of money as well as ration. Now, they have come out onto the streets demanding they be provided with food, as so far their repeated requests have fallen on deaf ears, they said.Defying the curfew, about 100 families along with their children living in Hem Vihar Phase 1 in Baltana, came onto the streets to protest with a hope that the administration will provide them ration. While protesting, the families took care to ensure they maintained social distance.“We will die of hunger before any virus kills us. There is no food, how do you expect my family to survive?” said Uma Shankar, a construction labourer. Father of two children, Shankar said, “The ration and money my contractor us gave has dried up. How do I feed my family now?”Raghunath, who works as a driver, said, “When my 4-year-old son asks for milk, we mix some flour in the water and feed him. We are five in the family and are eating only one meal a day.”These families, who were earning about ₹400 to ₹500 everyday, have been rendered without work. They are living in rented accommodations. They said their ration lasted till April 20, and now they are left with nothing, and no money. The place where they are living has no langar sewa, too, as most of the cooked food was being supplied to slum areas.“No one is thinking about us. If we stay home we will die of hunger. If we go out police thrashes us,” said Ram Baksh another daily wager.Dera Bassi SDM Kuldeep Bawa said, “I had received information that certain families had nothing to eat so I have instructed the patwari to supply them with ration. We have distributed 100 kits in the Baltana area. One kit had sufficient ration for a family of four to last 15 days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/in-want-of-daily-bread-100-families-of-zirakpur-village-take-to-the-streets/story-nyfplqgmVlCufQIYoDZHtN.html
29-04-2020||City||Ludhiana MC restarts construction of Jagraon Bridge||A day after getting permission from the district administration, the municipal corporation (MC) has restarted the construction work of the retaining walls of Jagraon Bridge in Ludhiana.Mayor Balkar Sandhu and area councillor Rakesh Prashar held an inspection at the site on Wednesday.As per the MC officials, the machinery was sanitised before the construction work started and all preventive measures, as directed by the district administration and the state government, are being taken. Sandhu said the project will be completed by June 20 if the contractor does not face any problem in procuring the raw material due to the curfew. “The MC staff and the contractor have been told to strictly adhere to the guidelines issued by the district administration and the government,” he added.Under the project, the MC will also increase the width of roads approaching towards the railway overbridge (from Gurdwara Dukhniwaran side towards Durga Mata Mandir) by three metres. The MC had earlier started the construction work on January 30 and it was due to be competed by April 14. But the project was halted after the curfew was announced by the state government on March 23.In July 2016, the railways department had closed one leg of the Jagraon Bridge which was leading to traffic chaos in the city. Since then, the residents have been pressurising the district administration to expedite the construction work of the bridge. They have in the past, also observed three death anniversaries of the bridge as a symbolic protest against the authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jagraon-bridge-construction-restarts-will-be-completed-by-june-20/story-fhfDqFEC14sMMK0imRRFkN.html
29-04-2020||City||HP govt will ensure smooth functioning of industrial units: CM||For the smooth functioning of industrial units in the state, the Himachal Pradesh government will provide all possible help to the industrialists, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said on Wednesday.The state government will ensure uninterrupted supply of raw material and transportation of finished products to the markets, the CM said during a video-conferencing with the industrialists of steel industries of Kala Amb area in Sirmaur district.The state government has been already providing various concessions to industry and commercial units, including those in tourism and agriculture sectors, and other electricity consumers, in the state that have incurred losses due to the lockdown imposed in wake of Covid-19.Thakur said the payment of demand charges in respect of industrial, commercial and agriculture consumers for electricity consumption of April would be billed in May and for the consumption of May to be billed in June has been deferred till June 30, and these charges would be recovered in three equal instalments during the months of July, August and September.A rebate of 1% subject to a maximum of ₹10,000 will be available for industrial, commercial and agriculture consumers who will pay the bills for the month of April before or on May 31, he added.Representatives of steel industry Hem Raj Garg, Sanjay Jain and Pawan Saini raised various demands of the industry during the conferencing.The CM urged the industrialists to ensure that the norms of social distancing are followed strictly in their units.Additional chief secretary industries Manoj Kumar, additional chief secretary health RD Dhiman and other senior officers were also present in the conference with the CM||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hp-govt-will-ensure-smooth-functioning-of-industrial-units-cm/story-Xb6DZqT0YCpVb7FatW2qCK.html
29-04-2020||City||Hard to shake off stigma, says Jawaharpur panch||Discharged from PGIMER, Chandigarh, on Tuesday after his recovery, Malkit Singh Saini, the 43-year-old panch of Jawaharpur village in Dera Bassi, who was the first Covid-19 patient in the area, says it will be difficult to shake off the stigma for the rest of his life.After Saini tested positive on April 4, several members of his extended family also contracted the infection over the next few weeks, leading the village count to 43 and making it the biggest Covid-19 cluster in Punjab. This jump in cases, in the village with a population of 3,000, sent the Mohali district count soaring to 73.Now under quarantine for 14 days at a centre in Sector 70, Mohali, Saini says people had gradually stopped calling him to check on him. Saini and his cousin, the village sarpanch, who was also found positive, had reportedly defied curfew norms to organise community meals and interact with locals leading to increase in the number of cases. Saini, who owns a tent house and a tile factory, also did not cease the factory operations during the curfew.Gurpreet Singh, a villager, says once immensely popular in the village due to his sociability, the panch has now lost his ground after getting the “super spreader” tag. “He has brought upon himself infamy for spreading the virus in the village,” he adds.Even the sarpanch, who recovered a week back, says she could perceive a change in residents’ attitude towards her, but hopefully things will improve with time. “I feel sorry that our village became infamous. But, we have faith in God. The situation is under control and the good old days will return,” she says.Out of 43 patients from the village, 17 have recovered and been moved to the quarantine centre in Sector 70 Mohali for 14 days.The village continues to be sealed, having been declared a containment zone, with residents’ movement out of their houses completely restricted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hard-to-shake-off-stigma-says-jawaharpur-panch/story-5gQDeQuWGjRjX2QgI4FCOM.html
29-04-2020||City||Kashmir admn urges NGOs to augment relief efforts by reaching out to needy||The Kashmir administration on Wednesday appealed non-government organisations (NGOs) to augment the former’s efforts in reaching out to needy people amid the lockdown.Divisional commissioner Pandurang K Pole made an appeal to the NGOs and volunteer groups active in Kashmir to come forward and help the needy.Pole also framed a divisional level cell (DLC) for better coordination between the NGOs and the administration and efficient delivery of relief work amid the pandemic, said a government spokesperson.Daily monitoring of activities are also being undertaken at the divisional level.As per the official data, there are around 97 NGOs actively working in Kashmir in collaboration with the divisional administration.“These NGOs and voluntary organisations in coordination with the administrative authorities have distributed more than 7,300 food kits to needy families, 14,400 masks and 1,670 PPE kits across the valley,” the spokesperson said.In addition to this, some NGOs have carried out extensive fumigation drives in various areas and helped with logistics needed to combat Covid-19, besides carrying out awareness programmes, the official added.These organisations have been requested to contact the Kashmir division NGO coordination cell on mobile numbers 9419024133 and 7006414736, if they face any difficulties in carrying out their operations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kashmir-admn-urges-ngos-to-augment-relief-efforts-by-reaching-out-to-needy/story-FkdMdVKcKUlHkR9EpiS8YN.html
29-04-2020||City||16 fresh infections reported in J&K, tally climbs to 581||Sixteen more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday, taking the total number of cases in the UT to 581, officials said. An equal number of patients have also recovered and were discharged. Officials said all fresh cases were reported from Kashmir division— Anantnag, Budgam, Baramulla , Kulgam and Srinagar districts—where the tally has risen to 523.A government spokesperson said, “16 new positive cases, all from Kashmir, have been reported in J&K. Equal number of patients have recovered and were discharged from various hospitals.” “ Five patients have recovered from Jammu division and 11 from Kashmir,” he said.On Tuesday, a 80-year-old woman from Srinagar had succumbed to the infection while 19 others had tested positive in the UT. So far 192 patients—145 in Kashmir and 47 in Jammu—have recovered while eight have died. Till date, 68,846 people have been out under observation with 6,440 in home quarantine, 381 in hospital isolation, 244 in hospital quarantine, 8,663 in home surveillance while 53,110 have completed their surveillance period.Man booked for hiding travel history, quarantinedPolice on Wednesday booked and quarantined a man for violating the lockdown orders by travelling from Delhi in a truck carrying essential commodities to his native village in Samba district. He was identified as Sumeet Singh, son of Joginder Singh, a resident of Panjtilla village in Samba.“He had not disclosed his travel history to the authorities,” a police official said.He was immediately put in a quarantine centre at Ghagwal with the assistance of health department. A case under Sections 269, 270, 188 of the IPC was registered.Meanwhile, a man who had escaped from a quarantine centre in Ghagwal area of Samba district was brought back and a case was registered against him. He was identified as Rakesh Kumar, son of Ram Ditta of Jasath, Ghagwal.“He escaped from a quarantine centre Shivam Resort Nonath but we brought him back,”a police officer said.A case under Sections 188, 269, 270 of IPC was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/16-fresh-infections-reported-in-j-k-tally-climbs-to-581/story-5ggNpPBX3XnKBObOsbpN8N.html
29-04-2020||City||Ludhiana police rounded up 14,170 for curfew violation, impounded 1,155 vehicles in 38 days||The district police have impounded as many as 1,155 vehicles and sent 14,170 residents to open jails for curfew violations during the past 38 days of the nationwide lockdown. On Wednesday, as many as 114 challans were issued to the violators and six vehicles were impounded.Besides, as many as 665 violators have been arrested and a total of 382 first information reports (FIRs) registered ever since the lockdown began on March 23, said police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal.Agrawal shared that despite numerous appeals, many continued to violate the curfew norms. The police registered a total of 382 FIRs, out of which 87 were for opening shops without orders, 54 for crowding places, 32 for not wearing masks, and 203 for other violations. A total of 665 violators have been arrested so far, he added.The police chief said the commissionerate had set up four open jails in four zones to detain those defying curfew. “As of now, a total of 14,170 people have been sent to these jails. Apart from this, 6,782 traffic challans have been issued to the people, who have been found violating curfew curbs without any valid pass or reason. Besides, 1,155 vehicles have been impounded,” he said.The police chief said several residents had supported the police in enforcing curfew in a better way. “Around 2,000 residents volunteered and were enrolled as curfew enforcement officers. Further, residents of 276 villages have voluntarily cordoned off their areas and 1,077 mohallas, which has proved helpful for the police,” he said, adding that the drive against curfew violators will continue to ensure the safety and security of the people.46 LAKH PACKETS OF COOKED FOOD DISTRIBUTEDDuring the curfew, the police department has also tried to help the migrant population. Following reports of migrant workers walking back to their native places, the police had started door-to-door service to provide food to the needy.“Police personnel have distributed 46 lakh packets of cooked food and provided 34,874 ration kits to the needy since March 23. Food packets have also been provided by the district administration,” Agrawal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-police-rounded-up-14-170-for-curfew-violation-impounded-1-155-vehicles-in-38-days/story-lTGEN4I8GrZP8LQ4whiwSM.html
29-04-2020||Chandigarh||Mohali admn delivers insulin to diabetic man at his doorstep||Living up to its promise of delivering essentials to people at their doorstep, the district Red Cross Society and administration provided insulin to a diabetic person in Nayagaon, on Wednesday. The patient is an auto-rickshaw driver and called the helpline number 112, from where he was given the number of Mohali ‘s drug control office. A team of drug control officers comprising Manpreet Kaur, Jasraman Kaur and Sukhwant Singh from the Red Cross Society reached his house and handed over the insulin to him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mohali-admn-delivers-insulin-to-diabetic-man-at-his-doorstep/story-nRiOWDRvRFycMH7Nc4M2tL.html
29-04-2020||Mumbai||Neighbour assaults man for getting food from outside during lockdown||A 55-year-old man was recently attacked with a sharp weapon by his neighbour for stepping out of his Vasai home to get food packets being distributed by an NGO. Waliv police registered a case against Subhash Tripathi, 57, for assaulting his neighbour Mohammed Shaikh.On Saturday morning, Shaikh, a carpenter and a resident of Om Mangalam chawl, Boidapada, Vasai (East) stepped out to get the food packet. When he returned around 11.30am, Tripathi, who stays in the opposite room abused him for getting outside food and aid that he would be responsible for spreading the virus in the chawl. An altercation ensued and Tripathi hit Shaikh on the head with a sharp weapon. Shaikh’s wife Aasma intervened and rushed him to a hospital. A case under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt with a dangerous weapon), 504 (intentional insult), 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC has been registered against Tripathi. He has not been arrested yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/neighbour-assaults-man-for-getting-food-from-outside-during-lockdown/story-7pBoBDkPQgguqcYorhog2L.html
29-04-2020||City||Ludhiana police book two youngsters for setting car of international kabaddi player afire||The city police have booked two youngsters of Lalton Kalan for setting a car of an international kabaddi player, Jagtar Singh, 27, afire in Dugri on April 23. The case was registered five days after the incident.The accused were identified as Gagandeep Singh, 22, and Fatehdeep Singh, 23, friends of the complainant.According to the police, both the accused went to the CRPF Colony in Dugri and damaged a white coloured Mitsubishi Lancer car, parked outside the house of the complainant, before setting it ablaze. The incident is reported to be the outcome of an old rivalry between the accused and the complainant.Complainant Jagtar told the police that the incident took place late April 23 night, when the two accused, who are also his friends, came and damaged widows of the car. They poured petrol on the car, set it afire and escaped from the spot.“As people raised an alarm, I woke up and saw my car burning. We somehow managed to douse the flames. Later, I checked the CCTV cameras and saw two persons damaging the car. However, the footage was not so clear and I could not recognise the accused, therefore, I lodged a complaint with the police, who later identified the accused,” he said.He added, “Last year, he had an argument with them over some issue, but I had been on talking terms with them since then.”Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Anwar Masih, investigating officer from the Dugri police station, said the police have checked the CCTV footage and, during investigation, traced the two accused, who were booked under sections 435 (mischief by fire or explosive substance with intent to cause damage), 427 (mischief causing damage), 335 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt on provocation), 188 (disobedience to orders duly promulgated by public servant), 34 (act done by several persons interference of common intention) of the IPC. The accused will be arrested soon, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-police-book-two-youngsters-for-setting-car-of-international-kabaddi-player-afire/story-bZc3aswFABDEQLDV1HM3VP.html
29-04-2020||Chandigarh||Senate elections: Panjab University extends last date for enrolment in registered graduate constituency||Panjab University has decided to extend the last date for fresh enrolment into the registered graduate constituency for the senate elections from April 30 to June 1, registrar Karamjeet Singh said.The decision was taken after the recommendation of a panel constituted to look after work pertaining to the senate elections amid the Covid-19 outbreak.The PU senate elections are to be held in August and September this year. As many as 15 members are elected from the registered graduate constituency for the 91-member PU senate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/senate-elections-panjab-university-extends-last-date-for-enrolment-in-registered-graduate-constituency/story-J8vQREdX3jqFWNnZVt4tZK.html
29-04-2020||City||Ludhiana railway employees donate ration among coolies||In view of the coronavirus lockdown, Ludhiana railway officials on Wednesday distributed 50 ration kits to 47 coolies and three other workers.The workers are managing the vehicles at parking lots of the city railway station. Each ration kit comprised 5kg wheat flour, 2kg rice, 1kg pulses, salt, sugar and 1 litre oil. Commercial inspector Ajay Kumar said the railway employees from reservation, booking and commercial departments contributed some amount from their salaries to arrange the kits for the workers who do not work on salary basis. Since the services of passenger trains have been suspended, a total of 54 coolies working at the city railway station are left with no work to earn their daily bread and are even facing problems in arranging food for their families.A coolie, Bablu, said that during initial days of the lockdown, he arranged essential commodities on credit, but thereafter, the shopkeepers stopped giving the ration on credit basis. “It became very difficult for me to arrange food for my family that comprises my wife and three children, however, I was taking help of some NGOs to get some readymade food,” he said.20,000 COOLIES WORKING ACROSS COUNTRY All India Railway Lal Vardi Union president Kashmiri Lal said, “There are over 20,000 coolies working across the country, therefore, the railway board should come up with a decision to help them amid the coronavirus pandemic.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-railway-employees-donate-ration-among-coolies-out-of-their-pockets/story-d8NtvnC9yw6NynjBDJbRUK.html
29-04-2020||Mumbai||Two BEST staffers recover from Covid-19, one gets grand welcome back||In some good news, two staffers of the Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport Undertaking (BEST) were discharged on Tuesday after being tested negative. The two BEST conductors were the first set of staffers to recover. Both of them were attached to the Goregaon bus-depot. One of the staffers, a resident of Mira Road received a grand welcome from his neighbours on Tuesday evening. He was admitted to Tambe hospital after he developed symptoms on April 13. “He was also an asthma patient. We are thankful that both of them have recovered,” an official from BEST said. Another conductor was discharged from the civic-run trauma care centre in Jogeshwari. An official confirmed that in all 17 BEST staffers have been tested positive till date, of which, one died, two have been discharged and 14 are being treated in different hospitals across the city. Officials said that the buses are being sprayed with disinfectants when they are parked at the depots. BEST is plying buses for the travel of essential workers and also for distribution of food packets across the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/two-best-staffers-recover-from-covid-19-one-gets-grand-welcome-back/story-R3vBZ5GRTW1sccvKnQ6sSN.html
29-04-2020||Mumbai||Palghar lynching case: Three more cops suspended||After transferring 35 police personnel of Kasa police station, Palghar superintendent of police (SP) Gaurav Singh on Tuesday evening suspended three policemen with immediate effect, for “dereliction of duty” in the April 16 lynching case in Gaddchinchale village.Two sadhus and a driver were lynched to death by a mob of around 500, of which 110 were arrested by the Kasa police on 17 April and were remanded in police custody till 30 Apil by the Dahanu court.“On Tuesday night, assistant sub-inspector (API) Ravi Salunkhe, constable Naresh Dhodi and constable Santosh Mukhne have been suspended,” said police sub-inspector (PSI) Hemant Katkar, PRO, Palghar police. With this, the SP has suspended a total of five policemen. Earlier, API Anandrao Kale and PSI Sudhir Katare were suspended. Furthermore, around 35 policemen (the entire Kasa police station staff) including head constables, ASIs, police naiks (PNs) and other police constabulary force, were transferred in one go to different police stations and some to the police headquarters in the district. A total of 47 policemen from the district have replaced them, said Katkar. The state Crime Investigation Department (CID) is probing the case on the orders of the CM Uddhav Thackeray.Two sadhus — 70-year-old Kalpavriksha Giri Maharaj and 35-year-old Sushil Giri Maharaj of the Juna Akhara and 30-year-old driver Nilesh Telgade were travelling in a car from Kandivli to Surat to attend the funeral of a senior Sadhu when near Gaddchinchale village a huge mob of 500 lynched the trio to death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/palghar-lynching-case-three-more-cops-suspended/story-9DccAeT2cdNYe80ifWKgkL.html
29-04-2020||Lucknow||Dispelling rumours, collecting feedback keep 1.60 lakh Asha workers busy||While we know of doctors and cops as frontline Covid-19 warriors, there is another army of healthcare staff which is helping the government fight the war against the virus in an unsung way.Roped in to gather all kinds of feedback, a strong team of 1.60 lakh Asha (Accredited Social Health Activist) workers, positioned across the state, has literally become the eyes and ears of the government in the fight against the Covid-19.“Recently we were asked to gather details of Imams of masjids so that they could be asked to appeal to people to offer prayers at home during Ramadan,” said Kiran Yadav, an Asha worker posted in BKT block.“We move out, get exposed to the risk, collect information and forward it to the government through proper channel,” she said while ruing the little remuneration she gets in return.“It comes out to be a maximum of Rs 73 a day, if we complete the entire set of task assigned to us. Will the work come again depends on many things,” she said.They are contract workers employed by the health department under national health mission and paid incentives based on the number of cases – mostly institutional deliveries – that they take care of.Usually, on one delivery, a worker gets Rs 650. If the worker completes all the tasks she is paid Rs 2200 per month.Similar is the story of Kusum Singh posted in Atesua village of Lucknow.“I finish my house chores before 6 am to leave for field to sensitize people about COVID-19. We brave rude behavior of villagers who believe in rumours more than the facts and are very stubborn most of the times,” she said.During the lockdown, since other vaccination has been stopped the Asha workers are left with the task of institutional deliveries and weighing children for which they would be paid not more than Rs 1000 a month.Still, they are busy in sensitizing people about COVID-19 and checking whether people are quarantined properly or not.Where this women work force comes in handy is in collecting feedback and doing ground-level work.Renu, who is a ‘Sangini’ and supervises work of around 26 Asha workers covering around more than two dozen hamlets with a total population of around 25, 000, said, “We have been visiting door to door, listen to their worries, gathering feedback, face different issues and report it to higher authorities.”“We face different kinds of people of strong beliefs. We are the closest part of the state machinery but powerless. Some people ridicule us, some try to demean us,” she added.A few days ago Kusum Singh, Asha worker of Atesua village was confronted by a middle-aged woman when asked to cover the face. “Jab hamne koi paap nhin kiya to mooh kyun chhupaaye. (When I have not committed any sin, why should I cover my face),” She told Asha worker and asked her to leave the house.“Some people will mock us all the time. They call us corona warriors but in the sense of making fun of us. People ridiculed when we wrote these slogans,” said Singh.Belonging to a marginal farmer’s family, another Asha worker, Manju Devi of Chaturpur village of Lucknow said, “When we reach home, we have nothing in hand but a sense of satisfaction that we did our best. But when I see people around, I feel we all deserve better remunerations.”Some of them have adopted innovative ways to reach out to the people by writing slogans on walls, beating drums so that the message to stay safe from COVID19 reach out to maximum people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/dispelling-rumours-collecting-feedback-keep-1-60-lakh-asha-workers-busy/story-qwSzD4jUeXpBTMtLjKj9UI.html
29-04-2020||City||3 cops held by Kapurthala police for violating curfew to purchase drugs||At a time when the police personnel are being hailed as corona warriors for fighting against Covid-19, three cops have been arrested by the Kapurthala police for violating curfew in order to purchase drugs.The accused were posted in Jalandhar and they had gone to Lakhan Kalan village in Kapurthala district on April 3 for purchasing drugs.The cops have been identified as constable Dyal Singh and constable Jagjeet Singh, posted at PAP Jalandhar, and constable Germanjeet Singh Pattar, posted in commissionarate Jalandhar.A video of the incident had gone viral on the social media, causing embarrassment to the police department as the cops were in uniform.In the video, some locals are seen questioning the cops. On being cornered, the cops try to enter into their car parked nearby and a syringe falls from the pocket of one of the cops. Locals later find drugs in their possession.Inquiry officer and sub-inspector Avtar Singh of sadar police station, Kapurthala said, “We managed to trace them as surname Pattar was written on the badge of one of the cops. Later, he identified the other two cops. They were also nabbed. The trio confessed that they were drug addicts and had gone to Kapurthala village to purchase drugs.”The accused were booked under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 270 (rash driving) of the IPC, the Disaster Management Act and NDPS.Commissioner of Police (CP) Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said the accused have been suspended and further inquiry is on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-cops-held-by-kapurthala-police-for-violating-curfew-to-purchase-drugs/story-fuhAMahoKvt3rSaP2IaimO.html
29-04-2020||Mumbai||Volunteer groups distribute food to the needy during Ramzan||From providing dry rations for the month to daily cooked meals for the elderly, widows and migrant labourers, volunteer groups across the city are now making provisions for iftaar and sehri meals for community members during Ramzan.One group of Bhendi Bazaar residents steps out every evening, before iftaar, and distributes packets consisting of fruits, dates and buttermilk to the needy to help them break their fast.Similarly, volunteers of Saifee Ambulance society step out every day from 4 pm to 7 pm, to distribute cooked food items consisting of pulao or daal, along with some dates, in areas of South Mumbai like Byculla, Pydhonie, Tardeo and Kamathipura, among others.When the lockdown began, the group used to distribute dry ration to the needy. However, after Ramzan commenced they started distributing around 2,500 to 3,000 cooked food packets.“When people have to break their fast, they don’t have the energy to cook or to step out and purchase things. Also, the elderly, require medicines too. Thus, we have circulated our contact details and we deliver whatever is required,” said Shabbir Bharmal, vice-president, Saifee Ambulance society.In Mumbra, 2,000 packets consisting of saalan or rice-based dishes are distributed every evening for daily wage workers stranded in the outskirts of the city. The raw materials for these meals are procured using donations and zakaat money from community members.“A lot of distribution used to happen in the morning hours, but now these special drives have been arranged, wherein on call, our volunteers visit particular localities with food. At some places, some people have appointed a person, who comes and collects food from our collection centre in their vehicle,” said Javed Shaikh, president, Jamaat-e-Islami Hind, Mumbra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/volunteer-groups-distribute-food-to-the-needy-during-ramzan/story-X1ejvBOTtuhgkFbi6WBDMJ.html
29-04-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray speaks to PM while awaiting governor’s decision||As the decision about his appointment to the legislature as governor’s nominee hangs fire, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to intervene, sources claimed.Thackeray spoke to Modi on phone and told him that attempts were being made to create political instability in the state, sources told PTI. “Political instability in a huge state like Maharashtra when it is facing the COVID-19 crisis is not right and Thackeray urged the PM to look into it,” they said.The telephone call came a day after leaders of the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) met Governor B S Koshyari with a fresh cabinet recommendation to nominate Thackeray to the Legislative Council through the governor’s quota.The first recommendation of the state cabinet had been made on April nine.Thackeray, who is not a member of either house of the state legislature, was sworn in as chief minister on November 28, 2019. He has to become a member by May 28 when he completes six months in office. Otherwise he will cease to the chief minister.A delegation of MVA leaders led by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar met the governor on Tuesday, and handed over the cabinet decision’s copy to him.A senior minister who was part of the delegation told PTI that he requested the governor to take decision at the earliest.The cabinet decision is valid as per law and accepting the cabinet recommendation was binding for the governor, he said.To which the governor said he will let them know his decision within a week, the minister said.Thackeray could not get elected to the Council through biennial polls as the elections were postponed due to coronavirus outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/uddhav-speaks-to-pm-as-he-awaits-governor-s-decision/story-fP1N3WFKuaamfZhchxHXtK.html
29-04-2020||Mumbai||Locals fish at Worli Koliwada village, catch gets seized by Mumbai Police||Locals at the city’s largest containment zone, Worli Koliwada village, have been sending small boats within a one-kilometre radius over the past four days to fish, however, residents alleged that the catch is being confiscated by the Mumbai Police.Police seized over 200 kg fish during inspections to avoid crowds, alleged locals. The fish was meant to be sold within the village.The fishing village, with 80,000 residents across 220 hectares, was declared a containment zone (entry and exit points sealed) on March 30, after six persons tested positive for the Sars-Cov-2 virus. “Supply of vegetables has been stopped from entering this containment zone for six days now. Suspected cases are few, and most of the residents have tested negative. A few boats are getting 20-30 kg daily catch,” said Royal Patil, resident and member, Worli Koliwada Nakhwa Matsya Vyavasay Sahkari Society. “All larger boats are docked at the village and commercial fishing is strictly prohibited,” he added.A fisherman, on condition of anonymity, said, “We are sending 10 boats (two persons on each boat) to catch small fish, shrimps and prawn for sale within the village. Despite following social distancing norms, our entire catch was confiscated.”Mumbai Police said fishing was not allowed till the cluster remained a containment zone. “No catch has been confiscated by us. The civic body has stated that fishing is not allowed within a containment area. This needs to be followed by residents. Locals have approached the ward officer on this issue. We will implement the final decision by the ward office,” said Divakar Shelke, senior inspector, Dadar police station.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said a decision on allowing fishing will be considered after May 3. “This is a high-risk area and it is not advisable for citizens to crowd either on boats or within the village to sell fish,” said Rajesh Mule, assistant engineer, G-South ward in-charge of operations at Koliwada. Marine conservationists, requested the BMC on Wednesday to allow artisanal fishworkers from the village to fish for their self-consumption. “The community has been earmarked as a ‘red zone’, however with required precautions and guidelines of social distancing they have been requesting resumption of their fishing activity (which occurs only in the intertidal and subtidal region, in low numbers of one to five) and sale (wholesale being sold for local and community consumption),” said Sarita Fernandes, coastal policy researcher and marine wildlife conservationist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/locals-fish-at-worli-koliwada-village-catch-gets-seized-by-mumbai-police/story-jPaUNewtXlcehHguTAOz3J.html
29-04-2020||City||Himachal tourism industry most hit due to Covid-19 lockdown, say stakeholders||The nationwide lockdown imposed to check Covid-19 has dealt a severe blow to Himachal’s tourism industry, which earns the hill-state a significant chunk of its revenue.The tourism and hospitality sector contributes 7% to the state’s Gross Domestic Product.“The hotel industry needs special protection. It was first to close down due to the lockdown and will be the last to open. Tourism is the soul of Himachal’s economy besides being a major employment generator,” said Atharv Chadha, owner of Hotel Ashiana Grand located in Chhota Shimla area.“The sector is in dire need of special status and stimulus package. All industries will start operations soon except the hotels. Hoteliers require deferment of bank loan installments for at least 15 years or they will turn into non-performing assets,” he added.TAX WAIVERS SOUGHTThe Shimla Hotel and Restaurant Association representatives had also called on the chief minister recently requesting him for interim relief.Similarly, Tourism Industry Stakeholders Association has also written to the director of tourism, demanding a complete GST waiver for tourism, travel and hospitality industries for one year and subsidy on commercial fuel and gas for the industry.Hoteliers’ body president Sanjay Sood claimed that currently all hotels in Shimla were operating at 0-30% occupancy rate.“If the lockdown prevails, there will be massive layoffs,” he said, adding that the pandemic had affected businesses and livelihood of thousands of employees.As per government records, there are 3,679 registered hotels in the state with bed capacity of 1, 03,053. In addition to this, there are 2,189 home stays having bed-capacity of 12,181.Last year, a total of 172.12 lakh tourists visited the state, of which 168.29 lakh were domestic and 3.56 lakh foreign tourists.‘GOVT SHOULD PAY WAGES’The industry stakeholders have demanded that for the staff that is beyond the coverage limit of the Employees’ Staff Insurance Corporation (ESIC), the establishments should be allowed to pay only 25% of their salaries, while the government can foot the balance amount with the help of state agencies like Employees’ Provident Fund (EPF).They have also asked the government to pay salaries of employees working in units not covered under ESIC but GST.State should also reduce commercial electricity tariff by about 10% to 20% for a period of five years on the analogy of states of Maharashtra and Punjab, Sood demanded.There is an automatic increase of 15% in the water charges every year which must be deferred for the time being along with municipal taxes.Minimum wages in terms of Variable Dearness Allowance (VDA) should not be increased or be fixed for the next two years, he said.‘RELAX LICENSING FEES’Tourism Industry Stakeholders Association president Mohinder Seth said that the excise and taxation department should provide relaxation in licence fee as many hotels and bars had been shut due to Covid-19.“Licence fee deposited for the 2020-21 financial year should be considered from the day hotels and bars will open their operations and no penalties should be imposed,” he said.Seth claimed that the hotel Industry will take at least 12 to 18 months to come back on the rails.‘TAKE STEPS TO AVOID LAYOFFS’Ajay Mahajan, a former Congress legislator and prominent hotelier from Kangra, said that the government should take steps to prevent layoffs in the tourism industry. He claimed that apart from hotels, 200 units operating in adventure tourism, 899 registered photographers, 1,314 guides and over 41,000 taxi drivers were dependent on tourism.He said the government should contribute to the EPF and employee insurance accounts.He also demanded the state government to waive off various water and sewerage charges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-tourism-industry-most-hit-due-to-covid-19-lockdown-say-stakeholders/story-VAPUJ6AjbFYnOtNAhkZA2M.html
29-04-2020||City||Phased relaxations in J&K after May 3 as per Centre’s guidelines: Officials||Relaxations in green zones across Jammu and Kashmir after May 3 will be strictly according to the guidelines issued by the Centre and others besides essential shops will be opened in a phased manner, top officials here said on Wednesday.“Shops of essential items like grocery, milk and chemists are already open. Similarly, industries were partially restored and agriculture sector too kick-started on April 20,” officials said.They, however, said educational institutions cannot be opened soon in view of the pandemic.“Since schools have started online classes, the administration has also allowed stationary and book shops to open on alternate days. In this context, respective deputy magistrates have been asked to regulate them in a proper way,” an official said.Deputy director of agriculture department KK Sharma said, “The agriculture sector is better than normal. Over 100 combine harvesters have been brought from Punjab to harvest wheat crop. Of these, 76 have already been pressed into service in Jammu while 24 others at Lakhanpur will also be brought soon. The harvest is in full swing and we expect a bumper crop this time.”Industries and commerce department, commissioner secretary, MK Dwivedi said, “As of now, we have been able to restore 55% to 60% industries in J&K and we will go further as per the Centre’s guidelines.” Some pesticide units, who supply across the nation are also being restarted, he added.So far, the UT has re-started pharmaceuticals, packed processed food, basic food activities, transformers’ repairs, preparation of masks, sanitisers, soaps, disinfectants, detergents, agro products, cold storages, packaging material, industries in rural areas, brick kilns etc.J&K has 4,500 small and medium industrial units, excluding cottage industry with a work force of above one lakh workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/phased-relaxations-in-j-k-after-may-3-as-per-centre-s-guidelines-officials/story-3l7TyP7UO1AgUgKiF6LjHJ.html
29-04-2020||Ranchi||CM Hemant Soren concern helps five-month-old baby get milk in Jharkhand||Poverty drove a grandmother feed cooked rice water in place of milk to a five-month-old boy, whose mother expired recently and the migrant labourer father is stranded in Mumbai due to coronavirus-induced lockdown.Moved by the plight of the old woman and the baby in Latehar districts Paharatoli village, Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren on Wednesday asked Deputy Commissioner Jishan Kamar to arrange food for them.The CM had come to know about the matter from the party workers who post such messages on the social media.The chief minister tweeted asking the administration to arrange food for them after he was informed that the poverty- stricken Bigo Nagesia was feeding ‘maad’ (water of cooked rice) from the feeding bottle to the baby as her son is held up in the western metropolis during lockdown and daughter-in- law has died.बिगो नगेसिया को उनके पौत्र के लिए दूध पाउडर एवं बॉटल उपलब्ध करा दिया गया है.मांमले की जानकारी मिलने पर सुबह-सुबह Bdo तथा मुखिया ने बिगो नगेसिया के घर जाकर उनसे मुलाक़ात किया तथा उन्हें आर्थिक मदद प्रदान किया.Ration and milk have been arranged for the two, officials in Latehar said.According to villagers, the babys mother had died in December last due to some ailment and the villagers used to help the infant with milk. But, due to the lockdown it had become difficult to arrange the baby feed, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/cm-hemant-soren-concern-helps-five-month-old-baby-get-milk-in-jharkhand/story-DLWjhZzR9KiqHZi1cnnK6N.html
29-04-2020||Jaipur||Raj govt intensifies counselling of anxious migrant workers stranded away from homes||Rajasthan’s Labour Department has intensified the psychological counselling of stranded migrant workers staying in different shelter homes as many states including West Bengal, Telangana and Bihar have refused to allow their residents to return from other parts of the country, officials said. Stuck in shelter homes for over a month during the nationwide lockdown imposed due to the coronavirus pandemic and with some states refusing to facilitate inter-state transfers of people, migrant workers are increasingly being affected by distress, fear and anxiety, they said. “West Bengal and Bihar have refused inter-state transfer of migrant workers whereas other states have agreed. With several leaving shelters for their homes, fear and anxiety has increased among those who are left out. We have intensified counselling to assure them that they will be sent back to their homes soon,” Labour Minister Tikaram Jully told PTI. He said till Tuesday about 3.75 lakh migrant workers stranded in other states registered with the Rajasthan government to return to their homes in this state whereas about 1.25 lakh workers stuck in Rajasthan want to move to their respective states. The Rajasthan government had started registration of migrants and labourers willing to return home on the helpline number 18001806127, eMitra Rajasthan portal, e-Mitra mobile app or at e-Mitra Kisosk. After registration of the workers, the state government would obtain consent from the concerned governments of the registered workers’ states of residence.  About a fortnight ago, the Labour Department had asked the officials in the districts to start counselling of migrant workers. It has now asked them to pay special attention to the counselling of migrants as many have left for their homes and the remaining are developing anxiety. “We knew that such circumstances may arise. So, a fortnight ago I had asked the officials in the districts to start counselling of migrants. Now, there is fear and anxiety in workers who are left out as a few states are not ready to accept inter-state transfer,” said Niraj K. Pawan, Principal Secretary, Labour Department. Pawan, who has a clinical psychology background, said a large number of migrants from Bihar and Telangana are stranded in Rajasthan and want to go back to their homes and do not eat food. In such a case, the department is counselling them and assuring the workers that soon they will also be able to go their homes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/raj-govt-intensifies-counselling-of-anxious-migrant-workers-stranded-away-from-homes/story-tmJXHv7CuvFiUwLXp6SELP.html
29-04-2020||City||NMMC chief appointed administrator as corporators’ term to end on May 7||As the term of Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) corporators will end on May 7, the state government has issued a notification appointing civic commissioner Annasaheb Misal as the administrator.The civic elections were expected to be held in April. As election is not possible because of Covid-19 outbreak, the state government took the legal course of appointing an administrator.Misal will take over as administrator of NMMC from May 7, when the term of the present body ends. While the commissioner will now be able to take independent decisions without sanction of the standing committee or the civic general body, the order asks him to ensure an informal consultation with the elected representatives and the officer-bearers and take their suggestions.It has asked for the formation of an informal consultative committee that will include mayor, deputy mayor, standing committee chairperson, Opposition leader, charipersons of various committees and group leaders. The administrator should update the committee on the various decisions and work being taken. They can have a review meeting every 15 days through video conference.Misal said, “The state government orders have come and I will work accordingly. The corona threat is the biggest fight we have before us and we are doing our best to counter it. We will also take up pre-monsoon work soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nmmc-chief-appointed-administrator-as-corporators-term-to-end-on-may-7/story-BZQ5MkZb4uFN3kIc9ilLxK.html
29-04-2020||Mumbai||Student volunteers collect funds to help stray animals during lockdown||After helping provide food and essentials to tribal villages and help senior citizens with their daily needs during the ongoing lockdown to combat the spread of Covid-19, college students volunteering with the National Service Scheme (NSS) are now also focusing on the welfare of animals.Students from a few colleges affiliated with the University of Mumbai (MU) have been raising funds to provide food and water to stray animals and birds.“Since we have to follow lockdown rules, our volunteers are ensuring that we only step out to help strays and birds close to our residence. Over the past one week most of us have noticed an increase in the number of strays that gather every day for food now,” said Idrish Badgujar, an NSS volunteer and student of RZ Shah College, Mulund. He added that around 18 volunteers from his college have started this initiative in several areas in Mulund and Dombivli.In some cases, students have also been reaching out to animal shelters to help raise funds to provide food for animals. “We started a page on Facebook and Instagram to help raise funds, and the donations have ranged from ₹150 to ₹5,000 by students as well as others. While we are facing trouble, we cannot forget that animals are probably in a stickier situation as they are left with no food during the lockdown,” said Abhish Rege, another NSS volunteer.Over the past few weeks, the state and central government have also been encouraging NSS volunteers to step up and come to the rescue of people in need. Atul Salunkhe, state liaison officer, NSS, government of Maharashtra, said that over 1.4 lakh students across the state have already registered on their official website and are ready to help. “We hope to start a helpline that can reach out to people across the state,” added Salunkhe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/student-volunteers-collect-funds-to-help-stray-animals/story-PNamBFHvhIl2EdpdBKKeDL.html
29-04-2020||Kolkata||‘Remote controlled steps are unworthy for men of worth’: Governor Dhankar writes to TMC MP||Governor Jagdeep Dhankar has written a letter to Trinamool Congress (TMC) MP Kalyan Banerjee urging him to listen to ‘conscience’ and the call of duty rather than be driven by an external ‘script’.This came after Banerjee’s letter to Dhankar in which he stated that the Governor is acting as ‘loudhailer of the ruling party’ at the Centre.“Final response to Kalyan Banerjee. Urged him - listen to ‘conscience’ and call of duty rather than be driven by external ‘script’. Remote controlled steps are unworthy for men of worth. Time to engage in Covid 19!battle than be part of emerging strategy to combat Governor,” Dhankar tweeted along with photos of the letter to Banerjee. Final response to Kalyan Banerjee. Urged him-listen to ‘conscience’ and call of duty rather than be driven by external ‘script’. Remote controlled steps are unworthy for men of worthTime to engage in Covid 19!battle than be part of emerging strategy to combat Governor.(1/2) pic.twitter.com/F7s2gK2lh2“In Covid 19 combat have had enormous benefit of counsel from leaders of all political parties except TMC. Outreach to TMC yielded no result. I am ever available to discuss issues concerning the welfare of people of West Bengal. Let us not bicker. Time to beat Covid 19,” he said in another tweet.In Covid 19 combat have had enormous benefit of counsel from leaders of all political parties except TMC. Outreach to TMC yielded no result. I am ever available to discuss issues concerning the welfare of people of West Bengal. Let us not bicker. Time to beat Covid 19.In the letter, Dhankar stated: “I am surprised that you are positioning on behalf of Hon’ble Chief Minister while you are nowhere in loop on this. This pseudo defence is unfortunate and you are ignoring that my communication is a response to what Hon’ble Chief Minister started and put before the public to take a call.”Banerjee, in the letter to the Governor, stated: “Your recent expression that the Hon’ble Chief Minister was appeasing the muslims itself establishes that you are acting as a loudhailer of the ruling party in the Centre. In a indirect method you are spreading communalism and inciting disharmony in the state of West Bengal.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/remote-controlled-steps-are-unworthy-for-men-of-worth-governor-dhankar-writes-to-tmc-mp/story-9QiDlWMaqJTUKtCh7SYFRN.html
29-04-2020||City||Following mother’s appeal, Jalandhar police celebrates 8-yr-old’s birthday||The police commissionerate brought smile on eight-year-old Harshil Gujral’s face by celebrating his birthday amid lockdown, after his mother appealed for it during a flag march live on Facebook.Deputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Kumar Sharma and commissioner of police (CP) Gurpreet Singh Bhullar were conducting the flag march in different parts of the city, which was being shown live on Facebook.Harbhans Nagar resident Monisha Gujral appealed to the police to ensure celebration of her eight-year-old son’s birthday.Following this, cops, led by deputy commissioner of police Gurmeet Singh and assistant commissioner of police Barjinder Singh, visited the woman’s residence with a cake and celebrate her son’s birthday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/following-mother-s-appeal-jalandhar-police-celebrates-8-yr-old-s-birthday/story-L6u9MTZQ2AaGr5V5pqkDsJ.html
29-04-2020||Chandigarh||Amid lockdown, JKSLSA’s helpline a boon for senior citizens||The J&K State Legal Services Authority (JKSLSA) set up a helpline to redress the grievances of senior citizens of J&K and Ladakh on April 21. Since the launch of the helpline under serve-the-seniors initiative, 110 calls have been received out of which 54 calls pertained to delivery of medicines, 37 groceries and nine for hospital visits. A team of nodal officers comprising Naushad Ahmad Khan (9622283677) and Sandeep Kour (9419223000) for Jammu; Noor Mohammad (9419005744) and Tabasum Qadir Parray (7889835567) for Kashmir; and Spalzes Angmo (9419341131) and Tsewang Phuntsog (9419978757) for Ladakh had been constituted to facilitate the senior citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/amid-lockdown-jkslsa-s-helpline-a-boon-for-senior-citizens/story-hWGeuxRRWB9Z4cAb51DukO.html
29-04-2020||Chandigarh||National Health Mission staff call off strike after govt announces 18% pay hike||National Health Mission (NHM) employees on Wednesday called off their strike after the Punjab health department announced an 18% hike in salaries of all 13,500 employees to appreciate their work in tackling the Covid-19 crisis.The employees were scheduled to start their strike from Wednesday morning. But on Tuesday night, state health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu held a meeting with the Punjab wing of the National Health Mission Employees Union, which lasted till 9.30 pm, and announced a hike in their salaries.He also announced the process of regularizing their jobs will be initiated once the Covid- 19 crisis is over. There are 13, 500 NHM employees, including doctors, staff nurses and midwifes, working in the state.The health minister shared the announcement on Facebook. He posted, “Meeting was held with union of NHM officials/employees, who are fighting a war with Corona virus, in which announcement was made to give 18% increment. After the Corona war, the process of regularisation of their jobs will also be initiated.”The NHM (National Health Mission) employees union welcomed the announcement.Amarjeet Singh, state president of the union, said, “We had decided to go on strike from Wednesday to demand a pay hike. We had also worn black ribbons to work on Monday and Tuesday as a mark of our protest. However, the health minister held a meeting on Tuesday night and announced a hike in our salaries. We are now waiting for an official letter in this regard.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/national-health-mission-staff-call-off-strike-after-govt-announces-18-pay-hike/story-b9bwlGldAFKnRTuIqkxjGN.html
29-04-2020||City||53 booked in Himachal for spreading fake news on social media||As many as 53 people have been booked in Himachal Pradesh for spreading rumors and fake news through various social media platforms ever since the nationwide lockdown has been imposed to contain the spread of Covid-19, informed HP Police spokesperson Kushal Sharma.Among them, 12 have been booked in Mandi district, 10 in Chamba district, eight in Solan district, seven in Kangra, four in Hamirpur, three each in Bilaspur and Shimla, and one each in Kullu and Sirmaur districts, Sharma said.Director general of police (DGP) Sita Ram Mardi said that those who have been spreading fake news will be dealt with strictly.“The situation in the state has been improving as among 40 Covid-19 positive patients, 25 have recovered. However, we need to stay alert as the number of cases in the country has been increasing every single day,” the DGP said.The state police chief said that as per the direction of the central government, no hospital whether government or private can refuse to treat a patient on the pretext that his Covid-19 test hasn’t been done. “Covid-19 testing is not necessary. Strict action will be taken if any hospital violates the direction,” he said.He also urged the state units of Rotary and Lions Clubs to come forward and help the state in fighting the novel virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/53-booked-in-himachal-for-spreading-fake-news-on-social-media/story-BOLYxNH7c8OyxFiqkYbECM.html
29-04-2020||Chandigarh||At home in Chandigarh, says BJP MP Kirron Kher taking on Congress criticism on absence||Amid the increase in the number of coronavirus cases in the city, the slugfest between BJP and Congress leaders has intensified with city MP Kirron Kher releasing a video on social media, countering Congress allegations about her going missing amid the Covid-19 pandemic. In the six-minute video clip, Kher questioned the timing of the Congress allegations, and said, “I’m in my house in Sector 7, Chandigarh. I am doing all my work on the telephone and even meeting people here.” The trigger for Kher’s outburst were Congress leaders’ tweets. “Lagatar tweet kar rahe ki dokhebaaz hein sansad, yahan par hein nahi sansad, bahar kyu nahi ja rahi sansad. Kya chahete hein aap? Election mein toh mujhe hara nahi pate, corona ho jaye toh mar jaye agla,” she said taking them on. Kher, who said she is diabetic and above 60, asked the Congress leaders, “Are your mothers, wives and daughters going out?”‘WILL RESPOND IN ELECTIONS’“I didn’t even see (former MP Pawan Kumar) Bansal sahab. The person who never made tea at home is now getting photos clicked, showing himself cooking. Is it believable? His white kurta is shining! Where food is being distributed to poor, you people reach there just get your selfies clicked. At least respect the poor,” she said. Addressing Congress leaders, Kher said, “You say I am in Mumbai. I wish I was there because my family is there. I am alone here in Sector 7, while you all are with your families.”“I will respond to you in the next elections. Even after losing twice you are not satisfied. We should not play politics during the current crisis.” On Tuesday, Bansal had also released a media statement and criticised the UT administration’s Covid containment efforts. The Chandigarh Congress has been pointing out that if Punjab governor and UT administrator VP Singh Badnore, the UT advisor, deputy commissioner and other officers can hold meetings every day in the war room, then why can’t MP Kirron Kher join in and highlight issues of residents.CHEEKY RESPONSE FROM CITY CONGRESS CHIEFChandigarh Congress president Pradeep Chhabra said, “The local MP has been missing for a month now. Today, when businesses are closed due to the lockdown and people have lost their means of earning, shouldn’t she raise her voice for electricity, water bill and tax exemption for residents?”Responding to Kher’s video, Chhabra tweeted, “But in your video you rightly admitted that your family is in Mumbai and our family is here. Rightly so madam. Chandigarh is our family. We are with our family. We always will be with Chandigarh, our family.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/at-home-in-chandigarh-says-bjp-mp-kirron-kher-taking-on-congress-criticism-on-absence/story-rr364x2S1hlwEUMtUtZQGI.html
29-04-2020||Delhi||A Punjabi gaze on Kashmir||He says that being an outsider gives him a unique perspective. That he can look at things not only objectively but also with a certain degree of empathy. “And then you are able to observe the contrasts and contradictions without being judgemental,” says playwright Atamjit Singh, recipient of the Sangeet Natak Akademi and Sahitya Akademi awards, whose latest Punjabi play ‘Balde Rahan Chiragh Hamesha’ on Kashmir has now been translated into Hindi and Urdu.The Mohali-based playwright, who had written a play, ‘Tasveer Da Teeja Pasa’, on the politics of terrorism, centred on incidents in Punjab and Kashmir; says that situation in the Valley pushed him to devote his latest work around it.“Kashmir, being close geographically and emotionally, has always fascinated me. And ever since reading up on saints like Lalleshwari and Noor-ud-Din, who are also known as Lall Ma and Nund Rishi, I felt a peculiar attraction towards that land. Many people are unaware that Nund, a Muslim saint, was actually breastfed by the Hindu saint Lalleshwari,” he says.The plot of the play is based on true incidents that took place in a district in Kashmir managed by his writer friend Khalid Hussain, who was a Deputy Commissioner there. Centring on a Hindu boy raised by a Muslim family which never stopped him from practicing his Hindu faith, the script brings forth the protagonist’s dilemma when the graveyard where his Muslim father’s remains are buried is destroyed by a brick kiln owner.Like in his other works, this play too has many historical contexts. However, Singh stresses that no playwright uses history just to retell the past chronicles. Emphasizing that for him history is a root in the soil, and if one follows the roots in the true spirit, there is seldom a fear of going wrong, he adds, “If used imaginatively, history becomes the strength of the plot that can be used to say what the writer wants to. And that is what I have done in ‘Balde Rahan Chiragh Hamesha’.”“For me, the most interesting chapter of the land is on Rinchan, who was the first non-Hindu ruler of Kashmir. Buddhist by his faith, Rinchan decided to come to the fold of the religion of general public, which was Hinduism at that point of time. But the clergy didn’t allow him to do so, thus paving way for him to embrace Islam. However, the play largely concentrates on the post-Independence era including the early nineties when the exodus of Pandits took place. But I must add, a play is never restricted to the history that it refers to, it is and should always be contemporary,” he says.Believing that theatre, or for that matter any other art, cannot be used as ‘antibiotics’, he stresses that a writer’s role is not to treat problems, but identify them. “This play delves into the centuries old history of co-existence followed by the cracks created by politicians. The irony of the situation is that the Kashmir problem actually is not the creation of Kashmiris. Obviously, a work of art that wishes to genuinely touch the hearts and minds of people cannot offer lip-sympathies, but it can for sure be a part of the healing process,” he adds.Known for undertaking long and exhaustive research before writing his scripts, the playwright went to Chicago, known for its libraries for the same. “While writing an earlier play on World War I, translated in English as ‘Come Back from the War’, I found the Chicago Library system extremely useful. For this play, I needed to read up on the politics of Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK), and was unable to find enough material here. Look at the irony, I had to travel to Canada and America to find material on an Indian subject. This says so much about our own libraries,” he says.Believing that finding the real problem is in itself a part of the solution, he is now all set to write a new play on Diwan Singh Kalepani, a doctor and Punjabi poet, who did monumental work in Andaman and Nicobar Islands before he was hanged by Japanese in early forties for opposing the idea of using a gurdwara as a brothel for Japanese soldiers.“I wanted to visit the islands for my research, but will need to postpone due to the current Covid-19 crisis. And yes, for a long time, I have wanted to write on Sir Ganga Ram whose contribution, in terms of innumerable monumental buildings and institutions that he raised in the city of Lahore in undivided India, has not suitably been recognised by Indians till date. Ironically, he is a better-known person in Pakistan today. But I don’t see an immediate chance to visit Pakistan now considering the strained relations between the two countries,” he concludes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/a-punjabi-gaze-on-kashmir/story-NH4PsTuhUhFLpFfxAo01HM.html
29-04-2020||City||Over 3,000 students in Punjab register for webinar on interview skills||Even though the movement of individuals has been restricted due to the curfew imposed by the government, people have never been so active in the virtual world. They are learning new skills, connecting with their loved ones and preparing for online interviews so that they can land their dream job.In Punjab, as many as 3,091 college students, both graduates and post graduates, have registered themselves for the ‘How to face virtual interview’ webinar that is scheduled for April 30. It is being conducted by speakers from Infosys Private Limited and the webinar will be live for an hour from 3pm on Thursday.It is being organised by National Association of Software and Service Companies (NASSCOM) under the Punjab Ghar Ghar Rozgaar and Karobaar Mission (PGGRKM). “Due to the coronavirus pandemic, the strategy of companies has shifted from conducting in-person interviews to virtual platforms. To help the students prepare for virtual jobs interviews while staying safe at home, the state government had made the registration free. The webinar will definitely help the college students, who are aspiring to join reputed companies, crack the virtual interviews,” said Navdeep Singh, deputy chief executive officer (CEO) of District Bureau of Employment and Enterprises (DBEE).He said, “In Ludhiana district, around 400 students have registered themselves for the webinar.”“I had intimated all the colleges in the district regarding the event and requested them to tell their students about this event,” he said.Explaining the important points for virtual interviews, Nidhi Singhi, career counsellor with the DBEE, said, “Check the internet connectivity speed beforehand and make sure that the camera is functioning properly.”“One should never make the mistake of taking virtual interviews casually. In fact, more attentiveness is required since we are connecting with another person virtually and that can easily get obstructed due to different technical glitches. Similarly, the room where one appears for the interview should have proper lighting. One needs to be dressed formally, sit straight and speak clearly. Doing proper research about the company and field of work is always important, whether it’s a virtual or a one-to-one interview,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/over-3-000-students-in-punjab-register-for-webinar-to-learn-interview-skills/story-rbD2Do1aeYwjRFwiY9JklO.html
29-04-2020||City||Ludhiana police seek suggestions for better enforcement of curfew||The Ludhiana district police have sought feedback and suggestions from residents for better implementation of restrictions and to give relaxations to residents during curfew. A message in this regard was posted on their Facebook page on Tuesday night.The message read, “Need your feedback and suggestions on following – Present status of curfew in Ludhiana; Usefulness of volunteers in curfew enforcement; What should be done after May 3 in Ludhiana to handle the situation? How much opening up of curfew can be done?; Whether we should open standalone shops within Municipal Limits in the cities? Will people follow social distancing norms there?; Whether we can open shops in rural areas/villages?; Whether more factories should be allowed to run with safeguards?; How to constructively engage migrant labourers?”In response to the post, around 673 residents came up with different suggestions, ranging from allowing shops to open to increasing restrictions and extending the curfew.A resident, Parminder Singh, former president of the Rotary Club Ludhiana Greater, said the administration can allow the market to open on alternative days and that too area-wise. He suggested shopkeepers should be asked for making less counter sales and laying more focus on home-to-home deliveries. “It will help in reducing rush at the shops,” he said.Similarly, another resident, Samit Jain, also shared the same suggestion and said shops should be allowed to open with one-day gap and that too for a few hours. He added shopkeepers should be also given responsibility of maintaining social distancing. Jain said, in many areas of the city, the situation is under control, therefore, the administration can give some relaxations.Meanwhile, some residents asked the authorities to extend curfew and restriction in the city.Karan Thaman, an advocate, said, “People are still not obeying curfew norms. One can witness rush on roads during morning and evening hours. Only the shops providing essential products should be allowed to operate.”Another advocate, Dinesh Rajput, said, “At present, the situation is under control, but if any relaxation is given at this stage, it can turn out to be dangerous.”Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP) Deepak Pareek said, “The department will go through all the suggestions and feedback from residents and consider their views while planning the next course of action.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-police-seek-suggestions-for-better-enforcement-of-curfew/story-N57q3BH4d5hlUQ6z5u2maK.html
29-04-2020||City||Authorities in tizzy over dead Valley woman’s infection source||A day after an 80-year-old woman from Srinagar’s old city area died of Covid-19, the health authorities are now checking how she contracted the infection without having any travel history or primary contact.The woman died on Tuesday afternoon at the Chest Disease Hospital after she didn’t respond to any treatment. Since her family was in quarantine, the body was buried at a local graveyard by police officials after completion of formalities. Head of department, Chest Medicine Government Medical College Srinagar, Dr Naveed Shah said, “It is painful to see the family members not being able to perform the last rites. The woman neither had travel history nor a primary contact. This is what can happen if we don’t follow advisories.” He added that elderly patients with comorbidities are most susceptible and should stay at home.The woman lived in a congested area of the old city which has been completely sealed to contain the spread of the disease.Head of department, Chest Medicine SKIMS Medical College Bemina, Dr Javeed Malik told HT that out of 110 Covid-19 patients admitted in their hospital, only four are in the high dependency unit. “We had two deaths. Both were elderly people with comorbidities and were very sick.”He said a patient who was very sick and was referred from Government Medical College Baramulla has survived after treatment. “Initially, we thought that the 37-year-old patient from north Kashmir won’t survive due to acute sickness but he recovered and has been discharged from the hospital,” Malik said.He said most elderly patients have mild symptoms and are showing signs of recovery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/authorities-in-tizzy-over-dead-valley-woman-s-infection-source/story-pqldEcJ1RAB7VfBpea1O1J.html
29-04-2020||Chandigarh||Delhi-Amritsar-Katra Expressway will pass through Amritsar, says Harsimrat Kaur Badal||Union food processing industries minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal said that one section of the Delhi-Amritsar-Katra Expressway will pass through Amritsar after being split into two at Kartarpur even as the other section would go through Gurdaspur to Katra.Harsimrat said the Amritsar Vikas Manch and other social organisations had informed her that the expressway was not going to pass through Amritsar and she decided to rectify the matter. “I took up the matter with the Union Road Transport and Highways minister Nitin Gadkari and he told me that the people of Amritsar have no reason to worry as the expressway will not only pass through the holy city but also Raja Sansi International Airport,” she said.Harsimrat said the expressway will split into two from Kartarpur. “The section going to Amritsar will use the existing highway for 50 km, which will be developed as an access controlled expressway with service roads on both sides even as a new 30-km stretch will be constructed to take the expressway to the Raja Sansi Airport,” she said. The Union minister said the second section will be a new 65-km stretch, which will take the expressway from Kartarpur to Gurdaspur, from where it will join the NH 44 for the next 180 km stretch to Katra.She said the expressway will take off from Jassur Kheri in Haryana and pass through Ghana-Kalayat in Haryana to enter Punjab near Patran, from where the expressway will pass through Bhawanigarh and Nakodar to Kartarpur and then be bifurcated into two, with one section passing through Amritsar and the other through Gurdaspur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/delhi-amritsar-katra-expressway-will-pass-through-amritsar-says-harsimrat-kaur-badal/story-ZaOA8KuXScaEIsPKNFBb2O.html
29-04-2020||Mumbai||Infant head seized from dog in Aurangabad||Police on Wednesday seized the head of an infant which was being carried by a stray dog in its jaws here in Maharashtra, an officer said.An investigation is on to locate the body of the infant, he said.The dog was spotted holding the head in its jaws in Raja Bazaar area of the city by a resident who in turn informed the police, the officer said.“It seems that the head got detached from the body about two days back. We are investigating whether it was severed by somebody or whether dogs bit it off. It was sent for postmortem and we are trying to locate the body,” said police inspector Sambhaji Pawar.A case has been registered under sections 315 (Act done with intent to prevent child being born alive or to cause it to die after birth) and 318 (Concealment of birth by secret disposal of dead body) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/infant-head-seized-from-dog-in-aurangabad/story-FAmqfrfrltUuyOabTPTlsN.html
29-04-2020||City||Bringing their A-game in lockdown: Haryana’s sportspersons dabble in harvesting activities amid labour shortage||Haryana is known for producing international-level sportspersons and if you are wondering what they are upto during the lockdown besides spending time with family, it’s reaping crops in their fields amid the shortage of farm labourers across the state.Hindustan Times got some of these players to share their daily routine in the Covid-driven confinement.World number one (52kg) pugilist Amit Panghal had recently shared a picture on the social media showing him loading wheat in gunny bags from a tractor-trolley. “After practising daily for the upcoming Tokyo Olympics, I spend most of my day with my parents in my native Mayna village. I try to help them in as many household chores as possible. I even assisted them in unloading the wheat grown on our land into gunny bags,” he added.Indian Hockey player Poonam Malik of Hisar’s Umra village has also been dabbling in harvesting activities at home. “As most farm labourers have left for their homes due to the lockdown, there is no one for reaping the crop. Being from a farming family, I know the process and reap crop using farm equipment. Rest of the time, I practice for my game in a ground near my house.”Unlike the ones at home, hockey goalkeeper Savita Poonia is stuck in Banglore. The Ding village (Sirsa) native said she was maintaining a routine of eating healthy food and doing regular exercise during the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bringing-their-a-game-in-lockdown-haryana-s-sportspersons-dabble-in-harvesting-activities-amid-labour-shortage/story-Ds724XUSRpLrclBRC95KdP.html
29-04-2020||Chandigarh||Jalandhar civil hospital discharges two corona patients only to call them back hours later as they test positive||In a major goof up, the Jalandhar civil hospital discharged two coronavirus patients and then recalled them after a few hours after their confirmatory reports came out to be positive on Tuesday night. However, by then a 25-year-old patient had already come home to a rousing reception. As per a press release issued by the district public relations office on Tuesday a 40-year-old man of Raja Garden and a 25-years-old man of Lal Bazaar had been admitted to the local civil hospital after their results came out positive. A specialised team of doctors led by senior medical officer Dr Kashmiri Lal treated the patients. “After treatment, their samples were again sent to the laboratory, where there report came to be negative. The sample was again sent for confirmatory test in which their report was found negative. After which, they were finally discharged from the local civil hospital today”, reads the press release. However, a senior health official, on condition of anonymity, said, “The 25-year-old discharged patient reached his house on Tuesday afternoon. He received a rousing response from his localities and met his parents and neighbours. However, he were recalled to the hospital on the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday. The 40-year-old patient had opted to stay at a quarantine ward of the hospital as three family members, including his daughter, are still in the isolation ward of the local civil hospital. The 40-year-old man, who works in a media house, had allegedly infected more than 35 patients in the city. SECOND SAMPLE REPORT CAME POSITIVE An official, on condition of anonymity, said, the first sample, which was taken after 14 days tested negative but the second sample reports of two patients tested positive. He admitted that it was a serious goof up on part of the civil hospital. Deputy medical superintendent of civil hospital Dr Jyoti Sharma confirmed the development over phone. She said both the patients had been brought back to the hospital and were being treated at the isolation ward of the hospital. Civil Surgeon orders probe into incident Jalandhar civil surgeon Dr Gurinder Kaur Chawla had ordered a probe into the matter. She said she had directed the medical superintendent of the civil hospital to conduct an inquiry regarding how the incident took place and if there had been any lapses on the part of the administrative officials. She said action will be taken against those found guilty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/goof-up-at-jalandhar-s-civil-hospital-two-discharged-patients-recalled-after-discharge/story-nlazpTydKRZsoRALRPWSYP.html
29-04-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19 curfew extended in Punjab till May 17 but shops to open by rotation from tomorrow for four hours||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Wednesday announced the extension of curfew in the state by two weeks after May 3, while unveiling steps for limited lifting of the lockdown restrictions, from Thursday, in the non-containment and non-red zones, with strict adherence to Covid-19 safety protocols.Based on the report of the expert committee set up to formulate the state’s exit strategy, and the inputs received from various sections of society, Capt Amarinder Singh said it was necessary to continue with the lockdown restrictions for some more time. The curfew in the state will now remain in force in Punjab till May 17, though limited easing of restrictions will be in place from 7am to 11am every day, starting Thursday.The containment and red zones will, however, continue to remain under total and strict lockdown.In an address to the people of the state, the chief minister said that the situation will be reviewed after two weeks and further relaxations will be announced thereafter if the pandemic remains in control. DCs TO WORK OUT ROTATIONAL SCHEDULEAccording to the limited relief announced by the chief minister, certain shops will be allowed to remain open in some areas by rotation, for four hours every morning, with 50% staff strength. The deputy commissioners have been directed to work out the rotational schedule for the shops that are allowed to be opened in line with the chief minister’s directives, which have come four days after the new home ministry guidelines came into effect.The curfew will remain in place after 11 am, as usual, said the chief minister, appealing to people to be back in their homes by that time, and continue to maintain social distancing.All those stepping out during the relaxation period would have to wear masks and maintain a 2-metre distance from others, he said, adding that the relief has been provided only for the convenience of the people and should not be used for interactions with friends etc.SALOONS, BARBER SHOPS TO STAY SHUTIn urban areas, all stand-alone shops, neighbourhood shops and shops in residential complexes are allowed to be open during this period, as per the new directives, which make it clear, however, that establishments dealing in services such as saloons, barber shops etc. would continue to remain closed.Further, e-commerce companies will continue to be permitted to deal in essential goods only during this period.THOSE RETURNING TO STATE TO BE QUARANTINEDExpressing his government’s keenness to open up the industry, the chief minister urged all those who could accommodate the workers or had workers staying in the vicinity to start opening up, to help revive the state’s battered economy.Referring to the large number of Punjabis stranded in other states due to the lockdown, Capt Amarinder Singh said it was his government’s duty to bring them back but they would have to be quarantined for 21 days. The state had made arrangements for their quarantine in all districts, he said, adding that the problem had aggravated in Punjab due to the large number of NRIs who came home, followed by the attendees of the Nizamuddin event. The state, he said, could not afford to let those coming from outside again let things spiral out of control. The quarantine for those coming home from other states was essential for the protection of the people, he said.IN FOR A LONG-DRAWN BATTLEThe Covid-19 pandemic has so far infected 330 people in the state. “While experts are coming out with different opinions, there seems to be an indication that the coronavirus crisis could continue till July/August, or even September,” said Captain Amarinder, terming it a long-drawn battle.Pointing out that no country had escaped coronavirus, he observed that the disease had claimed lots of lives across the world, with nearly 50,000 people dying in the US, which had reported 10 lakh cases so far. He cited the examples of the UK, Germany and Canada, to underscore the need for continued caution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-curfew-extended-in-punjab-till-may-17-but-shops-to-open-by-rotation-from-tomorrow-for-four-hours/story-pIeuoHVFQmvQ5HjMYLkQiP.html
29-04-2020||Patna||‘If students remain stranded in Kota, it’ll affect our chances in Bihar polls’: BJP leader||BJP leader Sanjay Paswan on Wednesday said that Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar’s refusal to facilitate the state’s students return from Kota will hurt the NDA in the upcoming Assembly elections.“What fear is ailing Nitish Kumar that he is not facilitating the return of Bihari students from Kota in Rajasthan? I feel the government officials are misguiding him. The Kota students’ issue will have an effect on the upcoming legislative assembly elections in the state. The family members of these students will think twice before voting for the National Democratic Alliance (NDA). Nitish should think about this matter again,” Paswan said.RJD leader Shivanand Tiwari said: “Are the chief ministers who facilitated the return of their states’ students from Kota illiterate? Is Nitish Kumar the only one who has read the Disaster Management Act 2005? I feel the BJP will not fight the next election under his leadership.”No. of children may only be 1000 but 1 Lakh families are affected due to it, they have sympathy for these children. If 1 Lakh families have 5 voters each, 5 Lakh votes will be affected. So I request the CM to bring back our children from Kota & Pune: Sanjay Paswan, BJP MLC #Bihar https://t.co/UXSlQF0UhTJDU leader Ajay Alok said: “Those who are raising the demand for the return of the students from Kota are suffering from lack of knowledge about the issue. Chief Minister Kumar had put forward his points in his remote meeting with the Prime Minister recently as to why the state government is not facilitating the return of students from Kota.”“What is the point in making allegations against the Chief Minister if he has made it clear as to why he is not taking steps on this issue? The states which have facilitated the return of their students from Kota should make it public whether they took permission from the centre or not. It might not be wrong to say that those states have broken the law,” he added.Earlier on April 27, Nitish Kumar had said that it is not possible to bring back students stranded in Rajasthan’s Kota until the lockdown guidelines are revised.The Chief Minister made this remark during a video meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi to discuss the situation arising due to COVID-19.“A large number of students from Bihar are stranded in coaching centers in Rajasthan’s Kota. Some states are bringing back their students. However, since the state is following the lockdown as per the Central government’s guidelines. It will not be possible to bring the students back to the state until the guidelines are revised,” Nitish Kumar said, according to an official statement.Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh governments have facilitated the return of their students from Kota, which houses a number of coaching institutions for students. Maharashtra government has also sent a fleet of buses to bring back its students from there.India is under a nation-wide lockdown which was imposed on March 25 and later extended on April 14 to May 3 to stem the spread of coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/if-students-remain-stranded-in-kota-it-ll-affect-our-chances-in-bihar-polls-bjp-leader/story-xM3l5EZeG9X4zwNgF0VFzN.html
29-04-2020||Bangalore||Fire in HAL premises in Bengaluru, no casualties reported||A major fire broke out at the Hindustan Aeronauticals Ltd (HAL) premises near here on Wednesday even as the fire fighters toiled hard to extinguish it.According to police, the chemical fire was noticed at about 9 am and within half-an-hour there were raging flames billowing thick smoke.Soon the fire tenders rushed to the spot.However, till afternoon it could not be controlled.The magnesium scrap stockpile had caught fire, they said.Eight fire tenders were pressed into service. The entire area was cordoned off and fire isolated. No casualties are reported, they added.Later, in a statement, the HAL said the blaze erupted in the scrap yard of its forge and foundry division.“The scrap included magnesium metal. The fire has now been contained by dry chemical fire extinguishers.There is no damage to any property and no casualty reported due to the fire. An investigation is on,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/fire-in-hal-premises-in-bengaluru-no-casualties-reported/story-teVpEZINuVcTe8Vir1pgbN.html
29-04-2020||Chandigarh||Rapid testing for Covid-19 with Korean kits to start in Haryana from tomorrow||CHANDIGARH: Haryana will start rapid antibody (blood-based) tests from Thursday to intensify surveillance of suspected coronavirus carriers in the state. The state government will use 25,000 rapid test kits manufactured by a South Korean company, SD Biosensor, at a facility in Manesar, Gurgaon.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) recently advised state governments to stop the rapid antibody tests using kits procured from certain Chinese manufacturers after some states raised questions about their performance.The blood-based rapid tests are largely used as a tool for surveillance with respect to the formation of antibody in persons exposed to coronavirus. However, it can’t substitute the real time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction test (RT-PCR) test.Additional chief secretary (ACS), health, Rajeev Arora said rapid test kits are being distributed to all 22 districts of the state. The hotspot districts of Nuh, Palwal, Gurgaon and Faridabad are getting 1,500 kits each, while Panchkula will get 2,000 rapid test kits. Ambala, Rohtak and Sonepat will get 1,000 kits each. Besides, 500 rapid kits each are being allocated to all medical colleges in the state.The rapid antibody test is done in hotspots for surveillance and epidemiological studies.“The real time PCR-based molecular test remains the gold standard frontline test for Covid-19 diagnosis,” Arora said.RANDOM SAMPLINGAccording to a communication by the director general, health services, to civil surgeons, stratified random sampling may also be done for testing various categories of persons in the districts.“For this, 7% of the rapid kits allocated to a district should be used for testing police personnel, street vendors, sanitary staff, media professionals, newspaper vendors and district administration personnel. Also, 7% each of the rapid kits should be used to test health care workers in the field and in the institutions,” the communication said.The ACS, health, said since ICMR guidelines said that rapid tests should not be done indiscriminately, “we will use the test kits in hotspots and containment zones, where a high number of positive cases are detected, and in large migration gatherings, and evacuee centres.”All symptomatic influenza-like illness persons having fever, cough, sore throat and runny nose will be tested in the hotspots, he said.WHAT’S THE RAPID TEST Only an initial screening test; it can’t replace nasal swab RT-PCR test.It’s a supplementary tool to assess the prevalence of Covid-19 within a specific perimeter.ICMR says it should be done in hotspots.The test is only useful if done after a minimum of seven days of onset of symptoms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rapid-testing-for-covid-19-with-korean-kits-to-start-in-haryana-from-tomorrow/story-L9uPpbVwTGGkXYCXhZ8O4J.html
29-04-2020||Bhopal||Indore’s Covid-19 death rate slows but curfew fails to check rising cases||A large number of new Covid-19 cases are coming to the fore in Madhya Pradesh’s worst-hit Indore despite the curfew being in place in urban areas of the district for more than a month now.Though the steady rise in cases has raised questions over enforcement of preventive measures as well as the very nature of the viral spread, a government data also suggested a drop in the Covid-19 mortality rate in the district over the last 20 days.With 94 new coronavirus positive cases in the last 24 hours, the number of Covid-19 patients in Indore district has mounted to 1,466, officials said on Wednesday.Chunk of these cases have been reported from urban areas of the district, where the curfew was clamped on March 25 after detection of the first coronavirus positive case.“Two patients tested positive for coronavirus after their deaths, as per the reports received in the last 24 hours,” officials said, adding that both the deceased had comorbidites.While one of them, a 70-year-old man, was suffering from diabetes and died on April 17 in a private hospital, another man (45), battling kidney disease, succumbed on April 23.Factoring in these two deaths, the number of Covid-19 fatalities in the district has risen to 65.When asked about the increasing numbers of Covid-19 cases amidst the curfew, Chief Medical and Health Officer (CMHO) Praveen Jadia told PTI, “Most of the new positive cases of Covid-19 are relatives or acquaintances of old patients.All such people were already isolated as a precaution.“Most of the new patients of Covid-19 in Indore are found in same areas which have been sealed and declared as containment zones several days back,” he said.However, sources associated with the state government’s efforts to prevent the coronavirus spread in Indore, acknowledged a delay in getting reports of samples from laboratories.Local officials, however, said they were making every possible effort to speed up testing of samples.“At present, more than 400 samples of Covid-19 are being tested every day in a government laboratory of the city.Some automated testing machines will become operational in this laboratory soon, which will boost its sample testing capacity from 650 to 800,” said Indore Divisional Commissioner Aakash Tripathi.Apart from government laboratories, samples are also being tested in some recognised private facilities to speed up testing.Meanwhile, a major decline has been registered in the death rate of the Covid-19 patients in Indore district over the last 20 days.As per government data, as on the morning of April 9, the death rate of Covid-19 patients in Indore district stood at 10.33 per cent. However, analysis of the latest data, as on the morning of April 29, shows that the death rate has declined to 4.43 per cent. PTI HWP ADU MAS NSK NSK||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/indore-s-covid-19-death-rate-slows-but-curfew-fails-to-check-rising-cases/story-npmsTVd4QKvaU9PF0M9SGJ.html
29-04-2020||Lucknow||40K AKTU teachers may get reduced or no salary in April||Nearly 40,000 teachers in 700 private engineering colleges affiliated to Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University (AKTU) will either get no salary or 75% to 50% cut for April, an official said.In March also around 4,000 had not received their salary as many students had not deposited their quarterly installment of fees, said the official.There are about 2.5 lakh students in engineering colleges across Uttar Pradesh.Of these nearly one lakh students are from economically weaker section of the society whose fees are reimbursed by social welfare department of the government directly into students’ account, who in turn pay to their respective colleges.While the social welfare department has reimbursed the amount into bank account of students, many EWS category students, as well of the general class, are yet to pay the fees.Chairman of RR Institute of Technology and Management, Anil Agarwal said, “I have spoken to teachers in this regard. We are paying only 50% for April as we don’t have money because students have not deposited their installment of fees.”An official of Ambalika Institute of Management and Technology said, “The government decision not to give loans to trust, society will hit hard. As students have not deposited fees, we can’t pay full salary. We are working out how to address the problem. But there’s no solution in sight.”More than 150 private colleges have asked the university to give loan from endowment fund as they do not have money to pay teachers’ salary. But the university has rejected their demands and has instead asked them to make arrangements of funds for distributing salary.Vice chancellor of Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University, Prof Vinay Kumar Pathak said it is a difficult time and the university was trying to convince college management to distribute salary to teachers.“As a vice chancellor it is my duty to ensure that teachers and other staff are paid on time. I have spoken to chairman of colleges to find out ways. The university is going to make provision to get information related to salary payment of teachers,” he said.“On the university portal, the institute will have to update the information related to monthly salary paid to teachers. This will definitely benefit the teachers who are the backbone of the university,” vice chancellor said.On Tuesday, Pathak had interacted with teachers of private affiliated institutions through video conferencing to inquire if they have been receiving salary.Pathak said nearly 10% teachers in private colleges did not receive salary for March yet. The university administration is trying to pay the same.He also informed that the last date to fill the examination form is also being considered to be extended from April 30 to May 10.Controller of Examinations Prof Rajiv Kumar said that keeping in view the lockdown remuneration of teachers of digital evaluation will be paid by the end of this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/40k-aktu-teachers-may-get-reduced-or-no-salary-in-april/story-xaeBd7Fn7PgO2lFL76pLuN.html
29-04-2020||Patna||Patna DM writes to airport director after 5 sanitary workers test Covid-19 positive||The district magistrate of Patna has asked the Airports Authority of India (AAI) to check whether government norms on coronavirus disease (Covid-19) were violated after five employees of an outsourced firm, tasked with housekeeping work at the civil aerodrome, recently tested positive for Sars-CoV-2.Patna district magistrate Kumar Ravi shot off a letter on Tuesday to the director of the Jaiprakash Narayan International Airport, advising him to ask the firm why it did not heed the government directives on Covid-19.“I have written to the airport director to ask the firm why action should not be taken against it for violation of government guidelines on Covid-19,” the bureaucrat said.“Employees of the outsourced firm were neither maintaining social distancing nor were they using gloves or masks, which the Centre mandated as precautionary measures to contain the spread of the coronavirus pandemic, revealed a preliminary inquiry by the Patna district administration,” he added.Ravi said CCTV footage showed the firm’s staff used to huddle while eating and neither wore gloves and masks at work nor maintain sanitisation norms.“We haven’t received any letter so far,” Patna airport director BCH Negi said in a text message after he did not respond to this reporter’s phone call. “Precautionary measures were in place right from the beginning,” said Negi in his text response.The AAI has outsourced sanitation work of its terminal building to the Nimbus Harbor Facilities Management Private Limited, a firm registered in Haryana.The AAI has to pay the firm nearly Rs 2.90 crore for the three-year period of its contractual agreement, said an airport source. All 50-55 sanitary workers of the firm have been sent on 14-day home quarantine. The cleaning work at the airport was now being done by the Patna Municipal Corporation, the source added.A sanitary worker at the airport had initially tested positive for Covid-19 on April 25. Four others tested positive on April 27 after authorities zeroed in on them while tracing the contacts of the first employee. The employee lives in Patna’s Khajpura locality, which has been sealed after it was declared a containment zone.Patna has 39 of Bihar’s 378 cases of the coronavirus disease and two deaths have been reported in the state capital so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/patna-dm-writes-to-airport-director-after-5-sanitary-workers-test-covid-19-positive/story-V6hLHHdY4QGnMsOPWiGsEN.html
29-04-2020||Chandigarh||Congress sarpanch’s husband shoots bus driver in Batala, held||Told off for using abusive language, the inebriated husband of a sitting Congress sarpanch shot dead a school bus driver in village Khara on Tuesday.The accused, Manbir Singh, the husband of sarpanch allegedly began hurling abuses outside the house of the victim, Dilbag Singh, around 11pm.In his statement, the victim’s son, Jagroop Singh said, “My father went outside to pacify Manbir, who was inebriated but he started misbehaving with my father and then shot him with a double barrel gun.” “We rushed outside when we heard the gunshot and found my father lying in a pool of blood,” he said. “We rushed him to the civil hospital in Batala where the doctors referred him to Amritsar. However, he succumbed to his injuries,” he said. Jagroop said there was no rivalry between the families. “Manbir was highly inebriated and started hurling abuses outside our house with no rhyme or reason,” he said. Station house officer Lakhwinder Singh said a case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code and the Arms Act against Manbir Singh, who was arrested from his house.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sitting-congres-sarpanch-s-husband-shoots-bus-driver-in-batala-held/story-flYFD1nH5oaFIafYOLfHfN.html
29-04-2020||Patna||Bihar reports 12 new Covid-19 cases, total cases in state mount to 378||12 more Covid-19 cases have been reported from Buxar district in Bihar, taking the state’s tally of coronavirus affected to 378 on Wednesday, said State Principal Secretary (Health) Sanjay Kumar.As per the data all 12 cases have been reported from New Bhojpur in Buxar district.Among them, while 7 are females including a six-month-old baby, 5 others are male.(This story has been published from a wire agency feed without modifications to the text. Only the headline has been changed.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-reports-12-new-covid-19-cases-total-cases-in-state-mount-to-378/story-PFwvTt4oKyAQb3Cesq11SN.html
29-04-2020||Chandigarh||Special flight with 268 stranded tourists takes off for London from Amritsar||As many as 268 passengers, who had been stranded in India after a nationwide lockdown was imposed due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) were rescued by a Qatar Airways’ special flight on Wednesday.The flight departed for London from Sri Guru Ram Das Ji International airport, Amritsar, on Wednesday morning. Amritsar airport’s director Manoj Chansoria said, “The Amritsar to London flight carrying 268 passengers, including Indians, took off at 2.53 am.”The passengers reportedly included 222 British citizens and 44 Indians. The UK’s foreign and commonwealth Office (FCO) had on Friday announced that 14 charter flights from India, which included eight from Amritsar, five from Ahmedabad and one from Delhi, would repatriate British residents stranded in India.The FCO had said 3,600 more stranded travellers will be able to return from India in charters scheduled between April 28 and May 4.On Tuesday, two charter flights had ferried 550-odd passengers from Amritsar airport. So far, 11 flights have evacuated thousands of passengers, most of whome were stuck in Punjab, from Amritsar airport to London. Five more flights will depart for London in the next few a days. Sources said the waiting list of passengers from Punjab was still ‘high’ and more flights are expected to be announced from Amritsar to London.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/special-flight-with-268-stranded-tourists-takes-off-for-london-from-amritsar/story-v5gmxKqvxkgnicl39EawON.html
29-04-2020||Lucknow||Muslim vendor rebuked in Lucknow: Another BJP MLA, same story||A day after a BJP MLA from Uttar Pradesh was caught on camera urging people not to buy vegetables from Muslim vendors, another BJP lawmaker rebuked a vegetable vendor on coming to know of his Muslim identity.Brajbhushan Rajput, MLA from Charkhari, in Mahoba, also warned the vendor to not sell vegetables in the area despite the fact that the BJP served a showcause notice to Suresh Tiwari, its MLA from Barhaj constituency in Deoria for a similar behaviour.The incident took place in Vishal Khand area of Gomti Nagar where Rajput lives.“None is allowed to play with Hindu sentiments. I asked for the vendor’s name but he lied. I asked for their identity card which too wasn’t provided. There have been reports of Muslim vendors spitting on fruits and vegetables to spread coronavirus. Naturally there is fear. What is the need for Muslims to cite Hindu names?” the Charkhari MLA said.Asked about the need to ask vendor’s name, the MLA appeared unrepentant and continued to play up the fact that the vendor tried to hide his identity.Udit Rajput, the MLA’s cousin and his assembly representative, felt the entire incident was being blown out of proportion.“Many vegetable vendors were found to be infected with coronavirus and had infected others. Also, there have been videos of many Muslim vendors spitting on fruits and vegetables. We need to be cautious and in a democratic country one is free to decide from whom to buy,” he said. “The vegetable vendor, an elderly person, fumbled when asked for his name. He initially said he was Rajkumar but when the MLA asked in a stern voice, he said he was Habibur Rehman. That’s when the doubt arose,” he said.The BJP had on Tuesday served showcause notices to two of its UP MLAs – Suresh Tiwari, the lawmaker from Barhaj, for a video urging people not to buy vegetables from Muslim vendors and to Shyam Prakash, the lawmaker from Gopamau (reserved) assembly segment for asking refund of the amount he gave from his MLA fund and for levelling corruption charges against Hardoi health authorities in purchase of medical equipment.“Our national president had clarified that immediate action will be taken against BJP members who say anything like this. State chief too took immediate action against them. No one has the right to say anything which divides the society,” said BJP leader and UP minister Sidharth Nath Singh.“These are part of a carefully thought out strategy to polarise the society even further. For BJP politics comes first even during coronavirus pandemic,” Samajwadi Party leader IP Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/muslim-vendor-rebuked-in-lucknow-another-bjp-mla-same-story/story-HLVHj9Z3THPEtsviZ8qZdI.html
29-04-2020||Delhi||Items dependent on imports to face shortage in Delhi if lockdown continues: Report||The supply of several items like coffee, diapers, oil and cereals, which are dependent on imports, is expected to face shortage in Delhi if lockdown continues beyond May 3, a government panel said in its report. The panel said items of particular brands such as shampoos, moisturizers, biscuits, sanitizers and cigarettes are in short supply in the city markets. Some of the products of reputed companies may not be available on the shelves, resulting in an increase in sale of small and homemade brands, it said. Earlier this month, Chief Secretary Vijay Dev had constituted an empowered group on facilitating supply chain and logistics management for availability of necessary items, including food and medicines in Delhi in the wake of the coronavirus-induced lockdown. The high-empowered panel, headed by Food and Civil Supplies Commissioner Ankita Mishra Bundela, said all essential medicines are reported to be available. She said there is no report about scarcity of essential medicines, but factories are told to be operating at less than 50 per cent of their capacity. “The distributors may not be able to make supplies of all medicines if the production remains affected at the source level for a long time,” it said. In its first report submitted to the chief secretary, the panel said there is a general shortage of labour for loading and unloading of goods.“The products of some of the prominent Fast Moving Consumer Goods (FMCG) are not available at some of the stores, but the goods of alternative brand/homemade brand are generally available,” it said. The nationwide lockdown imposed on March 25 to arrest the spread of coronavirus has been extended till May 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/items-dependent-on-imports-to-face-shortage-in-delhi-if-lockdown-continues-report/story-JqeOSOkdHXVUcdaCUmzW0M.html
29-04-2020||Delhi||3 out of 529 journalists that tested for Covid detected positive : Delhi CM||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said three out of 529 media persons, who gave their swab samples recently, have tested positive for Covid-19. He wished a speedy recovery to those found to be infected with novel coronavirus. “Am so happy to share only 3 out of 529 media persons tested have been detected positive. My best wishes to all of you. Your work is very important esp during a pandemic. Those who have been detected positive, I am praying for your speedy recovery,” Kejriwal tweeted. Last week, the Delhi government had set up a centre for testing of media persons working in the national capital, after 53 scribes tested positive for Covid-19 in Mumbai. The total number of coronavirus cases in the national capital climbed to 3,314 on Tuesday, with 206 fresh cases being reported in a day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/3-out-of-529-journalists-that-tested-for-covid-detected-positive-delhi-cm/story-Nibzo0KdUYLy5bxJRQDh0I.html
29-04-2020||Kolkata||Covid-19: Bengal’s very own Santa Claus secretly providing food packets to poor||For the past two weeks, something strange has been happening every night, in villages on the fringes of Santiniketan in Bolpur town of Bengal’s Birbhum district.Somebody has been leaving packets of food items and other essentials, at the doorsteps of some huts and shanties. And the recipients are always those who have lost their livelihoods in the lockdown, and now count among the poorest of the poor in those villages.So who is this ‘Santa Claus’ and how is he able to identify the dwellings of the neediest? Until recently, no one had a clue. Then one day, somebody spotted the Good Samaritan on his rounds of distributing food and - Shyamal Maji’s cover was blown.Thirty-six- year- old Maji is a private tutor in Bolpur, a man of modest income and hardly well-off himself. Yet for the past two weeks, Maji and his flock of students - all from Bolpur and its environs - have been providing food to helpless people amid the ongoing lockdown due to Covid-19 disease across the nation. But why at night, when nobody can see them?Maji is a reluctant speaker and initially refused to be photographed.“Look, I don’t want any fame and would rather remain behind the wings. These people were mainly wage labourers who are jobless now. They still go out every day in search of work and are home at nightfall. But not all of them would like to stand in a queue for food, as some feel ashamed to seek help from others and would rather go hungry,” Maji said.Maji has been giving tuition since 2006, and gets almost 200 – 250 students each year at his coaching centre. His network of students runs into a few thousands, and since he only teaches high school students and undergraduates, most are adults and many already employed.“I have formed a 10-man team to accompany me on this job every night,” Majji says. “Since my students live scattered all over the area we operate in, they identify the neediest in their respective hamlets. Help pours in from the students themselves. Some are employed, others come from well-to-do-families and they all donate generously. Yet others chip in with whatever they can - sometimes with packets of puffed rice,” he added.The recipients of Maji’s kindness are too poor to afford mobiles themselves, but have told their neighbours that Maji’s food packets are like godsends.“Seventy-year-old Balai Kisku of my village, received a packet one night. He was so elated that we could actually see happiness and a sense of relief writ large on his face. He used to make thatched roofs for huts in the village but has been idle since the lockdown,” said Uttam Das of Bolpur’s Bondanga village. Das discovered only later, that the man behind the generous deed was none other than his own son’s tutor, Shyamal Maji. “It was good to know that Maji helped Kisku and others, without blowing his own trumpet,” Das added. Sixty-year-old mason, Paru Murmu, of the same village was initially reluctant to accept Maji’s packets but once he did, the aid came as a great relief to him too.“The people whom we choose to help are the poorest of the poor. It gives me a great sense of satisfaction to do so, but we would prefer to remain in the shadows and work from behind the wings,” said Taraknath Das, a student on Maji’s team. Each packet that he leaves on doorsteps contains around two kilos of rice, potatoes, some vegetables, cooking oil, salt, puffed rice and a soap.“Sometimes I see people clicking photos while providing relief to poor people. One poor, needy man gets one kilo of rice and 15 persons gather around to click a photo. Is that what you are providing relief for?” Das asked.Shyamal Maji, the tutor setting a worthy example for hundreds of young wards, is himself the father of a four-year-old daughter. He says that it is his wife’s cooperation and encouragement alone, that has given him the courage to help others less fortunate then his own family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/covid-19-bengal-s-very-own-santa-claus-secretly-providing-food-packets-to-poor/story-pjJg0soKVTtpmTYI13OjNL.html
29-04-2020||Chandigarh||TikTok’s darling little sardarji is a five-year-old Moga girl||Most netizens have come across the tiny ‘sardarji’ who with her cheeky responses and swoon worthy eye-rolls has become a TikTok star and the nation’s darling. However, not many know that the tiny-tot, who has elicited many a guffaw, is actually a girl. She based in a village in Punjab’s Moga.Five-year-old Noorpreet Kaur, who answers to Noor, of Bhinder Kalan village, has become an internet sensation with people from all over the globe waiting for her videos. The videos are the brainchild of grocery store owner, Sandeep Toor. His TikTok account has one million followers thanks to the endearing videos. Noor’s nine-year-old sister Jashanpreet Kaur and other kids from village also feature in his videos.TOOR ADDED 7 LAKH VIDEOS IN A WEEKToor had never dreamt in his wildest dreams that the videos will become immensely popular: “I started making these videos with the kids for fun and did not expect to receive such a stupendous response,” says Toor.“Earlier, I had only three lakh followers on TikTok but as soon as I uploaded Noor’s videos, my following increased by seven lakhs in a week.”“Noor and her sister would come to shop frequently. Many a times, Noor, would turn up in a patka and impersonate a boy, this gave me the idea for the videos. The viewers have loved the boy with patka so much, all because of Noor,” Toor says. 🤣🤣##sandeepsinghtoor99 ##sandeepsinghtoor ##sandeeptoor9 ##no1_trending ##new_trending ##viralvideo ##pinkabhinder ##punjabifunny ##teambhinder1313THE CELEBRITY BELONGS TO A POOR FAMILY Noor, however, remains blissfully unaware of her celebrity. She says she only follows ‘Sandeep uncle’s’ instructions. The star belongs to a poor family. Her father, Satnam Singh, works as a labourer at a brick-kiln, while her mother is a housewife. Noor studies in Nursery at the government school in her village. One of the videos, where Noor in a patka, is scared to show her report card to her father has been very popular. SARDARJI FREQUENTLY STUMPS HIS FATHER First, the tiny ‘Sardar boy’ says “Mainu taan darr lagi janda bapu toh” (I am scared of father). Later he tells his father, “Yaar doctor daa munda fail ho geya… bapu yaar sarpanch di kudi vi fail ho gai…’ (The doctor’s son has failed as has the sarpanch’s daughter). When the father demands to know his son’s result, the sardar boy replies with his patent eye-roll, “Tu kehda DC lagga, tera wala vi fail ho geya…(Are you posted as a DC? Your kid has also failed).”In another video, the ‘Sardarji’ tells Toor. “Mote kal mainu ik bande ne sawal pucheya, tainu pta panj crore da si, ohda naam das jehra mahine baad nahounda (Fatty, a person asked me a question yesterday, it was worth Rs five crore. They asked the name of a person who takes bath after a week). When Sandeep asks what did he say. Noor cheekily replies, “Main panj crore nu latt marti tera naam nai leya” (I left Rs 5 crore, but did not tell your name).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/tiktok-s-darling-little-sardarji-is-a-five-year-old-moga-girl/story-TVvVeSFwd7aSmPRVyEWY2H.html
29-04-2020||Lucknow||Police Mitra donating blood even in lockdown||Photographs and reports of Good Samaritans in Khaki are only just emerging. However, a police group has been on a mission of saving lives for four years now.The Police Mitra, headed by constable Ashish Mishra, has saved thousands of lives by donating blood for the last few years, especially to those belonging to the poor and marginalised sections, who often fail to arrange blood on time. Even during the lockdown, members of the group, mostly policemen, are donating blood to patients in need.“We have provided blood to over 30 patients across the state since the lockdown began. The group includes donors from all walks of life, but mostly policemen, who rush for help as soon as we receive a call from attendants of the patient. Although, most of the policemen are on duty during lockdown, they still take out time to arrange blood, as every minute is important in emergency cases,” Mishra said.However, Mishra and other members often face problems while they are out to help patients in lockdown. Policemen in uniform usually do not face problems crossing checkpoints to reach hospitals or the blood bank, but other volunteers, like social activists, students and common citizens have to explain the reason for venturing out at checkpoints and are often turned back, Mishra said.“It will be of great help if a pass for all members of Police Mitra in the state is issued by authorities concerned,” he said.The Police Mitra regularly organises blood donation camps and a record was made during the Kumbh. Constable Ashish Mishra, social media cell in charge at IG Prayagraj Range office, had been honoured by the DGP for his service to society.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/police-mitra-donating-blood-even-in-lockdown/story-tK9qcDwBzXzHHzATt46xEP.html
29-04-2020||Lucknow||Authorised vegetable vendors in many areas of Agra||At the behest of circle officer (Sadar) Vikas Jaiswal, Agra police have started a dress code for the vegetable vendors in the localities falling under Sadar Bazaar police station amid Covid-19 pandemic.Under the initiative, blue T-shirts were distributed to 150 vegetable vendors in Tajganj, Rajpur, Taj Nagar and Rakabganj localities on Monday and Tuesday. “We have identified some vegetable vendors locality wise. Only these vendors will only be allowed to sell vegetables in the localities,” the CO, Sadar, said.“There were many unemployed people who began selling vegetables during the lockdown. But now only these authorised vendors would be allowed to do so,” the cop said. “They will first be tested for corona infection. They will be allowed to sell vegetables only if they test negative,” he added. “Pool testing of 50 vendors has been conducted and others will undergo the test soon,” Jaiswal said.The police officer further said some wholesale vegetable vendors too had been given T-shirts. YOGESH DUBEY||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/authorised-vegetable-vendors-in-many-areas-of-agra/story-VOn7Mr4bDbhEEkzdkaUvZK.html
29-04-2020||Pune||70-year-old Covid-19 patient flees isolation facility, walks 17 km to reach home||A 70-year-old Covid-19 patient ran away from an isolation facility here in Balewadi area and apparently walked 17 kilometres to reach his home in Yarwada. He alleged that he escaped the civic body’s quarantine facility as it did not provide food to patients and lacked basic amenities like clean washrooms. On Tuesday evening neighbours found the senior citizen sitting helplessly outside his home, which was locked up since the rest of his family members were also quarantined after some of them also tested positive for Covid-19.When locals found that the old man, who had tested positive for coronavirus on April 25, had arrived at his house, they informed the authorities. The matter then reached to Yerawada area corporator Siddharth Dhende who arranged for an ambulance to take away him to isolation facility. Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“I informed the authorities to immediately rehabilitate the elderly man. I learned that even civic officials were not even aware about that he had disappeared. He was a suspected coronavirus case and was first sent to the Rakshaknagar quarantine facility in Kharadi on April 24. Next day, he was detected positive and he was shifted to Balewadi’s National Institute of Construction Management and Research (NICMAR) facility,” the coporator said.Dhende also expressed concerns regarding the lack of basic amenities in the quarantine facilities and urged the higher authorities to look into the matter. The elderly man’s son, who had also tested positive for Covid-19 arrived with an ambulance and convinced the man to move into the quarantine facility again. The son managed to convince his father after over two hours. The officials said that thankfully the elderly man did not come in contact with anyone else on his way from isolation facility to home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/70-year-old-covid-19-patient-flees-isolation-facility-walks-17-km-to-reach-home/story-dkIrixmmcP272lw1Cf0JNP.html
29-04-2020||Lucknow||UPPCB relaxes norms for makers of PPE, oxygen cylinders||In the wake of their high demand amid Covid-19 pandemic, Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) has relaxed norms for manufacturing personal protective equipment (PPE) kits and oxygen cylinders in the state. “UPPCB has eased off the process of registration of firms that want to manufacture PPE kits and oxygen cylinders. Such firms now begin production only after submitting their preliminary registration online. Their registration will be considered as a temporary permit from the UPPCB,” said Board’s environmental engineer CB Verma.As per the UPPCB guidelines, PPE kits and oxygen cylinder manufacturers can simply register their firm on the UP government’s website and begin production. “The arrangement will be in effect till May 31. During this period, UPPCB will allow these firms to function as our experts give them environmental clearance,” said the officer.PPE consists of garments placed to protect health care workers or any other person from getting infected. It is worn by frontline workers handling Covid-19 cases.PPE kits have become the most essential commodities in fight against Sars-Cov-2 infection. The demand for PPE kits as per government sources has increased by more than 600% in the last one month.Earlier this month, the UPPCB had provided this relaxation to units manufacturing hand sanitisers in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/uppcb-relaxes-norms-for-makers-of-ppe-oxygen-cylinders/story-jVNAjeduKETAWUdbkZDVMJ.html
29-04-2020||Lucknow||An area of Arjunpur village latest corona hotspot in Varanasi||Soon after two of its residents tested positive for Covid-19, an area having 18 houses with 107 people living in them in Arjunpur village here was declared corona hotspot on April 26 night. It was the eighth corona hotspot in the temple town. The other being Madanpura, Nakkhi Ghat, Mandoli, Pitarkunda, Bajardiha, Lohta and Gangapur. However, the last three have now been turned into orange zone as no fresh positive case has been reported from these areas after April 2. As per the guidelines, issued by the union ministry of health affairs, the areas seen as a potential hotspots are put under orange zone.The two persons of Arjunpur village having a population of 4000 people, 50-year-old and other one 37-year-old, who worked in wood Mandi in Kolkata, reached the village on April 22 and tested corona positive four days later.“Soon after the two persons tested positive, administrative officials along with police and medical teams reached the village and asked about the locality of their homes. Soon, the area was declared a corona hotspot. The cops and administrative officers asked the people to stay inside homes,” says village head Vidyashankar Patel. “Cops are deployed on all the entry and exit points of the ways leading to the corona hotspot as well as those leading to the village. No one is allowed to come out of the hotspot,” he adds. Sub-divisional magistrate Vikramadiya Singh Malik said, “People living in the hotspot have been asked to stay inside home and don’t move of their homes. Barricading has been done around the hotspot and cops are deployed.”He said as the hotspot had been sealed, supply of essential commodities will be ensured there. Thermal scanning had also begun in the village and the place was also extensively sanitised, he added.On Monday, divisional commissioner Deepak Agarwal and inspector general of police Vijay Singh Meena inspected the village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/an-area-of-arjunpur-village-latest-corona-hotspot-in-varanasi/story-XR66FOvDLBbc19rHSgbqyK.html
29-04-2020||Lucknow||Get set to resume production, IIA tells its members||The Indian Industries Association (IIA), an industry lobby body of MSMEs sector, has conveyed to all its members to get ready to resume production from May 4 onwards.Till then, the IIA is trying to get all its issues resolved with the Centre and the UP government. The industry lobby body is taking feedback from its 40 chapters across the state through webinars.“From Noida to Varanasi, we are in touch with our members in 40 districts across the state. We have conveyed that industrial production will resume from May 4 onwards. So, they have started taking adequate measures,” added Kumar.“List of problems is being prepared and apprehensions of industrialists are being dispelled,” said Pankaj Kumar, national president, IIA.Major problem before industrialists is getting back the adequate workforce and resumption of inter-state transport services.“We are ready to employ migrant workers if our labourers do not return. The MSMEs do not have any objection in hiring migrant workers,” said Manmohan Agarwal, general secretary, IIA.Various lobby bodies of industrialists have conveyed to the state government that maintenance of supply chain was essential for smooth operation of industrial units.“For this, the government will have to make sure that both intra-state and inter-state transport services remain smooth. Availability of raw material and market place for goods manufactured is must for smooth functioning of industrial units,” said Agarwal.Navneet Sehgal, principal secretary, MSME department said a 25-member task force will be set up to revive industrial activities in the state. Addressing a webinar on ‘reviving growth in challenging times’ with industrialists, Sehgal said, “ The government will soon launch portal ‘msmesathi’ to resolve all issues of the MSME sector related with GST refund, pending payments and other issues.Industrial development minister Satish Mahana also sought suggestions from industrialists for revival of industrial activities in the state.Nikhil Sawhney, chairman, CII Northern region, assured all help to the government in the mission.CHIEF MINISTER YOGI ADITYANATH DIRECTS OFFICIALS FOR A PLANChief minister Yogi Adityanath has also instructed officials to prepare a plan on resuming functioning of industrial units after May 3, when the second phase of lockdown ends.Presiding over a meeting, the chief minister instructed officials to make a plan which could ensure jobs for migrant labourers.After nationwide lockdown from March 25, around five lakh labourers have returned to Uttar Pradesh from Delhi and Mumbai among other places.The state government’s top priority is to engage all these labourers when Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) start production from May 4 onwards, said an official.At present only around 7000 MSMEs listed under the ‘essential goods’ category are operational while there are around 9.5 lakh MSMEs in Uttar Pradesh registered with the IIA.ENSURE EARLY OPERATION OF RURAL INDUSTRY: CSChief secretary,Rajendra Kumar Tiwari on Tuesday sent a letter to all the district magistrates (DMs) directing them to arrange early operation of rural micro and small industries situated outside the containment zones/hot spots in rural areas. He asked them to provide permission for operation of all such rural industrial units. Tiwari, however, asked DMs to ensure inspection of such industries by deputy directors, district industry centres and doctors from time to time for compliance of social distancing and sanitization norms. The CS said employees of all such industries must pass through thermal screening and their RT-PCR test should also be done as extra precaution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/get-set-to-resume-production-iia-tells-its-members/story-NWm34Ej3wljPJiNrAxhj5K.html
29-04-2020||Lucknow||Allow azaan, Ghazipur MP writes to Allahabad HC CJ||Afzal Ansari, Member of Parliament, Ghazipur, has written a letter to the Chief Justice of Allahabad high court highlighting the prohibitory order banning azaan (call to prayer) by the district administration.In a letter dated April 26, Ansari claims that an oral order was passed in this regard by the district magistrate prohibiting azaan in the district. He tried to contact several authorities but there was no response. “Everyone is talking about some oral order but its source and authority has not been disclosed,” Ansari said in the letter.It is stated in the letter that everyone has been diligently following the coronavirus induced lockdown and prayers and gathering in mosques or any other religious places continue to be prohibited but azaan was allowed in every mosque throughout the state and other parts of the country.The letter stipulates that all of a sudden from April 24 onwards it was found that the azaan from mosques is prohibited by the local administration and the police said that if anyone dared to make azaan they would be booked under the National Security Act. In light of this, the MP said that since Ramadan was the month of prayers and this time everyone had decided to pray from their respective homes, azaan was essential as it alerts people about the time of prayer, especially at the time of “Sahree and Iftaar”.Praying for directions from the court to allow azaan by only one person ie Moazzin (man appointed at mosque to call for prayers) from the respective mosque within the district, the petitioner avers that doing so would protect fundamental rights of people of Ghazipur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/allow-azaan-ghazipur-mp-writes-to-allahabad-hc-cj/story-lwCQPFo9MuLTFHQk8b3LgP.html
29-04-2020||Lucknow||12 more positive cases found in Varanasi; 4 from family of medicine seller||Twelve persons, including four of a family, tested positive for Covid-19 in Varanasi on Tuesday. With this, Varanasi’s tally jumped to 49 positive cases.Of the total, eight have been successfully treated and discharged from the hospital while one person died. His report, confirming him corona positive, came after his death. District magistrate Kaushalraj Sharma said 12 samples were reported positive by Banaras Hindu University (BHU) laboratory on Tuesday.He said out of 12 positive cases, four are members of the family of a medicine supplier who was found positive a few days ago.They are his 50-year-old father, 30-year-old sister, 24-year-old wife and one-and-a half-month-old daughter.Three employees of the same supplier and his one 30-year-old customer, who belongs to Pahadia area, have also been found positive.A total of eight cases have contact history of this medicine supplier.He said that three people from Rewri Talab, Bhelupur were found positive. They came in contact with a member from Tabhlighi Jamat from Karnataka.Another man who tested positive is a 60-year-old advocate from Kazipura Khurd area of Sigra. He does not have any travel and contact history. He had fever and was referred by Pt Deendayal Upadhyay Hospital for sampling.The DM said with more cases, a few more hotspots will be earmarked. “It is under discussion and will be decided soon,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/12-more-positive-cases-found-in-varanasi-4-from-family-of-medicine-seller/story-dy7pynUEkKjSNjISq2MOEI.html
29-04-2020||Lucknow||Health staff scared due to lack of PPE kits in Bahraich||Health employees dealing with corona cases in Bahraich are worried due to lack of personal protection equipment (PPE) kits. A medical officer deployed in the hotspot area of Risia, requesting anonymity, said there were 9 hotspots in the district, with Lakhiya Jadeed village of Risia block recently being declared one after a Covid-19 positive case was reported there. He said eight teams were constituted to screen the people but no one was given N95 mask by the authorities. Only one surgical mask and single pair of gloves were given to each worker deployed in the hotspot area. He alleged there was unavailability of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits at the CHC but the authorities concerned were paying no heed to the demand.He said all medical employees were performing their duties honestly but were scared of being infected due to lack of PPE kits. To note, 11 policemen have already been quarantined after they came into contact with a Covid-19 positive person while performing their duties.Chief medical officer (CMO) Bahraich Dr Suresh Singh evaded the issue, saying he was busy. SHARIQ RAIS SIDDIQUI||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/health-staff-scared-due-to-lack-of-ppe-kits-in-bahraich/story-lJleh2DpqI52tn7pvWufyO.html
29-04-2020||Chandigarh||Man burnt alive in Shimla, 7 houses, temple gutted||One person was burnt alive while two sustained injuries after at least seven houses and a temple were after a fire broke out in Shishtwari village, Pekha Gram Panchayat, Chirgaon, in Shimla around 3am on Wednesday.The victim has been identified as Vikas Dhontu, 38, while those injured are Sukhchan, 80, and Surender , 49. Two fire tenders from Rohru and Jubbal were rushed to the spot to douse the flames said superintendent of police (SP) Shimla Omapati Jamwal. A 300-year-old temple dedicated to a local deity was gutted and 14 families were affected.The injured were rushed to Government Hospital, Rohru, where they are undergoing treatment.The cause of fire and loss suffered are yet to be ascertained, he said.This is the third time that an intense fire has broken out in Chirgaon area causing losses worth crores. Earlier, an 80-year-old woman was burnt alive and more than a dozen houses were gutted on Sunday in Dungiyani village. A similar fire mishap took place in Chirgaon market earlier this month.Deputy commissioner Amit Kashyap reached the spot and ration and other relief material was distributed among those affected.He said that this was the third incident in three days and he appealed all people to take all precautions and ensure heaters and the gas was switched off and the wiring was had not worn out . “A firetender will be placed at Chirgaon immediately,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/seven-houses-temple-gutted-in-shimla-one-person-goes-missing-two-injured/story-brI5O7dZVE9BxXOiBVOwZN.html
29-04-2020||Lucknow||UP govt repatriates 900 migrant workers to Shahjahanpur, Kheri||BAREILLY The Uttar Pradesh government has repatriated around 900 migrants from Gurgaon and Faridabad to Shahjahanpur and Kheri districts, on Monday.The authorities on Tuesday started medical screening of the migrants after they were brought in by buses. A medical team has been deployed to take samples of the suspected labourers and send them for tests. Meanwhile, they have been kept in quarantine centre set up in local community health centres. Other labourers have already been quarantined at shelter homes in their tehsils for 14 days.“All the migrants have been provided separate bed sheet, soap, towel, mosquito repellent and other necessary items. Also, there is proper power supply arrangement to ensure the labourers can charge their mobile phones and keep in touch with their families,” said a Shahjahanpur administration official.He said while 300 migrants have arrived in Kheri, those in Shahjahanpur have been kept in various shelter homes. This includes 150 labourers in a facility at Tilhar, 214 in Powayan, 108 in Sadar, 66 in Kalaan and 53 in Jalalabad. Nine labourers from other districts are also quarantined here, with 10 labourers having Covid-19 symptoms kept separately in Kalaan. Their samples will be sent for testing, the official said.Likewise in Kheri, 90 migrants have been quarantined in Mohammadi, 68 in Gola, 44 in Mitauli, 58 in Dhaurahra and 41 in Palia. Medical screening of all labourers was completed at CHCs of respective tehsils, and suspects are being kept separate from the rest.“The labourers have been divided into separate batches and sent to their respective tehsils. Every shelter house will have police for security to ensure no one runs away,” said Shahjahanpur district information officer Alok Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-govt-repatriates-900-migrant-workers-to-shahjahanpur-kheri/story-ZQcBe6sbUPxNnDuhaRK5fP.html
29-04-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana PWD advises against use of ACs in offices to prevent Covid-19 spread||In view of chances of spread of coronavirus in an air-conditioned environment, the Haryana government on Tuesday recommended that air conditioning should not be used in offices or used restrictively.An advisory issued by the public works department (PWD) after consultations with the health department stated that Covid-19 spreads due to droplets and when these droplets mix with dust particles and set on different material, they become all the more infectious.“If the environment of an area is cool and air conditioned, the virus remains there for a longer time. Proper ventilation and increase in temperature reduces the magnitude of virus spread in that particular area. So, air conditioning should be used under strict restriction when absolutely needed. Open window gives better ventilation and is very effective for controlling the transmission of disease. Hence, it is recommended that air conditioning should not be used in offices or be used very restrictively,” said the advisory.It is advisable not to operate centralised air conditioning system in the present scenario because even if the return air ducts are closed, contamination can spread within the room as office spaces are occupied by multiple persons.Allow natural or mechanical ventilation in hospitalsThe PWD has recommended to keep the central air conditioning system non-operational in healthcare facilities and allow natural ventilation by opening windows and doors in quarantine and isolation wards, morgues, waste zone, screening and triage area, staff area, waiting rooms in hospitals. It also recommended mechanical ventilation by using exhaust fans in sampling room, severe and critical cases wards.“In district hospital, where there is sufficient space, natural ventilation should be allowed. Isolation facilities should have large windows on opposite walls of the room allowing a natural unidirectional flow (top to down) and air changes. The principle of natural ventilation is to allow and enhance the flow of outdoor air by natural forces such as wind and thermal buoyancy forces from one opening to another to achieve the desirable air change per hour,” the communication said.Keep ACs on in vacant rooms onlyThe advisory said that for residential use, fans should be operated with windows kept partly open. If an exhaust fan is located at a nearby location, then it must be kept running to exhaust air for better ventilation.Desert coolers are useful in drawing air from outside to ensure good ventilation and windows must be kept open to release the humid air. Portable room coolers that do not draw air from outside are not recommended.Room ACs (windows and split) should be switched on in a vacant room in the absence of people to cool the premises. However, they should be switched off on arrival of people. Ceiling fans should be kept running. Adequate ventilation must be ensured by opening the windows, the advisory said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-pwd-advises-against-use-of-acs-in-offices/story-3UAznLaprzr95CgL2T32BL.html
29-04-2020||Chandigarh||12 more Hazur Sahib pilgrims test positive for Covid-19 in Punjab, 4 students test positive in Ludhiana||Seven Hazur Sahib pilgrims tested positive for the novel coronavirus disease in Ludhiana and three in Hoshiarpur on Wednesday, while two pilgrims tested positive in Faridkot late on Tuesday.Four students, who had arrived from Kota on Sunday and Monday also tested positive for the infection in Ludhiana. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said all patients from the district are asymptomatic. The administration, which had earlier escorted the pilgrims and students to their homes in taxis and PCR vehicles, on Tuesday turned up at their doors to take them to a health facility on Chandigarh Road, after 12 persons who had returned from Nanded, a popular Sikh shrine in Maharashtra, tested positive for Covid-19.Dr Bagga said the reports had been received from Dayanand Medical College and Hospital and had been shared with the ICMR. The medical research agency will issue an official statement on it.  The health department has taken 56 pilgrims from the district and 25 students who had returned from Kota, Rajasthan, to a quarantine facility at Mother and Child Hospital on Chandigarh road.Around 50 results are still awaited. Senior medical officer Mother And Child Hospital Dr Amita Jain said the samples of all returnees were collected on Tuesday and sent for testing.The samples of high-risk persons, including 22 students and 18 pilgrims were sent for testing at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMC&H), while the remaining samples have been sent to Patiala, said Jain .The health department faced mild resistance as some of the pilgrims and students ,who had barely spent a day at home after remaining stranded for over a month were asked to visit the hospital.HOSHIARPUR,FARIDKOT REPORT NEW CASESTwo women and a child were found positive for the deadly infection in Hoshiarpur’s Moranwali. With this there are four active cases in the district and the Covid-19 count is 11.In Faridkot, two women in their 60s were admitted to the isolation ward of Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital at Faridkot. They are both residents of Sandhwan village block in Faridkot district. Now, there are four active Covid-19 cases in the district, while one patient has recovered.Civil surgeon Dr Rajinder Kumar said, “Two of the 20 persons , who had returned to Faridkot, from Hazur Sahib have tested positive, while reports of 18 others are awaited. With this the total number of positive patients in the district has reached five. These pilgrims were quarantine at a government school after their return and we have initiated the contact tracing.”The group of 20 had returned from Maharashtra’s Hazur Sahib on a bus on Sunday. All 20, belong to Sandhwan village in Kotkapura sub-division. They had gone on the pilgrimage in the first week of March, but they got stranded there after the lockdown.50 MORE PILGRIMS EXPECTED, SAYS FARIDKOT DCDeputy commissioner Kumar Saurabh Raj said around 50 more people, including 25 from Sandhwan and 12 from Pacca village, are expected to arrive here from Nanded within next the next 24 hours. He said administration had made the arrangements to quarantine all the persons retuning from Nanded.Around 3,000-odd pilgrims had been stranded in Hazur Sahib, one of the five temporal seats of Sikhs, in Nanded district of Maharashtra after imposition of a nationwide lockdown. These pilgrims, which belong to different parts of Punjab, have been returning in batches.SOCIAL DISTANCING GOES FOR A TOSSThough the health department had said that pilgrims based in Moranwali, who returned from Nanded on Saturday, were quarantined as soon as they landed but sources say they first went to the village gurdwara to pay obeisance. On Monday, some panchayat members also went to their residences to offer ‘siropas’ to them. The health workers are now busy identifying their contacts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/five-more-hazur-sahib-pilgrims-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-punjab/story-5SW2GoOK6BJeHxZpTyKxYO.html
29-04-2020||Jaipur||19 more Covid-19 cases in Rajasthan, state tally reaches 2,383||19 more COVID-19 cases have been reported from Rajasthan, taking the state’s tally of coronavirus cases to 2,383 on Wednesday, said the state Health Department.Out of the 19 new cases, 5 are from Jaipur, 11 from Ajmer, one case each from Udaipur, Banswara and Jodhpur, the health department’s bulletin added.Meanwhile, India’s tally of COVID-19 cases has reached 31,332, said the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on Wednesday. With 73 more deaths reported, the number of deaths due to coronavirus in the country breached the 1,000 mark and stood at 1,007.The tally is inclusive of 22,629 active coronavirus cases, 7,695 patients who have been cured/discharged and one patient migrated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/19-more-covid-19-cases-in-rajasthan-state-tally-reaches-2-383/story-HR4LJ16opPTa1eQKPsqqoJ.html
29-04-2020||Pune||Covid-19 positive pregnant women get 2 dedicated hospitals||Chandumama Sonawane Hospital and Meera Hospital in Pune have been declared as dedicated hospitals for Covid-19 positive pregnant women, said Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). Chandumama Sonawane Hospital is run by the PMC while Meera Hospital is a private hospital.Meanwhile, the total number of positive cases in Pune district has climbed to 1,491 and the death toll stands at 83, informed the Health Department, Zilla Parishad, Pune on Tuesday.Maharashtra, one of the most affected states in the country, has reported 9,318 Covid-19 cases so far.The state reported 729 new cases on Tuesday, as per the latest data provided by the state Health Department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/covid-19-positive-pregnant-women-get-2-dedicated-hospitals/story-fDdKoDgey9DFpabM16eO7H.html
29-04-2020||Education||Patna High Court directs state, Centre to help stranded students in Kota and elsewhere||The Patna High Court on Tuesday directed the Bihar government and the Centre to make all arrangements for the students stranded in Kota (Rajasthan) and elsewhere in the country.The court said it would not be appropriate for it to pass an order on merit of the case without giving the opportunity to the Union of India to file counter affidavit and while a writ of similar nature is pending before the Supreme Court.Hearing a bunch of four public interest litigations (PILs) through video conferencing, the bench of Justice Hemant Kumar Srivastava and Justice Rajendra Kumar Mishra fixed May 5 as the next date for hearing. On May 4, a writ petition filed by advocate Prashant Bhushan is to come up for another hearing before the apex court and the Centre has to file its response.Additional Solicitor General SD Sanjay, appearing for the Union of India, sought a week’s time from the court, saying the Centre was in the process of preparing a detailed protocol for interstate movement of the migrants back to their native places in accordance with the SC order. “Once that is ready, it will be filed in the Patna HC,” he said.Bhushan had filed the PIL urging the apex court for direction to the Centre to allow migrants to return to their home towns and villages after undergoing test for Covid-19 and provide them facilities for safe return. The apex court has sought Centre’s response on that. Advocate General Lalit Kishor, appearing for the Bihar government, reiterated state’s stand made in its earlier reply to the registrar general of the Patna HC. The state government had stated that though it was sensitive to the plight of students stranded outside, bringing them back in the midst of lockdown was not desirable, as it would tantamount to violation of the guidelines issued by the ministry of home affairs and subject them as well as others to undue risk.Four PILs, including one by advocate Ajay Thakur whose representation to the chief justice had evoked response from the government, have been filed in Patna HC in connection with the issue of Bihar migrant labourers and students stranded in different parts of the country.Thakur said that he apprised the court of the problems being faced by the students stranded in Kota and other parts of the country for over a month and how other states were making arrangements to bring back their students and migrants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/patna-high-court-directs-state-centre-to-help-stranded-students-in-kota-and-elsewhere/story-7E7JlXHlwEw4bM3P8q4qJJ.html
29-04-2020||Education||‘Schools push parents to buy costly books, stationery’||The booklist for the new academic session, released by private schools in the state capital, is putting a strain on the parents’ wallet.Parents of school-going children alleged the school managements were compelling them to buy a good quantity of books of private publishers along with stationaries from the school counters or shops, which could be easily done away with.Sailesh Kumar, whose daughter studies in Class 8, claimed that he had to buy books and stationaries worth Rs 4,800 of which around Rs 1200 was spent on stationary only. “The school counter is offering books along with notebooks and few stationary items. They are not giving us option to buy books separately,” said Kumar.Another parent Neetu Jaiswal, whose daughter studies in class 7, said, “The school has increased number of books to mint money. They prescribe multiple books for each subject, which are expensive and seldom taught in classrooms.”Sunil Verma, father of a class 9 student, complained that the school management is forcing parents to buy reference books along with NCERT books. “Reference books are costlier. All NCERT books of class 9 can be purchased in Rs. 1000 to 1500, but reference books cost around Rs 3000 to Rs 4000,” said Verma.Rekha Shrivastava said, “We have no option but to buy stationaries from schools as they have pre-printed school logos on stationary items which is compulsory item and unavailable in market.” On the other hand, general manager of a private school, who wished not to be identified, said, “We provide books and stationary kit to parents for their convenience. The kit consists stationary items, which are essential for project works and competitions which take place regularly.”C B Singh, president of Association of Independent Schools, said, “Parents are free to buy books from anywhere as per prescribed books list. If any book store or school counter is offering them combined kit, they can refuse and ask for selective items.”Earlier in February, divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal had also issued instructions for all the private schools to upload their fee structure and book list price on their official website by March 31. However, most of the schools have not adhered to his order yet.On Tuesday, the regional deputy director of education Surendra Kumar Sinha, said, “It is violation of Bihar Private School (Fee Regulation) Act 2019, if parents are forced to buy books and stationaries from the school. The parents can lodge complaint through email at rdde.patna@gmail.com. The department will take action against the schools after probing matter.”Sinha added that he had received complaints against several schools and the department was going to serve show-cause notice soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/schools-push-parents-to-buy-costly-books-stationery/story-JjNc5jcJyHZE3ti7Zym4eP.html
29-04-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand reports two more Covid-19 cases, state infection tally goes up to 105||Two more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Jharkhand on Tuesday, taking the total number of cases in the state to 105, health officials said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThere are 83 active cases in Jharkhand, they said, adding, 19 patients have been discharged from hospitals following recovery.Two people have so far died due to the contagion in the state.On Monday, 20 people, including a police officer, tested positive for coronavirus in Jharkhand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-reports-two-more-covid-19-cases-total-105/story-zR9Z2WwiFl77ycMunqDTvJ.html
29-04-2020||Ranchi||Decision on parole to Lalu Prasad awaited; Tejashwi cites reports of doctors attending him quarantined||With the Jharkhand government yet to decide on giving parole to jailed RJD chief Lalu Prasad Yadav, Leader of Opposition in Bihar Assembly Tejashwi Yadav on Tuesday expressed concern over reports of doctors attending his father being quarantined after coming in contact with Covid-19 patients.The RJD supremo has been admitted in the private ward of Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) which has been designated as a ‘coronavirus hospital’.On April 13, Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren had said that the state government was seeking legal advice to release the incarcerated RJD chief on parole amid growing cases of infection at the isolation ward of RIMS. Prasad has been under treatment for multiple chronic ailments in the paying ward of the RIMS.“I am worried because at the age of 72 years and suffering from chronic ailments like kidney, heart and diabetes, the RJD chief and my father needs more protective measures amid the pandemic,” Tejashwi said in a moving appeal, apparently seeking early release of his father on parole. “Only those who have families can feel what I am enduring,” he said.The RJD is part of the Hemant Soren-led coalition government in Jharkhand.Lalu Prasad is in jail since December 2017 and serving 14 years in prison in connection with fodder scam cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/decision-on-parole-to-lalu-prasad-awaited-tejashwi-cites-reports-of-doctors-attending-him-quarantined/story-jNPzjgE6Xkij5cQsOQ4CLL.html
29-04-2020||Mumbai||Lawyer writes to President, Maharashtra Governor on CM’s MLC nomination||Even as governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari is yet to take a decision on nominating Uddhav Thackeray as a member of the state legislative Council, city advocate Tanveer Nizam on behalf of social activist Irfan Qureshi has written a letter to the governor as well as President Ram Nath Kovind requesting them to accept the recommendation made by the state cabinet. In the letter, Nizam has said the state needs a stable government as it is facing a public health emergency.“Article 163 clearly states that the Governor is required to exercise his functions on the aid and advice of the council of ministers. Further, it is important to note that Maharashtra is in a state of a medical emergency and has the highest number of Covid-19 cases. There is every reason to ensure a stable government, as the current one, is in place and at the helm Uddhav Thackeray as MLC and a chief minister. Hence, my client humbly prays that the nomination of Uddhav Thackeray by the state council of ministers pending since April 10 is allowed at the earliest in the spirit of democracy, rule of law and justice,” states the letter. Thackeray, who was sworn in as chief minister on November 28 last year has to get elected to one of the two houses of state legislature within six months, else he will have to resign. In that case, the entire cabinet will have to resign. The six-month period in Thackeray’s case is ending on May 27.Thackeray had planned to contest a by-election to the legislative council, but it got postponed due to Covid-19 outbreak.The governor has powers to appoint people on 12 seats that come from various walks of life such as arts, culture, literature and social service. Of them, two seats are currently vacant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/lawyer-writes-to-president-maharashtra-governor-on-cm-s-mlc-nomination/story-FSvK1AmVna12DG4I7DTw8L.html
29-04-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka govt orders NGOs to avoid distributing food in plastic bags||Karnataka government on Tuesday ordered organisations and NGOs in the state to distribute food to people in plastic boxes and not in polythene bags. “The state government has ordered the distribution of food and meals in plastic boxes instead of in polythene bags,” said the Information and Public Relations Department of the state government.According to the government, during Covid-19, not only government departments and agencies but also various organisations and NGOs are providing meals to workers in polythene covers.“However, in order to protect the health of the workers, the government has ordered the supply of food or meals in plastic boxes instead of polythene covers,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-govt-orders-ngos-to-avoid-distributing-food-in-plastic-bags/story-N02GrXGHQNvbjnr6SGekIN.html
29-04-2020||Ranchi||CRPF jawans posted at Ranchi’s Hindpiri to enforce Covid-19 lockdown||CRPF jawans are being posted in three shifts at Ranchis Covid-19 hotspot Hindpiri locality to ensure that people strictly follow lockdown rules, an official said on Tuesday.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageResidents of Hindpiri are not allowed to enter or leave the area, Ranchi Deputy Commissioner Rai Mahimapat Ray said.The administration would provide ambulance in case of any emergency medical requirement, he said.Ray held a meeting with the CRPF and district officials on Tuesday, a day after the Jharkhand government decided to deploy personnel from the central para-military force amid rising coronavirus cases, mostly in that locality.Ranchi Senior Superintendent of Police Anish Gupta said action would be taken if any person flouts the lockdown guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/crpf-jawans-posted-at-ranchi-s-hindpiri-to-enforce-lockdown/story-FKjWJUl7qsSd2nrqVlSx8H.html
29-04-2020||Bangalore||Siddaramaiah urges govt to announce special stimulus package for EWS||Former Karnataka Chief Minister Siddaramaiah on Tuesday held a meeting with various associations related to auto, taxi and others.“I urge the government to announce a special stimulus package for the Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) in society. The government must immediately provide help to daily wagers. Many farmers too have lost their livelihood and the government must come to their aid. If the government does not take the above suggestions seriously. I will take to the streets and protest soon once this crisis is over,” Siddaramaiah told media after the meeting.He said he has demanded many times that the state government should supply free food to these families which may cost around Rs 15 to 20 crore.“In Karnataka, there are more than 20 lakh organised workers, out of which only 12 lakh workers have got Rs 2,000,” he added.Siddaramaiah mentioned that these people are getting food packets only in BJP-ruled constituencies. He also alleged that BJP is doing “vendetta politics”.“Labourers who depend on daily wages need economic stimulus. Commercial vehicles seized during lockdown should be released,” he further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/siddaramaiah-urges-govt-to-announce-special-stimulus-package-for-ews/story-1ObFcUaROBRsmS5Ddg6oIK.html
29-04-2020||Delhi||Delhi among 15 areas that make up 60% Covid-19 cases||Delhi and 14 districts across the country account for over 60% of all Covid-19 cases reported in India, according to data from the federal think tank Niti Aayog, whose chief executive officer Amitabh Kant says diligent monitoring, and aggressive testing, treating and containment are required to check the spread of the disease. Delhi, which has 11 districts, accounts for 12.62% of all cases in the country as of Monday. Mumbai and Indore feature among the list of the 14 other districts.“Our job is to present the nationwide picture, but it is the state governments that have to take strong, ruthless containment measures, more testing, isolation, and treatment in order to bring the number of cases down,” Kant told HT. “ These are the 15 places that have reported more than 1% of India’s cases and it is here that we have to flatten the curve to win the fight against the virus,” said Kant. There are 33 other districts that have reported over 100 cases each so far, he said.Along with the data, Niti Aayog also presented a weekly trend of the number of cases, which shows that most of the states with these 15 high-case burden areas have started showing a decline other than Maharashtra and Delhi.“However, it is not enough to show a decline over one week, this has to be consistent for three to four weeks to be a correct indication of a downward trend. This is the reason I have also put up Kerala’s trends, which has shown week on week constant decline. We must learn from what Kerala did,” said Kant.Most of the 15 places referred to by the Niti Aayog are big cities such as Mumbai, Delhi, Chennai, Hyderabad, and Ahmedabad. Experts believe this is mainly due to density of the population in these cities and testing bias.These cities account for a big chunk of cases reported from their respective states – Mumbai accounts for 33% of cases in Maharashtra; Ahmedabad accounts for 66% of the cases from Gujarat; Indore accounts for 49.5% cases in Madhya Pradesh; and Hyderabad accounts for 55.6% of the cases in Telangana.“If you see the bigger cities, the population is dense leading to a faster spread of infectious diseases. Also, when it comes to testing, we have a track record of testing more in the urban areas,” said Dr T Jacob John, professor emeritus and former head of virology department at Christian Medical College, Vellore.In Delhi too, the areas with the highest number of cases are those with a high proportion of slums and resettlement colonies.“The analysis by NitiAayog is wrong in considering Delhi as one whole. It is not that entire Delhi is reporting high number of cases, but certain districts are. The districts where this is happening, there are slums and resettlement colonies where maintaining social distancing is not possible,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of public health at Safdarjung Hospital.Experts say that it is community engagement rather than lockdowns that can help bring down the number of cases. “What we need to do is engage with the community, make them responsible for ensuring social distancing and other measures,” said Dr Kishore.Dr John cited the example of Kerala, where authorities were quarantining all those who travelled to the state, whether from abroad or other parts of India. “Maybe the government should have gone into communities in places like Mumbai’s Dharavi and explained about the disease, asked them to start wearing masks a month ago. Cities like Ahmedabad where the population density is lower can still implement these measures, but for bigger cities like Delhi and Mumbai, all the government can do now is firefight.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-among-15-areas-that-make-up-60-covid-19-cases/story-DLYOanzKMAtEpgKoiCrDNP.html
29-04-2020||City||Day after dropping them home, Ludhiana quarantines pilgrims, students||After 12 persons from the state who recently returned from Nanded, a popular Sikh shrine in Maharashtra, tested positive for Covid-19, the Ludhiana health department swung into action and sent all 56 pilgrims from the district and 25 students who had returned from Kota, Rajasthan, to a quarantine facility at Mother and Child Hospital on Chandigarh road.Confirming the development, the hospital’s senior medical officer Dr Amita Jain said that samples of all persons who recently entered the state, are being collected and sent for testing. She said they have also been placed under quarantine and decision on the further course of action will be taken after their reports come.The administration, which had earlier escorted the pilgrims and students to their homes in taxis and PCR vehicles, turned up at the homes on Tuesday and took them back to the health facility.Sources said the health department faced mild resistance as some of the pilgrims and students who had barely spent a day at home after remaining stranded for over a month were reluctant to visit the hospital.Deputy commissioner Pradeep Agrawal informed that as per the latest protocol of the health department, testing of all persons who returned from Nanded (Maharashtra) and Kota (Rajasthan) was being done and they have been kept in quarantine.Dr Rajesh Bagga said the decision has been taken to identify the asymptotic patients and curtail the further spread of virus.MAJOR REPRIEVE FOR HEALTH DEPARTMENTIn a major reprieve for the health department, 10 primary contacts of the food supply inspector, who is the husband of the Covid positive block development and panchayat Officer (BDPO), tested negative for the virus. Besides, the department received 106 samples and all were found to be negative, stated civil surgeon Dr Bagga.On the other hand, DC Pradeep Agrawal stated that as many as 1,991 samples have been taken in the district so far, out of which reports of 1,670 have been received, and 1,649 samples have been found negative.He informed that 21 samples were found to be positive, that includes 18 from Ludhiana and three from other districts.He informed that five patients have lost their lives, while seven patients have been fully cured after treatment and discharged from hospital.He stated that so far nine (8 from Ludhiana and one from another district) active patients are left in the district. He informed that no positive case have been reported from the district in the last 24 hours.He assured that the health of active patients in the district is improving and second sample of three such patients have been sent, and if that the report is negative, another test would be done after 24 hours (of the second test) and if that report is also negative, then the patients would be discharged from the hospital. He informed that the second sample of the patients is taken after 14 days (when they test positive).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/day-after-dropping-them-home-ludhiana-quarantines-pilgrims-students/story-tiPnzS9tmShzUtZJEu1iHJ.html
29-04-2020||City||At 29%, J&K’s recovery from Covid-19 better than national average of 23%||Despite coronavirus infections going past 564 in Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday, the state is showing a healthy recovery rate with few patients needing ventilator support. In fact, J&K recovery percentage at 29% is more than the national average which stands at 23%, as on Tuesday evening.Experts said this could indicate better immunity or a weaker strain of virus in the Valley. They also said that those who were infected in the Valley did not need ventilator support during their ailment.Of 29,974 Covid cases in the country, 6,868 have recovered, taking the national recovery rate to 23%, while 939 have died, putting the national figure at 3.1%.Till Tuesday evening, J&K had 564 cases, with eight deaths which makes for around 1.41% death rate, and 164 recoveries makes a recovery rate of around 29%.In Kashmir, with 134 out of 507 cases having recovered, the recovery translates into 26.4% and six deaths make for 1.18 %.Dr Salim Khan, head of the department of social and preventive medicine, Government Medical College, Srinagar, said that people must not panic as positive cases in Kashmir are around 500. He said, “This is due to aggressive testing of contacts of declared positive patients. As of now severe cases from the community coming to hospital is very negligible and the situation shows no cause for alarm, but we still cannott lower our guard.’’Dr Khan, also the nodal officer of Covid-19 team, said that 1000–1500 samples are tested every day, so 20–30 covid cases will show up. Our percentage of positive cases according to number of tests is around 3 to 4%, less than many other states. It also varies from state to state as per testing of samples,’’ he said.Currently every suspicious patient in Kashmir is tested on an urgent basis, he added.Dr Amjid Ali, consultant at GMC Baramulla, which has seen many Covid cases, said there were two possibilities—either the strain of virus is weak or people here have a good immunity. “People in Ladakh and Jammu are more alert to social distancing, and if in we seriously abide by precautions, cases will come down in Valley, too.’’ However, he said that no research has been conducted yet but these are the indicators from the patient records coming to various hospitals and Covid-19 designated centres.Baramulla district , with three deaths, has 67 positive cases so far, and half the Valley’s Covid-19 deaths have been from this district. However, doctors say that most patients admitted in the medical college didn’t need any ventilator support, and 21 patients were discharged after recovery.“Most patients are fine and didn’t require medical intervention other than the required protocol for Covid patients across the country. Despite fresh cases showing up, our recovery rate is very encouraging,’’ said Dr Masood, the medical superintendent of Baramulla Medical College.Medical personnel are optimistic at SKIMS, one of J&K’s biggest hospitals which has admitted the maximum number of Covid-19 patients in Kashmir. “The recovery of patients is a good sign. I think God has been kind to us,’’ said Dr Farooq Jan, medical superintendent at SKIMS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/at-29-j-k-s-recovery-from-covid-19-better-than-national-average-of-23/story-tcQ5NznR94SYdGJypmM15M.html
29-04-2020||City||J&K admn brings back 5,000 stranded migrant workers from HP, Punjab||Around 5,000 workers from Jammu and Kashmir who were stranded in Himachal Pradesh and Punjab due to the coronavirus lockdown have been brought back to the Union territory in the last four days, an official said on Tuesday.The administration now plans to bring another 10,000 migrants in the next seven days.“The administration is working in tandem with the Punjab and Himachal Pradesh governments. On Monday, we evacuated 369 students from Kota in Rajasthan, and on the same day, we also brought back 1,200 labourers from the two states. Prior to it, 1,800 migrants had arrived in the UT,” said a top official requesting anonymity.The senior official said that over 15 buses ferrying the labourers had left Kathua for Kashmir. Amid the ongoing lockdown, these migrant workers were stranded in other states and were struggling to return home. “Since Ramzan has started, the J&K administration decided to bring the stranded workers back to their hometown in coordinance with the governments of Himachal Pradesh and Punjab. After they arrived here, they were kept in various quarantine centres,” he said.These workers are being screened at Lakhanpur in Kathua and then sent to their native district where they are being kept under administrative quarantine facilities, the official added.“Another 1,200 facilitated. Numbers over 3,000 now...Everybody, please be patient. we are reaching out,” Rohit Kansal, principal secretary and government spokesperson had earlier said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-admn-brings-back-5-000-stranded-migrant-workers-from-hp-punjab/story-dqG0EMUiEIQzlCo1OhARzJ.html
29-04-2020||City||19 fresh cases detected in J&K, tally reaches 565||Nineteen fresh Covid-19 cases were reported from Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday, taking the total number of positive cases to 565 in the Union Territory, said the media bulletin. All cases are from Kashmir region.With the new tally, the number of positive cases in Kashmir stands at 507. On the new cases, eight were found in Anantnag district, two in Pulwama , five in Baramulla, three in Shopian and one in Kupwara.As many as 12 more coronavirus patients, all from Jammu division—11 from CD Hospital and one from Government Hospital—have recovered and discharged.According to the media bulletin, out of 565 positive cases, 381 are active positive, 176 have recovered and eight have died.Furthermore, till date 68,262 travellers and persons in contact with suspected cases have been put under surveillance which include 6,364 persons in home quarantine, including facilities operated by government, 255 in hospital quarantine and 9,082 under home surveillance. As many as 52,172 persons have completed their 28-day surveillance period.The bulletin further said that 16,054 samples have tested negative.Giving district-wise breakup, the bulletin said Jammu has 26 positive cases, of which, eight are active positive and 18 have recovered; Udhampur has 20 positive cases, of which, three are active positive, 18 have recovered and one died; Rajouri has four positive cases and three have recovered and only one is active positive; Samba district has four positive cases; Kishtwar has one positive case and Kathua, Ramban and Reasi have one active positive case each.The bulletin said that the breakup represents districts from which the patients have been traced or are ordinarily residing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/19-fresh-cases-detected-in-j-k-tally-reaches-565/story-5axFGAsyQtkeweztxlByGJ.html
29-04-2020||City||400 Kashmiri migrants sent home from Palampur||About 400 Kashmir migrants who were stranded in Palampur and nearby areas of Kangra district were sent home on Tuesday.The arrangements were made by Palampur administration said Dharmesh Ramotra, sub-divisional magistrate of Palampur, adding that 14 buses had been arranged to ferry the Kashmiri migrants back home.“Most of the labourers were stranded in Palampur sub-division and some in Baijnath and Jaisinghpur areas,” said Ramotra adding migrants included labourers, woodcutters and shawl sellers.They will be dropped to Samba town from where J&K administration will make further arrangements for their travel. The migrants were provided medical fitness certificates by local authorities and the buses in which they were sent were also sanitised.ENSURING SUPPLY OF VEGGIES, FRUITSThe director of Himachal Pradesh Agriculture Marketing Board, Kangra, Sanjay Upadhyay said they were ensuring that there is no dearth of vegetables and fruits in the district.“I along with Raj Kumar Bhardwaj, secretary of Kangra Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC), are visiting market yards across the district from time to time to ensure proper supply,” said Upadhyay, where he said they were also making sure that social distancing norms are followed strictly in these yards.He said it was also ensured that people get essential goods for a genuine price. “We have conducted surprise inspection at market yards to check prices,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/400-kashmiri-migrants-sent-home-from-palampur/story-zPxxBdiBqbdahKmg5jD2oN.html
29-04-2020||Chandigarh||Cows fight for survival as Chandigarh’s Sector 45 gaushala faces fodder shortage amid lockdown||With reduced footfall and donations amid the Covid-19 lockdown, the gaushala at Sector 45 in Chandigarh is facing acute fodder shortage. The depleting stocks have posed a threat to the survival of the bovines.The cow shelter is run by a non-government organisation (NGO), Gauri Shanker Sewa Dal, from the past 10 years and is dependent on donations from visitors.The vice-president of the NGO, who manages the cow shelter, Vinod Kumar, said due to the lockdown, there had been a sharp decline in the footfall of visitors which has resulted in fiscal crunch. Also, people used to bring green fodder to feed the cows,” he added.He said around 40 labourers who worked in the shelter were also dependent on donations for their wages.Kumar added, “As few villages of Punjab have completely banned the entry and exit of people, we are unable to contact the fodder suppliers, and new suppliers are selling the fodder on higher rates. However, presently we are borrowing the fodder. But we need to clear the dues after lockdown.”He said they will need the support of administration and people.Presently, the shelter hosts more than 1,000 cows and for each cow, around 25kg fodder, including 15kg green grass and 10kg dry grass, is required per day which brings the total cost to around Rs 70, 000. Despite several attempts, the municipal corporation commissioner KK Yadav could not be contacted for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cows-fight-for-survival-as-chandigarh-s-sector-45-gaushala-faces-fodder-shortage-amid-lockdown/story-lSgo84WN095jQ1erWn9PbI.html
29-04-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s doubling rate increased to 10 days||Mumbai’s doubling rate of cases has now gone upto 10 days, from the doubling rate of 7 days calculated for the city five or six days ago. Doubling rate simply means the amount of time or number of days that are needed for number of cases to double.Additional Municipal Commissioner incharge of the health department Suresh Kakani said on Tuesday, “Mumbai’s doubling rate has gone upto 10 days now, that was once at 4 or 5 days in the initial stages of the outbreak.”Kakani also said that BMC noticed a lot of positive cases emerged from those in quarantine already, that has helped contain the spread, as these people cannot come in contact with anyone in the community.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-doubling-rate-increased-to-10-days/story-vlg5IaQMtTWC35q43bU2dP.html
29-04-2020||Mumbai||Dip in Mumbai’s asymptomatic cases||After the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) revised its guidelines for testing suspected Covid-19 cases in Mumbai on April 15, with a circular that directed all assistant commissioners not to collect samples from any person not showing Covid-19 symptoms such as cough or fever, the percentage of asymptomatic cases among those who have tested positive has gone down to 35% to 40%, as per data available for April 22. Until mid-April, the number of asymptomatic cases among those who tested positive ranged upto 70% to 80% of the total cases.Through this change in approach, the percentage positivity (number of positive patients emerging from the total number of tests done) of the city increased to 6.7% on April 23, as opposed to 4.5% on April 15, according to the BMC. On April 15, the BMC issued a circular as per Indian Council of Medical Research’s guidelines, directing all assistant commissioners (or ward officers) and lab incharge not to collect samples from persons not showing any symptoms.This circular mandates that testing will only be done for symptomatic persons (who have cough, fever), symptomatic high-risk contacts of Covid-19 positive patients, people over 60 years of age who are high-risk contacts of Covid-19 positive patients whether they are showing symptoms or not, healthcare workers, pregnant women if they are risk contacts of patients, and patients on dialysis and chemotherapy. The circular barred any persons not showing symptoms from getting tested. Meanwhile asymptomatic high-risk contacts of positive patients can get if they develop symptoms, or after careful observation between 5 and 14 days of contact.The civic body’s rationale was to effectively utilize its testing capacity. Until then, the percentage positivity in the city stood at 4.5%. As of April 22, between 35% and 40% of the patients are asymptomatic, and between 40% to 45% of the patients are symptomatic.On the other hand, the BMC scaled up its testing per day. The present average of tests per day rests at 2,200. According to the BMC, number of tests conducted per day increases by 3% daily. On April 17, the BMC conducted its maximum number of single-day tests, at 4200, as of data available on April 22.According to the BMC data, upto March 31, Mumbai conducted an average of 300 tests per day. In the first week of April, this figure increased to 1,000+ tests a day, in the second week of April it increased to 2,000+ a day, and in the third week of April it increased 3,000+ tests a day. On April 1, BMC conducted 1100 tests per day; on April 7 it increased to 1700 tests per day; on April 8 it increased to 2200 tests per day; on April 15 it increased to 2700 tests per day; on April 16 it increased to 3100 tests per day; and on April 22 it increased to 3,700 per day. Approximately 4500 tests are being done in the city per million population of Mumbai.A senior civic officer said, “With focused testing on those who really need it, we are getting better results. We decided not to screen asymptomatic risk contacts of positive patients too soon, to avoid a false negative. Doing a test within the first five days can lead to a negative result, as the virus can take up to 7 days from the day of contraction to show up in a test. They are kept under observation and quarantine.”Daksha Shah, BMC’s deputy executive health officer, said “We are rigourously testing. We are testing high-risk contacts of positive patients, even if they are asymptomatic. According to ICMR guidelines, they are being tested between five and 14 days from the day of contact, for more accurate results. Once you are a positive patient, regardless of whether you are asymptomatic or symptomatic, your high-risk contacts and with comorbidity are tested between five and 14 days.”Sanjay Pattiwar, independent public health consultant, said, “We have to rationalise and use our test resources judicially, as they are depleting. Our priority, or any government’s priority in cases of shortage of supply during such a health emergency should be safeguarding patients, patients’ contacts, health workers, symptomatic, and then asymptomatic, in that order. Asymptomatic patients have lower threat of transmitting the diseases, as they are not showing symptoms such as cough, cold. They have lower scope of throwing the virus out of their bodies. Besides with recent awareness of wearing masks, and personal hygiene, 90% chance of transmission of asymptomatic persons transmitting it is reduced. People now are sensitised, and are careful not to touch their face, or eyes when they go out.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/dip-in-mumbai-s-asymptomatic-cases/story-NouVBuqDlxRqmXenvlsY0I.html
29-04-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s doubling rate dips below national average for the first time||At 6.64 days, Chandigarh’s Covid-19 cases, for the first time, doubled faster than the national average of 10.2 days on Tuesday.The doubling rate is the average calculated by using growth over the past seven days. This has prompted the UT administration to test each and every symptomatic person in the “affected pockets”.Amid the developments, Prime Minister Narendra Modi dialled UT administrator VPS Badnore to take stock of the situation in the city.Apprising Modi about the steps taken to fight Covid-19, Badnore explained how health authorities were dealing with infected patients and others coming from neighbouring states to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, and Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16.Badnore also told Modi that the tricity authorities were cooperating and coordinating effectively, it was learnt.According to the Union health ministry guidelines, states and union territories had to calculate the doubling rate on a daily or weekly basis, and in case the rate fell below four, the area was designated a red zone, where curfew and other relaxations were not allowed.Significantly, the city was declared a Covid-19 hotspot by the Central government on April 15 and a “containment” zone on April 18 by the administration. A curfew was imposed in the city on March 24, which will remain in force up to May 3.The problem areasThe administration had also declared three areas in the city, Dhanas Kachi Colony, Sector 30B and Bapu Dham Colony as affected pockets, where strict restrictions on movement have been imposed.As many as 31 cases were reported positive from here, including 16 from Bapu Dham Colony and 14 from Sector 30B.The UT administration would be testing each and every symptomatic person in these areas, UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida said on Tuesday. Health workers were screening the pockets.On Tuesday, 13 of the 14 fresh Covid-19 positives cases were reported from Bapu Dham (8) and Sector 30B (5).“The outbreak needs to be contained by focusing all our energy and resources in these pockets,” Parida said.Apart from sealing the area, help from local volunteers and leaders would be taken to ensure locals maintain social distancing.“CCTV cameras would be installed and drones used to check if social distancing norms were being followed. Regular police patrolling would also be done,” Parida added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/all-symptomatic-persons-to-be-tested-in-affected-pockets/story-JTB0SXZ4yAS8owsproqnGK.html
29-04-2020||Mumbai||Record flamingo numbers may clip wings of golf course project in Navi Mumbai||Close to a record 9,000 flamingos congregating across the Talawe wetlands in Navi Mumbai during the coronavirus-enforced lockdown has put the (golf) ball in the Maharashtra’s government’s court. The choice is between marking the area a conservation reserve or to go ahead with the plan of developing a golf course.The area is government land and its possession is with the City and Industrial Development Corporation (Cidco), which plans to develop a golf course at the site. After the past month — in which the Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS) has estimated that flamingo numbers are 25% more than last year’s owing to lower human activity — the state mangrove cell intends on protecting the Talawe wetlands as a buffer to the Thane Creek Flamingo Sanctuary, said Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forest (mangrove cell). “This area is currently government land, but possession is with Cidco. The mangrove cell has asked for a no-objection certificate and sought comments from the planning authority and the district collector on declaring the zone a conservation reserve. Once we get a response, we will finalise the plan. We are also checking whether any peripheral areas were handed over to developers so far,” said Tiwari.According to the Union environment ministry, conservation reserves are protected areas that act as buffer zones or connectors and migration corridors between established national parks, wildlife sanctuaries or reserved and protected forests of India. There are 88 conservation reserves in India across 12 states.The Talawe wetlands are located near the Seawoods NRI housing complex and Training Ship Chanakya (TSC). The area has large stretches of abandoned paddy fields and scrub (200m wide 1.5 km long), which is separated from the seashore by a strip of mangroves (100-200m wide and 1.5km long). The east side is a residential area, while mangroves border the north and south.The overall area suggested for protection by BNHS includes: a 783-hectare foraging area and a 46-hectare core area, which includes the 14-hectare TSC and 21.9-hectare NRI complex. The area has 58 bird species, 33 migratory species, eight near-threatened, two vulnerable, two species protected under schedule 1 of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972 and four under schedule IV, according to BNHS.Cidco’s plans to develop a golf course have been opposed by environmentalists and residents. “Construction work for 17 buildings with 1,564 flats and 20 offices has already begun towards the landward side as we received a commencement certificate from the state. However, there is no clarity on the fate of the 18-hole golf course construction towards Seawoods, and we are not sure whether it is feasible,” said Pramod Patil, nodal officer (environment), Cidco. “It is our commitment to protect mangroves and wildlife, and we will assist the forest department in their requirements.”Flamingo numbers in the area this year have been much more than of previous years, crossing the 8,500 mark in April 2020, said BNHS. “This is excellent news and should be pursued at the highest level. We congratulate the mangrove cell for taking this proposal forward,” said Deepak Apte, director, BNHS.“There was already a concurrence from the state wildlife board in 2015 to declare the site as a part of the sanctuary, and the current flock of flamingos is testimony to the need to conserve this zone. More so, this will avoid large congregations near the runway of the proposed Navi Mumbai International Airport,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/record-flamingo-numbers-may-clip-wings-of-golf-course-project-in-navi-mumbai/story-XpwFGvQGSBVIRevLubC1iI.html
29-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab-origin man jailed for lying about having Covid-19, spitting at police in UK||An Indian-origin London-based man has been jailed for eight months after he spat at police custody staff after lying about having Covid-19 because he was “angry”, Scotland Yard said on Tuesday.Karan Singh, 23, pleaded guilty at the Croydon Crown court to three counts of assault on an emergency worker, use of threatening, abusive, insulting words, behaviour to cause harassment, alarm, distress and possession of a class B drug (cannabis).He was sentenced immediately to four months’ imprisonment. He was also sentenced to an additional four months’ jail, to run consecutively, for being in breach of a suspended sentence – making his total sentence eight months.The police said on March 14, officers were on patrol when they spotted Singh sitting in a car in a driveway in Croydon. Officers recognised Singh as being disqualified from driving and so they approached the car and spoke to him.Singh denied he was disqualified from driving and said he had been given his licence back. As officers were speaking to Singh, they noticed a strong smell of cannabis coming from him and the vehicle. Officers asked him about the smell and he admitted to smoking cannabis.As one of the officers began explaining the grounds for a search under the Misuse of Drugs Act, Singh attempted to start the engine of the vehicle and make off from police. The vehicle stalled and officers were able to detain him.A snap bag of cannabis was found and Singh admitted to having cannabis for personal use. Singh was arrested and when he was taken to a south London police station, he was said to have been verbally abusive to the interviewing officers. Following the interview, Singh became aggressive and said he would not go back to his cell. He had to be physically taken back by a custody sergeant and PC, with a DC and designated detention officer (DDO) also stepping in to support their colleagues.Once at the cell door, Singh continued to struggle with the officers. The officers managed to get him into the cell and when the door was partially closed, Singh spat directly into the custody sergeant’s face. Some of the spit also hit the DDO’s lip and the DC’s cheek.Singh then tried to prevent officers from closing the cell door, during which he told the custody sergeant that he had coronavirus. He was further arrested on suspicion of assaulting an emergency worker.Following the incident, he was interviewed behind his cell door for safety reasons. He admitted to spitting at the officers stating he did it because he had been waiting for hours and he “got stressed out”.Superintendent Dan Knowles said: “It is never acceptable to spit at an emergency worker, whether it is during these unprecedented times or not. Singh carrying out this vile act and then lying about having coronavirus was a deplorable thing to do and it caused a great deal of distress for the officers and staff who were just trying to do their job and keep London safe.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-origin-man-jailed-for-lying-about-having-covid-19-spitting-at-police-in-uk/story-frakTKhXfZCwr7gRcddmnO.html
29-04-2020||Entertainment||‘This phase will make us more compassionate’||With three new films and four OTT series in his kitty, ‘Kaalakaandi’ and ‘Gurgaon’ actor Akshay Oberoi was in the best phase of his career when the coronavirus outbreak struck the world. “After all the past struggle I was a certainly in a good phase of my career. And, initially I was very disappointed when the lock down was announced. I was actually getting good projects with bigger and better roles when all the work suddenly put on hold. Then slowly I understood the gravity of the situation and tried not to lose heart because ‘jaan hai toh jahaan hai’. And, we can always get back to work if we are alive and healthy,” says the suave actor.Talking about going back to work, he said, “I know it’s a pause and we all will surely bounce back. And, after learning life the hard way, we will surely be a better people with more compassion, gratefulness and caring towards nature and mankind.”Akshay has back-to-back shot for Shubhash Kapoor’s ‘Madam Chief Minister’ with Richa Chadha and Manav Kaul besides, ‘Thruttu Payale2’ remake with Viineet Kumar and Urvashi Rautela in Lucknow. The actor was shooting for Ekta Kapoor’s ‘KTina’ with Disha Patani in Chandigrah for six days when the shoot was stopped before lockdown.“I’m a workaholic and believe that the more I work the better my output will be. I am staying with my wife Jyothi and three year-old son Avyaan. I am spending good time with them, helping in kitchen and with other household tasks so it has been a very family break that way. I think these life experiences will also help us in our creative field.Besides, three films he has multiple projects for digital space coming up. “Season three of ‘Inside Edge’ has been shot, in ‘Magic’ I play a drug addict with Ranvir Shorey, in ‘Flesh’ I’m a negative character while series ‘Illegal’ is a courtroom drama with Piyush Mishra and Neha Sharma,” he tells.Akshay has started writing too. “There is something I have recently discovered. Though I always wanted to write but have not until now. When I got the time during lock down I tried to write. Every day, I am able to give 2-3 hours to writing concept notes and working on a plot which I will like to see myself doing in future.”He wants to his projects to be completed and released soon, “Since I have reached here with lot of hard work, I value this phase a lot. My agenda was never to become a big name in fact I always wanted to be the best actor so that’s my aim for now. And, I am in no rush!”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/entertainment/this-phase-will-make-us-more-compassionate/story-176kkIu3j6xVHKG7meERhL.html
29-04-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra cabinet ministers visit Raj Bhavan to urge Governor to nominate CM to upper house||A day after the state cabinet had decided to write to Governor to urge him to nominate chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray to the legislative Council at the earliest, a delegation of Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) ministers led by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar met Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Tuesday evening at Raj Bhavan. The meeting is seen as a pressure tactic on the Raj Bhavan to take the decision over Thackeray’s nomination to the legislative Council.However, according to sources, the Governor has indicated that he would consult the Centre before taking a decision, which could mean that Thackeray should talk to Delhi to resolve the deadlock. “Milind Narvekar, a close aide of the CM, informally visited Raj Bhavan a couple of times in the past few days. It has been implied to him that Thackeray reaching out to Delhi would clear the decks for his nomination by Governor,”said a Raj Bhavan official. When HT spoke to some senior Shiv Sena leaders, they said the CM would take a call on the matter. With under a month left for Thackeray to fulfil the constitutional requirement of getting elected to either of the houses of the state legislature, the alleged delay by the Governor has kept the proverbial Sword of Damocles hanging over Thackeray and the state government. Thackeray, who is not a member of either of the house of the state legislature, took oath as the CM on November 28. He could lose the post if he is not elected to legislature by May 27.“The cabinet has again recommended Uddhav Thackeray [to be nominated]; a letter pertaining to it was submitted to the governor. The group leaders of the three parties of the Maharashtra [Vikas] Aghadi, deputy chief minister and Chhagan Bhujbal met the Governor and yet again requested him to take a decision at the earliest on the recommendations that have made by the cabinet twice,” said Jayant Patil, state minister and Maharashtra president of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), who was among the delegation. Patil however, declined to comment if the delay could be politically motivated to create instability in the state.The other minsters who had visited the Raj Bhavan included Shiv Sena’s Eknath Shinde and Anil Parab and Congress’s Balasaheb Thorat and Aslam Shaikh. Earlier, the polls for the legislative Council were scheduled for April 24. However, they were postponed due to the pandemic, following which the Maharashtra cabinet recommended the Governor to appoint Thackeray as a member of the Legislative Council (MLC) to avoid a constitutional crisis in the state.On April 9, the state cabinet had cleared a proposal recommending Thackeray’s nomination to one of the vacant seats of under the Governor’s quote in the upper house of the state legislature. However, 19 days on, the Raj Bhavan has not taken a decision over the nomination, prompting the delegation to meet the Governor on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-cabinet-ministers-visit-raj-bhavan-to-urge-governor-to-nominate-cm-to-upper-house/story-D8zATgi3IzHwfUzrgrfgAK.html
29-04-2020||City||Lockdown increased ozone concentration over Punjab: Experts||While the lockdown has brought unprecedented economic miseries to people from all walks of life, it seems have had a positive effect on the environment. Punjab Remote Sensing Centre, the state’s satellite monitoring agency, claims that the lockdown has stalled the climate change momentum due to a drop in carbon emissions.A team of scientists, including Dr Brijendra Pateriya, Dr R K Setia and Anush Kumar, analysed the data shared by the European space agency (Copernicus Sentinel-5P ) on the concentration of atmospheric gases over Punjab from March 1 to March 22, and during the lockdown period from March 23 to April 20, and found a variable effect of the curfew on ozone concentration in Punjab. “It was observed that there was an increase in ozone concentration on March 28 and April 3, as compared to the ozone concentration on March 1, but it decreased on April 14 and had variable effects thereafter. It is an unusual phenomenon. We have not observed such a variation before,” said Dr Setia.Dr Brijendra Pateriya said similar studies had been carried out in China and European countries to check the impact of no carbon emission on environment during the lockdown period. “The results were staggering. There has been a significant drop in nitrogen dioxide, a chemical produced from power plants, vehicles and industrial activity that can be harmful to human health and cause respiratory issues. Besides the considerably negligible carbon emission, what helped was that there was no farm fire recorded during this period,” said Dr Pateriya.The analysis of satellite images also showed that the effect of curfew on average concentration of atmospheric gases was prominent in urban areas more than rural pockets.“During the analysis of images, a significant decrease of 40-50% in concentration of nitrogen dioxide (an air pollutant) was witnessed over major cities across Punjab, including Ludhiana, Amritsar and Jalandhar, as compared to the same time frame last year,” said Dr Pateriya. He added that the drop in emissions and nitrogen dioxide levels could provide a huge respite for people suffering from asthma, bronchitis and other breathing disorders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lockdown-stalled-climate-change-momentum-experts/story-brshFFZi5dJGq0VoqJPWmM.html
29-04-2020||Mumbai||Justice Dipankar Dutta swears in as new chief justice of Bombay HC||Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Tuesday swore in Calcutta high court (HC) judge justice Dipankar Dutta as the new chief justice of the Bombay high court at Raj Bhavan in the presence of limited guests including chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. After the notification of Datta’s appointment was issued on April 23, he drove over 2,000 km along with his son from Kolkata to reach Mumbai on Monday evening.The brief swearing-in ceremony saw all the guests observe lockdown protocols like social distancing and wearing face masks. The guests included Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Assembly Devendra Fadnavis, speaker of Legislative Assembly Nana Patole, minister of protocol and tourism Aaditya Thackeray, judges of the Bombay HC, additional chief secretary (home) Sanjay Kumar, advocate general Ashotosh Kumbhakoni, director general of police Subodh Jaiswal, commissioner of Mumbai Police Parambir Singh along with family members of justice Datta.After being appointed as the chief justice of Bombay HC by the President of India, justice Dutta decided to undertake the 2,000-km three-day road journey to Mumbai and take up his new assignment as there was no other option available to get here amid the lockdown. According to sources, Dutta and his son drove 940km the first day till Vishakhapatnam via Bhubhaneshwar, then 900km to Solapur through Vijaywada the next day, and completed the remaining 400km on Monday with a brief halt for lunch at Pune. Justice Dutta succeeds departing Bombay HC chief justice Bhushan P Dharmadhikari, who was sworn in on March 20. Justice Dharmadhikari served his last day in office on Monday (April 27) and retired on Tuesday at the age of 62 years.Justice Dutta, the second senior-most judge of Calcutta HC, was born in February 1965. He obtained his LLB degree from University of Calcutta in 1989 and enrolled as an advocate the same year. He practised in the Supreme Court and HCs, dealing with constitutional and civil cases. He also served as the junior standing counsel for West Bengal between May 2002 and January 2004, and as a counsel for the Union government since 1998. He was elevated as a permanent judge of Calcutta HC on June 22, 2006.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/justice-dipankar-dutta-swears-in-as-new-chief-justice-of-bombay-hc/story-FWCOxIqSvLhL4J2CoUghrM.html
29-04-2020||Entertainment||‘I am rediscovering the writer in me’||Lyricist-writer Manoj Muntashir is making the most of the lockdown. Spending long spells of time writing and in brainstorming sessions, he realised that the pre-quarantine schedule had taken him away from his core strength of writing.“It has been over a month since the lockdown began and I have come to realise what I was missing! Every weekend, I was in some city doing some show or another. So many hours were spent each day in travel, meetings, functions and other social obligations that you can’t say ‘No’ to. I am rediscovering the writer in me,” said the UPite.The new version of his popular song ‘Teri Mitti’ (Kesari) was released recently. “Thankfully, the music industry has not stopped…so songs are happening. We are working on film ‘Chanakya’, for which (‘Baby’ and ‘Dhoni’ director) Neeraj Pandey and I are jointly writing story-screenplay and dialogues, while I am also writing its lyrics. Starring Ajay Devgn, it will probably be one of the biggest projects in India! It has been two years researching it and now we are giving it a final shape,” said the ‘Teri Galliyan’ writer.Muntashir was about to announce his first film under his production house when the lockdown began. “I won’t be directing the film which is tentatively titled ‘Valle Valle Rasgulley’. Now, we are working on a fresh plan for it. Besides, with Neeraj, I have started another vertical in which we will hunt for talent in the music field from all parts of India and bring them in mainstream films,” he said.Writing from 11 am to late into the night is keeping him busy. “I am writing, holding meetings and music projects on video calls. Besides, thankfully, we have help at home, so it is a bit easy but we have divided the work at home so that the workload is shared. We are doing our own things, which were earlier done by others. So, I believe this phase has taught us a lot, made us value every work and to be compassionate,” he said.The writer is also planning to bring the next edition of his debut book ‘Meri Fitrat Hai Mastana’. “There has been a lot of demand for my next book. I am working on the second part of my book and am trying to put it in the stands by January next year,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/entertainment/i-am-rediscovering-the-writer-in-me/story-HkEXnKtor0YDzq3ikgLqTM.html
29-04-2020||City||Palghar lynching: Sarpanch gets armed police protection||Chitra Chaudhary, sarpanch of Gaddchinchale village in Dahanu, has been provided with two armed police constables for protection after she received threats from relatives of the arrested accused in the April 16 lynching, wherein three people, including two sadhus, were killed.Gaurav Singh, superintendent of police(SP), Palghar, said Chaudhary had received threats from relatives of the accused wherein the men had threatened to kill her two children and her husband for siding with the police in identifying the 110 accused who were arrested by Kasa police on April 17. Following the threats, she wrote an application and we granted her 24-hour security cover, he said.Meanwhile, the state criminal investigation department (CID) has taken over the probe under additional director general of police (ADGP) Atul Kulkarni and a contingent of armed riot control police and State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) is scouring the nearby jungles to arrest more accused, said Singh. Singh on Tuesday has also transferred around 35 policemen for their inaction during the lynching incident.The police are also using four drones to identify the accused hiding in the jungles bordering the Union Territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/palghar-lynching-sarpanch-gets-armed-police-protection/story-9ycH5jdZYNLKqU18gR1MIJ.html
29-04-2020||Chandigarh||Compulsory 21-day quarantine of Punjabis returning to state||After several Nanded returnees tested positive, Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday announced a compulsory 21-day state quarantine for all those returning to the state from other places to check the spread of coronavirus.“All pilgrims returning from Nanded and students and labourers coming from Rajasthan will be stopped at the border and sent to government quarantine centres to ensure that they do not mix with other people for 21 days,” the CM said during a five-hour video interaction with Congress MLAs on the Covid-19 and lockdown situation even as the count of positive cases rose to 336.He said after the NRIs and Tabligi Jamaat, the latest threat of the spread of the disease in the state was on account of the pilgrims who were coming back from Gurdwara Hazur Sahib in Nanded (Maharashtra). Another large Jatha is expected to return to Punjab on Wednesday. He said Radha Soami Satsang deras would also be used to quarantine people whose return was being facilitated by the state government.‘RELAXATIONS WITH RESTRICTIONS SOON’Amarinder also said the government could go for certain relaxations with restrictions and precautions in the coming days based on the report based on the report of the expert committee formulating the state’s Covid-19 curfew/lockdown exit strategy. On Monday, the CM had, in a letter to Union home minister Amit Shah, requested him to allow opening of small shops, businesses and industries in all areas except containment zones.The CM also sought feedback from the Congress legislators who spoke sequentially starting from Pathankot. A number of MLAs voiced their concerns and advised the government not to lift the curfew in any kind of hurry in hotspots and other areas where new cases have been surfaced. There was a consensus among them that curfew should be extended for another 15 days and restrictions implemented strictly in such areas.Advising extreme caution in lifting restrictions, the MLAs also suggested that borders should remain sealed not just around the state but also among the districts and around the villages. They also opined that Covid-19 patients should be hospitalised and treated within their own district, to limit outside contact and exposure.Balachaur MLA Darshan Lal wanted state’s borders to be strictly sealed to prevent infected cases coming in from other places. A few MLAs also advocated financial relief for farmers and industry, particularly micro, small and medium enterprises and electricity bill waiver for poor. Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar suggested allowing industries in rural areas to operate at night to prevent workers from mixing. On the issue of lifting of lockdown, he also urged caution, while emphasising the need to flatten the curve but not flattening the economy.The issue of shortage of testing facilities, ventilators, relief ration kits etc were raised by many legislators, including Amit Vij and Joginder Pal, MLAs from Pathankot and Bhoa, calling for more sampling. Some MLAs also suggested to make books available to government school students as they could not all attend online classes, with many of the poor not having smart phones. They called for free internet use and free of cost health facilities for the people amid this unprecedented crisis. ‘ALLOW MIGRANTS TO RETURN TO HOME STATES’Another concern expressed by some Congress MLAs was regarding lakhs of migrant labourers who wanted to return to their home states. “As we are making arrangements to bring Punjabis from other states, migrant workers should also be allowed go back since most of them do not have any work as most industrial unit are shut. We have tens of thousands of migrant workers in the district. There have been several instances of migrants not following social distancing,” said a legislator from Jalandhar.However, the chief minister made it clear that his government would make all efforts to retain and care for the migrant labourers, whose return was now being facilitated by various states. “We need to look after them so that they do not leave Punjab, where they are needed to help out in the procurement operations as well as the industries that we are gradually opening up,” he said.Hoist national flag to protest Centre’s ‘bias’, says JakharThe Punjab Congress has asked all people in the state to hoist the national flag atop their houses on May 1 to protest against the Centre’s “discrimination” against non-BJP ruled states in extending financial support in the fight against coronavirus. The party would demand an immediate relief of ₹20,000 crore from the Centre.The idea was mooted by Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar and seconded by chief minister Amarinder Singh at a video interaction held by the latter with party MLAs. Amarinder put the government’s monthly revenue loss at ₹3,360 crore as a result of the pandemic-induced curfew. The state would end up with a loss of almost ₹50,000 crore in a year but had received no help so far from the Centre to tackle the crisis, he added.The state government’s latest estimate of revenue loss is considerably higher than the figure of ₹22,000 crore given by finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal in a meeting of a cabinet sub-committee constituted to take stock of the financial implications of Covid-19 pandemic.“The event, coinciding with May Day (Labour Day), will serve to underscore the right of Punjab to central aid in this unprecedented crisis,” said Jakhar, adding, “The party will organize the national flags for all those participating in the May 1 event”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/compulsory-21-day-quarantine-of-punjabis-returning-to-state/story-zLdKgq1dw9swXrLfnNAMyM.html
29-04-2020||Mumbai||Activities on video calls to keep children from slums in Mumbai occupied during coronavirus lockdown||“What super powers will you use to defeat coronavirus? Would you like to share a story with the cloud:” these are some of the questions that six to eight-year-olds in some of the densest slums and neighbourhoods of the city in M ward are answering on their worksheets.At a time when parents all over the world are finding activities to engage children during the lockdown, there are also children living in informal settlements with no means to access any open area. With an intention to help such children cope with the anxiety of the outbreak and the ensuing lockdown as well as to provide an outlet to their growing minds, the Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS) through its Transforming M-ward Project is engaging with around 800 children in Janata Nagar, Jai Ambe Nagar, Bhim Nagar, Indira Nagar and Vashi Naka areas of these suburbs. “The lockdown has been especially difficult for the children who live in single-room houses in dense settlements. Keeping them indoors has been quite a challenge for the parents,” said Sabah Khan from the Transforming M-ward project.Through its Saksham study centres, the members of the project are finding innovative ways to keep the children occupied amid the lockdown. All the activities are done via WhatsApp or video calls.“We have divided the children into three groups according to their age. There are 15 teachers who engage with the children through worksheets, videos and group calls. Initially, we had limited it to two activities per week, but the children have responded so well that we are planning to increase the number,” said Srishti Jaitley, a counsellor from Transforming M-ward Project. The children are also given ideas to make toys out of waste, engage in reflective thinking, write and paint about their experiences on the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/activities-on-video-calls-to-keep-children-from-slums-in-mumbai-occupied-during-coronavirus-lockdown/story-NJ3U73TLT7QDNAzTfmoAmL.html
29-04-2020||Mumbai||BJP writes to governor, accuses state govt of trying to gag media||Former chief minister and the Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis on Tuesday alleged that the state government was creating an emergency-like situation in Maharashtra through its attempts to gag and intimidate the media.A BJP delegation led by Fadnavis met governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari to demand accountability for the state’s action against mediapersons including city police’s 12-hour-long questioning of Republic TV’s editor Arnab Goswami on Monday. Fadnavis, along with the Leader of Opposition in the Legislative Council Pravin Darekar, submitted a letter to the governor complaining that the government was trying to impose emergency-like conditions by creating fear among journalists and editors.“Arnab Goswami was questioned for 12-and-a-half hours at a police station over a televised debate. The same police have allowed seasoned criminals to roam around free. Any kind of criticism on social media against the government is also leading to police action these days. This amounts to an attempt to gag the free media, and thus creates dangers for functioning democracy,” said Fadnavis.The police recorded Goswami’s statement on Monday in connection with a police complaint filed against him by state power minister Nitin Raut for making controversial remarks in the Palghar lynching incident and against Congress chief Sonia Gandhi. The charges against Goswami include provocation to cause riot, creating enmity between two communities, malicious intent to outrage religious feelings and defamation. Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant, however, said, “Fadnavis’ complaint and standing by Goswami only show that BJP protects a section of media that tries to communalise and spread hatred in the society. During the BJP regime, several journalists and editors were hounded for doing their job, hence the party is in no position to talk about freedom of media.’’The letter by BJP leaders said in the recent past, action had been taken against several media persons including the arrest of Marathi news channel ABP Majha’s reporter Rahul Kulkarni over the crowding of migrant labourers at Bandra. It also cited the threat by state home minister to file a police complaint against a Times Now senior editor.Kulkarni was arrested for writing a news report that railway authorities were mulling to release outstation trains to allow migrant labourers to go home, which the police linked to the overcrowding at Bandra.The letter also pointed out the state government’s stance against door-to-door delivery of newspapers despite a clean chit from the country’s top most health authorities and cited it as a move against independent print media.The leaders asked the governor to take a serious note of these instances and demand a response from the state government.Fadnavis was accompanied by former ministers Vinod Tawde, Ashish Shelar and city chief Mangal Prabhat Lodha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bjp-writes-to-governor-accuses-state-govt-of-trying-to-gag-media/story-ZSZv6CVDPm3FjsBtNp0BTP.html
29-04-2020||City||Infected new mother tested again in Tarn Taran||A day after a 24-year-old woman, who delivered a child on Saturday, tested positive for Covid-19 at a government hospital in Tarn Taran, the district administration has ordered her re-test as the source of her infection is unclear.The woman from Basarke village in Bhikhiwind sub-division had been admitted to Sursingh community health centre (CHC) on April 24 where she gave birth to a boy. Though she was asymptomatic, her samples were taken soon after the delivery as per the health department directions, and she tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday.Before her test result came, she was discharged from the hospital. She had left to her maternal home in Lohka village falling under Patti sub-division on Saturday night.Senior medical officer (SMO) Kawar Harjot Singh said, “She was discharged after the delivery as she was asymptomatic. She didn’t meet any suspected person, or any person who had foreign travel history.”Tarn Taran civil surgeon Dr Anoop Singh said they have again taken the woman’s samples for re-testing. “We doubt her report as she is asymptomatic. We have sent her samples to Amritsar government hospital for testing again. Her baby’s samples have been sent too,” he said.Two CHC staff members who came in close quarters with the woman have also been isolated, the SMO added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/infected-new-mother-tested-again-in-tarn-taran/story-xinHvYVThFplVB4TleVyKL.html
29-04-2020||Mumbai||10 Indonesian nationals, who attended Tablighi Jamaat, sent to judicial custody till May 4||The 10 arrested Indonesian nationals, who were part of a group of 12 people who had attended Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi, were produced before a magistrate’s court in Bandra after their five-day police custody ended on Tuesday and were sent to judicial custody till May 4.The Mumba Police had traced the group of 12 on April 1. Two of them tested positive for Covid-19 and were subsequently admitted to Lilavati Hospital in Bandra, while the remaining were home quarantined for 20 days, following which they were arrested. The two who tested positive are currently under home quarantine till May 8.Deputy commissioner of police Abhishek Trimukhe (zone 9) said, “The foreign nationals were sent to judicial custody on Tuesday. We have informed the Indonesian consulate about the developments.” The accused will be kept in a special cell at Arthur Road Jail, said an officer from Bandra police station.“Due legal process will be adopted and they will be deported as any other foreigner with a criminal case registered against them. But since flight operations have not resumed because of the pandemic, they will be kept in India for the time being. They will be deported soon after flight operations resume,” said a senior police officer from the Foreigners and Regional Registration Office (FRRO).The accused were arrested on April 23 under sections 307 (attempt to murder), 304 (ii) (culpable homicide not amounting to murder if the act is done with the knowledge that it is likely to cause death but without the intention to cause death), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease that is dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Soon after the accused were sent to judicial custody, their lawyer Ishrat khan moved an application seeking bail claiming that sections 307 and section 304 (ii) were not applicable in the case. Khan also said the accused were also booked under charges of misuse and fabrication of passport which were false. The court asked the prosecution to file a reply, and set the bail plea for hearing on May 4.Mumbai Police had earlier issued an advisory asking people who had attended the religious meet at Delhi to come forward, failing which an FIR would be registered against them.During inquiry, Mumbai Police learnt that the group of 12 people had come to India on February 29 to attend the meet, and came to Mumbai on March 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/10-indonesian-nationals-who-attended-tablighi-jamaat-sent-to-judicial-custody-till-may-4/story-JS7iUYeVrA8JdcmgGvsQEK.html
29-04-2020||Mumbai||Only 16 of 67 ventilators at Mumbai’s St George Hospital functional||Out of the 67 ventilators procured at the government-run St George Hospital, only 16 are functional. The ventilator is essential for the treatment of severe cases of Covid-19. Hospital staff claim technicians are afraid to visit the hospital to install the devices for fear of contracting the infection. St. George Hospital has been turned into a 300-bed hospital that is dedicated to Covid treatment.Over the past two weeks, St George Hospital has received 67 ventilators. To ensure the equipment functions smoothly, the hospital has also increased the oxygen capacity in their intensive care unit. However, only 16 ventilators are functional at present. “ Covid patients are being referred from Sir JJ Hospital to us. Most of these patients are serious and require immediate ventilation. But due to the delay in installation, patients are being left only on oxygen supply,” said a doctor from St George Hospital, on condition of anonymity.Dr Akash Khobragade, superintendent of the hospital, said, “These ventilators are procured in groups. In the beginning, we got 20 ventilators, then 15 and later another 30. So some of them are yet to be installed, which will be done soon.”However, hospital staff say technicians are refusing to visit St George Hospital for fear of infection. “People are scared even to step inside the ward despite being given PPE [personal protective equipment],” claimed a doctor.There are 100 patients of Covid-19 receiving treatment at St George Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/only-16-of-67-ventilators-at-mumbai-s-st-george-hospital-functional/story-t30Dhs1nTaZxi7xnU4JTuM.html
29-04-2020||Mumbai||Bulandshahr killings: Thackeray calls UP CM||Chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday spoke to Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath over the murder of two sadhus inside a temple in UP’s Bulandshahr and expressed concern over it. Thackeray called for strict punishment for the perpetrators of the “heinous” crime and said the incident should not be given a communal colour.“I spoke to Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath ji over phone and expressed concerns over the heinous murder of two sadhus in UP’s Bulandshahr. I told him we are with you against this incident. Just the way we acted strongly in such a case, I wish you would do the same and bring the accused to justice. However, I appeal to you that the incident should not be given a communal colour,” Thackeray said.Adityanath had called his Maharashtra counterpart after two sadhus were lynched in Palghar district earlier this month. The state home department subsequently booked over 100 people in connection with the case. The government had also dismissed any communal angle in the incident. However, BJP leaders had suggested the killing was intentional.Sena leader Sanjay Raut tweeted on the killings, warning against giving it a communal twist. “Terrible! Killing of two saints, sadhus at a temple in Bulandshahar, UP, but I appeal to all concerned to not make it communal the way they tried to make Palghar, Maharashtra incident (sic),” tweeted Raut.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bulandshahr-killings-thackeray-calls-up-cm/story-NqITACI6m4erh5rh8SbvkI.html
29-04-2020||Entertainment||‘If I feel anything is wrong, I will say without getting intimidated!’||Actor Aniruddh Dave feels being worldly and compassionate is taxing these days. “Not just this, it’s extremely difficult to candidly tell people how you feel about certain things happening in the country. Your opinion gets scrutinised immediately and you are questioned on social platforms. I am very vocal about what I think is right! If I feel anything is wrong, I will say without getting intimidated,” says ‘Shorgul’ actor over phone.Last seen in a TV daily, ‘Patiala Babes’, Dave was in Lucknow on an extended shooting schedule for one of his upcoming OTT series in March. “It was a hectic schedule and we shot at various locations in the city. All was well till we left for Mumbai for a break and then lockdown was imposed so the shoot got postponed. The major portion has been shot and only patch work is left. Also, I feel extremely content to have signed series for web shows as after the lockdown is over it will take months to bring people to theatres.”Dave is busy with an anthology he is working on as a producer for television. “We were all set to launch the series in April but now my production team has decided to work on it after a couple of months. I am making most of the quarantine days having video meetings with my writers and production team almost every day. Also, we have decided to start whatever little we can in coming months though it will be difficult to shoot in the times of social distancing.”After being part of films like ‘Chhoriyan Chhoron Se Kam Nahi Hoti, ‘Pranaam,’ and others, Dave wanted to take up more films. “This year I decided to produce a TV show and take up more film projects. I have done too much TV and I am content with my body of work. Whatever films I did were offered to me without any effort from my end so I had decided that it was time to put my efforts and get good films. But, I think, my plan has been put on hold as films won’t happen so soon. Gladly, I signed an OTT series that will be out soon. “||https://www.hindustantimes.com/entertainment/if-i-feel-anything-is-wrong-i-will-say-without-getting-intimidated/story-Ezr23B5hcXqpKCPDluInwO.html
29-04-2020||City||1 coronavirus-positive person infected 3-4 people, reveals analysis by Tata Institute of Fundamental Research scientist||One Covid-19 positive individual in Mumbai is likely to have infected three to four people during the first 15 days of the nationwide lockdown, according to an analysis by a scientist at the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR) based on a susceptible-exposed-infected-recovery (SEIR) statistical model. While the lockdown was put in place to reduce the number of people that one Covid-19 positive person can infect (denoted by R0), the analysis attributes a rise in cases to areas of high population density, where it is not possible to maintain physical or social distancing. R0 close to 1 means one individual will infect one or less than one person thereby containing the spread of the virus.Sourendu Gupta, theoretical physicist at TIFR, who undertook this analysis, said if Covid-19 cases are confined to certain geographical structures within Mumbai, the possibility of a “second wave” surge of cases in areas where housing density is lower cannot be ruled out. “Even when the lockdown ends, we have to be careful because infection may have unevenly spread through the city with some parts highly affected and some others which are not. Care therefore needs to be taken to ensure infection doesn’t spread uncontrollably into less affected areas. For that more testing is necessary,” said Gupta. “What happens in the second half of April will determine how safe we are in lifting the lockdown.”Inference drawn from SEIR on the number of infected Mumbaiites from fatality counts between March 31 and April 14 has projected that the doubling rate of the infection was 5.7 days. This means if Mumbai recorded 100 cases in one day, that number rose to 200 in five days and 1000 in 15 days.Similarly, the doubling time for fatalities during the same period is 5.3 days which according to the analysis can be compared to the doubling time during the early days of the novel coronavirus outbreak in Wuhan before the imposition of a quarantine.Gupta said it will take two weeks for the toll to jump ten-fold if the current doubling time continues for fatalities. That’s 100 or more deaths every day - similar to the peak number of Covid-19 deaths in New York City. “In the hypothetical cases discussed here, Covid-19 wards in the city would have to deal with several hundred admissions a day with care periods for each case ranging up to two months. Again, using the estimates given above, these rates would be reached in two to four weeks if the rate of growth of the epidemic does not come down,” states the manuscript of the study published in ArXiv, an open-access archive by Cornell University.Currently, the number of Covid-19 positive tests is likely to be a small fraction of the total number of infected – one out of 750 cases of infection. “More tests have to be done especially when the government is thinking of unlocking the city. In the first two weeks after the lockdown ends, we need to be sure the infection is not spreading without knowledge.”If the doubling rate of the infection doesn’t change, the statistical model puts the likelihood of the first Covid-19 cases in Mumbai as early as December 20, 2019 and February 1, 2020 – with January 15 as the median point for ‘seeding of the epidemic’ – affecting individuals with a travel history to China where the outbreak had already begun.“The first fatalities (in Mumbai) due to this cryptic spread of COVID-19 would not have happened before mid-February. It is certainly possible to check municipal records of deaths in February to see whether any excesses over the same month in previous years are visible. If there is a statistically significant signal, it would support the idea of early cryptic seeding of COVID-19 in Mumbai,” states the study. Shankar R, retired theoretical physicist, Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai, who was not involved in the study, said the only way to estimate the number of infections is via the death toll. “In a large population, huge number of people who have not been tested carry the infection and we don’t know the actual numbers,” he said.Meanwhile, the national growth rate of confirmed cases of those infected with the novel coronavirus has been on the decline since the nationwide lockdown on March 25, finds the data analysis team of the Indian Scientists’ Response to COVID-19, a voluntary group of more than 400 scientists. The team stated that fresh outbreaks can significantly alter the scenario and therefore cautioned against any extrapolation based on current data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/1-coronavirus-positive-person-infected-3-4-people-reveals-analysis-by-tata-institute-of-fundamental-research-scientist/story-juepLvRuJWpr6HDMbbsuZO.html
29-04-2020||Mumbai||Appoint administrators for Navi Mumbai, Aurangabad civic bodies: SEC to state||The State Election Commission (SEC) has instructed state government to appoint administrators for Aurangabad, Navi Mumbai municipal corporations, nine municipal councils, two district councils and 1,566 gram panchayats as the 5-year term of these local bodies has either ended or will end soon, and immediate elections are not possible due to the Covid-19 pandemic.The term of Aurangabad Municipal Corporation ended on April 28, while that of Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation is ending on May 7 and that of Vasai-Virar City Municipal Corporation will end on June 27. SEC has recommended appointment of administrators for the bodies. Generally, municipal commissioners are appointed as administrators till new bodies are elected.SEC had, in third week of March, announced to postpone the election procedure for these corporations, district councils, municipal councils and gram panchayats in view of the pandemic. “According to the constitutional provisions, the 5-year term of any elected local body cannot be extended. It was reiterated by the Supreme Court last year when terms of a few district councils were extended in the absence of fresh elections (by previous government). We have, last week, written to rural and urban development departments for appointment of administrators for these bodies,” said Kiran Kurundkar, secretary, SEC.Arvind Kumar, principal secretary of rural development department, said, “We have already appointed extension officers as administrators for gram panchayats. We are seeking legal opinion if they can be replaced with other authorities, either from administration or representatives of political parties, as the extension officers are overburdened. In district councils, only chief election officers (CEOs) can be appointed as an administrators.”Mahesh Pathak, principal secretary of urban development department, said, “We have issued the orders of appointing the administrators for municipal corporations, municipal councils and nagar panchayats effective from the day after the 5-year term of the elected bodies come to an end. Aurangabad commissioner Astik Kumar Pandey will take over from Wednesday, and commissioners of two other corporations will do the same once the terms end of their respective bodies. Councils and panchayats will have sub-divisional officers as administrators.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/appoint-administrators-for-navi-mumbai-aurangabad-civic-bodies-sec-to-state/story-7z7EMRUrbfUcMgVLFhWwEO.html
29-04-2020||City||38 days on, Amritsar’s 1st case still +ve with no symptoms||It’s been 38 days since the district’s first Covid-19 patient, a 36-year-old UK-returned man, has been under treatment at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) here.Despite being asymptomatic and healthy now, the Guru Ki Wadali native has tested positive for Covid-19 thrice in this duration.He had first tested positive for coronavirus disease on March 21. Since then, the district has reported 13 more cases among which six have recovered and been discharged from the hospital. Now, 6 patients, including the UK-returned man, are still undergoing treatment at the hospital.“The patient became asymptomatic on April 4. His samples were taken again on April 5 and April 13, but he tested positive on both occasions. The patient looks fit, but has not recovered yet. The virus may not be affecting his body anymore but he can be a carrier of the infection. So, we cannot discharge him until he tests negative, at least in two consecutive reports,” said a senior GMCH doctor.He added that another 24-year-old patient, hailing from Jandiala Guru, who had tested positive for Covid-19 on April 9, is asymptomatic yet still infected.GMCH principal Dr Sujata Sharma said, “We had expected the 36-year-old man to get cured by now, but due to his low immunity, he is still suffering from the virus. He will be tested again, soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/38-days-on-amritsar-s-1st-case-still-ve-with-no-symptoms/story-VI3ISSAYn44h8HqkRM2MZN.html
29-04-2020||City||Nanded returnees pose fresh challenge to Punjab govt||With 11 of 300 pilgrims, who arrived from Hazur Sahib till Monday, found positive for Covid-19, bringing back more than 3,500 stranded Punjab residents from Maharashtra without compromising with the safety of others has posed a fresh challenge to the state government.The health department that initially decided to put these pilgrims in home quarantine changed its tack and called back the pilgrims from their houses and quarantined them in government facilities.As per a notification issued by principal secretary, health and family welfare, Anurag Aggarwal, deputy commissioners have been asked to fix the routes for the entry of these pilgrims and quarantine them under government observation.The department has also decided to take samples of all entering the state on arrival.3 fresh cases, 11 patients now have Nanded linkTwo more Nanded returnees, including an 11-year-old child, tested positive for the novel coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Tarn Taran, while one pilgrim tested positive in Moranwali village of Hoshiarpur on Tuesday. With this the total number of positive patients who had returned from Nanded has reached 11. In Tarn Taran, a 60-year-old man and his grandchild tested positive for Covid-19. They are residents of Khemkaran, said Taran Tarn civil surgeon Dr Anoop Kumar. Now, there are eight Covid-19 cases in the district.The two patients were part of a group of 11 persons who returned from Nanded in a tempo-traveller on Sunday. All 11, belong to Khemkaran—a gram panchayat that falls under the Bhikhiwind sub-division—and its two adjoining hamlets, were tested on Monday after their driver was tested positive in Maharashtra.On Monday, five men from Sursingh village of the district had also tested positive. The five had returned from Nanded a week ago. The eighth patient in the district is a woman who recently delivered a child.Deputy commissioner (DC) Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal said, “Two of the 11 people who had returned to the state from Hazur Sahib have tested positive. Three returnees had tested positive in Kapurthala on Monday.”Around 3,000-odd pilgrims had got stranded in Hazur Sahib, one of the five temporal seats of Sikhs, in Nanded district of Maharashtra after imposition of a nationwide lockdown. Hoshiarpur civil surgeon Dr Jasbir Singh said samples of 16 other pilgrims have been sent for testing and results are awaited.42 pilgrims quarantined in Amritsar, 56 in Ludhiana After 11 Hazur Sahib pilgrims tested positive for Covid-19 in Kapurthala (3), Tarn Taran (7) and Hoshiarpur (1) districts, the Amritsar administration on Tuesday brought back 42 shrine-returnees, who were sent home on Sunday, to institutional quarantine centres here.As per information, these pilgrims had returned to Amritsar from Nanded on Sunday and were screened by health department personnel at a dispensary here. As none of them showed any symptom of Covid-19, they were sent home with the directions of 14-day home quarantine.Amritsar deputy commissioner Shivdular Singh Dhillon said special teams were sent to the homes of these people to bring them to quarantine centres, so that the virus could not spread further if any of them had the infection.Meanwhile, Ludhiana health department sent 56 pilgrims, and 25 students who had returned from Kota, Rajasthan, to a quarantine facility at Mother and Child Hospital on Chandigarh road.Hospital’s senior medical officer Dr Amita Jain said samples of all the people are being collected for testing. Also, 98 pilgrims arrived in Gurdaspur in three special buses on Tuesday. They have been quarantined at Naushehra Majha Singh village, deputy commissioner Mohammad Ishfaq said. 2,585 labourers reach Abohar As many as 2,585 labourers belonging to different areas of Punjab reached from Rajasthan in Abohar on Tuesday.The labourers were ferried from Ratangarh, Mohangarh and Jaisalmail of Rajasthan by the state government in 61 buses and all of them were screened medically. They will be quarantined in their home districts in state government’s facilities.Among the labourers, 1,104 are from Fazilka, 683 from Muktsar, 300 Bathinda, 217 Faridkot, 57 Ferozepur, 23 Mansa, 20 Patiala, 15 Jalandhar, 11 Ludhiana and 32 Moga, 20 Barnala, 29 Kapurthala and 74 from Sangrur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nanded-returnees-pose-fresh-challenge-to-punjab-govt/story-NSkLAFQhfPPl1u7DZ7OlDI.html
29-04-2020||Chandigarh||7 new cases take Covid-19 count to 308 in Haryana||Addition of seven new cases in the Haryana’s Covid-19 tally took the total number of infections in the state to 308 on Tuesday. Four of these were reported from Jhajjar, while two from Sonepat and one from Panipat.Jhajjar district, which had managed to save itself from the virus attack till Sunday, reported five cases on Monday, four of which were added to the state’s health department bulletin on Tuesday. Jhajjar civil surgeon Dr Randeep Punia said of the four patients, one was a pharmacist from Bahadurgarh and three were family members of an infected Delhi constable (his parents and a daughter). The cop, who hails from Jhajjar’s Saloda village, had tested positive in Delhi. His wife, too, was found infected on Tuesday, but her case has not been included in the state health department bulletin as of yet. Dr Punia said all members of the cop’s family have been admitted to the isolation ward in PGIMS, Rohtak, while he is undergoing treatment in Delhi. In Sonepat, civil surgeon Dr BK Rajoura said the husband and mother-in-law of an infected woman from Sonepat, who worked as a nurse in Delhi, have tested positive. “The patients have been shifted to BPS medical college in Khanpur Kalan,” he added.With a 26-year-old woman contracting the virus in Panipat, the district tally has reached 13. As per reports, the woman and her husband were coming back from her parents’ home in Delhi, when the couple met with an accident. During the duo’s treatment, their samples were taken for Covid test. Panipat chief medical officer Sant Lal Verma said the woman was found positive, while her husband tested negative. ACTIVE CASES 81, RECOVERY RATE 73%With 11 more patients getting discharged in the state, the number of active Covid-19 cases has come down to 81. Of the total 308 infected people, 224 have been cured. In the active cases, Sonepat tops the chart with 20 patients, followed by Gurugram (15 ), Nuh (11), Panipat (8), Faridabad (6), Panchkula and Jhajjar (5 each), Rohtak and Ambala (3 each), Palwal and Hisar (2 each) and Bhiwani (1). The recovery rate in Haryana is about 73%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/7-new-cases-take-covid-19-count-to-308-in-haryana/story-ToTDtKG7j2aTZDIYGHpVHL.html
29-04-2020||Lucknow||BJP MLA show-caused for comments on Muslim vendors, in video||Suresh Tiwari, BJP MLA from Barhaj constituency in Deoria district, was on Tuesday seen in a video clip telling people not to buy vegetables from Muslim vendors to avoid contracting coronovirus.The clip has now been widely shared on social media, triggering a controversy.Taking note of Tiwari’s comments, the BJP served a show-cause notice to him and asked him to explain why action should not be initiated against him. “On the instructions of party chief Swatantra Dev, party general secretary Vidyasagar Sonker has issued notice to Suresh Tiwari ji and asked him to explain his conduct and why action shouldn’t be initiated against him,” said BJP’s Manish Dixit. Party spokesperson Chandramohan said the BJP had nothing to do with the statement. “The party’s motto is ‘sabka saath, sabka vikas’ -- something that all of us need to follow,” Chandramohan said.In the video, Tiwari is seen saying: “One thing you all should keep in mind. I am telling you openly. Do not buy vegetables from Mias (Muslim vendors).”When contacted, Tiwari admitted that he made the remark, but clarified that he did so as a precautionary measure to protect people from getting infected with coronavirus after several of them had complained to him about the alleged role of Tablighi Jamaatis in spreading the deadly virus.“On April 18, I was distributing masks among people in Deoria when I came across complaints from some of the people, who expressed fear that Tablighi Jamaatis were spreading infection in Deoria. Many of them were worried that Muslim vendors were infecting veggies with saliva from their mouths. As responsible MLA, I asked them (people) not to take the law into their hands to deal with situation but simply stop buying vegetables from them. Tell me what wrong I have done if I have said such things,” Tiwari said.Tiwari’s remark drew sharp reaction from the Congress, with its UP chief Ajay Kumar Lallu flaying him and blaming his party for spreading hatred even at the time of the current pandemic.“At a time when the country is reeling under severe crisis of coronavirus, BJP leaders are busy fanning hatred. It’s a shameful act which has exposed the real face of BJP. The Tablighi Jamaatis, who are being blamed for spreading coronovirus, have set an example by offering to donate their plasma to cure patients. I am confident the countrymen will put up a united fight against Covid-19 by neglecting such comments,” Lallu said.(WITH PTI INPUTS)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/bjp-mla-show-caused-for-comments-on-muslim-vendors-in-video/story-39rxEJTBcqyStEOObOXU4O.html
29-04-2020||City||14 fresh cases take Punjab count to 344||Fourteen new Covid-19 cases were reported on Tuesday, taking the number of patients in the state to 344. Jalandhar topped the Tuesday’s tally with seven cases, followed by two each from Mohali, SBS Nagar and Tarn Taran , and one from Hoshiarpur.Jalandhar nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr TPS Sandhu, said with this, 85 cases have been reported in the district so far, highest in the sate.Health officials in Jalandhar said a 40-year-old man of Bhagat Singh Colony and two of his elderly family members were found positive for the virus, besides a 38-year-old man and his two kids aged 12 and 10 of Hargobind Nagar in Basti Guzzan, and a 48-year-old daughter-in-law of a 65-year-old woman patient of Jawala Nagar.In SBS Nagar, a 24-year-old man and his 50-year-old mother were found infected. They are the contact of 25-year-old Balachaur truck driver who was tested positive on Sunday. Mohali reported two cases on Tuesday after a gap of five days. Both the patients are from district’s hotspot Jawaharpur village in Dera Bassi. The first patient, a 47-year-old man, is the brother of the woman sarpanch who had tested positive for coronavirus infection, too. Another person, infected is 60 year old, who is also related to the sarpanch’s family.In Tarn Taran, two more Hazur Sahib pilgrims were tested positive, while another Nanded returnee was found infected in Hoshiarpur. Jalandhar man who infected 35, cured Jasbir Singh, 40, from Raja Garden area of Jalandhar, who works in a vernacular daily and allegedly infected more than 35 people, including 19 co-workers, recovered of the infection on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/14-fresh-cases-take-punjab-count-to-344/story-7VeJYWBogQknMG2QddwFcP.html
29-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab sees decline in percentage of + cases against total tests done||Despite speculation that the number of Covid-19 cases in Punjab could be less because of low testing, the state has witnessed a decline in percentage of positive cases against the total tests done.An analysis of the figures issued by the health department reveals that on April 4, the state’s percentage of positive cases against the total tests done was 4.1%. Of the 1,585 tests conducted till then, 65 samples were found positive.On April 12, the figures dipped to 3.6% with state registering 135 positive cases out of 3,760 test results. On April 20, the ratio further fell to 2.9% with 191 positive cases out of 16,518 test results.On April 27, the figure came down to 2.6% when the state crossed 330 positive cases out of 12,663 test results.The health department considers the decline in the ratio a ‘positive sign’. “We have done comprehensive testing in the past one week. In only three days between April 25 to April 27, a total of 4,703 samples were taken across the state from our flu centres. Of these, 1500 samples were taken from green zones, out of which 800 suspects were symptomatic. Interestingly, most of the results have been found negative, which shows there is no tangible community transmission and most of the cases are related to contact histories,” said Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, department’s official spokesperson for Covid-19.“Had there been any community spread, it should have reflected in the ratio of positive patients against the tests done. We have increased our testing from 300 daily in the first week of April to 1,500-2,000 daily since last week,” he said.LAL PATH LABS APPROVED FOR TESTING IN PUNJABMeanwhile, additional chief secretary Vini Mahajan said in a Tweet that privately owned ‘Lal Path Labs’ has also been approved for testing in Punjab.Besides, two more labs in the state are likely to start conducting tests for coronavirus soon. These will include one lab each at the Christian Medical College (CMC), Ludhiana, and Guru Ram Dass Institute of Medical Science and Research, Amritsar.“The state government has aggressively pushed the case of the two institutes with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and once the approval comes, the state’s capacity will get a further boost,” said a senior government official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-sees-decline-in-percentage-of-cases-against-total-tests-done/story-9CSGFlcU0cRrB6JaBVRcXP.html
29-04-2020||Chandigarh||AAP blames govt for ‘tardy’ lifting of wheat||The Punjab unit of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Tuesday blamed the state and central governments for the tardy lifting of wheat from grain markets and problems being faced by farmers, arhtiyas and transporters in the state.In a statement, AAP’s kisan wing president Kultar Singh Sandhwan and Scheduled Caste (SC) wing chief Manjit Singh Bilaspur said that 50% wheat had been lifted on an average from mandis across the state so far whereas only 30% wheat was lifted at several places. “This has led to a glut and there is hardly any space in mandis for fresh arrivals,” the two MLAs said, holding the government responsible for this situation.Sukhbir asks Capt to speed up procurement SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal has asked Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh to take immediate steps to fast track wheat procurement. He said that procurement had been severely affected across state. Sukhbir, who had visited Jalalabad grain market, said mandis are clogged as wheat is not being lifted in the absence of gunny bags. He said farmers are complaining that procurement agencies are rejecting wheat even if it has slight moisture content. He asked the CM to take up the issue with FCI, and direct state agencies not to harass. He said of 54 lakh MT wheat procured, only 29 lakh MT tonnes had been lifted, and only 30% payment due to farmers had been released.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aap-blames-govt-for-tardy-lifting-of-wheat/story-VoTGWaiAE7maqXhR0qxQBN.html
29-04-2020||Lucknow||No irregularities in purchase of PPE kits, says UP govt||The Uttar Pradesh government on Tuesday clarified that no irregularities had been committed in procurement of PPE kits that were supplied to doctors and para-medical staff of government medical colleges across the state after start of the Covid-19 pandemic.Addressing a joint press conference, additional chief secretary Awanish Kumar Awasthi and principal secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said 3,500 PPE kits worth Rs 3.5 lakh were purchased in October 2019 by the Uttar Pradesh Medical Supply Corporation for doctors and para-medical staff treating the H1N1/ SARS patients in medical colleges. The standard of the kits was for protection from H1N1/ SARS.Awasthi said that at the time of start of Covid pandemic there was a shortage of PPE kits so the government sent those (H1N1/SARS) kits to the medical colleges. After the purchase of kits for protection from Covid, the state government withdrew all H1N1/SARS kits that were dispatched to medical colleges earlier. The H1N1/SARS kits were used by doctors in various medical colleges and there was no report of infection. The old kits were purchased at the rate of Rs 115 per kit whereas the kits for protection from Covid is now being purchased at Rs 1,086 per kit, he said.Awasthi further said that now the state government was purchasing PPE kits made for protection from Covid from a central government factory in Coimbatore, DRDE in Gwalior, Heavy Vehicles Factory in Tamil Nadu and Small Arms Factory, Kanpur. Surprise check of the quality of the kits is being done by Small Arms Factory, Kanpur as well, he said.Awasthi and Prasad said no irregularity was committed in the purchase of PPE kits. The then committees of experts, doctors and officers had approved the purchase of kits. They are according to standards and rules set by the state government, the officers said.The state government had on April 26 ordered a probe by the Special Task Force (STF) into the leak of director general (DG), medical education, Dr KK Gupta’s letter written to principals of medical colleges, warning them not to use PPE kits since it was of substandard quality. The letter was widely circulated on social media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/no-irregularities-in-purchase-of-ppe-kits-says-up-govt/story-jHv45PwCfoNYRcITz0mWiI.html
29-04-2020||Chandigarh||Wheat arrival in full swing, Punjab faces storage crisis||The arrival of wheat in the mandis of Punjab is in the full swing with 66 lakh tonne of crop having already reached the grain markets, but the state government hardly has any covered space for storage of the produce.The entire 135 lakh tonne of wheat expected to be procured this season will go for storage in open over the plinths as the godowns in the state are brimming with rice and wheat of the previous seasons. The produce will be vulnerable to damage as it will be exposed to the vagaries of weather for being stored under the open sky.As per the norms of Food Corporation of India (FCI), the central agency for movement of foodgrains for public distribution system (PDS) in the entire country, wheat kept in CAP (covered area plinth) storage rots three times faster than wheat stored in covered godowns.The FCI’s policy recommends shifting of wheat kept in CAP storage within six months and that of covered godowns within two years. Wheat stored in silos (steel containers) has shelf life for over three years.The state godowns are brimming with rice and wheat despite the fact that the movement of foodgrains from Punjab to recipient states is going on at a fast pace amid the lockdown imposed in the country in the last week of March in the wake of Covid-9 outbreak.Everyday 15 to 50 goods trains chug into the state to transport foodgrains to the recipient states. Taking the daily average of trains at 30, around 75,000 tonne of foodgrains are moved out on daily basis.During the past 35 days, around 20 lakh tonne wheat and rice have been moved out of state, but still the state has not sufficient space to accommodate the arrivals of the current season.Due to lack of sufficient space, wheat would go for storage in rice shelling mils and the mandis which have covered sheds.As per figures procured from the state food and civil supplies department, 102 lakh tonne rice is currently stored in covered godowns. Besides, 70 lakh tonne wheat of the previous two rabi seasons (2018 and 2019).Also, the 40 lakh tonne paddy, which is under processing and will yield at least 26 lakh tonne more rice, will be stored in the godowns.‘ALTERNATIVE SPACE FOR STORAGE IDENTIFIED’ Additional chief secretary Viswajeet Khanna, head of the state committee on harvest and procurement, said alternative space for wheat storage has been identified and the stacking of foodgrains has started.Meanwhile, 20 lakh tonne wheat of the current season has already landed in the CAP storage.Currently, there is 155 lakh tonne storage capacity in covered godowns in Punjab, in which the state agencies store 10% more than the capacity. The CAP storage capacity in the state is 100 lakh tonne where silos have 5.75 lakh tonne capacity. A move to create more storage of 33.5 lakh tonne in the state was stalled due to the countrywide lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/wheat-arrival-in-full-swing-punjab-faces-storage-crisis/story-pyzSuJdAv3g8JMY2mbP7BK.html
29-04-2020||City||After being assaulted by neighbours, man hangs self in Ludhiana||After being attacked by his neighbours, an elderly man ended his life by hanging himself from a fan at his home in New Shakti Nagar on Tuesday morning, fearing that the accused would again assault him and his family.His family members had gone to the police station to report about the assault case when he took the extreme step. Police have lodged an FIR for abetment to suicide against six people, identified as Nadeem Malik, Shoaib, Shivam, Jaggi, Sodhi and Lovpreet – all residents of New Shakti Nagar.Sub-inspector (SI) Sukhdev Raj, SHO at the Tibba police station, said, “The victim’s son had a scuffle with some residents of the locality six months ago. On Tuesday morning, when his son went out to buy some essential items, the accused intercepted him and assaulted him.” The SI added, “The victim’s son fled from the spot and reached home. However, the accused followed him and barged into his house and assaulted him and his family members and also vandalised their house.” The SHO added, “This left the victim traumatised and he was worried the accused would assault them again.When Paramjit and other family members reached the police station to lodge a complaint about the attack, Prem Singh hanged self from a ceiling at his house.” The SHO said a case under Section 306 (abetment of suicide) .of the IPC has been registered against the accused. The police will arrest the accused soon, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/after-being-assaulted-by-neighbours-man-hangs-self-in-ludhiana/story-zLOb8VJDqQeDcOPlQF96wJ.html
29-04-2020||City||Ludhiana man dies in Dubai, firm says can’t send body as he tested Covid-19 positive||A family of Balliewal village of the district has been deprived of seeing the body of one of its members, who died during work at Jebel Ali town of Dubai. The construction company, with which he was working, refused to send the body to his village, claiming that he was tested coronavirus positive, posthumously.However, the family alleged that the company is using coronavirus as an excuse for saving expenses to send the body to India. The family has sought the intervention of the Union government in bringing the body to Ludhiana. The deceased, Balwinder Singh, 37, a resident of Balliewal village, had gone to Dubai six years ago where he was working as a carpenter with the company. Sarpanch Manjit Singh, cousin of the deceased, said they had received a call from the company on April 16 informing them that Balwinder had died in an accident during work.He said, “According to the company, he was working on the 10th floor of a building and the chain of the crane, which was lifting him, suddenly snapped and he came down crashing on the ground. His head crashed on the floor and he died on the spot. The company officials told them that they are making arrangements to send the body to Ludhiana, but they did not.” “On Saturday, a company official informed us that Balwinder was tested Covid-19 positive posthumously and they cannot send the body to India,” said Manjit Singh.“We refuse to believe this. They themselves said that he died in an accident during work. Now, they are saying that he was tested coronavirus positive after his blood samples were taken posthumously. It is just an excuse because they do not want to send the body back,” alleged Manjit Singh. Balwinder Singh is survived by old parents, wife and three children -- two daughters (aged 6 and 4) and a two-year-old son.His wife, Rajwinder Kaur, said his salary for 2-3 months was also pending with the company. Her father-in-law works as a labourer and due to lockdown, the family has no source of income. “Everyone in the family is depressed and we want the body of my husband back to see him for the last time and pay him our last respects,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-man-dies-in-dubai-firm-says-can-t-send-body-as-he-tested-covid-19-positive/story-dQAGtoc3GQu6o29BobsfrM.html
29-04-2020||City||LIP leader removes his ‘kurta’ at Khanna SSP office in protest||High drama was witnessed at the office of senior superintendent of police (SSP) of Khanna after a leader of Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) removed his ‘kurta’ on Tuesday in protest against alleged police ‘high-handedness’.LIP leader Manjit Singh Giaspura alleged that former SHO at the Sadar police station inspector Baljinder Singh had tortured the husband of a former sarpanch, who was a baptised Sikh, his son and one of his aides at the police station in the past. The inspector had made them strip at the police station and made a video. Later, the video was posted on social networking sites to humiliate them.Giaspura alleged that instead of taking action, the police only transferred the inspector to Ferozepur, which was merely an eyewash. He demanded an FIR against the accused and his dismissal from the force.He added he would discuss the issue with his party chief MLA Simarjit Singh Bains before launching a protest against police ‘atrocities’.In the nine-second video, recorded around ten months ago, three persons were allegedly seen standing nude in front of the SHO, whose voice is audible, but his face cannot be seen.After the video went viral, Punjab director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta had directed Jaskaran Singh, inspector general of police (IGP), Ludhiana Range, to immediately carry out a fact-finding inquiry into the matter on April 16 and submit a report at the earliest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lip-leader-removes-his-kurta-at-khanna-ssp-office-in-protest/story-fthLlqHvTWRmten9YJ3QBM.html
29-04-2020||Mumbai||245 booked for morning walks at Mumbai’s Juhu beach||In a bid to stop people from taking morning walks, police in western suburbs have started serving notices to chairmen/secretaries of housing societies asking them to restrict residents from taking morning walks or walking their dogs outside. To date, around 245 people have been booked for going for morning walks at Juhu beach. Abhishek Trimukhe, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), zone 9 (Bandra West to Jogeshwari West), said, “We are serving notices to housing societies and first information reports (FIR) will be registered against repeat offenders.” Shriram Koregaonkar, senior inspector, Santacruz police station, said, “We have served notices to 433 people and 245 offences have been registered against those caught walking at Juhu.” 3 pose as BMC officials to enter bldg, booked Kalachowki police arrested three men on Monday evening for entering a quarantined building by impersonating health officials from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). Locals alerted the police as the trio had no identity cards. Around 6 pm the trio identified as Aniket Chougle, 25; Deepak Wagh, 24, and Ashok Chavhan, 22, entered Vikrant Sadan society in Chinchpokli and started checking people’s temperature with a thermal scanner. The accused have been booked under relevant sections of the IPC. 45 booked on Monday for not wearing maskMMumbai Police lodged 94 FIRs on Monday, 45 of which were for not wearing masks and another 43 for gathering in one place. A total of 64 FIRs were from the central and western regions which have a maximum number of Covid-19 cases in Mumbai. In all, 143 people were booked and 74 arrested on Monday.81,035 FIRs in state for lockdown violations Till Monday morning, a total of 81,035 FIRs have been registered by the Maharashtra Police for lockdown violations. A total of 618 people have been booked for violating quarantine orders; 535 have been arrested for assaulting/obstructing policemen and 49,113 vehicles have been seized. (Inputs from Faisal Tandel)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/245-booked-for-morning-walks-at-juhu-beach/story-59K8EmtDYA6zW1aLCZZL8O.html
29-04-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra cop rushes snakebite victim to hospital amid Covid-19 lockdown||A police constable deployed on Covid-19 lockdown duty saved the life of a seven-year-old snakebite victim at Badlapur in Maharashtra’s Thane district, police said on Tuesday.Shivam Jadhav was bitten by a snake at a cattle shed near his home in Mankavli on Monday and his father was trying to find means to get him to a hospital during the lockdown, an official said.The boy’s father approached constable Girish Sahil, who was deployed in the area to enforced the lockdown, he said, adding that the policeman immediately rushed the child to a hospital on his two-wheeler.Senior inspector Deepak Deshmukh of the Badlapur (east) police station also helped the boy’s family with the medical expenses, the official said.According to doctors, the policeman’s timely action had saved the boy’s life, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cop-rushes-snakebite-victim-to-hospital-amid-covid-19-lockdown/story-B9eDSi85DeFU1creQocvMN.html
29-04-2020||City||Work at Jagraon Bridge likely to begin today in Ludhiana||Put to a halt after imposition of curfew in the state, work on the Jagraon Bridge project is expected to commence from Wednesday as the municipal corporation (MC) has received permission from the district administration to start the construction.Deputy commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal gave the permission on Tuesday on the condition that the construction company and the MC would ensure that all the guidelines issued by the Union ministry of home affairs, state government and district administration are adhered to. Further, the construction agency has to ensure that necessary precautions are taken by the labourers as well.Passes, to be issued to the labour and the staff of the construction company, will be valid only for working hours and the MC will have to maintain a record of the issued passes. If it is found that the guidelines are not being followed, permission for construction would be cancelled without any notice.MC superintending engineer HS Bhullar said, “The MC has received permission to commence work on the project on Wednesday. Instructions have been issued to the contractor to adhere to norms and follow all the guidelines issued by the government and the administration.” Bhullar added, “We cannot fix any deadline for the project as the contractor might face problems in getting construction material during curfew.” Under the project, the MC has to increase the width of approach roads to the ROB (from the Gurdwara Dukhniwaran side towards Durga Mata Mandir) by three metres, which will allow the roads to be linked to the newly constructed railway over bridge (ROB) bow-string girder.The MC had commenced work on January 30 amid the claim that it would be completed by April 14. The construction company was expected to meet the deadline, but the project was put to a halt after the announcement of lockdown on March 23. In July 2016, the Railways had closed one leg of the bridge, leading to disturbance in the traffic movement in the city, following which, residents had been pressuring the administration to expedite the reconstruction of the bridge. Residents have also observed three ‘death anniversaries’ of the bridge in the past as a symbolic protest against the authorities. SMART CITY PROJECT KICKS OFF The Ludhiana Smart City Limited (LSCL) will also commence work on four projects, including ROB/RUB project on the Pakhowal road railway crossing (deadline August 25); waterfront development along the Sidhwan Canal (July 28); carcass utilisation plant (June 30); development of the Malhar Road as smart road and retrofitting of the Sarabha Nagar market (May 24).The authorities said the projects might miss the deadlines as over a month has elapsed after the work was stopped due to curfew. Uncertainty also looms over the 24x7 water supply project in the city as the World Bank had given time till March 31 to the MC to find a location for setting up the treatment plant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/work-at-jagraon-bridge-likely-to-begin-today-in-ludhiana/story-1YRXL8foHMwGJfndw3C1TJ.html
29-04-2020||Delhi||11 relatives of Lok Nayak dietician test positive for Covid||New Delhi:Eleven members of a Lok Nayak hospital dietician’s family have tested positive for Covid-19, according to officials. The dietician had tested positive last week, leading to the hospital kitchen being shut down on Thursday.“Yes, it is true that 11 members of her family have tested positive. However, the good news is that the first reports of all the 55 people who she came in contact with in the kitchen returned negative. We are waiting for the second reports of theirs to come back negative before restarting the kitchen,” an official from the hospital said.The national capital reported 206 cases of the contagious disease reported on Tuesday, taking the total number in the city to 3,314. Of these, 54 people have died. However, no new deaths were reported in Tuesday’s bulletin.Lok Nayak is the biggest Covid-19 hospital in the city, with 207 positive patients currently being treated in the hospital.“At present, food in the hospital is being provided by two of our in-house canteen facilities, along with the food sponsored by a private firm,” the official said.Five hospital staff from Lok Nayak hospital — including two doctors — have tested positive for Covid-19 between Monday and Tuesday afternoon. So far, 14 people working in the hospital have tested positive for the viral infection.At the city’s Baba Saheb Ambedkar hospital, nine more people tested positive for the infection on Tuesday, taking the total number of health care workers in the hospital to have tested positive for the infection in the hospital to 38.The medical superintendent, or head of the hospital, is among 70 people who have been quarantined.Located in Jahangirpuri — which has several containment zones — Babu Jagjivan Ram Memorial hospital has now become a hot spot for the infection, with at least 10 more people testing positive for Covid-19 between Monday and Tuesday. This takes the total number of hospital staff infected to 75.The hospital has been shut since Monday for sanitisation.“No new admissions are happening at the hospital, and only the critical patients who were admitted earlier remain. They will also be tested,” said a district official.So far, at least 258 health care workers across the city have tested positive for the infection. Meanwhile,the total number of containment zones in Delhi touched 100 on Tuesday after the Delhi government announced one new containment zone in Shaheen Bagh area of southeast district. The newly made containment zone includes 10 houses in D-block of Shaheen Bagh. This is second containment area in Shaheen Bagh. Earlier on April 16, the city government had declared gali number-6 of Abul Fazal Enclave in A-block of Shaheen Bagh as a containment zone.A containment zone is a complete quarantine zone and no one is allowed to step out even to buy essential goods such as milk, vegetables, fruits, etc. All the entry and exit points and even the internal lanes are barricaded in the containment zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/11-relatives-of-lok-nayak-dietician-test-positive-for-covid/story-n4S5d42MfLvTvjNXdLowFL.html
29-04-2020||Delhi||Govt allows district admins to regulate movement of plumbers, electricians||The Delhi government on Tuesday allowed district administrations to enforce the latest lockdown relaxation — allowing self-employed electricians, plumbers and water purifier servicemen to operate in the city — as they deem fit.The government clarification comes at a point where residents demanded a safety protocol, including thermal screening, to authorise such workers.“The Delhi Police has been sent the order issued yesterday (Monday) and they are complying with it. There is no common protocol in place on how they are being allowed to operate. We have decentralised decision making on this and left it to the respective district administration to enforce it in the manner they deem fit,” a media advisor to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said.Nidhi Srivastava, district magistrate (Central), said, “We will issue passes as and when they apply. The same applies to private clinics, veterinarians and other such services that have been allowed.”However, such workers in the North East district will not require passes, said district magistrate (DM) Shashi Kaushal. “In my district, most of these providers are available in the neighbourhoods. Curfew passes are required when people have to travel long distances for work. In the case of electricians, plumbers, etc., working within a colony or within three to four blocks should not be a problem,” said Kaushal.Delhi Police spokesperson MS Randhawa acknowledged the measures in North East district. “These service providers will be allowed to work even without the movement passes. But still, we would request them that it will be better if they get an e-pass made,” said Randhawa.A senior police officer, who did not wish to be named, said that to ensure that others do not start stepping out, posing as workers, they will be questioned. “If we come across any suspicious person, our men can call the house the service provider is going to and can confirm his name and profession with them. But, we will ensure no such worker is harassed. Also, when most of the hardware and electrical stores aren’t open yet, there will be less demand for such workers,” the officer said.Residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) across the city, however, said they will not be able to stop the entry of service providers to their colonies, after the government’s order.BS Vohra, president, the federation of East Delhi RWAs, said that at the subdivisional magistrate (SDM) level, the administration should fix a schedule for thermal screening of the service providers in the area before they are allowed to work. “We are issuing an advisory, asking service providers to wear protective gear, such as masks and gloves, while entering the premises,” said Vohra.Pramod Kumar, 36, an electrician, who runs his business taking assignments over the phone, said the news brought him much relief, as he had already run out of his modest savings and had to take a loan from his friends to buy rations.Although still wary of catching the infection, he said he cannot afford to sit at home anymore. A resident of East Delhi’s Dallupura, he cycles to nearby Vasundhara Enclave or sometimes travels on foot to attend to customers.“Except for air-conditioner (AC) servicing, I do all the electrical work. I didn’t get any calls for work so far, but I will get in touch with customers, whose works were left incomplete, because of the lockdown,” said Kumar, who has a family of four dependent on his income.However, some workers said they will gauge the situation before starting work as they do not want to risk their lives.Mukesh Kumar, 27, an electrician, who also owns a small shop in Rohini Sector 15, said that he is yet to reopen and will only attend to urgent works. “It has been difficult to manage, as the sources from where we used to get hardware stocks are all closed. But, I think being alive and healthy is more important. I have decided to not open the shop until the lockdown is lifted,” said Kumar.Self-employed service providers are not registered with the government or home service companies. They are daily wagers found in almost every colony and most live on a call-by-call basis. There are no official numbers as they are part of the large unorganised workforce in the Capital, but a senior Delhi government official said their numbers in the city could be around 30,000 to 40,000.Unlike registered autorickshaw drivers or taxi drivers, they are also not eligible for the one-time financial support of ₹5,000 provided by the Delhi government.HC Gupta, president, the federation of Ashok Vihar RWAs, said they have asked residents to avoid getting their ACs serviced till at least the lockdown is lifted. “Residents, on their own, are avoiding calling for such services unless there is an emergency. The government should have set a mechanism or at least check the medical history of service providers who will enter a residential complex. The current scenario poses a risk of spreading the Covid infection,” said Gupta.Atul Goyal, president of the United Residents Joint Action (URJA), an umbrella body of 2,500 RWAs, said that more clarity is needed in the government order. “How do we know that the service provider is not coming from a hot spot? At the ward level, the authorities must designate people and allow only such providers who are coming from green zones so that there is minimised risk of spreading the infection,” said Goyal.A senior government official clarified that these relaxations will not apply to any of the 100 containment zones in the city.The order on relaxations issued by chief secretary Vijay Dev on Monday night also allowed interstate and intrastate movement of medical and veterinary personnel, scientists, nurses, paramedical staff, lab technicians, midwives and other hospital support services, including ambulances. It stated that air travel for such persons will also be allowed.After receiving feedback that several private clinics, pathological labs and dispensaries in Delhi have been shut due to confusion over the lockdown rules, the Monday order also called for the opening of such facilities across the city.The government-run shelter homes will now admit new inmates. “So far, since the lockdown, the homes were not allowed to let outsiders in. Now that the order has come, they will be open to accepting those in need depending on the capacity,” said a senior Delhi government official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/govt-allows-district-admins-to-regulate-movement-of-plumbers-electricians/story-HQwibcnG6qUOFweS6IBV1L.html
29-04-2020||Mumbai||Amidst the lockdown, digital marketing, finance lessons just a click away for Dawoodi Bohra community||Since the lockdown has been in place, the Dawoodi Bohra community has organised approximately 100 programmes for businessmen from the community on topics ranging from project management, digital marketing, women entrepreneurs and finance. A panel of business committees and experts in their respective fields, from all over the world, have taken these sessions to help Dawoodi Bohra businesses.The training sessions and webinars have been organised by Al-Tijaarat Al-Raabehah, the business development department of the community. The online training sessions take place on a mobile application and include one-one-one counselling sessions. The recording of the webinar is uploaded on social media platforms. Similar training sessions are later carried out at a local level.Huzaifa Mukarram, operations manager at Al-Tijaarat Al-Raabehah, said that until Tuesday, around 55,000-60,000 Dawoodi Bohras from across the world had viewed the sessions so far. Approximately 60-70% of the community in the city run small and big businesses.“In a phase such as this, we do not know what is going to come next. As a result, we want businessmen to be prepared,” said Mukarram.Fakhruddin Fatehpurwala, who trades in industrial hardware, said, “We know that people might face problems to pay for products. In a situation such as this, we were told that we could also opt for barter system. Currently, I am also strengthening the presence of my company online.” Fatehpurwala also said he is now looking into developing new products that he can introduce once the lockdown ends.“The response amidst the community members has been phenomenal. We want the members to understand that as entrepreneurs, they can find alternate options and keep their shops running even from home, instead of just wasting their time,” said Mohammed Sabuwala, one of the trainers.There are approximately 1 lakh Dawoodi Bohras in and around Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/digital-marketing-finance-lessons-a-click-away-for-dawoodi-bohra-community/story-T4JqXDCjP8yHK4BjZP9d6H.html
29-04-2020||Gurugram||22-year-old booked for raping 16-year-old girl in Gurugram’s Udyog Vihar||A 22-year-old man was booked for allegedly raping a 16-year-old girl after luring her to his room at a village in Udyog Vihar on Tuesday. The parents of the girl alleged that the man had threatened to kill her if she revealed the incident, police said. Police said that the girl, a class 10 student, is from Bihar. The accused lives in the neighbourhood of the girl, the police said. In the complaint, her parents alleged that the incident took place a few days ago. A police official, privy to the investigating, requesting anonymity, said, “After raping her, the accused threatened to kill the girl if she tried to approach the police or informed her parents regarding the incident. It was only a few days after the incident that she told her parents about what had happened. The suspect is yet to be arrested. We are investigating the case.”A case was registered against the accused under Section 4 (penetrative sexual assault) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and Section 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Udyog Vihar police station on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/22-year-old-booked-for-raping-16-year-old-girl-in-udyog-vihar/story-jtfNWJZpoMDGHPXjTzxFhJ.html
29-04-2020||City||3 held with 18-kg opium amid curfew in Ludhiana||Khanna police arrested three men with 18-kg opium on Monday. The accused were identified as Harjot Singh alias Jot, 25; Jatinder Singh, 24; and Balkar Singh, 53; all hailing from Takhran village in Samrala.A case under Sections 18, 61 and 85 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act was registered against the three accused.Khanna senior superintendent of police (SSP), Harpreet Singh said Harjot and Jatinder were arrested during a special check near the Neelon Canal bridge when the duo was coming from the Takhran village side on a motorcycle. “During questioning, Harjot and Jatinder told the police that they had smuggled 18-kg opium from Bhilwara of Rajasthan in trucks and then sold 1-kg opium to Balkar, who in turn was planning to sell the contraband at a higher rates to addicts,” the SSP said.He added, “On frisking, we seized 3kg opium from Harjot and Jatinder. Following the information provided by Harjot, we recovered 14kg additional opium from his house.”Harjot is already facing a trial in five cases, including attempt to murder, assault and drug peddling, the SSP added.Sub-inspector Sikandar Singh said they are probing to find out how Harjot and Jatinder managed to smuggle the contraband from Rajasthan amid the curfew.“The duo has been buying opium for ₹1 lakh per kg from Rajasthan and then selling it for ₹1.25 lakh per kg,” the sub-inspector added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amid-curfew-3-men-held-for-peddling-drugs-18kg-opium-recovered/story-rte9uEeai2wRE7S9GCdpBP.html
29-04-2020||Gurugram||Confusion, snarls at Delhi-Haryana border on day 1 of Covid-19 travel curbs||The Haryana police on Tuesday stepped up surveillance along the state’s borders with Delhi a day after state minister Anil Vij ordered sealing of all entry and exit points with the national capital in view of the rising number of Covid-19 cases there.Over 200 people were stopped from crossing the border into Gurugram at Sirhaul for the want of papers and police said they will book those who have no valid reason to travel from Wednesday them instead of sending them back. The number of barricades was increased and police said they checked each claim of commuters to ensure that only those involved in essential services were allowed to cross borders in accordance guidelines governing the lockdown imposed to check the Covid-19 spread.Police said they would earlier take a few seconds to clear border crossings and only stopped suspected vehicles. But on Tuesday, the police insisted on checking documents of each commuter before allowing them to cross over and this resulted in traffic congestion and long queues at the Sirhaul border.There was much confusion among commuters over the heightened surveillance and many started early to cross the border before the deployment was increased.Rajeev Singh, a daily commuter from Ghaziabad who works in a bank, said he started at 5 am from his home as his friends and colleagues told him that the borders would be sealed after 9 am. “I could not sleep and five of my colleagues and I planned to enter Gurugram before the border was sealed. We had even got our clothes and other stuff to shift to a friend’s place as we thought we would not be allowed to return home.”Another commuter, who works at an IT firm, said messages were circulated on social media saying the Gurugram-Delhi border will be closed and even the emergency services will not be allowed. “I had to request one of my relatives to allow me to stay at his house for a few days as it is mandatory for us to go to the office or else I will be fired,” said Akhilesh Kumar, who is from Delhi’s Pitam Pura.Gurugram police commissioner Mohammad Akil said they have deployed 35 personnel for each shift at all the 11 borders crossings. He added thermal scanners have been issued to all police posts and pickets and the personnel manning them have been asked to check temperatures of those entering the city from Wednesday. “We are taking all precautionary measures and are restricting travel to contain the coronavirus spread,” he said.He said safety gear has been provided to the personnel. “Directions have been issued to them to remain at a distance and not to touch anything without wearing masks.”Tents were put up at all police posts along the Delhi-Gurugram border to ensure the personnel could rest after their shifts get over. Medical teams were carrying out their regular checkups. The personnel wore gloves, masks, and glasses.Akil said anyone found travelling without necessary authorisation will be booked under section 188 (disobedience to order by a public servant) of the Indian Penal CodeVij said at least 15 people, who tested positive for the disease in Haryana recently, had contracted it in Delhi. He added the state has put in place emergency measures to prevent the Covid-19 spread. Vij said the situation in the state is under control and that Haryana has the country’s highest recovery rate of over 71%. “We have only allowed essential services and imposed stricter restrictions on those coming in from the national capital. It is important for us to save the state for the next 20 days till the situation comes under control. Until then, we should not open the borders,” he said.The Union health ministry on Tuesday said Haryana has reported 296 Covid-19 cases and three fatalities. Of the 296, 183 have been discharged. There was a sudden spike in Covid-19 cases in Gurugram last week when 51 cases were reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/confusion-snarls-at-delhi-haryana-border-on-day-1-of-covid-19-travel-curbs/story-ZfhR7c7Y2n4KdhFx4fGhSK.html
29-04-2020||Gurugram||2.84 lakh quintal wheat procured since April 15; registration of farmers on state government portal resumes||To ensure the smooth procurement of wheat and mustard in Gurugram, the Haryana government on Monday reopened registrations for farmers on its‘Meri Fasal, Mera Byora’ portal to help them sell their crops.Earlier, registrations on the portal were only open till April 19. The portal— www.fasalhry.in—enables farmers to directly upload the details of their crops which are then bought by the government.The district administration said that till April 19 over 7,000 farmers from Gurugram district had registered on the portal. Most registrations were from Pataudi block where at least 2,860 farmers had shared their details, while 2,572 farmers had registered from Farrukhnagar on the portal. Farrukhnagar, Pataudi and Sohna blocks are prime agriculture belts in the district. Farmers in the areas mostly grow wheat, mustard, and seasonal vegetables.Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner, also said from between April 15 and April 27, a total of 2.84 lakh quintal wheat was procured by the administration in the district. On Monday over 9,110 quintals of wheat were procured in Farrukhnagar, over 26,100 quintals were procured in Haileymandi, 2,850 quintals in Khor, and 2,100 quintals in Sohna, The administration had also purchased 2,360 quintals of mustard in Farrukhnagar, 5,440 quintals in Haileymandi, and 2,060 quintals in Sohna on Monday.Khatri said that adequate arrangements had been made for the procurement of these crops at the mandis (wholesale markets) in all blocks and all norms for physical distancing were being followed. “These markets are regularly disinfected, and masks and sanitizers are given to farmers, traders and all others here. Helpdesks have also been set up to share information with farmers,” he said.Officials said after collecting information of registered farmers from the ‘Meri Fasal, Mera Byora’ portal, a detailed roster is prepared for procurement of crops and on the basis of which farmers are called to the mandis with their produce. The information is shared by sending SMS and phone calls. The farmers bring the produce as per the roster so that there is no confusion and there is no large gathering at the mandis, they added. Haryana government has already announced life insurance of ₹10 lakh for all persons working in the mandis including farmers, commission agents, labourers, contractual and regular government employees. To smoothen the procurement process, the state government had announced the setting up of 2,000 mandis across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/2-84-lakh-quintal-wheat-procured-since-april-15-registration-of-farmers-on-state-government-portal-resumes/story-fky971bI2r3rvTW7XIdrTP.html
29-04-2020||Noida||Husband, in-laws arrested for woman’s death in Noida||A man in his late twenties was arrested by the Noida police on Tuesday along with three of his family members in connection with the death of his 25-year-old wife on Monday night after the woman’s family alleged that she was killed for dowry.The incident was reported from a village under the Phase 3 police jurisdiction. According to the police a call came in to the helpline around 11.15pm about the death of a woman.“A team was rushed to the spot and the body of the woman was taken into custody after which it was sent for an autopsy. She had been found hanging from a fan in her house,” deputy commissioner of police, women safety, Vrinda Shukla, said.The police first informed the woman’s brother about the incident, following which he came to Noida from Ghaziabad. According to family members, the couple had gotten married in November 2019.“They both worked for the same company in Noida. He was her manager and they got married five months ago after both families agreed to the match. Things were fine in the beginning, but problems related to money and the lack of dowry soon arose. She had been mentally troubled because of this for some time now,” the woman’s maternal uncle said.After the body was sent for an autopsy, the woman’s mother filed a complaint with the police based on which a case was registered against the husband, his parents and younger brother at the Phase 3 police station under sections 498A (Husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty), 304B (dowry death) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the dowry prohibition act.“Based on the family’s complaint, the suspects have been arrested while the autopsy report is awaited. All due legal action is being taken,” the DCP said.The police also said that prima facie it seemed to be a case of suicide. However, there were a few injuries on the body and until the autopsy report arrived, it would be difficult to say whether this was a suicide, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/husband-in-laws-arrested-for-woman-s-death/story-TQFkcff4HFyBIjN668wlGJ.html
29-04-2020||Noida||Only 31% paid power bills of March in GB Nagar, discom collects just 10% of total monthly revenue||The lockdown announced to control the Covid-19 pandemic has had an adverse impact on the cash flows of the discom in Gautam Budh Nagar district. This otherwise highest electricity revenue generating district in Uttar Pradesh is now faced with dismal collections. Only 31% consumers have paid their electricity bills of March 2020, and the discom has collected less than 10% of its power revenue last month.Pashchimanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited (PVVNL) chief engineer Virendra Nath Singh said despite launching several awareness drives asking consumers to make online payments of electricity bills, the revenue collection has dwindled in the district. “Of the ₹146 crore electricity bills of March 2020, we have so far collected around ₹14 crore, which is even less than 10%. Of the 1.57 lakh consumers who had been served their electricity bills, only 49,000 consumers have made the payment of their bills so far, which is approximately 31%,” he said.Singh also said before the lockdown, the average monthly revenue collection in the district was ₹300 crore. “The revenue collection and consumption have drastically come down after the lockdown. Before lockdown, over 70% consumers used to pay their electricity bills online, contributing more than 80% of the overall power bills in the district,” he said.The chief engineer further said apart from domestic consumers, even industrial and commercial consumers have shown a lukewarm response in paying their power bills. “We have 9,386 industrial and 27,791 commercial consumers in the district. Most of them are either closed due to the lockdown or have meters on their premises. As we have not been able to send them their bills, we have been launching awareness drives for them, to pay their bills according to rough estimates, going by previous months’ consumption, to keep the dues from mounting . But, these awareness drives, too, don’t appear to have made an impact,” he said.Singh also said the PVVNL is making all efforts to encourage consumers to pay online as they can’t go to any billing counters during the lockdown. “We have made all arrangements to ensure uninterrupted power supply these days. Consumers won’t have to pay additional charges if they are paying online as these additional charges levied by the bank will be paid by us. We have also launched a round-the-clock helpline number -- 1912 -- for consumers to call in case of any inconvenience,” he said. It may be noted that the Centre has issued directions to the Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (CERC) to provide a moratorium on payments for three months to discoms, but with few takers for 40% of the electricity in the discoms’ supply kitty, it is leading to a huge loss of revenue for discoms. From November 2019 onwards, the power generation companies are already suffering delays in payments from discoms in most states, including Uttar Pradesh. The discoms have legally binding contracts, especially with big companies, which draw electricity in large quantities, with provisions for the latter to pay even when they don’t draw power from the grid. But, in the current scenario, which is a force majeure, the discoms may not be able to enforce those provisions as the failure to draw electricity is entirely based on factors beyond the control of companies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/only-31-paid-power-bills-of-march-in-gb-nagar-discom-collects-just-10-of-total-monthly-revenue/story-boFDiJ9TuLVZNsXpgjifOO.html
29-04-2020||Noida||Noida to issue fresh tenders to finish pending electrical work at stuck projects||The Noida authority on Tuesday said it will prepare a report on all pending electrical works at different sites by May 3 so the process of hiring contractors to finish new and unfinished projects is complete without further delay.The Noida authority chief executive officer Ritu Maheshwari on Tuesday reviewed the status of electrical works at different project sites with the electrical department staff. “We have directed the engineers to conduct a ground survey and prepare budget estimates of all the electrical works that needs to be done at different project sites in the city. Once the survey report and budget estimates are ready, the authority will issue tenders to select the successful contractors to finish the electricity-related work,” said Maheshwari.Works at many upcoming projects such as underpasses on Shahdara elevated road, an under-construction administrative building in Sector 96, an upcoming district hospital in Sector 39, Sector 5 parking, and other projects are stuck after the nationwide lockdown was imposed on March 25 to curb the spread of coronavirus. In these and many other such projects, the authority needs to hire contractors who can finish electrical work on schedule after all the construction related work is over. The Noida authority CEO has issued directions that after the surveys are ready, the tendering process should be issued immediately and the work should be allotted to contractors within a week.The authority wants to wrap up all procedural work within May so that work on the ground can start by June (if the lockdown is not further extended), said officials.Apart from this, the CEO has directed the electrical department to prepare a report on all dysfunctional street lights. The authority plans to replace them with LEDs. “Once we have an estimate of non-functional street lights from all sectors and villages, the authority will start installation or repair of all these street lights at all places at the same time,” a Noida authority, requesting anonymity, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-to-issue-fresh-tenders-to-finish-pending-electrical-work-at-stuck-projects/story-RoTWiVRyklxunNCOGS614N.html
29-04-2020||Pune||Pune records 122 new Covid-19 cases, highest single day count||Pune recorded its highest single day tally on Tuesday after 122 persons tested positive for Covid-19. The disease also claimed two lives.Nine patients, including a four-month-old infant, a nine-year-old girl and a 60-year-old senior citizen with comorbid condition including diabetes and hypertension, were discharged from Sassoon General Hospital (SGH) after undergoing treatment.“All the nine were discharged after completing the 14-day incubation period and testing negative twice after a gap of 24 hours,” said a release from Sassoon hospital.The toddler residing at Gadiyal, Yerawada was admitted on April 13 in Sassoon with no reported comorbidity, and was discharged with Covid-19 negative status on Tuesday.The nine-year-old girl from Bhawani peth admitted at Sassoon on April 10 also has no comorbidity, while the 60-year-old male residing at Ganjpeth who was brought to the hospital on April 4 had comorbidity hypertension and diabetes. The duo was discharged on Tuesday.The other discharged residents include a 55-year-male from Shukravar peth admitted at Sassoon on April 11 having no comorbidity, a 40-year-old male from Mukundnagar admitted on April 10 having comorbidity nephrolithiasis, a 64-year-old male from Gultekdi admitted on April 4 having no comorbidity, a 55-year-old female from Parvati Darshan admitted on April 15 having diabetes and hypertension, a 65 -year-old male of Laxminagar who was admitted on April 12 having no comorbidity and a 56-year-old male from Ganeshnagar admitted on April 9 having hypertension, were also discharged on Tuesday.According to the district administration, 122 positive cases in a day, taking the overall Pune’s tally to 1,339, highest so far. Rest of the Pune district recorded 21 cases with district tally reaching 1,491.Among the deceased include a 70-year-old male residing at Bhawani peth admitted on April 27 and declared dead at KEM on Tuesday. The patient also suffered from acute chronic kidney disease, diabetes and hypertension. Another patient died was a 45-year-old male from Ramoshi wadi, who was hospitalised at Bharati hospital on April 16. The patient also suffered from acute respiratory distress syndrome with multi organ distress syndrome. 27 patients were discharged on Tuesday from various hospitals out of the total 203 discharged till date, out of which nine were discharged from Sassoon, three from Naidu and remaining from private hospitals.Out of the 13,063 samples sent to various labs till date, 1,491 have tested positive which is about 11.41 per cent of the samples tested positive while on Tuesday, out of the 785 samples sent to various labs, 143 came positive which is about 18 per cent of the samples tested within 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-records-122-new-cases-highest-single-day-count/story-Zl6GIGkaBvtoPlC0ok7noI.html
29-04-2020||Pune||Auto drivers in Pune reduced to penury amidst lockdown||Autorickshaw drivers in Pune who have been forced to give up their daily income due to lockdown are facing severe financial crisis as they are sitting idle inside their houses. Movement of all vehicles except those engaged in supply of essential services and commodities have been banned by the state government to prevent the spread of Corona virus.There are one lakh in the city. While a section of the drivers own their autorickshaws, the others drive the autorickshaw and pay the owner a daily fee of Rs 250 per shift for a day.Pune Rickshaw Panchyat president Nitin Pawar said that the situation is grim for over a lakh auto drivers in the city in absence of daily income. “ Their financial position is precarious and there is a need for strong backing from the government to support this large section of the society which has become unemployed due to the lockdown.”Amol Gaikwad, an auto driver from Yerawada, said, “I have been sitting idle inside my house with no income. I have to look after my old parents, wife and two kids. The daily expenditures are mounting and it is becoming difficult to survive. Moreover, there is no help coming from either the municipal corporation or the district collector’s office which is making our life difficult.”Gaikwad who used to earn Rs 300 - 400 per day said that he has to pay the Equated Monthly Installment (EMI) of Rs 4,000 for the auto. “I have defaulted on the last month payment and same will happen for this month. The banks are also harsh and not giving us any reprieve during this crisis ,” he said.Auto driver Ismail Shaikh , of Kondhwa is a diabetic who has eight members of the family to look after. “ We are in a deep crisis and don’t have any financial backing or assistance from the state government. Since the lockdown is in force, we can’t do any other job except auto driving. I am a diabetic and require daily medicine. Earlier, I used to earn Rs 300 on daily basis and same used to utilise for supporting the household. Now, whatever little I had saved is getting over and situation is not far when we will starve as no help is forthcoming from the government ,” he said.Khadki auto driver Kisan Gaikwad said “ I don’t have any money left to buy grocery and essentials. My situation has been reduced to that of a beggar due to penury. We dont have any future left if the lockdown continues ,”Pune Rickshaw Panchyat President Nitin Pawar said that the situation is grim for over a lakh auto drivers in the city in absence of daily income. “ Their financial position is precarious and there is a need for strong backing from the government to support this large section of the society which has become unemployed due to the lockdown.”He said the Panchayat was doing all it could to provide grocery and other essentials to autodrivers to whatever extent possible. “But still nothing can make up for their daily income. Their future appears to be grim and strong steps of financial help are the need of the hour ,” he said. He further demanded that the government extend cash benefit Rs 8000 per month for three months and ration for three months in the form of state package to the auto drivers. He also added that the government pay three EMI’s of those auto drivers who had bought autos on loan basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/auto-drivers-reduced-to-penury-amidst-lockdown/story-LwRvN6AdXOCPE8raAqv73N.html
29-04-2020||Pune||Social distancing is a luxurious myth in Pune slums||There is no sliver of space in Prakash Salve’s house for social distancing. The 40-year-old man lives with his family in a small room at Tadiwala road slum.A spot check by HT on Monday to congested slum areas like Tadiwala road, Patil Estate, Lakshminagar and Lumbininagar revealed that social distancing is not a realistic expectation here. Families with 4-6 members live in a space whose hallway does not allow for two people to stand shoulder-to-shoulder.Salve who had just come out of his home to see why the people have gathered said, “There is a lot of rush in the area simply because the heat does not allow for a comfortable isolation.” When asked where his house was, he walked 4-5 steps and stopped, pointing towards his residence - a tin-roof structure that emanated heat. The luxury of social distancing was clearly not for him.The special police officers (SPOs) appointed by the Pune police are providing support to people living in slums.“We have identified 48 lanes on private road and groups of lanes in Tadiwala road. There are 20 SPOs who work as leaders with multiple subordinates. There is a group for vegetable delivery, meat and eggs, food grains, and medicines. There are lane-wise groups where the placed orders are recorded. So the SPOs will go to the houses, take the money - mostly through Google Pay - and place the orders. The appointed leaders collect the money and give it to the sellers,” said assistant police inspector Amol Kale of Tadiwala police outpost in the jurisdiction of Bundgarden police station.“There are people on the streets, true. But it is much less than what it used to be four-five days ago,” says Raju Kamble, one of the SPOs.According to API Kale who manages the SPOs, there are hardly 35-40 policemen for the settlement of over 1 lakh people.The scenario was similar in at Patil Estate which has a population of a few thousands.“The aim is to ensure that if the infection has spread, it remains inside the micro-clusters like these places. The help will reach inside. The SPOs are force multipliers since police cannot possibly reach everywhere,” said joint commissioner of police Ravindra Shisve.Some of the people in the congested areas, who are willing, will also be provided accommodation in shelters which the PMC is in process of identifying, said Joint CP Shisve.The crime branch, led by additional commissioner of police (crime) Ashok Morale, are in the process of recruiting more SPOs. The police aim to reach a strength of over 5,000 SPOs in the next two-three days, according to Morale. The crime branch is also in the process of making an explainer video for dos and donts and safety tips for SPOs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/social-distancing-is-a-luxurious-myth-in-city-slums/story-Jxy948Zd3PUGtesskcPnzI.html
29-04-2020||Pune||On the frontline: Giving support to the needy in Marathi film industry, others||Businessman Punit Balan has been extending support to various needy sections of society, including people in the lowest rung in the Marathi film industry.What exactly are you doing in this crisis?As a business group, we are trying our level best to reach out and help people in need. We are distributing basic grocery to needy people, we have reached more than 15000 people so far and it is continuing non-stop, we are distributing essential things, like distributed masks and gloves to the frontline people like the police, doctors. We are also organising tests for the Metro Medical Foundation across the Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad, covering all the police Chowkis. Then along with Marathi film director/ actor Praveen Tarde, we have set up a fund and paid them month’s salary for all the technical staff on the set of Mulshi Pattern, we have paid everyone their salary in their account and also given them ration kits, besides donating Rs 5 lakh rupees to the Akhil Bharatiya Marathi Chitrapat Mahamandal, so that we can look after 250 people working behind the scenes on sets in all capacities. We also help police by providing them with water bottles to withstand the heat while they are on duty. We are also taken cognisance of the Tamasha artiste and are helping them financially and with the help of Sahayadri Hospital and the Mayor of Pune, we are aiming to reach as many people across the city and district as we can.How does your day begin and roll out?My day begins with exercise, I love to exercise and it is one thing that I do follow diligently. I exercise along with my wife Janhvi within the house. Once breakfast is done, I get down to making calls, video conferencing and then visit our distribution centre in Manikchand House, then look at whether our volunteers are maintaining social distance and everyone is taking care before venturing out to distribute.What precautions are you taking?COVID-19 is a communicable disease and I make sure not just I but my entire staff and volunteers use mask, handgloves, and we have enough sanitizers across all the offices, centres, cars as well as in home. It is compulsory to use them before going out or coming in to any of the premises. To follow a complete regime, I eat only home cooked food, mostly proteins and eat before 6.30 pm.What is your view of the Covid-19 situation in Pune?This is the first time that PMC is dealing with such a epidemic on this scale and I applaud them for their quick deicsions and trying to work with many groups and centres in a streamlined fashion. They will be loopholes but the management seems to be working well so far. It is after all teamwork on the frontline with doctors and police putting in all their efforts to control it.What gaps do you see in health and relief work?My fear is that people are simply not understanding the enormity of the epidemic and this can be seen with rising figures despite lockdown. With so many people coordinating, between centres, volunteers and administration, what is required is people’s participation and leaving aside religious sentiments and traditions for the time being to work together as a team.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/giving-support-to-the-needy-in-marathi-film-industry-others/story-R9GRmGWkiRjPheaR5Uq4qM.html
29-04-2020||City||J&K paper mill workers protest over pending wages; police resolves matter with mgmt||After a paper mill allegedly refused to remit wages to several daily wagers from various parts of the union territory and other states, the disgruntled employees staged a protest outside the mill in Kathua district on Tuesday.The daily wagers alleged that the mill management threw them out of the premises and refused to pay them their pending wages of two to three months.“For the past three years I have been working at this mill. However, this time around the owner has not given wages to around 200 workers,” said Mohammed Akbar, a resident of Doda. “While the mill is functioning, the owner has refused to give us our wages that vary from ₹9,000 to ₹13,000. Today when we insisted upon getting our wages, the mill management threw us out and threatened us,” Akbar added.Another worker, Puran Singh Gurjar, from Madhya Pradesh, also made similar allegations. “We haven’t been given wages for three months. We were not even provided food amid this lockdown and today they threw us out because we demanded pending wages. We were treated like prisoners,” said Gurjar.The manager of Nicer Paper Mill at Maroli, Rajinder Singh, said the mill was facing a financial crunch due to lockdown and promised to clear pending wages by Wednesday.SSP Shailendra Kumar Mishra, police chief of Kathua district, said there were 50 or so workers who were protesting. He said, “Following protests outside the mill, a police party reached the spot and heard out the agitating workers. The mill owner was also summoned and the matter is sorted. The mill has given an assurance to retain all workers and none of them will be sacked.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-paper-mill-workers-protest-over-pending-wages/story-nZ1710u67vZ1t5VEqUDdrI.html
29-04-2020||Bangalore||Siddaramaiah suggests allowing liquor sale in green districts of Karnataka||Former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah on Tuesday suggested the Karnataka government can allow sale of liquor in green districts that have no active cases of COVID-19, with certain restrictions.The Leader of Opposition in the Assembly also demanded that the state government announce a “special package” for unorganised sector workers, street vendors and autorickshaw drivers, among others, all daily wagers whose lives are affected by lockdown.“Merely because there is an economic slowdown in the state, I don’t recommend that alcohol should be allowed to be sold. But, wherever there are green districts, they can open (liquor shops) with certain restrictions, I think that they can do,” Siddaramaiah told reporters in response to a question.There are 14 districts in the state that are categorised as green, they include- Yadgir, Raichur, Koppal, Haveri, Davangere, Shivamogga, Chitradurga, Udupi, Chikmagalur, Hassan, Kodagu, Chamarajanagar, Ramanagara and Kolar.Despite pressure to kickstart economic activities to boost the state’s finances by allowing sale of liquor and excise department too suggesting regulated sale through state-run MSIL outlets, the Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa led government did not go ahead with it, following the Centre’s guidelines and as it may lead to crowding at shops. Siddaramaiah also demanded that a special package needs to be announced for unorganised sector workers, street vendors and autorickshaw drivers, among others.Alleging that the government has failed to control the spread of coronavirus, he said it is the government’s responsibility to take care of the basic needs of those from the unorganised sector, whose lives have been impacted by the lockdown.“It is the duty of the government and they should do it immediately. The package should also be announced. I will hold discussions with leaders of other opposition parties like JD(S), CPI, CPI(M) and BSP in this regard and also on trouble faced by farmers,” he added.Alleging discrimination in supply of food packets and ration kits, Siddaramaiah said it was being supplied properly only in constituencies represented by BJP legislators.“Politics is being played out in supply of food materials to the needy, keeping corporation elections in mind... We don’t want to do politics at this point in time as there is lockdown. If things continue to be the same after the lockdown ends, we will protest on the streets,” he said.Siddaramaiah on Tuesday interacted with representatives of autorickshaw and cab drivers, street vendors, barbers, unorganised workers organisations, among others, to understand the difficulties faced by them during lockdown and to know whether help from the government has reached them.He said most of them don’t have work and it has become difficult for them to lead their normal lives.They raised several issues like auto and cab drivers being unable to pay road tax and EMI, he said, adding that he would write a detailed letter to the Chief Minister in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/siddaramaiah-suggests-allowing-liquor-sale-in-green-districts-of-karnataka/story-pjdEtGSC5bBRS2BFY2FolN.html
29-04-2020||Pune||IT engineer jumps to death in Wakad||A 28-year-old engineer committed suicide by jumping off the twelfth floor of a building in Wakad on Tuesday. The man lived along with two of his friends in Wakad and was a native of Darbhanga in Bihar, according to the police. He worked as a system engineer at the Pune office of a multinational software company. The incident took place around 2pm, according to the police. Senior police inspector Vivek Mugalikar said, “The deceased worked in a software company at its Hinjewadi campus. The reason why he took this step is not known and probe is on. We have registered it as an accidental death case.” Whether the slowdown in the IT industry had anything to do with the decision is not yet known. The deceased was a bachelor. The police have not confirmed whether there was a suicide note.However, as his body was sent for post-mortem, the incident was recorded in an accidental death report at the Wakad police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/it-engineer-jumps-to-death-in-wakad/story-h3LrGFyA4JZileisYDreKK.html
29-04-2020||City||CCI buys 41% of 2019’s cotton produce of south Malwa||With the purchase of one lakh quintal raw cotton from south Malwa districts after it resumed operations two weeks ago, the Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) has bought about 41% of the total cotton produced in 2019.According to official data, about 44,000 quintal cotton has been procured from Fazilka and 41,000 quintal from Mansa district since April 14. The central agency is estimated to have bought cotton worth Rs 54 crore after it resumed procurement on April 14. Cotton purchase was suspended after curfew was imposed in Punjab on March 23 due to Covid-19 outbreak.Officials say that despite the pandemic, CCI has successfully purchased 41% of total cotton sold in the south Malwa market this season. Procurement is still on at different districts and about four lakh quintal more is expected to be purchased in the coming weeks.“The CCI started procurement in October last year after private players were paying farmers less than the MSP. By March 21, when purchase had to be suspended, CCI had disbursed Rs 850 crore to cotton growers. For purchase from April 14 onwards, CCI has already paid Rs 25 crore to farmers and the process to clear dues of Rs 29 crore is on,” said a CCI official, pleading anonymity.State cotton coordinator Rajnish Goel said that till March 21, 37.11 lakh quintal was purchased in Punjab and CCI had bought 14.40 lakh quintal cotton at the MSP (minimum support price). Rest of the produce of 22.50 lakh quintal was purchased by private players.“A section of farmers was still holding back cotton stock so the state government decided to resume purchase amid curfew. CCI was granted permission to start purchasing cotton from Mansa on April 14. Later, Fazilka, Muktsar, Bathinda and Faridkot were also covered. Purchase is being done amid strict adherence of medical protocol issued in view of the pandemic,” said Goel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cci-buys-41-of-2019-s-cotton-produce-of-south-malwa/story-DHRdHsuu1LuHT1yRP4dvdL.html
29-04-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s GMCH doctors flag safety issues, seek testing for all||After three junior doctors tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19), resident doctors from the department of anaesthesia at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, wrote a letter to the hospital authorities highlighting the “apathy of the department towards the staff posted in various operation theatres (OTs) and intensive care units (ICUs)”.“On April 24, an OT attendant (name hidden) was tested positive and some of the residents posted on duty were being refused testing for SARS-CoV-2 (Covid) on baseless criteria like “not shaking of hands” and “not sharing of meals” completely discounting all logic and disregarding the spread via fomites and aerosols,” said the letter, adding that “the authorities were refusing to test resident doctors because they “do not have a high grade fever”.In the next three days, three doctors of the same department were tested positive. The doctors sought an “explanation” as to why so many resident doctors of the department were posted despite less patient footfall and clear guidelines exhorting departments to decrease the number of doctors being exposed daily.“Time and again our pleas of reducing the number of residents (of anesthesia department) in various duty areas have fallen on deaf ears. Vague and unscientific justifications have been given for the excess number of residents in the duty spots. No considerations were given even to pregnant and lactating mothers in the department and they were all placed at the same risk,” the letter said, asking why despite Chandigarh being a red zone, patients coming for emergency surgical interventions were not being tested for Covid.Stating that residents in emergency OT had no access to sanitisers, the doctors added that they were fighting the war against the global pandemic, but “placing us under unnecessary risk is never justified”.They urged the head of department to make a roster such that least number of residents are called for duty, besides arranging the necessary equipment. After every seven days continuous duty, residents should be given 14 days off, the doctors urged.Dr Pradeep Atter, a resident at the department, said they met the head of the department, Dr Sukanya Mitra, regarding the letter and said that ‘their issues had been addressed’ and ‘they are satisfied as she has ensured testing of all residents of the department.”Dr Mitra, however, refused to comment saying she is not authorised to talk to the media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chanidgarh-s-gmch-doctors-flag-safety-issues-seek-testing-for-all/story-HSVmQMqetC0PQxvQDIQqdN.html
29-04-2020||Pune||We hope badminton can resume by end of May, says PDMBA honorary secretary Ranjeet Natu||Located in the heart of the city, the Poona District Metropolitan Badminton Association (PDMBA) in Shivajinagar, is wearing a deserted look with the lockdown in place, but the shuttlers are still pursuing their passion at home. There are 800 badminton players from the city who train at PDMBA under 25 coaches. Nine courts are always packed with players and coaches during any season.PDMBA is making sure that players stay fit and fresh during the Covid-19 pandemic by conducting Facebook live sessions, sharing different techniques with coaches over WhatsApp or sharing Past Masters of Indian Badminton series articles penned by Shirish Nadkarni with players.“Life must go on and we are ensuring that people associated with the sport spend the time learning a lot of new things,” said Ranjeet Natu, honorary secretary of PDMBA.“We first started by sharing articles of Past Masters of Indian Badminton series which will enhance the knowledge of young badminton players. The articles give information about all badminton greats from our country starting from Nandu Natekar to Pullela Gopichand,” said Natu.Keeping coaches updated with the new techniques and coaching skills has always been PDMBA’s top priority. “The association has created a WhatsApp group of coaches wherein various coaching techniques are shared,” said Natu.“We will also be conducting Facebook live seminars with eminent personalities from different fields. It will start with Dr Atul Biniwale on sports nutrition and physical fitness. He is also the vice-president of PDMBA, then, Gayatri Vartak, a sports psychologist, will also be conducting a session and Dr Prassana Pathak, a physiotherapist will hold a session on rehabilitation and prevention of injuries,” explained Natu.PDMBA is also getting ready for the post Covid-19 phase and are all set to upgrade the modern sports complex.“I hope badminton action starts by end of May, since it is not a body contact sport. However, we will still ensure all precautions are followed. We will be setting up sanitisation chambers and will also purchase thermal temperature monitors,” added Natu.Summer camps were cancelled due to the lockdown and PDMBA had planned an inter-club league which was scheduled for the third week of May. “We all were eagerly waiting for the inter-club league, but unfortunately we have to postpone it,” added Natu.PDMBA is also donating Rs 1 lakh each to PM Cares Fund and the chief minister’s relief fund.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/we-hope-badminton-sessions-can-resume-by-end-of-may-says-pdmba-honorary-secretary-ranjeet-natu/story-n4W7bvQtAs4c8EWh0srs8H.html
29-04-2020||Pune||Pune’s Sassoon hospital awaits ICMR approval for plasma therapy||Pune: While Sassoon General Hospital is awaiting permission from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to start plasma therapy on patients, the Union ministry of health on Wednesday clarified that the treatment should be used only for research and trial purpose and not on patients.Earlier, state health minister Rajesh Tope had said that Centre has granted permission to start plasma therapy in government hospitals in Maharashtra following which Pune district administration prepared a list of donors though few of them expressed reluctance to offer plasma. While the central health ministry has approved the usage of plasma therapy to treat critically ill Covid-19 patients in Maharashtra, every hospital needs an official permission from the ICMR to begin the treatment process.Dr Subhash Salunkhe, chairman, Communicable Diseases Prevention and Control Technical Committee, said, “We are in final stages of approval before we can start the process of plasma therapy. We have prepared a list and are convincing people to donate their blood for treatment of others. Some people had refused to donate blood which is their right. As soon as the official paper work is over, we can start with plasma transfusion for critically ill patients.”Most of those identified by the district administration as donors are those who recovered in the first batch during March. One of the person recovered from Covid-19 from that batch said requesting anonymity, “It is true that PMC officials called me for plasma therapy, but I haven’t made up my mind.”On Monday, Pune-based businessman Avinash Bhosale donated a plasmapheresis machine used to separate plasma from blood of a cured patient. The machine can be put to use only after approval from the ICMR. Pune divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar said, “For the treatment of critically ill patients, we are awaiting approval from the ICMR for use of plasma therapy. A plasmapheresis machine has been donated to Sassoon which would be used to start the therapy.”At Delhi, on Wednesday, Lav Aggarwal, joint secretary, ministry of health said, “Plasma therapy is being experimented, however no evidence that this can be used as a treatment. National level study is launched by ICMR to study the efficacy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sassoon-awaits-icmr-approval-for-plasma-therapy-amid-centre-s-caution-over-its-use-for-covid-treatment/story-Te4GAGXHT1IjPq1vDKDW4O.html
29-04-2020||City||Ludhiana administration cancels licences of 7 arhtiyas for flouting orders||The market committee has cancelled licences of seven arhtiyas who were caught selling vegetables and fruits during night hours at the sabzi mandi near Jalandhar bypass on days declared closed by the administration.As per officials, the licences were cancelled on Tuesday following the recommendations of committee chairman Darshan Lal (Laddoo) Baweja. Committee secretary Deepak Sharma said the arhtiyas whose licences had been cancelled included Walia and Sons, Nitish Fruit Company, Shivam Trading Company, Laksh Trading Company, Ashok Kumar and Company, Chaman Lal-Prem Nath and Om Prakash-Pradeep Kumar. Baweja said they had received complaints that some arhtiyas were involved in illegal operations during night hours and closed days.For reducing rush at the market amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the administration had decided that arhtiyas could visit the mandi only on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays, and sell vegetables and fruits to ward vendors from 4am to 10pm everyday at designated sites. No street vendor will be allowed to enter the market.However, videos showing the arhtiyas selling vegetables to street vendors during night went viral. The Basti Jodhewal police had also arrested four vendors, who had purchased vegetables from the market during night hours on April 17.Following investigation, notices were served on the arhtiyas seeking reply. It is the first time that strict action has been taken against the arhtiyas for violating the norms.ARHTIYA ASSOCIATION OPPOSES ACTIONCondemning the action against arhtiyas, Arhtiya Association president Gurkamal Singh Ilu said, “Cancellation of licences is a wrong decision as arhtiyas were only transporting fruit, as allowed by the market committee. No sale or purchase was being made in the market and the union will raise the matter after all the arhtiyas, who have been home-quarantined, resume work.”50 ARHTIYAS HOME- QUARANTINEDAfter district mandi officer (DMO) Jasbir Kaur had tested positive in the middle of April and following suspicions that virus victim ACP Anil Kohli had also contracted it while he was deputed at the mandi, the administration and the health department have home-quarantined around 50 arhtiyas working in the sabzi mandi, said Gurkamal Singh.Sub-inspector Arshpreet, her driver ASI Sukhdev Singh and the gunman of Kohli had also contracted the virus while they were deputed with ACP Kohli.FOUR TRUCKS IMPOUNDED FOR UNLOADING BANANAS ILLEGALLYBaweja said committee officials have confiscated four trucks, owners of which were illegally unloading bananas in the market. Truck owners had got the permission to unload the fruit in Amritsar, but they were unloading the same in Ludhiana. The trucks would be released after charging penalty from owners, the officials added.A large number of residents visited the market for purchasing vegetables and fruits on Tuesday also defeating the purpose of social distancing. Further, a large number of residents also gathered at the sites, earmarked in every ward for ward-wise suppliers to provide vegetables and fruits to street vendors for onward sale in the city. The administration had earlier announced that no individual resident would be allowed to purchase vegetables at these sites.Baweja said currently the mandi was operating only on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays to ensure social distancing. However, when the market opens on these days, crowds of people defeat the purpose of the move. He said he would urge the deputy commissioner to open the market for at least six days a week, and ban the entry of street vendors to the market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/illegal-operations-at-sabzi-mandi-ludhiana-market-committee-cancels-licences-of-seven-arhtiyas/story-hYzwGAcjNwQOJpxL0UiIcK.html
29-04-2020||Pune||HSC, SSC Board seeks passes for evaluators to ensure timely results||The Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) has appealed to the state government to provide special police permits to evaluators of answer sheets of Higher Secondary Certificate (HSC) and State Secondary Certificate (SSC) exams held in February and March.With the country under the lockdown for over a month now due to the Covid-19 pandemic, only people covered under essential services such as doctors, policemen, select government and medical staff among others are allowed to move out on duty.The board in its appeal said that if the answer sheets are not evaluated within the stipulated time, it could lead to the delay in the results which are usually scheduled to be released in the first week of June.“Currently, 80 per cent of HSC and around 60 per cent of SSC answer sheets are been checked and rest are remaining. Teachers who are checking the papers need to submit their answer sheets to their respective divisional board offices, but due to the lockdown they have not been able to go out. Specially in the rural parts teachers are having issues of coming outside their homes and submit the answer sheets. So, we have demanded that in each district, four centres should be opened where teachers can submit the answer sheets,” said Ashok Bhosale, secretary of MSBSHSE.“Our efforts are going on to complete this paper checking and evaluation procedure within the time and for that we have sent a proposal to the state government requesting them to allow teachers out for this official work. Teachers should be given necessary permission passes so that they won’t face any police action,” added Bhosale.This year around 17 lakh students have appeared for SSC exams across the state, out of which 9 lakh answer sheets have been checked. For HSC around 14 lakh students has appeared out of which 11 lakh answer sheets have been checked. Every year normally in the first week of June HSC results are declared and within next one week SSC results are declared by the state board. HSC exams were held from February 18 to March 18 and all the exams of HSC from different streams – Arts, Commerce and Science - were completed. The SSC exams were scheduled from March 3 to 23, but the last paper of Social Science part II (Geography) was cancelled by the state education department due to Covid-19 pandemic. Also, the vocational subject exams of SSC which were to be held between March 24 to April 4 were cancelled. Both the HSC and SSC exams were held across nine divisions of MSBSHSE - Mumbai, Pune, Nashik, Nagpur, Konkan, Latur, Aurangabad, Amravati and Kolhapur. No decision has been taken about the marking system for the cancelled Geography paper. The ‘Best of Five’ formula may be implemented this year and the average scores will be declared, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/hsc-ssc-board-seeks-passes-for-evaluators-to-ensure-timely-results/story-fQIrMwI8kLReyR3ueIA9nK.html
29-04-2020||Chandigarh||GNDEC starts online training programme on energy management||The department of electrical engineering at Guru Nanak Dev Engineering College (GNDEC) on Tuesday started a week-long online training programme for its faculty and students.The programme, sponsored by the Union ministry of human resource and development, and supported by TEQIP-III project, aims at developing academically content manpower for overall improvement of technical education in the country.“We have designed a week-long training session by involving experts from prestigious organisations across the country. It includes DP Kothari, ex-director, IIT, Delhi; Sangita Kapoor, director, Blue Planet, Kolkata; YP Verma, UIET, Chandigarh; Parag Nijhawan, TIET, Patiala; Saurabh Ratra, PAU, Ludhiana; Sudhir Sharma, DAVIET, Jalandhar, among others,” said Arvind Dhingra, coordinator of the programme.“The programme runs online with participants logging in from their homes. Four sessions are to be conducted each day,” Dhingra said, adding that the overwhelming response received from all over the country has forced them to run the programme in two shifts. Over 190 participants from across the country, who had registered for the training, are actively participating in it.Sessions that will be covered in the training include energy scenario, circular thinking, energy audit procedures, fuel cells, micro grids, energy saving in farm sector and other.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/gndec-floats-online-training-programme-on-energy-management/story-dyheXLBQ006qDKPVa3bVPL.html
29-04-2020||Bangalore||Covid-19: How Karnataka added 6 red zones from 1 in a month||Karnataka, which has reported more than 500 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) so far, has at least 16 of its 30 districts classified as coronavirus hotspots. The southern state’s districts have been divided into four colour-coded zones—six red zones, including Bengaluru and Mysuru, five each in orange and yellow, and 10 green with zero cases of Covid-19.According to the containment guidelines released by the Union health ministry for large outbreaks, an area from where either one person has tested positive on or after April 11 or which has at least 50 contacts of a Covid-19 patient living in the same place, can be declared as a coronavirus hotspot or containment zone.Only one district in Karnataka, Bengaluru Urban, was more than 15 active Covid-19 cases on March 25, when the country went into lockdown mode. Mysuru and Belagavi were added in the red zone halfway through April and three more districts of Vijayapura, Bagalkot and Kalaburagi were put on the list on Monday.The last three districts were in the orange zone with 6-14 active cases in mid-April. Districts like Kodagu, Davanagere and Udupi that were in yellow zone with one to five cases at the beginning of the lockdown are now in green with not a single active case. They have joined 10 other districts which have not reported a single case of Covid-19 throughout. Several areas in the state’s capital of Bengaluru have been identified as containment zones where the government has ordered complete lockdown and aggressive restrictions to avoid further spread of the disease. Eight new cases of Covid-19 have been confirmed in Karnataka, taking the total number of infections in the state to 520, the state health department said on Tuesday. This includes 20 deaths and 198 discharges.Out of eight new cases, six are from Kalaburagi and all are contacts of a person, who already tested positive. Among them four are women.Of the fresh cases is a man from Bengaluru Urban, who was in contact with those in containment zone of BBMP Ward-135; and the other from Gadag, who has a history of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI).Eight districts from the state have now been identified as Covid-19 hotspots or containment zones.• Bengaluru Urban• Mysuru• Belagavi• Dakshina Kannada• Bidar• Kalaburugi• Bagalkot• DharwardThese 10 districts are in the category of green zone:• Chamrajnagar• Chikmagalur• Hassan• Haveri• Kolar• Koppala• Raichur• Ramanagar• Shimoga• Yadgiri• Kodagu• Davanagere• Udupi||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/covid-19-how-karnataka-added-6-red-zones-from-1-in-a-month/story-B4V7hQASi09YUijCnvkrzH.html
29-04-2020||Education||JPSC Result 2020: Jharkhand girl from most vulnerable tribe cracks civil services exam||Chanchala Kumari is among the 325 candidates who cracked the sixth Jharkhand Public Service Commission (JPSC) examination, result of which was declared last week.But what makes her different from others is that she belongs to Korwa tribe, a Particularly Vulnerable Tribal Group (PVTG) in Jharkhand, and she claimed to be the first one from the tribe who would become an officer.People of 32 tribes reside in Jharkhand. Nine tribes, including Korwa, fall under the PVTG.As per the 2011 Census, Korwas in the state are merely 35,606 of the total 3.29 crore population.Chanchala did her schooling from a government primary school in Khudram where her father Vigan Manjh is a teacher. She studied there up to class 5 and then took admission in Navodaya School in Garhwa where she did her matriculation.Resident of Ranka in Garhwa district, Chanchala, then came to Ranchi and did diploma in Electronics from Birla Institute of Technology (BIT), Mesra and BTech in Electronics and Communication from Birsa Institute of Technology (BIT), Sindri.“My father always wanted to see the Korwas shine as the backward tribe is still described as ‘hunter gatherer’. He always inspired me to ‘light a candle of progress’ in our tribe and he also encouraged me for cracking JPSC,” said Chanchala.She cleared preliminary exams of JPSC in 2016 and made it to JPSC Mains in 2019. In between, she also cracked Jharkhand Staff Selection Commission exam in 2018 and is currently posted as wireless sub-inspector in Ranchi.On her JPSC rank, the 28-year-old said, “I do not know about the ranks, as JPSC declared only the role numbers of the candidates who cracked the exams. However, I got selected in the administration department.”Eldest among four siblings, Chanchala wants to improve the education standard of her tribe so that they could get benefit of all government schemes. “Literacy rate of Korwa tribe is very poor. If we want to uplift the living standard of the tribe, quality education will be the key. This will help in awareness and avail the benefits of various government schemes,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/jpsc-result-2020-jharkhand-girl-from-most-vulnerable-tribe-bags-sixth-rank-in-civil-services-exam/story-jpV33evCo5XuzYcFhVAZIM.html
29-04-2020||Chandigarh||With 14 new cases, Covid-19 count doubles in four days in Chandigarh||In the biggest single-day spike in Chandigarh, the number of Covid-19 cases surged to 59 with 14 new patients confirmed positive on Tuesday.With this, the total count has more than doubled in four days from 28 on April 25 to 59 on April 28. The number of active cases is 42. The spike is being attributed to two pockets, Bapu Dham Colony in Sector 26 and Sector 30, both of which account for 50% of the city’s cases.The new cases include five family members of a 38-year-old man from Bapu Dham Colony who tested positive on Monday and was a contact of the 30-year-old operation theatre (OT) attendant of Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, who triggered the spike. His wife, aged 36, three daughters aged 18, 16 and 13, and son, aged 10, are now infected.Another 47-year-old woman, 24-year-old man and 15-year-old boy from the same locality have also tested positive. A 33 -year-old man from Sector 33B — also part of the same chain of transmission — has also been found infected.SECTOR-30 CASES IDENTIFIED DURING SURVEYThe remaining five cases, reported from Sector 30, were identified during the health department’s house-to-house survey. They include a woman, aged 53, and a man, aged 62, from one household in Sector 30B. The other three are women aged 23, 27 and 35, from three different households. They have 28 contacts who have also been sampled with test results are awaited.Meanwhile, family members of the two doctors from GMCH-32 have tested negative. Both the doctors, residents of sector 49 and 21, were tested positive on Monday.The chain of transmission starting from the 30-year-old GMCH-32 employee who tested positive last Friday has infected 23 people till now. It includes at least five members of his family, six healthcare workers in GMCH-32 besides other community contacts in the congested Bapu Dham Colony. Surprisingly, the source of infection still remains a mystery.Sector 30 is another worry for health authorities with one in every four cases reported in Chandigarh since March 18 from that area. While the source of infection of only two cases reported in early April has been traced, what is worrisome is that the new cases are scattered around the locality with no definite source identified.Devinder Singh Babla, area councillor of Sector 30, has also written to the Chandigarh administrator, VPS Badnore stating that one common pattern amongst new cases reported today was their regular visits for checkups to GMCH-32.Hindustan Times has not been able to verify the claim.He also requested that more than 5,000 people living in the Sector-30 EWS Colony be screened.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/five-new-covid-19-cases-in-chandigarh-take-ut-corona-count-to-50/story-1ZJaPYwEEZK9yYUBg1PocL.html
29-04-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 lockdown: Curbs at 4 red zones in Delhi likely to be eased by May 3||By May 3, when the nationwide lockdown is scheduled to end, at least four containment zones in Delhi are likely to become eligible for scaling down of containment measures, according to government data.Under the guidelines of the Union health ministry, containment measures in the red zones can be “scaled down if no secondary laboratory-confirmed Covid-19 case is reported in the geographic quarantine zone for at least four weeks after the last confirmed test has been isolated and all his contacts have been followed up for 28 days.”Delhi currently has 99 containment zones. Delhi government on Monday announced two new containment zones, taking total tally to 99 from 97. The newly added containment zones are Pillanji village in New Delhi district and affected areas — Nirankari Gali, Nakshtra Gali, Nala Boring Gali, Ravan Wali Gali, Jameela Masjid Baoli, dargah gurudwara wali Gali, Thane wali gali and Terminal Gali — in South district, near Mehrauli. The containment zone in south Delhi was formed after two persons engaged in food distribution had tested positive. The Pillanji village was declared containment zone after five Covid-19 positive cases were reported from the area between April 17 and April 25.Till date, one red zone has been de-contained in Delhi. Last Friday, the government scaled down containment measures in East Delhi’s Mansara Apartments, exactly 28 days after the first and only case of Covid-19 was recorded in the zone.The four containment zones that are likely to become eligible for scaling down of containment measures are Mayurdhwaj Apartment in IP Extension, Vardhman Apartment in Mayur Vihar, the sealed portion of lane number 4 in Krishnakunj Extension, and four blocks of Dilshad Garden. While the first three come under the East Delhi revenue district, the fourth comes under the Shahdara revenue district.In the four of them, the last case of Covid-19 was recorded between April 1 and April 5, which essentially means they will become eligible for reduced containment measures between April 29 and May 3, provided no fresh case is recorded in the next few days.Health department officials in the two districts said that the situation in all four zones is under control and the probability of further local transmission of the virus is close to none.Similarly, at least three more containment zones are likely to become eligible for relaxations by May 10. The areas are — Shahjahanabad society in Sector 11 of Dwarka, Deenpur and Ashok Nagar. While the first two come under South West Delhi revenue district, the third comes under West Delhi.In Shahjahanabad society and Ashok Nagar, no fresh case or any case of local transmission was recorded since the first case was reported and the areas were sealed on April 8, said government officials, adding that Deenpur witnessed local transmission, the latest having been recorded on April 12.“We have conducted community tests in all three of these red zones and the results were favourable. The results suggested that transmission did not occur,” a senior official of the health department said.Containment zones are areas in which all routes are sealed and residents are directed to maintain strict quarantine. Door-to-door health checks are conducted periodically and sanitisation is scaled up. Community tests are conducted in these areas. All shops are closed and the district administration ensures doorstep delivery of essential goods on a daily basis. The size of the zone may range from a part of a lane to a cluster of several blocks of a locality. The area contained is directly proportional to population density and scale of an outbreak among other factors.A senior official said that after the zones are de-notified, barricades would be removed and shops selling essential goods around them would be allowed to open. However, residents are still recommended to stay indoors and undergo health check follow-ups under the protocol for the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/curbs-at-four-red-zones-likely-to-be-eased-by-may-3/story-3J1D6aqPzAGk5lwNm8B6BI.html
